Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035, India CIN: L32102KA1945PLC020800 | Email: info@wipro.com www.wipro.com 15.25 mm Spine Annual Report 2016 - 17#BeTheNew  Certain statements in this annual report concerning our future growth prospects are forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks, and uncertainties  that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties relating to these statements  include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties regarding fluctuations in our earnings, revenue and profits, our ability to generate and manage growth,  intense competition in IT services, our ability to maintain our cost advantage, wage increases in India, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals,  time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on immigration, our ability to manage our international  operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate  potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts, the success of the companies in which we make strategic investments, withdrawal of fiscal  governmental incentives, political instability, war, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual  property, and general economic conditions affecting our business and industry.
Additional risks that could affect our future operating results are more fully  described in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
These filings are available at www.sec.gov.
We may, from time to time, make  additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission  and our reports to shareholders.
We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time by us or on our behalf.
Index Overview of the report     01 About Wipro     02 Defining new 04 Key performance highlights   08                 Sustainability highlights   10                 Chairman’s letter to the stakeholders    12 CEO’s letter to the stakeholders  14 Board of Directors    18  Management discussion and analysis 24 Industry and business overview   25 Business strategy    26  Business model    30 Good governance and management practices  35 Capitals and value creation   37 Financial capital   39 Human capital   46 Intellectual capital   53 Social and relationship capital  54 Natural capital   59 Board’s Report              65 Corporate Governance Report   112 Financial Statements  Standalone Financial Statements  under Ind AS    130 Consolidated Financial Statements  under Ind AS         193  Consolidated Financial Statements   under IFRS     266 Business Responsibility Report  319 Glossary   327 Board of Directors Azim H Premji – Chairman Abidali Z Neemuchwala Rishad Premji Narayanan Vaghul Dr. Ashok S Ganguly William Arthur Owens M K Sharma Ireena Vittal Dr. Patrick J Ennis Patrick Dupuis  Chief Financial Officer Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Statutory Auditors BSR & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Auditors- IFRS KPMG Company Secretary M Sanaulla Khan Depository for American Depository Shares J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents Karvy Computershare Private Ltd.
Registered & Corporate Office Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road Bengaluru – 560 035, India Ph: +91 (80) 28440011 Fax: +91 (80) 25440051 Website: http:/ /www.wipro.com     Corporate    information 15.25 mm Spine 1      Overview of      the report The 2015-16 Annual Report was our maiden attempt at aligning our Management Discussion &  Analysis to the principles of International Integrated Reporting Framework (referred to as <IR>  framework) developed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).
For 2016-17 Annual  Report, we continue to use the same reporting framework.
The report complies with financial and statutory data requirements of the Companies Act, 2013  (including the Rules made thereunder and Accounting Standards), the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the Secretarial  Standards.
The topics covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis section of the report were  identified through a materiality determination exercise and is applicable for the period April 1, 2016   to March 31, 2017.
The methodology followed is detailed in our Sustainability Report that can be  accessed at http:/ /wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15-16/?q=materiality-determination.
Identifying and understanding stakeholders, their priorities and engaging with them is key to  materiality determination.
At Wipro, stakeholder engagement is an ongoing process and the  details are summarized in our Sustainability report.
Refer to http:/ /wiprosustainabilityreport.
com/15-16/?q=wipro-and-its-stakeholders Integrated approach An Integrated Report incorporates financial and non- financial information – governance, environmental and  social - in a manner that can help stakeholders understand  how a company creates and sustains value over the  long-term.
This report provides a consolidated perspective of  economic, social and environmental aspects material to  our strategy and our ability to create and sustain value  for our key stakeholders.
The resources and relationships  used and affected by an organization collectively referred  to as “the capitals” - financial, manufactured, intellectual,  human, social & relationships and natural capitals form the  essence of the MD&A*.
*Manufactured capital is not covered separately in this report since it not  material to IT services business 2     About     Wipro 3 Spirit of Wipro Be passionate about clients’ success Treat each person with respect Be global and responsible Unyielding integrity in everything we do Wipro Limited (NYSE: WIT, BSE: 507685,  NSE: WIPRO) is a leading global  information technology, consulting and  business process services company.
We harness the power of cognitive  computing, hyper-automation,  robotics, cloud, analytics and emerging  technologies to help our clients adapt  to the digital world and make them  successful.
A company recognized  globally for its comprehensive portfolio  of services, strong commitment to  sustainability and good corporate  citizenship, we have over 160,000  dedicated employees serving clients  across six continents.
Together, we  discover ideas and connect the dots to  build a better and bold new future.
We began our business as a vegetable  oil manufacturer in 1945 at Amalner,  a small town in Western India and  thereafter, forayed into soaps and  other consumer care products.
During  the early 1980s, we entered the Indian  IT industry by manufacturing and  selling mini computers.
In the 1990s,  we leveraged our hardware R&D design  and software development expertise  and began offering software services  to global clients.
In 2013, we demerged   the non-IT Diversified Businesses.
With a track record of over 25 years  in IT Services, we are, today, focused  entirely on the global Information  Technology business.
Wipro is listed on  National Stock Exchange and Bombay  Stock Exchange in India and New York  Stock Exchange in the US.
For more information, please visit  www.wipro.com  Values The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro.
These are our Values.
It is about who we  are.
It is our character.
It is reflected consistently in all our behavior.
The Spirit is  deeply rooted in the unchanging essence of Wipro.
It also embraces what we must  aspire to be.
It is the indivisible synthesis of the four values.
The Spirit is a beacon.
It is what gives us direction and a clear sense of purpose.
It energizes us and is the  touchstone for all that we do.
We recently rearticulated the Spirit of Wipro.
Be passionate about clients’ success.
We succeed when we make our clients  successful.
We collaborate to sharpen our insights and amplify this success.
We  execute with excellence.
Always.
We treat every human being with respect.
We nurture an open environment where  people are encouraged to learn, share and grow.
We embrace diversity of thought,  of cultures, and of people.
We will be global in our thinking and our actions.
We are responsible citizens of  the world.
We are energized by the deep connectedness between people, ideas,  communities and the environment.
Integrity is our core and is the basis of everything.
It is about following the law,  but it’s more.
It is about delivering on our commitments.
It is about honesty and  fairness in action.
It is about being ethical beyond any doubt, in the toughest of  circumstances.
4     Defining     new What does it mean to be new?
Scripting a strategy for any industry without casting technology in the lead role is  unthinkable today.
With decades of experience in creating and running technology  infrastructure in dozens of industries in thousands of engagements, it is only natural  that our clients look to us to translate their strategic ideas to reality.
Wipro has been working with clients across industries to make their strategies real.
As our clients set the course and navigate change, they take on new challenges  from redesigning customer experience, inventing new business models and creating  entirely new revenue streams– Wipro’s insights and ability to deliver have been  invaluable assets to them to solve complex problems, on enterprise scale.
On one hand, we have connected thousands of on-road vehicles via the cloud to  complex analytics and streamline maintenance activities, and on the other, we have  helped design neo-natal care equipment to improve life chances of premature babies.
We have helped industrial clients connect their factory floors and field equipment to  provide entirely new services to customers and optimize inventories.
Our success in playing the role of an agile and knowledgeable partner is due to  the deep knowledge of the industries we operate in and our expertise across the  technology stack.
What sets Wipro apart is its ability to formulate an integrated  perspective across markets and technologies and deliver with relentless focus on  excellence.
How did we get here?
We set our goal to transform into a future-focused company that harnesses the power  of digital and Artificial Intelligence (AI) to serve our clients as only Wipro can – by  being passionate about our clients’ success.
We then looked at what sort of future  talent and capabilities we needed, what tools we required to transform, and what  sort of market access was necessary to grow – bearing in mind that we had to work  quickly to deliver this change.
Transforming for the future We have laid out a clear bimodal strategic theme last year: to help our clients Drive  the Future (Change Strategy) of their businesses and to Modernize the Core of our  clients’ businesses (Run Strategy).
In order to do this, we identified clear client service tracks for the organization to focus  on, based on client feedback.
Over the course of the last year, we emphasized digital  services, scaling up and consolidating our consulting capabilities, strengthening  innovation through Intellectual Property (IP) and IP-led offerings and our portfolio of  integrated services, nurturing our alliances and making strategic investments in our  partner ecosystem, and by creating more localized teams.
5  6 For instance, on the digital front, Wipro Digital, while only three years old, continues to impress industry  analysts and clients, and in Q4 FY 17 it constituted 22.1 percent of our revenues.
Wipro’s end-to-end  value-chain means Wipro can ‘connect-the-dots’ across the needs of our clients’ customers, our clients’  strategy, digital design and technology capability and deliver business value to our clients.
We have also consolidated and scaled up our Consulting arm at Wipro.
Wipro’s Consulting arm provides  deep domain expertise along with world-class business strategy and governance experience to help  our clients at every step of their transformation journey, from designing the solution to delivering and  measuring results.
On the IP front, we have invested in products, platforms, frameworks and solutions centered around   Wipro HOLMES Artificial Intelligence Platform TM (HOLMES).
In the last fiscal, the number of patents  we held (and applied for) increased by over 50 percent.
Innovation is critical to our work, but equally  important is simplification: deploying HOLMES’ capabilities to drastically change and simplify the IT  delivery model.
In offering our clients a superior delivery experience, our Integrated Services focus has a mandate to  provide end-to-end integrated technology solutions.
In the last 18 months we have invested over USD 1 billion dollars in acquisitions.
We have invested  in innovative business models like BPaaS (Business Process as a Service), which integrates across  IT Infrastructure, Application Platforms and Business Operations, and gives our clients flexibility and  value through consumption-based pricing.
We made a strategic acquisition of Appirio, the leader in  cloud applications, to bolster our Cloud application services, and it has led to a number of new joint  client engagements.
Our venture capital arm, Wipro Ventures, has made four new startup investments in fiscal 2017 to bring  our clients new technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises, especially in Cybersecurity,  Customer Care Automation, Business Process Automation and Big Data Lifecycle Management.
Investments in new technologies are also being nurtured within Wipro through the Horizon program,  to incubate thinking in Artificial Intelligence  (AI), Cybersecurity, Digital, Industry 4.0, Internet of Things  (IoT), and Software Defined Everything (SDx).
All these initiatives were implemented to underscore our ambition to transform our services for a  new world.
Critical to this was ensuring that even with our directional change towards new digital  technologies and service models, we remained committed to core service excellence.
This meant  enhancing our service presence in all our key markets by setting up local delivery centers engaging the  local community – in hiring and in sustainability initiatives.
Our New Brand Once the transformation was underway, we began to take feedback from our clients to understand if  we were living out the promise of Wipro’s brand in the work we do.
We discovered that our clients count  on us to help them run and transform their businesses.
They appreciate our ability to connect the dots  for them by bringing together deep technology and domain expertise, and applying insights from across  industries.
They value our integrated, end-to-end capabilities and services with a “one team” approach,  and want to see more of this.
Most importantly, they like the fact that we keep our client’s and their  customers’ at the heart of our work.
7 In light of all these new initiatives and the prospect of end- to-end transformation, we felt strongly that change must  not be limited to inside out, but also from the outside in.
This means that our brand promise and our transformation  journey – lived out by our people and our work – must also  be seen by the broader world in a new light.
We present our  new logo on the cover of this Report.
The new logo is not just  a logo, but a testament to the way we are evolving our values  and our brand promise.
Wipro’s brand promises to bring a pioneering,  entrepreneurial, innovative spirit to solve our clients’  complex business problems.
We believe that the energy we  gain from building the deep connectedness between people,  ideas, communities and the environment should drive us to  keep transforming and to help our clients.
This connectedness is the driving force behind Wipro’s new brand logo, and we are delighted to present  it to you in this Annual Report.
The new Wipro logo is a bold and dynamic signature that proudly  headlines the vision we pursue for our company and all those we serve.
We believe it embodies a sense  of fluidity, resourcefulness, optimism and creativity in our work approach.
The simplicity of the brand  signals vibrancy, connectedness, awareness and an outwardly moving focus.
It builds on the universal  shape of the circle, with radiating dots around Wipro’s name that suggest the many connections we  create for our clients to help them expand their possibilities.
Together, with our name, the new logo  conveys a sense of outward motion, propelling us into a future that we define with our clients.
Revisiting the Spirit of Wipro Our new brand helps us drive closer relationship with our clients.
It is an apt visual expression of why  we exist, which is to amplify our client’s success.
More importantly, it marks a behavioral and cultural  shift in our employees who are the bedrock of Wipro and embody the Spirit of Wipro.
Our organization – and our people – are now truly global in the places we live and the ways in which we  think and collaborate.
It was important to us that the new brand identity reflect a re articulated Spirit  of Wipro in this diverse but deeply connected, digital world.
The re articulated Spirit of Wipro resonates with our new identity.
It is the indivisible synthesis of four  values:  • Be passionate about clients ’ success  • Trea t each person with respect • Be global and responsibl e   • Unyielding int egrity in everything we do  Our values are deep rooted in who we are which reflects in our character.
At Wipro, we believe that these  four values must manifest in our behavior and our interactions with colleagues and clients.
The Spirit of  Wipro is our own lighthouse: to give us a clear sense of purpose and be a touchstone for all that we do.
With our transformed organization, our new brand identity and the re articulated Spirit of Wipro, we aim  to become the energy source that powers our clients’ success, and as a result, Wipro’s success.
We offer an invitation to you to join us in a future that’s better and bolder – and even more beautiful –  than what has ever been imagined.
8 Note: All figures above are based on IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements * Number of share holders represents holders of equity shares (does not include holders of ADRs) **  Market price of shares is based on closing price in NSE as on March 31 of respective years and not adjusted for Demerger in 2013  @ Revenue is aggregate revenue for the purpose of segment reporting including the impact of exchange rate fluctuations # We elected to early- adopt IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective April 1, 2016 with retrospective application from April 2015.
Comparative financials reflect correspondingly.
## Not adjusted for the proposed bonus issue.
Financial performance 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 # 2016-17 Revenue@ 376,882 437,628 473,182 516,307  554,179  Profit before Depreciation, Amortisation, Interest  and Tax 79,885 100,460 108,246 111,825  116,986  Depreciation and Amortisation 9,913 11,106 12,823 14,965  23,107 Profit before Interest and Tax 69,972 89,354 95,423 96,860  93,879  Profit before Tax 78,596 101,005 111,683 114,933 110,356 Tax 16,912 22,600 24,624 25,366 25,213 Profit after Tax -  attributable to equity holders 61,362 77,967 86,528 89,075  84,895  Per share data Earnings Per Share- Basic (`)## 25.01 31.76 35.25 36.26 34.96 Earnings Per Share- Diluted (`)## 24.95 31.66 35.13 36.18 34.85 Financial position Share Capital 4,926 4,932 4,937 4,941 4,861 Net Worth 284,983 344,886 409,628 467,384 522,695 Gross cash (A) 163,469 187,258 251,048 303,293 344,740 Total Debt (B) 63,816 51,592 78,913 125,221 142,412 Net Cash (A-B) 99,653 135,666 172,135 178,072 202,328 Property, Plant and Equipment (C) 50,525 51,449 54,206 64,952 69,794 Intangible Assets (D) 1,714 1,936 7,931 15,841 15,922 Property, Plant and Equipment  and  Intangible Assets (C+D) 52,239 53,385 62,137 80,793 85,716 Goodwill 54,756 63,422 68,078 101,991 125,796 Net Current Assets 162,663 218,534 272,463 284,264 309,355 Capital Employed 348,799 396,478 488,538 592,605 665,107 Shareholding related Number of Shareholders* 213,603 210,471 213,588 227,369 241,154 Market Price Per Share (`)** 437.15 543.20 628.85 564.25 515.70     Key performance     highlights  (Figures in ` Million except   otherwise stated)  (Figures in `)  (Figures in ` Million)     Financial     capital ` 9   Intellectual   capital   Social and   relationship   capital   Human   capital  Natural  capital R&D expenses  `3,338 Mn.
Patents filed   603 up from 514  Community  partners 70+  Net Promoter  Score  740  basis point  increase YoY   Revenue generated  from existing  customers  98%  CSR spend   `1,863 Mn.
Active  customers  1,323  (up from 1,223 in  FY16) Patents applied and  held till date 1,662 Investments  in new startups 4 Cumulative spend in  startups $ 24.5 Mn.
Headcount IT Services 181,482 Women  employees 33%  (up from 32%) Employees trained on  digital skills in  FY17  39,000+ Employees with  disability 334 Gross  utilization ratio 71.5% Number of  nationalities 100+  GHG emissions  reduction  11,000 tons  of CO2 eq.
Mixed Solid Waste and  Landfill intensity  Reduced to  half from 2013  baseline  Biodiversity   240+ Native  species in a  campus  Freshwater  reduction 152 Mn.
Litres Number of  beneficiaries  120,000  10 32,000+ employees enrolled on TopGear,  Social learning platform 2,000+ participants have been covered through  the One Voice Program  2,000+ delivery leaders from strategic accounts  underwent two programs called    “WinMore - Account Mining for Growth” &  ADROIT – for Behavioral Transformation A sustainable,  empowering workplace Sustained use of Yammer as the enterprise  social networking platform; Over 109,000+  users with 9,400+ groups Engagement scores in the Employee  Perception Survey (EPS) 2016 increased by  12.5 basis points compare to EPS 2015 Wipro won Innovative Policies &  Practices for Persons with Disabilities   Award 2017 by Zero Project, Vienna.
Wipro won the prestigious ATD  (Association for Talent Development)  BEST* Award for 2016     Sustainability     highlights Reducing our  ecological impact GHG Intensity  for offices  energy consumption (Tons of CO2 Equiv.
per Sq.
Mt.
per annum) 160 120 80 40 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 128122130 Energy  Intensity (Tons of CO2 Equiv.
per Sq.
Mt.
per annum) 200 150 100 50 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 195189196 CO2 Global emissions intensity decreased by  more than 10% to 1.58 tons per person per annum Renewable Energy constitutes of 33% of our total  office space energy consumption Energy savings due to server virtualization increased  by 35%    Air travel footprint reduction (distance as well as  emissions) of over 19%  Per employee water consumption shows  13.5%  reduction from  1.295 in 2015-16 38% of water recycled in 2016-17  compared to 32% in 2015-16 93.3% of total waste from IT India operations  recycled or reused Completed our second biodiversity  project in Pune which includes 5  thematic gardens – aesthetic and  palm garden, spring garden, Ficus  garden, spice and fruit garden 11 Beyond the boundary education & community care Wipro Education   • Continued support t o 23 organizations through programmatic  grants, one-time grants, fellowships and publications • 19 new organiza tions have been supported this year • 16th Par tner’s Forum on organizational sharing held in April 2016 Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program  in the U.S.A. • Collaboration with UMass, Boston, Michigan State  University, Mercy College and University of North Texas  • Works with o ver 250  teachers across 20 school  districts go through a 2-3 year fellowship Wipro Earthian • Increased reach to 2,000 schools, 1,500  colleg es and 2,200 teachers in 45 districts across  21 states • 11 Wipro earthian  ‘Sustainability Learning corners’   have been set up in 11 schools across India.
• The first W estern region sustainability symposium for  educators hosted in Ahmedabad in October, 2016 with  participation from 35 faculty • Conducted 4 Wipr o earthian sustainability quizzes with a  total participation from 360 teams and 720 students Wipro Cares  • Nearly 70,000 children of migrant laborers working in construction  sites in the city bene fitted from our 20 education projects in 8  states • ‘Children with Disability ’ program supports the educational and  rehabilitative needs of 4,200 underprivileged children through 12  projects in 6 states • Through 3 projec ts, an aggregate of over 40,000 people get access  to primary health care • Project in urban solid w aste management in Bangalore provides  social, nutritional and health security to nearly 2,700 workers in the  informal sector of waste • Received the Citi Lean partner award  for 2015 in r ecognition  of high levels   of service and performance • Recognised as “Bes t Collaboration Partner” by  LTA, Singapore at the Land Transport Excellence  Awards 2016 • Sustainability assessments front ended b y  customers: Ecovadis – CSR rating of “Gold”  and Verego – “Best in Class”          across five areas Customer stewardship • Wipro recognized as member of Dow Jones  Sustainability Inde x (DJSI), World for the seventh  time in a row.
Wipro is also a member of the DJSI  Emerging Markets Index • Wipro fea tures in the A List of CDP’s global report as  well as the India Climate Change Report 2016 • Wipro recogniz ed as one of the 100 most sustainable  corporations in Asia in the 2016 Channel NewsAsia  Sustainability Ranking • Wipro selec ted as a member of the Vigeo Eiris  Emerging Market Sustainability Index (the 70 most  advanced companies in the Emerging Market Region) • Wipro named as a Worl d’s Most Ethical Companies by  the Ethisphere Institute for the 5th successive year • Wipro Lt d received ‘A’ Rating with a PLATINUM  Sustainable Plus Label from CII Recognitions  12 Dear Stakeholders, In May 2017, we introduced the new Brand identity of Wipro and  rearticulated our Values, the Spirit of Wipro.
The year also marks  the 70th anniversary of Wipro’s listing on the stock exchange.
Global political uncertainty weighed on business sentiment in  2016, impacting the IT Services industry.
In the fiscal year 2016- 17, Gross Revenues of Wipro grew by 7.4%.
International Monetary Fund expects economic activity to pick  up through 2017 in both Advanced Economies as well as the  Emerging Markets, but pockets of weaknesses remain.
Wipro  faces this changing environment with optimism.
In my letter last year, I touched upon the pervasive change that  businesses were experiencing.
Over the last year, we saw further  evidence of a drastic change in expectations and experiences of  consumers and business models.
Digital is the central element  driving this change.
We believe that IT Services companies are  key to delivering Digital to enterprises.
At Wipro, we strongly believe that our success will depend on  our ability to redefine and align ourselves with the new global  paradigms and the disruptive developments in our industry.
In  this context, we have made significant investments, organic and  inorganic, and developed capabilities to serve our clients.
Our clients profoundly value our capacity to meld our deep  technology and domain expertise for solutions across a very  wide range of their business needs.
This is complemented by  our capability to draw and apply insights from across industries,  to deliver with consistent excellence and integrated end-to-end  capabilities and services.
Brand Identity and Spirit of Wipro Our earlier brand identity has been an enormous source of  strength for us since 1998, and so has the previous articulation  of our values, the Spirit of Wipro, from 2006.
So, the introduction  of the new identity and the rearticulated Spirit of Wipro, is a rare  and important occasion.
Chairman’s      letter to the      stakeholders 13 The creation of intellectual capital results from investments  in human capital.
Last year we trained over 39,000  employees in Digital technologies.
Our investments in  emerging technology spaces of Artificial Intelligence, Data  Analytics and Digital resulted in 603 patents last year alone.
Our work in school education, community care and ecology  enhances social and natural capital.
The Wipro Science  Education Fellowship for teachers in the US has now  expanded to the city of Dallas, while we continue to work  closely with teachers in Boston, Chicago, New Jersey and  New York.
We are making very satisfactory progress on all our  Sustainability Goals.
The fact that 38% of all our water  requirements is met through recycling helps preserve a  precious natural resource.
In combination with improvements  in water efficiency, we saved nearly 500 million liters of water  last year.
These water efficiency initiatives reduce pressure  on freshwater resources and pares energy consumption.
In  2016-17, our absolute greenhouse gas emissions reduced by  nearly 30,000 tons.
This was driven by our renewable energy  footprint which stands at 25% of our overall electricity  consumption and investments in energy efficiency.
We will  continue to vigorously drive both these dimensions in line  with our defined targets for 2020.
Our new brand identity resonates deeply with this  fundamental approach of value creation on multiple  dimensions, reflected in the energetic and organic  integration of diversity in the identity.
And at our core, is the Spirit of Wipro, which directly guides  us to be responsible as a global citizen of this planet.
Let me end by thanking you and all our stakeholders, for the  trust and faith that you repose in us.
Very Sincerely, Azim Premji June 17, 2017 Wipro has been built by an unflinching commitment to  values.
And our Brand identity has been a clear visual  representation of what we do for our clients, what we mean  to them, and so in a deep sense why we exist.
Our new brand identity is energizing and exciting.
It is a very  apt visual expression of why we exist: to amplify our client’s  success.
The new identity reflects our transformation in the  enormously diverse, yet deeply connected world.
It  captures our expanding ability to generate insights from  interconnected perspectives.
And to bring these insights to  bear directly on innovations which drive our clients’ business  success.
The Spirit of Wipro energizes us to make this happen.
The  rearticulated Spirit is deeply resonant with the new identity.
It reflects our transformation, yet remains firmly rooted in  who we are and have been.
This is as it must be, because the Spirit of Wipro is the core  of Wipro.
It is our character.
It is the unchanging essence of  Wipro, while embracing what we must aspire to be.
It is for  this that the Spirit of Wipro is our beacon.
With our vibrant  new brand identity and the rearticulated Spirit of Wipro, I see  enormous source of energy to power success: the success of  our clients, the success of our employees, the success of our  stakeholders and therefore the success of Wipro.
Stakeholder Value We continually strive to enhance value for investors.
The  trust that our clients place in us is at the heart of this.
We have a philosophy of providing regular and stable payout  to investors and prudently evaluate capital allocation  decisions, in the interest of building long term stakeholder  value.
Consistent with this approach, we announced a bonus issue.
Shortly, the Board will also consider a proposal to buyback  equity shares of the company.
The value that a company creates for its stakeholders is not  just financial but also social, environmental, intellectual  and human.
For example, companies create social value by  investing in employee skilling and development, through  its products and services and through the relationships it  builds with its customers and suppliers.
Social value is also created when companies engage  with its communities and work on some of society’s most  pressing issues.
It creates environmental value by being  more ecologically sustainable.
Continuing from last year,  a predominant theme of our report this year is on how we  create value on the five dimensions of financial, human,  social, natural and intellectual capital.
14 Dear Stakeholders, The business landscape has seen rapid changes in recent years.
Winning in  today’s world requires new business models, agile ways of working and a fresh  strategy, design and technology vision.
We believe that growth opportunities are  vast for those who make a successful transition to the New business models and  align harmoniously with the New ways of working.
It has been a little over a year since Wipro embarked on a transformation journey.
Let me give you an update on our transformation and the underlying strategy, that  I articulated, last year.
Our strategy is based on two themes – help our clients’ Drive the Future of their  businesses (Change Strategy) and Modernize the Core of our clients’ business  (Run Strategy)  Strategy update Drive the future (CHANGE) – We are driving the CHANGE strategy through the  following key themes: Digital & Advisory Wipro Digital has scaled significantly since its inception.
Clients understand  our differentiated value proposition which brings together advisory, design and  technology to drive digital transformation.
We have consolidated, scaled up our  Consulting arm and aligned it with Digital.
This end-to-end digital value-chain  enables us to ‘connect-the-dots’ across the needs of our clients’ customers, our  clients’ strategy, digital design and technology capability and deliver business  value to our clients.
Clients are moving from experimental projects in digital to large transformational  deals and Wipro is positioned very favorably.
The best example is our large Digital  transformation engagement with one of the Top 10 banks in Europe where Wipro’s  brief is to deliver the complete digital portfolio for the bank.
Wipro will conceive,  design and build the solutions that deliver user experience for the bank’s  consumers.
In FY17, Digital eco-system grew from 17.5% of revenues in Q1 to  22.1% in Q4.
CEO’s      letter to the      stakeholders 15 Automation & IP HOLMES: Wipro HOLMES Artificial Intelligence Platform TM (HOLMES), our  automation platform, continues to be a differentiator at the marketplace.
We are  scaling the deployment of HOLMES, across our clients.
HOLMES for IT is a focused initiative for us to improve not only the delivery  productivity, but also drive a new way to work as we foresee cognitive and Robotic  Process Automation (“RPA”) drastically changing the traditional IT delivery  model.
In FY17, we generated productivity worth over 12,000 persons across  140+ customer engagements by leveraging next generation delivery practices  and deploying over 1,800 cumulative instances of HOLMES bots in the areas of  application development, maintenance and infrastructure services.
HOLMES for Business is focused on solving use cases in areas such as compliance,  onboarding, customer service, supply chain and anomaly detection, with a strong  focus on building industry-specific solutions.
HOLMES continues to receive  strong adoption, with several customers across diverse industry segments.
In FY17, we also set up a dedicated unit to drive non-linear revenues through  investments in Intellectual Property in the form of products, platforms,  frameworks and solutions.
This has led to an increase in patents that we hold.
In  the last fiscal, the number of patents we held (and applied for) increased by over  50 percent to 1,662.
Partner Eco-system M&A: In the last 18 months, we have invested over $1 Bn in acquisitions.
In  February 2016, we acquired Healthplan Services, a BPaaS company operating  in the US healthcare market.
While we are excited about the technology and  long-term potential, current uncertainty over US healthcare reforms are causing  headwinds in the business.
In 2016-17, we completed the acquisition of Appirio,  a leader in cloud application services.
With Appirio, Wipro is positioned amongst  the top Cloud application service provider globally.
I am happy to report that in  the brief period post-acquisition, Wipro & Appirio have notched up numerous  synergistic deal wins.
In April 2017, we acquired Infoserver, a Brazilian company  that enhances our footprint in the growth market of Latin America.
Ventures: In FY17, Wipro Ventures made four investments.
As of March 31, 2017  we held 9 such investments with a cumulative spend of $ 24.5 million in start- ups working in technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises.
Together  with our investee companies, we now have 10 joint commercial engagements in  Security, Customer Care Automation, Business Process Automation and Big Data  Lifecycle Management.
Alliances: We continue to be premier partners to many global IT companies  and have received several awards from our alliance partner ecosystem for our  capabilities and innovations.
As an example of innovation, Wipro, co-innovated  with a leading product vendor in agile cost structure for what was traditionally a  capex intensive transformation.
Horizon: The Wipr o intrapreneurship program, Horizon program, incubated 15  ideas in areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Digital, Industry 4.0,  IOT & Software Defined during the year.
16 Industry Analysts: I am glad to inform you that Wipro has received several  recognitions  from industry analysts in recent quarters.
Wipro has been recognized  as a ‘Leader’ in 52 analyst reports in FY17, that is more than two fold increase over  the past 3 years.
Modernize the Core (RUN) - We continue to drive market share in our core  businesses through the following key themes:  Client Mining We set up a dedicated Integrated Services Group with the mandate of integrating  end-to-end technology solutions from multiple service lines like Applications,  Infrastructure services and Analytics and create a synergistic offering to our  clients.
We are also investing in innovative business models like BPaaS (Business  Process as a Service) that integrates IT Infrastructure, Application Platforms and  Business Operations and provides consumption based pricing to our clients.
The  value we deliver from the insights drawn across service lines is significant to our  clients.
Our initiatives to put together our offerings as Integrated Services and the  delivery experience is delighting our customers.
In FY17, we received many client recognitions.
For instance, Wipro received the  Citi Lean Partner award from Citibank, in recognition of its high levels of service  and performance.
Our Net Promoter Scores (NPS) improved 740 basis points in  FY17 over FY16, reaffirming the trust our clients have reposed in us.
Our pipeline grew significantly in FY17 led by our mining efforts.
A growing part of  our pipeline consists of integrated deals and this is translating into wins.
Localization FY17 saw immense progress in localization in all our key markets.
In the US, we  invested significantly in acquiring capabilities, increased hiring, set up delivery  centers and focused our sustainability initiatives specifically in the area of  education.
In FY17, Wipro added two more major multi-client delivery centers in  Mountain View, California and Farmington Hills, Michigan.
During the year, over  3,000 local employees joined Wipro in the US and today, Wipro has a workforce of  over 14,000 in the US.
We are driving increased localization and expect to have  a majority of our US workforce as local employees soon.
Similarly, we are making  good progress on localization initiatives in UK, Singapore, Middle East and other  parts of the world.
Our investments in key geographies of potential such as Continental Europe,  Latin America and South Africa are in line with our long-term plans to harness  opportunities in these growth economies.
These investments are not merely  financial in nature but are part of our strategy to invest in talent in the region to  drive growth.
Employees We provide ample opportunities for employees to upskill and grow their careers.
Our learning & development programs have been well-received.
For instance,  we trained over 39,000 employees on Digital skills in FY17, well ahead of our  earlier planned target.
Overall, we now have over 60,000 technical employees  trained on Digital skills.
In fact, our Employee Perception Survey 2016, showed an  improvement of 12.5 percentage points in terms of overall employee satisfaction  with a significant criterion in the survey being employees’ perception of sufficient  17 with a significant criterion in the survey being employees’ perception of sufficient  opportunities to learn and grow in Wipro.
Last year, I had mentioned that Enterprise transformations of the magnitude  Wipro is undergoing, need intervention programs focused on behavior and new  ways of working.
I am happy to report that over FY17, various internal learning  initiatives such as OneVoice, ADROIT, PRISM, WinMore, TopGear focused at  various employee segments across sales, delivery, middle management, bench,  technology and domain teams have been well accepted.
For example, over 32,000  employees have enrolled on TopGear, the social learning & crowdsourcing platform,  and contributed to over 20,000 assignments and case studies and over 100 IP  Development projects.
I am excited about the future of corporate crowd-sourcing  as I see it brings a sense of empowerment and a spirit of entrepreneurship to our  employees.
In FY17, we institutionalized the practice of quarterly employee appraisals.
We  continue to drive a high-performance culture.
We are aligning management  compensation more closely with organizational objectives and commitments and  rewarding higher performance disproportionately.
Brand Over the last year, we spoke to a cross section of our stakeholders, including  our employees, clients, industry analysts, and advisors to understand what they  believe we excelled at and what we could do better.
The insights were heartening.
Our clients count on us to help them run and  transform their businesses.
They appreciate our ability to help them connect the  dots by bringing together broad and deep technology and domain expertise.
They  complimented our capability to draw and apply insights from across industries.
They value our “One Wipro” approach and our skill to provide integrated, end- to-end capabilities and services.
They endorsed our track record of delivering  excellence consistently.
In light of all the new initiatives that we outlined as part of the strategy update  and the prospect of end-to-end transformation, we felt strongly that this journey  called for a new visual identity.
In May 2017, we unveiled our new brand identity.
The new logo represents the way we “connect the dots” for our clients– now seen  through a digital lens for a digital world.
It embodies the positive energy that  Wiproites bring – individually and collectively.
In this period of transformation to a digital world, our vision remains steadfast  - to earn our clients’ trust and maximize value of their businesses by providing  solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in  class execution.
In our journey in delivering the vision, I wish to thank our shareholders for their  investment as well as look forward to their continued support.
Very Sincerely, Abidali Z Neemuchwala June 17, 2017  18 Rishad Premji  - Chief Strategy Officer & Member of the Board Narayanan Vaghul - Independent Director Dr. Ashok S Ganguly  - Independent Director Ireena Vittal  - Independent Director Azim H Premji  - Executive Chairman Abidali Z Neemuchwala  - CEO & Member of the Board     Board of Directors 19 William Arthur Owens - Independent Director Dr. Patrick J Ennis - Independent Director M K Sharma - Independent Director Patrick Dupuis - Independent Director Names listed, from left to right  20 Azim H Premji Chairman Azim H Premji is the Chairman of the Board and Managing Director (designated as “Executive Chairman”)  of Wipro Limited and has been at its helm since the late 1960s, turning what was then a small cooking  fat company into a $ 8.5 billion revenue group with businesses in IT, Consulting and Business Process  Services with a presence in over 60 countries.
Mr. Premji also serves as a director of Wipro Enterprises  (P) Limited, Wipro GE Health Care Private Ltd., and in other entities of the promoter group.
Mr. Premji  has established the Azim Premji Foundation, which is focused on improving public school education,  working directly in six states of India which have over 350,000 schools.
The Foundation also runs the  not-for-profit Azim Premji University, focused on programs in education and related fields of human  development.
He has also set up the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives, through which impactful  non-profits working in a few chosen fields including nutrition and  support to vulnerable groups, are  given multi-year grants.
Over the years, Mr. Premji has received numerous honors and accolades, which  he considers as recognitions for Team Wipro.
Mr. Premji is the first Indian recipient of the Faraday Medal.
The Republic of France bestowed upon him the “Legion of Honor” and in January 2011, he was conferred  with Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award in India.
Mr. Premji has been listed as one of  the most influential people in the world by several global publications including Time, Financial Times,  Forbes and Fortune.
BusinessWeek listed him amongst the top 30 entrepreneurs in world history.
Mr.  Premji has a graduate degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.
Mr. Premji is the father  of Mr. Rishad A. Premji, who is the Executive Director and Chief Strategy Officer of the Company.
Narayanan Vaghul Independent Director Narayanan Vaghul has served as a director on our Board since June 1997.
He is the Chairman of our  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, and a member of the Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee.
Mr. Vaghul is also the lead independent director of the Company.
He was the  Chairman of the Board of ICICI from September 1985 to April 2009.
Mr. Vaghul is on the Boards of the  following public companies in India and overseas: 1) Mahindra World City Developers Limited, 2) Piramal  Enterprises Limited and 3) Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited.
He is also on the boards of two private  limited companies and several Section 8 companies and public trusts.
Mr. Vaghul is the Chairman of  the Compensation Committee of Piramal Enterprises Limited and its 100% subsidiary, PHL Finance  Private Limited.
Mr. Vaghul is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Piramal Enterprises Limited.
Mr. Vaghul is a member of the Remuneration Committee of Mahindra World City Developers Limited and  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited.
Mr. Vaghul holds a Bachelor (Honors) degree in Commerce from  Madras University.
Mr. Vaghul was the recipient of the Padma Bhushan award by the Government of  India in 2010.
Mr. Vaghul also received the Lifetime Achievement Awards from Economic Times, Ernst  & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award Program and Mumbai Management Association.
He was given  an award for his contribution to the Corporate Governance by the Institute of Company Secretaries in  2007.
Dr. Ashok S Ganguly Independent Director Dr. Ashok S Ganguly has served as a director on our Board since 1999.
He is the Chairman of our Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee.
He is currently the Chairman of ABP Pvt.
Ltd  (Ananda Bazar Patrika Group).
Dr. Ganguly also currently serves as a non-executive director of Dr.  Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. Dr. Ganguly is the Chairman of the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee and Chairman of the Science, Technology & Operations Committee of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories  Ltd. Dr. Ganguly was a former member of Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament of India (2009- 2015).
He is a former member of the Board of British Airways Plc from 1996 to 2005 and Unilever Plc/NV  from 1990 to 1997.
Dr. Ganguly was formerly the Chairman of Hindustan Unilever Limited from 1980 to  21 1990.
Dr. Ganguly was on the Central Board of Directors of the Reserve Bank of India from 2000 to 2009.
In 2006, Dr. Ganguly was awarded the CBE (Hon) by the United Kingdom.
In 2008, Dr. Ganguly received  the Economic Times Lifetime Achievement Award.
Dr. Ganguly received the Padma Bhushan award by  the Government of India in January 1987 and the Padma Vibhushan award in January 2009.
Dr. Ganguly  holds B.Sc (Hons) from University of Bombay and an MS and PhD from the University of Illinois.
William Arthur Owens Independent Director William Arthur Owens has served as a director on our Board since July 2006.
He is also a member of  our Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee, and serves as the Chairman of  our Strategy Committee.
He has held a number of senior leadership positions at large multinational  corporations.
Mr. Owens presently serves as the Chairman of the Board of CenturyLink Telecom.
He is  also the Executive Chairman of Red Bison Advisory Group (“RBAG”).
RBAG is a company in the natural  resources (oil, gas and fertilizer plants) and information and communication technology sectors.
Mr.  Owens previously served as the Chairman of AEA Investors (Asia) from April 2006 to December 2014  and has served as Managing Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AEA Holdings Asia, a  New York private equity company at various times during that period.
Mr. Owens also served as Vice  Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, Asia from June 2012 to June 2014, as well as Vice Chairman,  Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nortel Networks Corporation,  a global supplier of communications equipment from April 2004 to November 2005.
Prior to that, Mr.  Owens served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Teledesic LLC, a satellite communications  company from August 1998 to April 2004.
During that same period, Mr. Owens also served as Chairman  and Chief Executive Officer of Teledesic LLC’s affiliated company, Teledesic Holdings Ltd. Mr. Owens was  President, Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman of Science Applications International Corporation  (SAIC) from June 1996 to August 1998.
Mr. Owens was a career officer in the U.S. Navy where he served as commander of the U.S. Sixth Fleet  in 1990 and 1991, and as senior military assistant to Secretaries of Defense Frank Carlucci and Dick  Cheney.
Mr. Owens’ military career culminated in his position as Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of  Staff where he had responsibility for the reorganization and restructuring of the armed forces in the  post-Cold War era.
Mr. Owens is widely recognized for bringing commercial high technology into the  U.S. Department of Defense for military applications and as the architect of the Revolution in Military  Affairs (RMA), an advanced systems technology approach to military operations.
Mr. Owens is also a  member of several philanthropic and private company boards.
Mr. Owens was a member of the Board  of Directors of Daimler Chrysler AG from November 2003 to April 2009, Embarq Corporation from May  2006 to July 2009 and Nortel Networks Corporation from February 2002 to November 2005.
Mr. Owens is a director of the following private companies: Humm Kombucha, a beverage company,  BlueDot which aims to form health-care and energy businesses from federal research laboratories,  Moon Express, and Viome a wellness as a service company.
Owens is on the advisory board of the  following private companies: Platform Science, Sarcos, and Sierra Nevada Corporation.
Owens is on the  board of trustees at East West Institute, Seattle University, and an advisor to the Fiscal Responsibility  Amendment (CFFRA) Association which aims to establish a balanced budget amendment to the US  Constitution.
He is also a member of the Council of Foreign Relations.
Mr. Owens holds an M.B.A.  (Honors) degree from George Washington University, a B.S.
in Mathematics from the U.S.
Naval Academy  and a B.A.
and M.A.
in Politics, Philosophy and Economics from Oxford University.
M K Sharma Independent Director M K Sharma became a director of the Company in July 2011.
Mr. Sharma is the Chairman of our  Administrative and Shareholders/Investor Grievance Committee.
Mr. Sharma is also a member of our  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
Mr. Sharma served as Vice Chairman of Hindustan Unilever  22 Limited from 2000 to 2007.
Mr. Sharma served as a full-time director of Hindustan Unilever Limited  from 1995 to 2000.
Mr. Sharma is currently on the boards of ICICI Bank Limited, United Spirits Limited,  Asian Paints Limited and Blue Star Limited.
Mr. Sharma is also on the board of the Indian School of  Business, Hyderabad and serves as a Governor of Anglo Scottish Education Society Limited, Mumbai.
Mr. Sharma is the non-executive Chairman of ICICI Bank Limited and United Spirits Limited.
Mr. Sharma  is a member of the Audit Committee of Blue Star Limited and Asian Paints Limited.
Mr. Sharma is also  a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of Asian Paints Limited and ICICI Bank  Limited.
Mr. Sharma is the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee of Asian Paints Ltd. and the  Chairman of the Risk Committee of ICICI Bank Limited.
Mr. Sharma holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Arts and  Bachelors of Law Degree from Canning College University of Lucknow.
He completed a post-graduate  diploma in Personnel Management from the Department of Business Management, University of Delhi  and Diploma in Labour Laws from Indian Law Institute, Delhi.
In 1999, he was nominated to attend the  Advance Management Program at Harvard Business School.
Ireena Vittal Independent Director Ireena Vittal became a director of the Company in October 2013 and she also serves as a member of  our Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and Administrative and Shareholders/Investors Grievance  Committee.
Ms. Vittal is a former partner with McKinsey & Co.
Prior to joining McKinsey & Co., Ms.  Vittal worked with Nestle India Limited and with MaxTouch (now Vodafone India Limited).
Ms. Vittal  serves as a board member of Titan Industries Limited, Tata Global Beverages Limited, The Indian Hotels  Company Limited, Godrej Consumer Products Limited, Compass Plc, Zomato Media Private Limited  and on the global advisory board of ideo.org.
Ms. Vittal is also a member of Audit Committee of all the  aforementioned companies.
Ms. Vittal has a graduate degree in Electronics from Osmania University  and has completed her Master’s in Business Administration from the Indian Institute of Management,  Calcutta.
Rishad Premji Chief Strategy Officer & Member of the Board Rishad Premji, a full-time director since May 2015, is also the Chief Strategy Officer of the Company.
He also serves a member on our Strategy Committee and Administrative and Shareholder/Investor  Grievance Committee.
As the Chief Strategy Officer, he is responsible for shaping the Company’s strategy  to drive sustained and profitable growth.
In his role, Mr. Premji is also responsible for Investor Relations  and all Government relations activities of the Company.
Mr. Premji is on the Board of Wipro Enterprises  (P) Limited, a leading player in FMCG & Infrastructure Engineering and Wipro-GE, a joint venture  between Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited and General Electric in the healthcare domain.
Separately, he  is on the Boards of the Azim Premji Foundation, one of the largest not-for-profit initiatives in India,  and Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives, which provides grants to organizations that contribute to  social change.
Prior to joining Wipro in 2007, Mr. Premji was with Bain & Company in London, working on  assignments across Consumer Products, Automobiles, Telecom and Insurance.
He also worked with GE  Capital in the U.S. across businesses in the Insurance and Consumer Lending space and is a graduate  of GE’s Financial Management Program.
Mr. Premji has an MBA from Harvard Business School and a  BA in Economics from Wesleyan University in the US.
In 2014, he was recognized as a Young Global  Leader by the World Economic Forum for his outstanding leadership, professional accomplishments,  and commitment to society.
Mr. Premji is the son of Mr. Azim Premji, the Chairman of the Board and  Managing Director.
23 Abidali Z Neemuchwala Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Board Abidali Z Neemuchwala has been the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of the Company  with effect from February 1, 2016.
Previously, he served as Group President and Chief Operating Officer  of the Company with effect from April 1, 2015.
Mr. Neemuchwala spearheaded several initiatives  across Global Infrastructure Services, Business Application Services, Business Process Services, and  Analytics to create a more nimble and agile organization.
Mr. Neemuchwala believes that in today’s  digital world, successful organizations are the ones, which have the ability to convert consumers’  aspirations into instant gratification.
Reflecting the same he delivered his popular keynote at the  Oracle Open World 2015 articulating the new world order, in which customers buy digital experience  as-a-service.
Mr. Neemuchwala’s career includes a 23 year tenure in Tata Consultancy Services, where  he handled multiple roles in business, technology, sales, operations and consulting.
In his last role,  he headed the Business Process Services (BPO) business.
He was awarded the BPO Chief Executive  Officer of the year 2010 and in the year 2012 the Shared Services Organization of IPQC recognized  him for his personal contribution to the industry.
Abid is on the board of the World Affairs Council of  Dallas Forth Worth, contributing in connecting the local community to the world.
Mr. Neemuchwala  has a Masters in Industrial Management from Indian Institute of Technology Mumbai and a Bachelor’s  Degree in Electronics and Communication from National Institute of Technology, Raipur.
He is also a  Certified Software Quality Analyst and a Certified Six Sigma Green Belt.
Dr. Patrick J Ennis Independent Director Dr. Patrick J Ennis became a director of the Company in April 2016.
Dr. Ennis has more than 25 years of  experience as a scientist, engineer, businessman and venture capitalist.
Dr. Ennis serves as a member  of our Strategy Committee.
He is currently at the Invention Development Fund of Intellectual Ventures  where he invests in technology commercialization worldwide via an international open innovation  network of thousands of inventors.
Previously he was at ARCH Venture Partners where he built startups  from universities and national labs.
He also held positions with Lucent, AT&T and Bell Labs, and  conducted research in Nuclear Physics at labs in North America and Europe.
He is an inventor of several  patents, has written articles and book chapters and is a frequently invited speaker.
Dr. Ennis has served  on numerous corporate, educational, and non-profit boards.
He earned a PhD and M.S.
in Physics from  Yale, an M.B.A. from Wharton and a B.S.
in Math and Physics from the College of William & Mary where  he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
Patrick Dupuis Independent Director Patrick Dupuis became a director of the Company in April 2016.
He also serves as a member of Our  Strategy Committee.
Mr. Dupuis is a former Officer of global technology platform and payments leader,  PayPal Holdings, Inc. where he facilitated the company’s listing on Nasdaq in 2015 and its double- digit global expansion as Chief Financial Officer, then SVP for Quality and Productivity.
Prior to joining  Paypal, Mr Dupuis was Chief Financial Officer of Sitel, a leader in customer service and CFO of BJC  Healthcare, one of the largest non-profit health care organizations in the US.
He started his career in  1984 at General Electric, where he held multiple executive positions over 20 years, including Head of  GE’s famed Audit Staff, Chief Financial Officer of BJC Healthcare and General Manager of GE Capital  International Services (now Genpact).
Throughout his career, Mr Dupuis has been an enabler of growth,  transformation at scale and organization effectiveness.
He is a committed coach and mentor for middle  and senior executives.
He serves with a number of social organizations, including Board member and  Audit Chair for PayPal Giving Fund, a global platform that enables the distribution of charitable giving  from millions of donors to thousands of charities.
Mr. Dupuis graduated from the École de Management  de Lyon in France.
24     Management discussion     and analysis 25 IT Services  Over the past two decades, with the emergence of the  internet and inexpensive connectivity, the global delivery  model of service delivery has risen to become the preferred  model in sourcing of IT services, business process services  and research and development services.
In this period,  service providers have gained technological expertise,  domain competency and delivery capability by either  developing organically or by acquiring companies with  these competencies.
Fast-evolving technology landscapes,  dynamic economic environments and the emergence of  digital business has created a need for enterprises to look  for a partner to advise, design and execute their technology  transformation and support programs.
Large multinational  enterprises are engaging global IT Services companies  to deliver high quality service on a global scale and at  competitive costs.
We believe the IT Services industry has  significant growth potential.
Global IT service providers offer a range of end to end  software development, digital services, IT business  solutions, research and development services, technology  infrastructure services, business process services,  consulting and related support functions.
According to  the Strategic Review 2017 of NASSCOM (the “NASSCOM  Report”) in FY17, IT export revenues, from India grew by  7.6%, to an estimated $117 billion.
In the last few years, enterprises around the world are  embracing the reality that digital transforms every aspect  of business.
Experiences, consumers, entire industries,  business models and ways of working are all rapidly and  fundamentally changing.
Recognition of these trends,  combined with the realization that enterprises may not  be able keep up with this pace of change, has a profound  impact on our clients.
This requires new business models,  new ways of working and integrated capability across  strategy, design and technology.
NASSCOM Report projects  the Indian technology and services industry to reach $200  billion to $225 billion in revenues by 2020 and over $350  billion by 2025, from a base of $154 billion in 2017.
IT Products  The key components of the hardware industry are servers,  desktops, notebooks and tablet computers, storage devices,  peripherals, printers and networking equipment.
According  to the NASSCOM Report, the hardware segment of the  IT-Business Process Management exports from India is  estimated to be $14 billion in fiscal year 2017.
The domestic  market in India is also estimated at $14 billion in fiscal  year 2017.
Emergence of cloud computing technologies is  negatively affecting demand for IT products such as servers.
Business overview We are one of the leading providers of IT services globally.
We combine the business knowledge and industry expertise  of our domain specialists and the technical knowledge  and implementation skills of our delivery team leveraging  our products, platforms, partnerships and solutions in our  development centers located around the world.
We develop and integrate innovative solutions that enable  our clients to leverage IT to achieve their business objectives  at competitive costs.
We use our quality processes and global  talent pool to deliver “time to development” advantages,  cost savings and productivity improvements.
Our IT Services business provides a range of IT and IT-enabled  services which include digital strategy advisory, customer- centric design, technology consulting, IT consulting, custom  application design, development, re-engineering and  maintenance, systems integration, package implementation,  global infrastructure services, analytics services, business  process services, research and development and hardware  and software design to leading enterprises worldwide.
The markets we serve are  undergoing rapid changes due  to the pace of developments in technology, innovation in  business models and changes in the sourcing strategies of  clients.
Pressures on cost-competitiveness, an uncertain  economic environment and immigration restrictions  are causing clients to develop newer business models.
On the technology front, digital business has changed  the nature of demand for IT services.
Development of  advanced technologies such as cloud based offerings, big  data analytics, mobile applications and the emergence of  social media are shifting the point of decision-making on  IT sourcing within clients’ organization from the traditional  Chief Information Officer to newer stakeholders such as  Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Digital Officer and Chief Risk  Officer.
These trends on newer business models, emerging  technologies and sourcing patterns provide us with  significant growth opportunities.
Our IT Products segment provides a range of third-party IT  products, which allows us to offer comprehensive IT system  integration services.
These products include computing,  platforms and storage, networking solutions, enterprise  information security and software products, including  databases and operating systems.
We have a diverse range  of clients, primarily in India and Middle East markets from  small and medium enterprises to large enterprises in all  major industries.
We continue to focus on being a system  integrator of choice where we provide IT products as a  complement to our IT services offerings rather than sell  standalone IT products.
Industry overview  26 Technology has become increasingly central and core  to enterprises across industry segments.
In addition,  consumerization of IT has led to blurring of boundaries  between business needs and technology enablement.
This has led Wipro to place a strong focus on efficiency  in the “Run” side of our clients operations while also  driving transformation on the ”Change” side of our clients’  businesses.
The “Run” Strategy is about “Modernizing the  Core” of our clients’ process and technology landscape, i.e.,  helping clients achieve significant efficiencies in their core  operations through various levers across our core market  segments.
The ”Change” Strategy is about “Driving the  Future” and is focused on helping our clients drive Digital  transformation enabled by digital capabilities and assets  delivered by Wipro and its partner ecosystem.
Modernize the Core – the “Run” Strategy  1.
Integrated Services  Enterprises ar e looking for the right partner in helping them  with business outcomes.
Traditionally, IT services have  evolved around a distinct set of services.
In recent times,  the expectation from vendors is to solve client’s business  problems by leveraging domain knowledge, technology  expertise and integration of multiple services.
The  emergence of “as a Service” consumption models is leading  to a market demand for delivery of integrated services such  as Business Process as a Service (BPaaS).
We have given the dedicated Integrated Services Group  (ISG) the goal of integrating end-to-end technology  solutions from multiple service lines like applications,  infrastructure services and analytics.
Our focus is to build  integrated offerings across four key business themes:  Customer Experience, Business Acceleration, Simplified  and Sustained IT and Connected Ecosystem.
In integrating  services to solve customer’s business problems, the unit  will consider reference architectures, selection of tools and  Our vision The vision for our business is “To earn our clients’ trust and  maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions  that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies  and best in class execution” .
In doing business we seek to  emphasize our core values of being passionate about our  client’s success, treating each person with respect, being  global and responsible, and maintaining unyielding integrity  in everything we do.
Our ambition for 2020 has set the  direction of our strategy.
platforms, cost effectiveness of solution and best practices.
An example is Insights as a Service, which accelerates  Time-to-Insights using the Data Discovery Platform (“DDP”)  powered by advanced visualizations, models, accelerators  and algorithms and is offered as “Pay-Per-Use” .
2.
Simplification   Enterprises ar e focused on cost reduction with improved  quality of service and reliability, coupled with variable pricing  arrangements.
Wipro’s approach to achieve enterprise  objectives is to deliver simplification of client’s technology  landscape through consolidation, elimination, automation  and crowdsourcing.
An example of one of our approaches  is the Framework for Application Services Transformation  (“FAST”).
FAST covers the following: • New age ap plication (“app”) development • App r ationalization, optimization & modernization • Cloud app services  • Newer  methodologies such as AgileBase and  DevOps; and • Next gener ation quality assurance, app support and  trust management 3.
Hyper-A utomation Our focus is to help clients achieve their ‘Run’ goals through  significant cost optimization in operations by deploying  cutting edge platforms and technologies that drive hyper- automation and achieve industrialization of service delivery.
We have set up a dedicated integrated unit called HOLMES  to drive hyper-automation across IT and Business operations  for our clients.
Wipro HOLMES Artificial Intelligence Platform TM (HOLMES)  helps enterprises hyper-automate processes and helps  businesses by offloading specific cognitive tasks to the  Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) platform to gain cost efficiencies,  agility and enhanced user experience.
HOLMES helps  businesses adopt a hybrid mode of operation (i.e., pairing  automation and human effort), which is achieved through a  combination of virtual agents, predictive systems, cognitive  process automation, visual computing applications,  knowledge virtualization and AI reasoning.
4.
Partner E cosystem    We have a dedicated unit to deepen and widen our Partner  ecosystem networks to drive creation of new markets and  solutions, expand in key verticals/geographies and drive Go- to-Market (“GTM”) outcomes.
We have classified Partner  Ecosystem in the following categories  • Strat egic Partners: Multiple product lines with  significant business volume and potential.
• Growth P artners: Single practice alliances.
• Niche Par tners: Niche products with differentiated  solutions Business strategy 27 5.
Localization    We  are driving localization initiatives in our key geographies  such as the United States, United Kingdom, Continental  Europe, Canada, Latin America, Africa, Asia-Pacific and  the Middle East.
We believe that commitment to these  geographies is important in growing our business.
We  expect an increase in the percentage of our global workforce  comprised of local employees and consultants and diversity  is a key strategic priority as part of our globalization efforts.
Our localization strategy is based on the following: • Merger s and Acquisitions: In the United States, our  acquisitions of HPS and Appirio have enhanced our  local presence.
In Continental Europe, we enhanced  our local presence through the acquisition of  Cellent AG, an IT Services company serving  Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
• Local Delivery and Digital Cent ers: We are enhancing  local delivery capability at multiple locations .
We  are investing dedicated efforts in growth markets  like Latin America, Canada and Africa.
• Strat egic Partnerships: We are strategically  partnering with local universities to drive local  hiring through campus recruitment and entering  into partnerships with local entities.
• Local Leader ship Talent: We also hire and develop  local leadership talent through various initiatives.
Driving the Future – the “Change” Strategy 6.
Digital and Advisory  As clients increasingl y transform to become “digital  providers” of products and services, we continue to  invest and build capabilities in digital strategy, design,  architecture and engineering.
We are doing this by deploying  an experience-focused and high-velocity capability at scale,  which gives our clients the ability to “sense and respond” to  the emerging needs of their customer.
We have adopted a  five-pronged approach to drive Digital: • Significantly enhance marke t access with Digital as  a prime service line; • Deliver design and engineering by amplifying impac t  through Designit® and Buildit® platforms for  onshore-pod-based co-creation, rapid prototyping  and acceleration; • Drive solutions,  IP and Digital Center of Excellence  (“CoE”) by strengthening existing engagements,  horizontal offerings (e.g., cloud computing and  Internet of Things (“IoT”)) and service enablers,  creating disruptive solutions, IP and platforms and  developing new CoEs in areas such as marketing  technology, digitization, cloud development and  Outcome-based business constructs; • Scale talent thr ough identified candidate pools,  continuous proactive hiring, increasing campus  hiring and scaling through Digital Academy for  high-end engineers, top-end coders, digital  architects, data scientists, digitization consultants,  service design experts, specialized digital delivery  practitioners, industry focused strategists and  solution experts; and • Acceler ate access to differentiated capabilities  in Digital skills – design, engineering, cloud,  cybersecurity, mobility and Digital marketing.
Our acquisition in the Digital and strategic design space,  Designit, has integrated well with our digital unit.
Our clients  are beginning to see the benefits of design and engineering  working together to deliver remarkable customer  experiences at speed and at scale.
The joint GTM is securing  synergy deal wins for us.
For example, the design capability  combined with our technology skills helped us win a large  digital engagement with a global bank.
In FY17, Digital eco- system grew from 17.5% of revenues in Q1 to 22.1% in Q4.
In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we have trained  over 39,000 professionals in digital technologies.
We are  expanding our  innovation labs or digital pods to offer  enhanced transformation services to global customers.
Currently we have 14 digital pods spread across the globe  including in London, New York, Bangalore, Tokyo, Stockholm,  Bogota and Tel Aviv.
We have created a consulting ecosystem to consolidate and  leverage advisory capabilities housed within different units.
We are focused on delivering growth and improving quality  for our clients, thereby delivering impact to us through  growing business relationships and creating integrated  deals.
7.
Non-Linearity  Given the need t o address business challenges with speed  and to differentiate amongst service providers, we continue  to focus on IP development to drive non-linearity in our  business.
We have a significant thrust to drive non-linearity through  investments in IP in the form of platforms acquired through  acquisition of Gallagher Financial Systems Inc., Opus  Capital Markets Consultants LLC, HPS and ProMAX Systems,  Inc. and organically developed platforms such as HOLMES,  frameworks and solutions.
We have a dedicated unit to drive non-linear revenue growth  by leveraging IP-based products, platforms and solutions  as well as through automation and innovative commercial  constructs and delivery models.
As part of this effort, we have increased our patent filings  significantly in the past few years and have developed a  business model that emphasizes our patent portfolio and  28 growth in our inventor base within the organization.
Industry  analysts and rating organizations recognize the quality of  our intellectual property (“IP”) and we intend to continue  developing high quality inventions.
Many of our patents are  in emerging technology areas and serve as a foundation for  many of our new technology platforms, including AI, IoT,  connected devices and autonomous vehicles.
8.
World class E cosystem  Given the pace and scale of disruption in the technology  landscape, it is imperative to have a proactive and structured  approach to tap the innovation ecosystem.
Our ecosystem  strategy is defined around building and nurturing four types  of ecosystem plays through Start-up Partnerships, M&A,  Academia Partnerships and the Horizon Program.
Start-up Partnerships  As part of a start-up engagement model, we have invested  in building world-class partnerships through a $100 million  corporate venture capital fund, Wipro Ventures, aimed at  investing in cutting edge start-ups in areas such as Digital,  IoT, Big Data, Open Source, Cybersecurity, Fintech and  Security, Supplier Collaboration Platform and AI.
During the  fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, Wipro Ventures has seen  strong traction and scale.
As of March 31, 2017  we hold 9  such investments with a cumulative spend of $24.5 million  in start-ups working in Big Data and Analytics (Talena, Inc.),  AI (Vicarious FPC, Inc., Investments through TLV partners),  IoT (Altizon Systems Pvt Ltd), Mobility (Avaamo Inc.), Supplier  Collaboration Platform (Tradeshift Inc.), Fintech and Security  (Vectra Networks Inc., Emailage Corp., IntSights Cyber  Intelligence Ltd.) – technologies that are reshaping the  future of enterprises.
M&A  Acquisitions are a key enabler for us and drive our capability  to build industry domain, strengthen our presence in  emerging technology areas including Digital, and increase  market footprint in newer markets.
We focus on opportunities  where we can further develop our domain expertise, specific  skill sets and our Global Delivery Model to maximize service  and product enhancements and higher margins.
We also use  our acquisition program to increase our footprint in certain  large customers and pursue select business opportunities.
During  the year we consummated the acquisition of Appirio.
Appirio is a leader in cloud services and brings significant  partnerships with Salesforce.com, Inc. and Workday, Inc.  as well as ecosystem partners such as ServiceMax, Inc.,  Google Inc., Medallia, Inc. and Cornerstone OnDemand Inc.  Its talented team and strong crowdsourcing community  (called Topcoder) are strategic assets.
Topcoder is a leading  crowdsourcing marketplace which connects over a million  designers, developers and data scientists around the  world with customers via online computer programming  competitions hosted on its platform.
With over 1,250  employees, over 700 of which are based in the U.S., they  have a presence in Indianapolis, San Francisco, Dublin,  London, Jaipur and Tokyo.
Appirio has differentiated assets  in Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”), Customer  Experience and Human Capital Management (“HCM”),  including a strong base of enterprise clients.
We have also consummated the acquisition of InfoSERVER  S.A. during April 2017.
InfoSERVER is a Brazilian IT Services  company that predominantly caters to the Banking, Financial  Services and Insurance markets in Brazil.
Over the last 21  years, InfoSERVER has been recognized for its excellence in  delivery and specialized knowledge of local banking domain  and processes.
InfoSERVER is headquartered in São Paulo,  Brazil.
With this acquisition, Wipro and InfoSERVER will be  able to deliver a full suite of integrated IT services across  Digital, consulting, and business process services to four of  the top five banks in Brazil.
Academia Partnerships The objective of our academia partnerships is to promote  cutting edge technology research and capability aligned to  academia objectives.
Our focus is to work with academic  institutions and associations in the United States, Europe,  Israel and India in the fields of computer and electrical  engineering.
There are three models of engagement: project,  program and joint research.
We have current partnerships  with universities and industry associations and our endeavor  is to expand these partnerships in the defined research  areas, which are aligned with our strategic areas of interest.
Horizon Program The goal of the Horizon Program is to drive organic incubation  in emerging areas covering products, platforms, solutions and  capabilities.
In order to achieve this objective, we are investing  in key areas such as AI, cloud computing, cybersecurity, digital  experience, digital marketing and commerce and Industry  4.0, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing  technologies such as IoT.
During the year ended March 31,  2017 we have funded 15 new ideas as a part of this program 9.
Future F ocus Areas  As a result of the fast-paced change the IT Services  industry is undergoing, we continue to invest in areas with  a focus on future potential.
We are investing in the areas  of crowdsourcing, new age markets, HOLMES for Business  and emerging areas such as Blockchain, Software Defined  Everything and Cybersecurity.
Crowdsourcing:  As a part of the Appirio acquisition, we  acquired Topcoder, which is a leading crowdsourcing  marketplace with over a million participating designers,  developers and data scientists.
We are focusing on building  crowdsourced delivery models to better serve the needs of  our customers.
New Age Ecosystem: Given the different needs of new  age companies, which are quickly changing the customer  landscape and disrupting incumbents in their respective  industries, we have formed a New Age Business Ecosystem  to cater to the needs of these companies.
This unit is  tasked with creating solutions, platforms and offerings for  these customers in the areas of digital, cloud, analytics,  cybersecurity and BPaaS, among others.
HOLMES for Business: HOLMES, an AI Platform with a rich  set of cognitive computing services based on open source  software, is focused on solving key enterprise business  use cases by utilizing AI business processes.
HOLMES for  Business is focused on solving use cases in areas such as  compliance, onboarding, customer service, supply chain  and anomaly detection, with a strong focus on building  verticalized solutions.
HOLMES continues to receive strong  adoption, with a number of customers across diverse  industry segments.
Blockchain: We have significantly invested in developing IP ,  advisory services, Blockchain networks and our Blockchain  partner ecosystem.
During FY’17, we completed pilot  projects and we will now focus on large scale rollout.
Software Defined Everything (“SDX”): We have significantly  invested in building a Center of Excellence to showcase  our capabilities in SDX.
We are significantly focusing on  enhancing our skill sets across software defined storage,  software defined network, software defined datacenter and  cloud computing.
Cybersecurity: Given the rise of connected devices and  transition to the cloud, cybersecurity threats will continue  to increase as the threat attack area continues to increase  beyond the enterprise.
We have invested in building deep  capability in the areas of consulting, cloud security (public,  private and hybrid cloud) and leveraging machine learning  and analytics, to improve threat detection and response  to secure our customers’ assets and IT from cybersecurity  threats.
Driving differentiation and leadership through our  people  We believe that our employees are the backbone of our  organization and a key differentiator in the global market  for IT services.
We are committed to recruiting and training  highly skilled employees, service providers and leaders.
Our aim is to build a best in class global, diverse leadership  team, hire locally and provide our employees with attractive  opportunities for learning, career enhancement and  growth.
We continue to design and implement processes  and programs to foster people development, leadership  development and skill enhancements among our global  team.
It is our aim to be a global company that not only  serves clients but also empowers our employees worldwide  to increase their expertise beyond their industry peers.
We  are committed to provide opportunities to our employees  to re-skill and up-skill themselves, in the face of rapidly  evolving technology and increasing automation.
Acting responsibly At Wipro, we think it is critical for business to engage with  the multiple social and ecological challenges that face us.
Such engagement must be deep, meaningful and formed on  the bedrock of long term commitment; for that is the only  way by which real change can happen on the ground.
This  approach serves both, enlightened business interest and  social good.
Environmental Sustainability As a part of Wipro’s deep commitment to ecological  sustainability Wipro has been involved with multiple  environment related programs both, within our business  ecosystem as well as in the civic and social sectors outside.
The four pillars of our ecological sustainability program are: • Carbon Mitigation and Energy • Efficiency Responsible Water  • Waste and Pollution Management  • Biodiversity Community initiatives  At Wipro, we think that it is crucial to engage with proximate  communities wherever we have significant presence.
This is a reaffirmation of our belief that at its core, social  responsibility and sustainability must transcend boundaries  whether organizational or national.
Wipro runs the following  community programs in different geographies we operate in.
• Wipro Cares • Wipro Applying Thought in Schools • Wipro earthian • Wipro Science Education Fellowship  • Wipro South Africa Initiative 29 30      Business model -       creating value across capitals Financial capital • Capital Expenditure • Capital employed • Operational expenditure Intellectual capital • Research and development   expenses  • Investment in innovation partnerships • Investment in ventures Manufactured capital • Number of own campuses  • Total number of operating locations Human capital • Number of employees • Employee costs • Number of training programs • Coverage of training programs Social & Relationship  capital • Number of investor engagements • Spend on CSR • Supplier spend • Number of partnerships / collaborations Natural capital • Absolute energy consumption • Water consumption • Renewable energy • Land use • Spend on sustainable infrastructure To earn our clients’ trust  and maximize value of their  businesses by providing  solutions that integrate  deep industry insights,  leading technologies and  best in class execution Run  Modernize  the Core • Integrated Services                         • Simplification                         • Hyper-automation                                  • Partner ecosystem                       • Localization Change Driving the Future • Digital & Advisory                      • Non-linearity                         • World  class ecosystem               • Future  focus areas Strategic Planning CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES VISION Corporate Governance ` Inputs 31 Financial capital • Sales • Net profit • Operating cashflow Intellectual capital • Total number of patents • Number of new patents granted • Revenue from new products Human capital • Retention and Engagement • Gross utilization Social and Relationship capital • Market Capitalization • Equity payout ratio • Tax paid • Number of new customers  • Revenue from retained accounts • Number of CSR partners across geographies • Total number of beneficiaries Natural capital • Emissions avoided • Percentage of water recycled • Percentage of waste recycled • Biodiversity impact Americas, Europe,  India & Middle East, APAC & Other  Emerging Markets BUSINESS UNITS BFSI Manufacturing & Technology Consumer HLS Communications Energy, Natural Resources &  Utilities SERVICE LINES Application Services Global Infrastructure Services Business Process Services Product Engineering Services Analytics Digital & Consulting INVESTORS SUPPLIERS PARTNERS GEOGRAPHIES ` Outputs 32 We are a leading provider of IT services to enterprises  across the globe.
We provide a range of services which  include digital strategy advisory, customer-centric design,  technology consulting, IT consulting, custom application  design, development, re-engineering and maintenance,  systems integration, package implementation, global  infrastructure services, business process services, cloud,  mobility and analytics services, research and development  and hardware and software design.
We offer these services  globally leveraging our products, platforms and solutions  through a team of over 160,000 employees using our Global  Delivery Model.
Our key service offerings are outlined below: • Digital: At Wipr o Digital, the digital unit of Wipro,  we focus on the insights, the interactions, the  integrations and innovations that matter for brands,  businesses and their customers.
Together with our  acquired design firm, Designit AS, we build multi- disciplinary teams combining strategy, design and  technology experts oriented around the customer.
Our multi-disciplinary, purpose-built team includes  experts in digital and marketing strategy, service  design, user interaction, technology and agile  development and more.
Our extensive experience  in solving complex business, marketing, and  technology problems in industries including finance,  manufacturing, media and telecommunications,  retail, consumer goods, transportation,  government, health and life sciences, and energy  brings differentiated capability, scale, agility and  acceleration to client engagements.
• Application Services:  We offer integrated business  solutions that span across enterprise applications  and digital transformation to security and testing.
We offer services designed to help customers  integrate digital technologies and remain agile,  while also keeping their business efficient and  secure.
Our service offerings include: 1.
Oracle Ap plication Services – We deliver  end-to-end services across the entire Oracle  product spectrum including E-Business suite,  Oracle Cloud Applications (HCM, CRM, ERP) and  Engineered Systems.
2.
SAP  Application Services – Our expertise spans  the entire SAP product spectrum including  SAP HANA, SAP Cloud Applications (SF , Ariba)  Hybris, BW on HANA, and Mobility solutions.
3.
Connected Ent erprise Services – Our solutions  like Digital Customer Experience Management  and ENCORE, a next generation e-commerce  solution, enable businesses to engage  customers, drive sales, enhance customer  experience and create an integrated enterprise  that delivers a consistent, omni-channel  customer experience.
4.
Cloud Applica tion Services – We drive solutions  and services for key front-office and back- office enterprise processes including HCM,  CRM, Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”), by  leveraging best-of-breed SaaS solution stacks  and industry partners.
We have extensive  experience in advisory, implementation, rollout,  migration and application support.
5.
Enterprise Arc hitecture – We assist clients in  establishing the structure, processes and tools  for improvements in technology governance and  the metrics they need to measure the alignment  of their IT landscape with their business goals.
Our solution enablers, which are called ’Smarter  Applications’ , accelerate adoption of next  generation architectures.
6.
Enterprise Security Solutions – We help  ent erprises to enhance security strategy  and information security posture and enable  compliance programs by innovative security  platforms like Risk Intelligence Center, Data  Governance Center, Security Intelligence  Center, Security Assurance Center and Security  Management Center.
7.
Application De velopment & Maintenance  (ADM): Our ADM offering is focused on bespoke  application development and maintenance in  legacy as well as digital environment.
As more  and more businesses move to product based  solutions and SaaS solutions, there is increased  pressure on cycle time reduction and cost, while  delivering and maintaining bespoke solutions.
As businesses invest in digital solutions,  there is renewed interest in re-developing  applications to cater to mobility needs, social  media-compatibility of the digital offerings.
In  alignment with these needs, Wipro has adopted  lean and agile practices to deliver ADM services  in the shortest possible time lines and cost.
8.
Testing Services – W e deliver functional  assurance, better quality and enhanced  performance with our offerings like risk-based  testing, cloud testing, business assurance, ready  to deploy tools such as model based testing and  test lifecycle automation and industry point  solutions such as Digital Assurance platform.
9.
Microsoft  Services – We align with Microsoft’s  “Mobile First, Cloud First” strategy to help  organizations drive agility and simplify  business processes and provide an insight- driven digital customer experience by  leveraging our consulting expertise, over 40  best-in-class collaborative solutions, including  Digital Workplace, AgileBase and DevOps, and  productivity services that incorporate Wipro’s  IT Services offerings 33 HOLMES and Azure’s intelligent cloud platform.
• Global Infras tructure Services (“GIS”): GIS is an  end-to-end IT infrastructure and management  service provider that helps global clients in their  digital evolution.
We offer Business Advisory, Cloud  Migration, Data Center Transformation, Workplace  Transformation, Networks, System Integration and  Managed Services.
This unit has a global team of over  30,000 infrastructure consultants and is backed by  a strong network of strategic technology partners,  integrated ServiceNXT™ operation centers, 14 data  centers as well as in our homegrown automation  platform, Wipro HOLMES Artificial Intelligence  PlatformTM.
• Product Engineering Services Gr oup (“PES”): PES  facilitates breakthrough product and engineering  services transformations across all major industry  verticals.
With a focus on Digital transformation,  PES’s specialized team of over 10,000 skilled  professionals combined with in-house innovation  labs deliver end to end engineering R&D services.
This group is working on significant developments in  new age technologies such as IoT, cloud platforms,  3D printing, virtualization, smart devices and AI.
• Analytics: A t Analytics, we consult our customers  across the entire length of their data supply  chain, leveraging our AI, machine learning,  advanced analytics, big data and information  management platforms and capabilities.
We focus  on developing end-to-end analytics and information  strategies across the Data-Information-Insight- Recommendation-Execution value chain by using  our advanced analytics capabilities that leverage  our pre-built solutions for specific industries and  processes.
The service offerings include: 1.
Data Platf orm Engineering services, which  focuses on delivering accelerated platform  development catering to the areas of internet  scale applications, big data platforms and high  performance computing.
2.
The Big Da ta Analytics practice, which offers  insight delivery in real time or near real time  through analytical platforms and solutions built  utilizing open source platforms.
3.
The Informa tion Management practice, which is  dedicated to enabling the digital transformation  journeys of its clients through a trusted data  foundation.
4.
The Business Int elligence (“BI”) practice,  which is focused on helping businesses  unleash the value from their data and provide  timely, contextual and relevant actionable  insights rendered through rich and interactive  visualizations.
5.
The Database prac tice, which is focused  on enriching Analytics’ competency in IT  architecture and consulting.
• Business Process  Services (“BPS”): BPS is  a global leader in providing next generation  technology-led business process services to  global enterprises.
Our mission is to drive superior  customer experience, high levels of efficiencies,  uncompromising quality, improve efficiency and  productivity to maximize profit and to transform the  business processes from manual to a completely  automated functions.
We provide accelerated  business results driven by analytics across every  touch point of the business through marketing  services, content development and management,  finance and accounting, sourcing and procurement,  human resources, legal process support services  and customer relationship management.
Wipro BPS’ key non-intrusive industry and  technology agnostic differentiators are: • Enterprise Oper ations Transformation  Framework – A suite of comprehensive  solutions to address the central business  essentials of achieving process efficiencies  with a focus on enhanced customer experience,  cost optimization, reduced cycle times and  improved accuracy.
The solution suite delivers  standardized service, touching all engagements  of a customer lifecycle through simplification,  automation, intelligence and immersive  experience, supported by a cross trained  team of over 100 consultants, our proprietary  solutions, platforms and alliance with leading  solution providers for automation solutions.
• Base)))™ – Wipro ’s Business Operations  platform Base)))™ comes with business and  operations analytics, pre-built process libraries,  business design and process management  components to manage today’s business  operations.
• Next Gen Cust omer Experience (“NGCE”) – Our  NGCE platform leverages cognitive analytics to  reduce interaction costs, increase revenue per  customer, improve employee productivity and  enhance customer experience.
• Robotics  Process Automation (“RPA ”) – RPA  serves the next-generation BPS, which delivers  beyond labor arbitrage to improve processes  and accuracy by eliminating human error  and optimizing cost.
RPA helps achieve next  generation business goals and transformative  impact through rapid deployment and limited  capital expenditures requirements.
• BPaaS – Wipr o delivers best of technology  led services to its customers.
Wipro’s (BPaaS)  delivery solutions allow standardized, yet highly  configurable processes for quick deployment  and use.
We continue to invest in building a  larger BPaaS portfolio, which now includes: • Source-to-P ay (“S2P”) BPaaS Suite – Our BPaaS  is a comprehensive, strategically differentiating  34 and readily deployable plug and play solution  that leverages a mix of partner and in-house  technologies that addresses current and future  procurement challenges with digital agility,  reporting accuracy and proficient services.
• HPS Links Pla tform-as-a-Service Solution:  Through the acquisition of HealthPlan Services,  we offer market leading technology platforms  and a fully-integrated BPaaS solution to  health insurance companies (“Payers”) in the  individual, group and ancillary markets.
Payers  rely on this innovative and robust offering to  acquire service and retain members.
Payers also  leverage the analytical and predictive engines  of this solution to better serve their members.
IT Services industry  verticals Effective April 1, 2016, in order to provide strategic focus and  draw synergistic advantages among our sales, marketing  and business development teams, we realigned our industry  verticals.
The Communication Service Provider business  unit was regrouped from the former GMT industry vertical  into a new industry vertical named “Communications” .
The  Media business unit from the former GMT industry vertical  has been realigned with the former RCTG industry vertical  which has been renamed as “Consumer Business Unit”  industry vertical.
Further, the Network Equipment Provider  business unit of the former GMT industry vertical has been  realigned with the Manufacturing industry vertical to form  the “Manufacturing and Technology” industry vertical.
The  revised industry verticals are as follows: 1.
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (“BF SI”)1 2.
Healthcare and Lif esciences (“HLS”) 3.
Consumer Business Unit (“CBU”) 4.
Energy , Natural Resources and Utilities (“ENU”) 5.
Manufacturing and  Technology (“MNT”) 6.
Communications (“COMM”) Our IT Services business is or ganized into six industry  verticals: • Banking, Financial Services & Insurance (“BF SI”)1:  BFSI is our largest business unit in terms of revenue,  and includes clients in banking, insurance, and  securities and capital market industries.
Our banking  practice has partnered with many of the world’s  leading banks.
Our insurance practice has been  instrumental in delivering success to our insurance  clients who are part of Fortune 100 insurance  companies through our solutions accelerators, IP ,  end-to-end consulting services, and flexible global  delivery models.
We have partnered with leading  investment banks and stock exchanges worldwide,  providing state-of-the-art technology solutions to  address business priorities including operational  efficiency, cost optimization, revenue enhancement  and regulatory compliance.
• Healthcare and Lif esciences (“HLS”): At HLS,  we are building a patient-centric interconnected  health ecosystem.
With our ‘Discovery to Recovery’  strategy, we are building collaborative systems  that will bring people, technology and information  together to improve lives.
This will enable us to  connect companies, communities and individuals,  combining insights, innovation and integration to  change how healthcare services are provided in the  future.
• Consumer Business Unit (“CBU”):  CBU offers a full  array of innovative solutions and services to cater  to the entire value chain, where the consumer is  at the core, through a blend of domain knowledge,  technology expertise and delivery excellence.
We offer an integrated environment that allows  organizations to model, optimize, forecast, budget,  execute, manage and measure product and customer  performance across the globe.
We provide strong  consumer-centric insight and project execution  skills across retail, consumer goods, media, travel  and public sector.
Our domain specialists work with  customers to maximize value through technology  investments.
Wipro’s CBU encompasses Retail,  Consumer Goods, Media, Entertainment, Publishing  Industries, Public Sector and Travel and Hospitality  sectors.
• Energy , Natural Resources and Utilities (“ENU”):  Our ENU industry vertical has been collaborating  with and serving businesses across the globe for  over 16 years.
Our deep domain and technology  expertise has helped the business become a trusted  partner to over 75 leaders in the Oil and Gas, Mining,  Water, Natural Gas, Electricity, Engineering and  Construction industries across North and South  America, Europe, Africa, Australia, India, the Middle  East, New Zealand, Southeast Asia and Turkey.
Wipro’s ENU vertical has been recognized by analysts  as a major player in the Utilities sector.
We provide  consulting, engineering, technology and business  processes services expertise to the Utilities industry  across Generation and Renewables, Transmission  and Distribution, Retail, Smart Grid, Energy Trading  and Risk Management and Health, Safety, Security  and Environment.
Wipro is a strategic partner for  many of the world’s major oil and gas companies  and is recognized as a leader in IDC’s Market  space: Worldwide Oil and Gas Professional Services  2016 Vendor Assessment and was rated in the  Winners circle in the HfS Blueprint Report: Energy  Operation 2016.
Strategic acquisitions have further  strengthened our capabilities and presence in the  Energy sector.
Our offerings encompass sectors  such as oil and gas, mining, utilities, airports, ports,  transportation and manufacturing.
• Manufacturing and  Technology (“MNT”): Wipro’s MNT  Note:1) “Finance Solutions” has been used to describe “BFSI” in some of  our earlier communications.
35 business unit caters to both the technology providers  and consumers.
Our extensive customer portfolio  includes semiconductors, computer software and  storage, platforms and software products, network  equipment providers, consumer electronics and  peripherals, aerospace and defense, automotive,  industrial and process manufacturing companies.
Our extensive domain expertise helps cater to  customer requirements across product design,  manufacturing, customer experience and aftersales  revenue.
We have leveraged our network of partners  and academia to develop IP , platforms and domain/ industry focused solutions.
Our Industry 4.0/Smart  Manufacturing IP and accelerators help customers  redesign their supply chain to improve overall  quality and operational efficiency.
With significant  investments in our after-market services, we help  customers maximize their revenue by opening new  revenue streams and enabling them to capture  market share by adopting new business models.
We  are investing in emerging technologies which include  autonomous systems and robotics, industrial IoT,  augmented reality /virtual reality, software defined  network /network function virtualization, 5G, light  fidelity and next generation engineering based on  customer and micro services.
• Communications (“COMM”): F or more than two  decades, we have offered end to end Systems  Integration and Transformation, Managed Services,  Business Process Services and Engineering services  to global communications service providers.
The  market disruption caused by network technology  changes such as 4G/LTE/5G, digital services and  new business models has considerably changed  the expectations from our Communication Service  Providers clients.
We assist our clients in being able  to successfully deliver business outcomes amidst  the changing business, technology and regulatory  environment.
IT Products In order to offer comprehensive IT system integration  solutions, we use a combination of hardware products  (including servers, computing, storage, networking, security),  related software products (including databases and  operating systems) and integration services.
We maintain a  presence in the hardware market by providing suitable third  party brands as a part of our solutions in large integrated  deals.
Our range of third-party IT Products is comprised  of Enterprise Platforms, Networking Solutions, Software  Products, Data Storage, Contact Center Infrastructure,  Enterprise Security, IT Optimization Technologies, Video  Solutions and End-User Computing solutions.
Corporate governance At Wipro, Corporate Governance is more than just adherence  to the statutory and regulatory requirements.
It is equally  about focusing on voluntary practices that underlie the  highest levels of transparency & propriety.
Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at  Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely, Governance by Shareholders Governance by Board of Directors Governance by  Sub-Committee of  Board of Directors Audit/Risk and Compliance  Committee Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee with the  additional responsibility of CSR Strategy Committee Administrative, Shareholders and  Investors Grievance Committee  (Stakeholders Relationship  Committee) Governance by  Management  Process Risk Management Code of Conduct Compliance Framework The Ombudsprocess Wipro has a corporation wide Code of Business Conduct  (COBC) that provides the broad direction as well as specific  guidelines for all business transactions.
The COBC is  the central document on which the Company’s ethics  compliance message is disseminated to all employees.
Details are covered in the ‘Corporate Governance’ report.
Risk management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function  that aims at assessing threats to business sustainability  and mitigating those threats.
The function is backed by a  qualified team of specialists with deep industry experience  who develop frameworks and methodologies for assessing  and mitigating risks.
Good governance  & management  practices 36 Risk Management Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is  changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security,  Information Security & Business Continuity, Data Privacy and  Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk charts  of most organizations.
To effectively mitigate these risks,  we have employed a risk management framework which  helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks.
The  framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally  recognized standards.
• Orange Book by UK Government Treasury • COSO; Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated.
Framework by Treadway Commission • AS/NS 4360:2004 by AUS/NZ Standards board • ISO/FDIS 31000:2009 by ISO Major risks Mitigation plan Information Security & Cyber Security  breaches that could result in systemic failures,  loss, disclosure of confidential information.
Effective security controls implemented to detect, prevent and remediate threats.
Program to continuously monitor the effectiveness of the controls have been  implemented.
Focus is on sustaining controls and continuous improvement of  efficacy of the solutions.
Intellectual Property violating or misusing  our clients’ intellectual property rights or for  breaches of third-party intellectual property  rights or confidential information in connection  with services to our clients.
Elaborate program has been rolled out in the past years to assess and mitigate  the risks on account of intellectual property, both customer and Wipro-owned.
The  program assists in identification, monitoring and creating awareness across the  teams.
The program has also been enhanced to address risks arising out of access  provided to social media & collaboration platforms.
Data Privacy regulations relating to personal  and health information dealt with both by and  on behalf of Wipro increases the risk of non- compliance.
The Data Privacy program has been augmented keeping into consideration   privacy regulatory requirements, with specific emphasis to revalidate all existing  frameworks, policies and processes that can be leveraged by  respective  support  function and delivery teams, covering all applicable geographies and areas of  operations.
Regulatory Compliances covering various  federal, state, local and foreign laws relating to  various aspects of the business operations are  complex and non-compliances can result in  substantial fines, sanctions etc.
A program on statutory compliance is in place with the objective to track all  applicable regulations, obligation arising out of the same and corresponding action  items that requires to be adhered to ensure compliance along with necessary  workflows enabled.
The program is monitored and regularly reviewed to ensure  compliances.
Additional programs exist to cover specific regulations relating to  immigration, anti-bribery etc.
Functional and Operational risks arising out of  various operational processes Appropriate risk and control matrices have been designed for all critical business  processes and both design and effectiveness is tested under the SOX and Internal  Financial Control Programs and theme based assessments.
Service Delivery risks relating to complex  programs providing end-to-end business  solutions for our clients.
Risk Management framework has been deployed for large value deals to assess  solution fitness, credit risks, financial risks, technology risks among other risk  factors.
Additionally contract compliance programs are in place with regular  reviews, early warning systems as well as customer satisfaction surveys to assess  the effectiveness of the service delivery and early detection of any risks arising from  the service delivery.
Work place environment and Safety Strong Control measures have been put in place to ensure employee health and  safety.
Awareness is created about various issues and are communicated on regular  basis to employees.
Wipro maintains Zero Tolerance for violators of code of business  conduct.
Also employees are provided with an online web portal to log in concerns  relating to various subjects including environment and safety in the work place.
Major risks and mitigation initiatives Governance Framework Management Risk Ownership Business  Units & Functions Risk Management T eam Audit Committee of the Board Develop & deploy Policy/Framework Continuous Improvement Oversight T one @ The T op  Standard ERM  Framework  People, Process,  T echnology Risk Management Risk Categories Identification  Analysis  Evaluate Treatment Monitoring Governance  Strategic  Operational Compliance Reporting 37 Business Continuity management risks arising  out of global operations like IT outages, Cyber,  natural disasters, pandemic, terror and unrest,  power disruptions etc.
which will bring down  the availability of People, Technology and  Facility Effective implementation of Business Continuity Management System (BCMS)  framework aligned to ISO 22301 across accounts, service functions and various  locations.
The system will have a comprehensive and integrated readiness of the  BCMS requirements that will help plan, coordinate and execute the strategies  effectively.
Geo political risk arising out of entering into  contracts in a new country.
An assessment of doing business in a new country is done in order to analyze the  feasibility of doing business based on the country’s economic stability, corruption  index, investment opportunities, ease of doing business and physical safety.
Risk of protectionism policies impacting the  business Appropriate measures are being taken to provide uninterrupted high quality services  to the clients at all geographies.
Ombudsprocess Wipro is committed to the highest standards of openness,  probity and accountability.
Having a robust whistleblower  policy that employees and other stakeholders can use  without fear or apprehension is an essential condition for  a transparent and ethical company.
An important aspect of  accountability and transparency is a robust mechanism that  allows partners, customers, suppliers and other members of  the public, to voice concerns in a responsible and effective  manner.
What this means in concrete terms is that whenever  a stakeholder discovers information that reveals serious  malpractice, impropriety, abuse or wrongdoing within the  organization then the stakeholder should be able to report  without fear of reprisal, a concern to the ombudsperson  online at www.wiproombuds.com In 2016-17, 1692 complaints were received via the  Ombudsprocess and 1709 complaints were closed.
All cases  were investigated and actions taken as deemed appropriate.
Based on self-disclosure data, 25% of these were reported  anonymously.
The top categories of complaints were people  processes (34%) and workplace concerns and harassment  (22%).
Wipro has a policy and framework for employees to  report sexual harassment cases at workplace and our  process ensures complete anonymity and confidentiality  of information.
Adequate workshops and awareness  programme against sexual harassment are conducted  across the organization.
A total of 116 complaints of sexual  harassment were raised in the calendar year 2016, of which  102 cases were disposed and appropriate actions were taken  in all cases within the statutory timelines.
This includes  all cases reported to the system, even if unsubstantiated.
In some cases, a clear action has been taken (warning or  separation) and the rest have either not progressed due to  lack of information or resolved through counselling.
Capitals and  value creation In this section we cover Wipro’s approach to value creation  across the five capitals namely financial, intellectual,  human, social and relationship and natural.
•  Financial capital is br oadly understood as the pool of  funds available to an organization.
Financial capital  also serves as a medium of exchange that can obtain  value through conversion into other forms of capital.
•  Intellec tual capital is broadly organizational,  knowledge-based intangibles, including intellectual  property, such as patents, copyrights, software,  rights and licences and “organizational capital”  such as tacit knowledge, systems, procedures and  protocols.
•  Human capital is br oadly people’s competencies,  capabilities and experience, being continuously   innovative and contribute to the organizations  shared goals and values .
•  Social and relationship capital  is broadly the  institutions and the relationships within and  between communities, groups of stakeholders and  other networks, and the ability to share information  to enhance individual and collective well-being such  as customers, investors and suppliers.
•  Natural capital  is broadly all renewable and  nonrenewable environmental resources and  processes that provide goods or services that  support the past, current or future prosperity of an  organization.
It includes air, water, land, minerals,  forests, biodiversity and eco-system health.
Manufactured capital is broadly seen as human-created,  production-oriented equipment and tools.
For the IT services  business, these are the fixed assets like buildings, IT hardware  and telecommunication equipment.
The deployment of the  capital is adequately represented in financial capital and  through impacts to natural capital.
Hence this report does  not cover manufactured capital separately.
38 These capitals are interrelated and dependent on each other and affect the organization’s ability to create value over time.
What follows is the representation of a few examples of interconnectedness of the capitals.
Driving capitals          Financial capital             Intellectual Capital             Human Capital                  Social and Relationship capital           Na tural capital Financial capital enables supplier spend,  customer solutioning, sustainable returns  to investors, investment in partner /alliance  ecosystem.
Financial capital enables investment in R&D  leading to IP .
Capabilities and effor t of workforce create  intellectual capital.
Partner ships with customers, start-up ecosystem,  academia promotes creation of intellectual  capital.
Natural capital leads to engaged employees - who appreciates core values of social and  environmental responsibility.
It also improves  well-being and reduces attrition.
Financial capital ensures investment in employees  like training and capacity development, integrated  compensation and benefits, facilities which  consider health and safety, etc.
Opportunities to engage through volunteering  in community projects  positively impact the  workforce.
Opportunities to learn and innovate in emerging  areas of work drive the engagement levels of  employees.
Investments in infrastructure and community  ecology programs minimises environmental  impacts (emissions, water waste).
Deployment of skilled human resources is critical  for financial value creation.
Workforce  engagement with external  stakeholders, including communities, develops  loyalty and connectedness to brand.
Engaged employees contribute to environmental  programs in campus (resource efficiency  measures, biodiversity for example) and in  communities (volunteering).
Partners bring in expertise on hydrogeology for  ground water, botanists and researchers for  biodiversity.
Natural capital (land, energy, water, minerals etc.)
is essential to sustain the operations directly and  indirectly.
Effective use of this capital brings in  operational efficiency.
Ecologically responsible actions resonate  positively with external stakeholders.
Environmental projects can deliver social  outcomes like energy access and clean water for  the under served.
Partnerships are core for generating financial  value.
New IP solutions generate revenue for the  business.
Builds relationships for the long term.
Financial capital Intellectual capital Human capital Natural capital Social and Relationship capital ` Impacted capitals 39 Consolidated results for the year 2016-17  Year ended March 31,  (Figures in ` Million except  otherwise stated) 2017 2016# Year on Year Change Revenues1 554,179 516,307 7.3% Cost of revenues (391,544) (356,724) 9.8% Gross profit  162,635 159,583 1.9% Selling and marketing expenses (40,817) (34,097) 19.7% General and administrative expenses (32,021) (28,626) 11.9% Other Operating Income 4,082 - 100.0% Operating Income 93,879 96,860 (3.1)% Profit attributable to equity holders 84,895 89,075 (4.7)% As a Percentage of Revenue Gross Margin2 29.1% 30.9% (178)bps Selling and marketing expenses 7.4% 6.6% (77)bps General and administrative expenses 5.8% 5.5% (24)bps Operating Margin2 16.8% 18.8% (194)bps Earnings per share-Basic (`) 34.96 36.26 (3.4)% Earnings per share-Diluted (`) 34.85 36.18 (3.5)% 1.
For the purpose of segment reporting, we have included the impact of exchange rate fluctuations in revenue.
Excluding the impact of exchange rate  fluctua tions, revenue, as reported in our statements of income, is `512,440 million and `550,402 million for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017,  respectively.
Further, finance income on deferred consideration earned under multi-year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts is included in  the revenue of the respective segment and is eliminated under reconciling items.
2.
Gross margin and oper ating margin as a percentage of revenue has been calculated by including Other Operating Income with Revenue.
#            We elected to early- adopt IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective April 1, 2016 with retrospective application from April 2015.
Comparative financials reflect correspondingly.
Please see Note 30 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details Financial capital Revenue: In FY 2016-17, our revenue increased by 7.3%.
This was primarily driven by an 8.4% increase in revenue  from our IT Services segment that was offset partially by a  12.8% decrease in revenue from our IT Products segment.
The increase in IT Services revenues was driven by volume  growth in most of our verticals led by the HLS industry  vertical as well as depreciation of the Indian rupee against  the U.S. dollar.
This is partially offset by negative revenue  growth in the ENU industry vertical and the appreciation of  the Indian rupee against currencies other than U.S. dollar.
The decrease in IT Products segment revenue was primarily  due to our focus on being a system integrator of choice  where we provide IT products as a complement to our IT  services offerings rather than sell standalone IT products.
Profitability: In absolute terms, cost of revenues  increased by 9.8% primarily on account of increases in  employee compensation due to the impact of Indian rupee  depreciation, salary increases, increases in headcount  during the year (including increases resulting from business  combinations), increases in subcontracting/technical fees,  increases in depreciation and increases in facility expenses,  which was partially offset by a reduction in the cost of  hardware, software and travel.
As a result of the foregoing factors, our gross profit as  percentage of our total revenue decreased by 178 basis  points (bps).
Selling and Marketing Expenses:  Our selling and marketing  expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased from  6.6% for the year ended March 31, 2016 to 7.4% for the  year ended March 31, 2017.
In absolute terms, selling and  marketing expenses increased by 19.7% primarily on account  of increases in employee compensation, as well as increases  in amortization and impairment charges for intangible  assets recognized through business combinations.
Impairment charge is primarily on account of uncertainties  around regulatory changes relating to the Affordable Care  Act, which has led to a significant decline in related revenue  Note: Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS have been used for discussion under this section 40 Performance highlights – IT Services Year ended March 31,  (Figures in ` Million except  otherwise stated) 2017 2016# Year on Year Change Revenues1 528,440 487,316 8.4% Gross Profit 162,054 158,287 2.4% Selling and Marketing expenses (40,345) (32,874) 22.7% General and administrative expenses (29,726) (27,160) 9.4% Other Operating Income 4,082 - 100.0% Operating Income2 96,065 98,253 (2.2)% As a Percentage of Revenue Gross Margin3 30.4% 32.5% (205)bps Selling and marketing expenses 7.6% 6.7% (89)bps General and administrative expenses 5.6% 5.6% (6)bps Operating Margin3 18.0% 20.2% (212)bps 1.
For the purpose of segment reporting, we have included the impact of exchange rate fluctuations amounting to `3,794 millions and `3,736 millions for the  year s ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively in revenue.
Further, finance income on deferred consideration earned under multi-year payment terms in  certain total outsourcing contracts is included in the revenue of the respective segment and is eliminated under reconciling items.
2.
Includes Other Operating Income , which is being included to present the effect from the sale of the EcoEnergy division in the year ended March 31, 2017.
Additionally, effective April 1, 2016, the segment results are measured after including the amortization charge for acquired intangibles to the respective  segments.
Such costs were classified under reconciling items until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016.
The Company has restated prior periods to reflect  this change.
3.
Gross margin and oper ating margin as a percentage of revenue has been calculated by including Other Operating Income with Segment Revenue.
#         # We elected to early- adopt IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective April 1, 2016 with retrospective application from April 2015.
Comparative financials reflect correspondingly.
Please see Note 30 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details and earnings estimates.
Employee compensation costs  have increased primarily due to the depreciation of the  Indian rupee, salary increases and increases in headcount  during the year (including headcount increases resulting  from business combinations).
These increases have been  partially offset by savings in travel costs.
General and Administrative Expenses:  Our general and  administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue  increased from 5.5% for the year ended March 31, 2016 to  5.8% for the year ended March 31, 2017.
In absolute terms,  general and administrative expenses increased by 11.9%,  primarily due to an increase in employee compensation,  provisions for doubtful debts and facility expenses and a  civil money penalty relating to SEC investigation, partially  offset by savings in travel costs.
Other operating income: During the year ended March 31,  2017, we concluded the sale of our EcoEnergy division for a  consideration of  `4,670 million.
The net gain from the sale,  amounting to `4,082 million, has been recorded as “other  operating income” .
Operating Income: As a result of the foregoing factors, our  operating income decreased by 3.1%, from `96,860 million  for the year ended March 31, 2016 to `93,879 million for the  year ended March 31, 2017.
As a results of the above, our  results from operating activities as a percentage of revenue  (operating margin) decreased by 194 bps from 18.8% to  16.8%.
Finance Expenses:   Our finance expenses decreased from  `5,582 million for the year ended March 31, 2016 to `5,183  million for the year ended March 31, 2017.
This decrease  is primarily due to a decrease of `905 million in exchange  loss on foreign currency borrowings and related derivative  instruments, which was partially offset by an increase in  interest expense by `506 million on account of increased  borrowings during the year ended March 31, 2017.
Finance and Other Income:  Our finance and other income  decreased from `23,655 million for the year ended March 31,  2016 to `21,660 million for the year ended March 31, 2017.
Interest and dividend income decreased by `3,016 million  while gains on sale of investments increased by   `840  million during the year ended March 31, 2017 as compared  to the year ended March 31, 2016.
This net decrease was due  to a reduction in the yield on investments during the year.
Income Taxes:   Our income taxes decreased by `153 million  from `25,366 million for the year ended March 31, 2016  to `25,213 million for the year ended March 31, 2017.
Our  effective tax rate increased from 22.1% for the year ended  March 31, 2016 to 22.8% for the year ended March 31, 2017.
Profit: Profit attributable to non-controlling interest  decreased from `492 million for the year ended March 31,  2016 to `248 million for the year ended March 31, 2017.
As a result of the foregoing factors, our profit attributable  to equity holders decreased by `4,180 million or 4.7%, from  `89,075 million for the year ended March 31, 2016 to `84,895  million for the year ended March 31, 2017.
41  Customer Size Distribution  for IT Services  Number of clients in Year  ended March 31, 2017 2016 > $1M 602 550 > $3M 354 331 > $5M 268 248 > $10M 163 160 > $20M 91 89 > $50M 34 33 > $75M 18 18 > $100M 9 9 Revenue - IT Services:  Our revenue from our IT Services  segment increased by 8.4%.
The increase in IT Services  revenues was driven by growth in most of our verticals led  by HLS industry vertical and offset partially by negative  revenue growth in the ENU industry vertical.
On a gross  basis, we added 256 new customers during the year ended  March 31, 2017, including customers added as a result of  acquisitions.
We saw growth in all geographic segments  other than India and Middle East.
Profitability: Our gross profit as a percentage of our revenue  from our IT Services segment decreased by 205 bps primarily  on account of increases in employee compensation due  to the impact of Indian rupee depreciation, annual salary  increments, increases in headcount during the year  (including additions resulting from business combinations),  increases in subcontracting/technical fees and increases  in facility expenses, which was partially offset by savings in  travel costs.
Selling and Marketing Expenses:   Selling and marketing  expenses as a percentage of revenue from our IT Services  segment increased from 6.8% for the year ended March 31,  2016 to 7.6% for the year ended March 31, 2017.
In absolute  terms, selling and marketing expenses increased by `7,471  million.
This increase is primarily attributable to increases  in employee compensation, increases in amortization of  intangibles acquired through business combinations and  impairment charge on certain intangible assets, which  were partially offset by savings in travel costs.
Increase  in employee compensation cost is due to impact of Indian  rupee depreciation, salary increases, stock compensation  awarded, increases in headcount during the year (including  additions resulting from business combinations).
Impairment charge is primarily on account of uncertainties  around regulatory changes relating to the Affordable Care  Act, which has led to a significant decline in related revenue  and earnings estimates.
This impairment charge has  impacted the segment result of the HLS industry vertical.
General and Administrative Expenses: General and  administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue from  our IT Services segment increased slightly from 5.5% for the  year ended March 31, 2016 to 5.6 % for the year ended March  31, 2017.
In absolute terms, general and administrative  expenses increased `2,566 million.
This increase is primarily  attributable to increases in employee compensation,  provisions for doubtful debts and increases in facility  expenses, offset partially by savings in travel costs.
Other Operating Income: During the year ended March 31,  2017, we also concluded the sale of the EcoEnergy division,   for a consideration of `4,670 million.
Net gain from the sale,  amounting to `4,082 million, has been recorded as other  operating income.
Segment Results:  As a result of the above, segment results  as a percentage of our revenue from our IT Services segment  decreased by 212 bps, from 20.2% to 18.0%.
Further, in  absolute terms, the segment results of our IT Services  segment decreased by 2.2%.
Performance against Guidance: Historically, we have  followed a practice of providing constant currency revenue  guidance for our largest business segment, namely, IT  Services in dollar terms.
The guidance is provided at the  release of every quarterly earnings when revenue outlook  for the succeeding quarter is shared.
The following table  presents the performance of IT Services Revenue against  outlook previously communicated for the four quarters of  2016-17.
Our revenue performance in all the quarters of  financial year 2016-17 has been within the guidance range.
Guided Outlook versus Actuals Amounts in $ Million Quarter  ending Guidance Achievement  in guided  currency Reported  currency  revenue 31st Mar 2017 1,922-1,941 1,935.3 1,954.6 31st Dec 2016 1,916-1,955 1,927.9 1,902.8 30th Sept 2016 1,931-1,950 1,948.6 1,916.3 30th Jun 2016 1,901-1,939 1,919.9 1,930.8 Client mining - IT Services 42 Performance highlights – IT  Products Year ended March 31,  (Figures in ` Million except   otherwise stated) 2017 2016 # Revenue1 25,922 29,722 Gross Profit 957 2,116 Selling and Marketing  expenses (621) (1,274) General and administrative  expenses(2,016) (1,849) Operating Income (1,680) (1,007) As a Percentage of Revenue: Gross Margin 3.7% 7.1% Selling and Marketing  expenses 2.4% 4.3% General and administrative  expenses7.8% 6.2% Operating Margin (6.5)% (3.4)% 1.
For the purpose of segment reporting, we have included the impact of  ex change rate fluctuations amounting to `80 million and `81 million  for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively in revenue.
Further, finance income on deferred consideration earned under multi- year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts is included  in the revenue of the respective segment and is eliminated under  reconciling items.
#               We elected to early- adopt IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective April 1, 2016                      with retrospective application from April 2015.
Our financials are adjusted with                      the same.
Please see Note 30 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional  details.
Business unit wise performance  (Figures in $ millions except otherwise stated) Business unit 2016-17 2016-17 Growth YoY%  in reported currency 2016-17 Growth YoY%  in constant currency Margins 2016-17 Margins 2015-16 BFSI* 1,977 2.4% 5.1% 18.3% 21.8% CBU 1,216 1.4% 3.1% 17.4% 17.1% COMM 567 1.4% 5.0% 15.9% 16.2% ENU 1,006 (5.9)% (1.1)% 20.9% 19.0% HLS 1206 36.9% 37.3% 11.5% 20.6% MNT 1,733 1.4% 2.0% 19.7% 21.4% Total 7,705 4.9% 7.0% 18.0% 20.2% IT Services segment in FY 2016-17 consists of Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) , Manufacturing and Technology (MNT), Consumer Business Unit (CBU), Energy,  Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU) , Communications (COMM) and Healthcare and Life Sciences (HLS).
* ”FS” has been used to describe “BFSI” in some of our earlier communication Revenue:   Our revenue from the IT Products segment  decreased by 12.8%.
The decline was primarily due to our  focus on being a system integrator of choice where we  provide IT products as a complement to our IT services  offerings rather than sell standalone IT products Profitability:  Our gross profit as a percentage of our IT  Products segment revenue decreased by 343 bps primarily  on account of product pricing pressure, cost escalations in  certain projects and the depreciation of the Indian rupee  resulting in higher product costs.
Selling and Marketing Expenses: Selling and marketing  expenses as a percentage of revenue from our IT Products  segment decreased from 4.3% for the year ended March 31,  2016 to 2.4% for the year ended March 31, 2017 due to an  optimization of head count.
In absolute terms, selling and  marketing expenses decreased by ` 653 million.
General and Administrative Expenses: General and  administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue from  our IT Products segment increased from 6.2% for the year  ended March 31, 2016 to 7.8% for the year ended March  31, 2017.
In absolute terms, general and administrative  expenses increased by `167 million primarily on account  of increases in the provision for doubtful debts in our India  business.
.
Segment Results: As a result of the above, in absolute  terms, segment results of our IT Products segment recorded  a loss of `1,680 million for the year ended March 31, 2017  as compared to a loss of `1,007 million for the year ended  March 31, 2016.
43 Geography wise performance  (Figures in $ millions except otherwise stated)  Geo 2016-17 2015-16 2016-17 Growth YoY% in  reported currency 2016-17 Growth YoY%  in constant currency Americas 4213 3,873 8.8% 9.0% Europe 1877 1,857 1.1% 8.4% APAC and OEM* 833 823 1.1% 1.2% India and Middle  East 782 793 -1.4% -0.1% Total 7,705 7,347 4.9% 7.0% *Asia-Pacific and Other Emerging Markets Resource allocation strategy Cash generated from operations is our primary source of  liquidity.
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents  along with cash generated from operations will be sufficient  to meet our working capital requirements as well as  repayment obligations with respect to debt and borrowings.
Our choices of sources of funding will be driven with the  objective of maintaining an optimal capital structure.
We maintain a debt/borrowing level that we have established  through consideration of a number of factors including  cash flow expectations, cash required for operations and  investment plans.
We continually monitor our funding  requirements, and strategies are executed to maintain  sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources,  as needed.
Please refer to Note 12 of our Notes to the  Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on  our borrowings.
The Company’s cash flow from its operating, investing  and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows, is summarized in the table below: (` Million) Year ended March 31, YOY  changes Net cash provided  by/ (used in) : 2017 2016   Operating activities 92,773 78,873 13,900  Investing activities (116,283) (138,156) 21,873  Financing activities (22,752) (1,587) (21,165) Net change in cash  and cash equivalents(46,262) (60,870) 14,608  Effect of exchange  rate changes on cash  and cash equivalent (1,412) 549 (1,961) As of March 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalent and  short-term investments of `344,740 million ($5.3 billion).
Cash and cash equivalent and short-term investments,  net of debt, was `202,328 million ($3.1 billion).
In addition,  we have unused credit lines of `50,025 million.
To utilize  these lines of credit, we require the consent of the lender  and compliance with certain financial covenants.
We  have historically financed our working capital and capital  expenditures through our operating cash flows and through  bank debt, as required.
The Company enters into operating leases for office space,  hardware, and certain other equipment.
These arrangements  are sometimes referred to as a form of off-balance sheet  financing and details are available in the notes to the  Consolidated Financial statements.
1.
Cash from Opera ting Activities:  Cash generated by  operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2017  increased by `13,900 million while profit for the year  decreased by `4,424 million during the same period.
The increase in cash generated by operating activities is  primarily due to improved working capital management.
2.
Cash used in Inves ting Activities: Cash used in investing  activities for the year ended March 31, 2017 was `116,283  million.
The cash invested (net of sales) in available  for sale investments and inter-corporate deposits  amounted to `83,684 million.
Cash utilized for the  payment for business acquisitions amounted to `33,608  million.We purchased property, plant and equipment  amounted to `20,853 million which was primarily driven  by the growth plan of the Company.
We had a net cash  flow of `3,501 million from sale of EcoEnergy division.
3.
Cash used in Financing Activities:  Cash used in  financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2017  was `22,752 million as against `1,587 million for the  year ended March 31, 2016.
This is primarily due to a  decrease in net proceeds of loans and borrowings  44 amounting to `22,132 million.
Payment toward the  dividend including dividend distribution tax and buy  back of shares for the year ended March 31, 2017  amounted to `33,734 million.
Dividends paid in the  year ended March 31, 2017 represents final dividend  declared for the year ended March 31, 2016 amounting  to `1 per share and interim dividend for the year March  31, 2017 amounting to `2 per share.
As of March 31, 2017, we had contractual commitments of  `12,238 million ($189 million) related to capital expenditures  on construction or expansion of software development  facilities, `20,776 million ($320 million) related to non- cancelable operating lease obligations and `21,349 million  ($329 million) related to other purchase obligations.
Plans to  construct or expand our software development facilities are  determined by our business requirements.
Shareholder returns Dividend:  During the year ended March 31, 2017 the Board  declared an Interim Dividend of ` 2 per equity share.
The  Board recommended the adoption of the Interim Dividend of  ` 2 per equity share as the Final Dividend for the year ended  March 31, 2017.
Thus, the total Dividend for the year ended  March 31, 2017 remained at ` 2 per equity share.
Bonus: On April 25, 2017, the Board recommended a  proposal for issue of Bonus Equity Shares in the proportion  of 1:1 that is 1 (One) bonus equity share of `2/- each for  every 1 (One) fully paid-up equity share held (including ADS  holders).
The Record date has been fixed as June 14, 2017 to  determine eligible shareholders who are entitled to receive  bonus shares.
The bonus issue is likely to be completed on  or before June 24, 2017.
Buyback:  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the  Company concluded the buyback of 40 million equity  shares at a price of `625 per equity share, as approved by  the Board of Directors on April 20, 2016.
This has resulted  in a total cash outflow of  `25,000 million (US $ 386 million).
Consequent to such buy back, share capital has reduced by  ` 80 million.
Further, the Company has announced that the Board of  Directors will consider a proposal for the buyback of equity  shares of the Company around July 2017.
Key risks   Global economic crisis: We derive approximately 55% of our  IT Services revenue from the Americas (including the United  States) and 24% of our IT Services revenue from Europe.
If the economy in the Americas or Europe is volatile or  conditions in the global financial market deteriorate, pricing  for our services may become less attractive and our clients  located in these geographies may reduce or postpone their  technology spending significantly.
Reduction in spending  on IT services may lower the demand for our services and  negatively affect our revenues and profitability.
Our clients  are concentrated in certain key industries.
Any significant  decrease in the growth of any one of these industries, or  widespread changes in any such industry, may reduce or  alter the demand for our services and adversely affect our  revenue and profitability.
Taxation Risks: Our profits for the period earned from  providing services at client premises outside India are  subject to tax in the country where we perform the work.
Most of our taxes paid in countries other than India can  be applied as a credit against our Indian tax liability to the  extent that the same income is subject to taxation in India.
Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives under  Indian tax laws.
These tax incentives include a tax holiday  from payment of Indian corporate income taxes for our  businesses operating from specially designated Special  Economic Zones (“SEZs”).
Changes to these incentives and  other exemptions we receive due to government policies can  impact our financial performance.
Wage Pressure: Our wage costs in emerging markets have  historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the  developed markets for comparably skilled professionals, and  this has been one of our competitive advantages.
However,  wage increases in emerging markets may prevent us from  sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively  affect our profit margins.
We may need to increase the levels  of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past  to retain talent.
Unless we are able to continue to increase  the efficiency and productivity of our employees over the  long term, wage increases may reduce our profit margins.
Inability to provide adequate wage increase may result in  attrition and impact competitiveness.
General Market Risk: Market risk is the risk of loss of future  earnings, to fair values or to future cash flows that may  result from a change in the price of a financial instrument.
The value of a financial instrument may change as a result  of changes in the interest rates, foreign currency exchange  rates and other market changes that affect market risk  sensitive instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all  market risk sensitive financial instruments including  investments, foreign currency receivables, payables and  loans and borrowings.
Our exposure to market risk is a  function of investment and borrowing activities and revenue  generating activities in foreign currency.
The objective of  market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure of  our earnings and equity to losses.
45 Components of market risks Foreign currency risk: A significant portion of our revenue  is in U.S.
Dollars, United Kingdom Pound Sterling, Euros,  Australian Dollars and Canadian Dollars while a large  portion of our costs are in Indian Rupees.
The exchange rates  between the rupee and these currencies have fluctuated  significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate  in the future.
Appreciation of the Indian Rupee against these  currencies can adversely affect our results of operations.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange  risk through receiving payment for sales and services in  foreign currencies, and making purchases from overseas  suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The exchange  rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue,  receivables, cash balances, forecasted cash flows, payables  and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
As of March 31, 2017, a `1 increase/decrease in the spot  exchange rate of the Indian Rupee with the U.S. Dollar would  result in approximately `1,155 million decrease/increase  in the fair value of our foreign currency dollar denominated  derivative instruments.
Interest rate risk:  Interest rate risk primarily arises from  floating rate borrowing, including various revolving and  other lines of credit.
The Company’s investments are  primarily in short-term investments, which do not expose it  to significant interest rate risk.
The Company manages its  net exposure to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by  entering into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it  to exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon fixed and floating interest rates.
Certain  borrowings are also transacted at fixed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March 31,  2017, additional net annual interest expense on floating rate  borrowing would amount to approximately `1,226 million.
Credit risk:  Credit risk arises from the possibility that  customers may not be able to settle their obligations as  agreed.
To manage this, the Company periodically assesses  the financial reliability of customers, taking into account  the financial condition, current economic trends, analysis  of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts receivable.
Individual risk limits are set accordingly.
No single customer  accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as  of March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively and revenues for  the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk.
Counterparty risk: Counterparty risk encompasses issuer  risk on marketable securities, settlement risk on derivative  and money market contracts and credit risk on cash and  time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimized by buying securities  in India which are at least AA rated by Indian rating agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the policy of  entering into transactions with counterparties that are  usually banks or financial institutions with acceptable  credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are closely monitored  and maintained within predetermined parameters.
There  are limits on credit exposure to any financial institution.
The  limits are regularly assessed and determined based upon  credit analysis including financial statements and capital  adequacy ratio reviews.
Our counterparties are primarily  banks and financial institutions and the Company considers  the risk of non-performance by the counterparty as non- material.
Liquidity risk: Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that we will  not be able to settle or meet our obligations on time or at  a reasonable price.
Management monitors the Company’s  net liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis  of expected cash flows.
As of March 31, 2017, our cash and  cash equivalents are held with major banks and financial  institutions.
Our Gross cash and cash equivalent and short- term investments of `344,740 million ($5.3 billion).
Cash and  cash equivalent and short-term investments, net of debt,  was `202,328 million ($3.1 billion).
Risk management procedures We manage market risk through a corporate treasury  department, which evaluates and exercises independent  control over the entire process of market risk management.
Our corporate treasury department recommends risk  management objectives and policies, which are approved  by senior management and Audit Committee.
The activities  of this department include management of cash resources,  implementing hedging strategies for foreign currency  exposures, borrowing strategies, and ensuring compliance  with market risk limits and policies.
Foreign exchange risk  management policy and results We evaluate our foreign exchange rate exposure arising  from operations and enter into foreign currency derivative  instruments to mitigate such exposure.
We have a consistent  hedging policy, designed to minimize the impact of volatility  in foreign exchange fluctuations on the earnings and assets  & liabilities.
We evaluate exchange rate exposure arising from  transactions and positions and enter into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
We follow  established risk management policies, including the use of  derivatives like foreign exchange forward / option / future  contracts to hedge forecasted cash flows denominated in  foreign currency.
As per the policy, the total hedges shall be  50% to 100% of the next four quarters of inflows in addition  to select long term contracts which are beyond one year in  tenor.
46 Human  capital We have designated certain derivative instruments as cash  flow hedges to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange  exposure on Profit and Loss account and forecasted highly  probable cash flows.
We have also designated foreign  currency borrowings as hedges against respective net  investments in foreign operations.
Our Hedge Book as on March 31, 2017 stood at $2.5 billion  dollars.
Please refer note 15 in ‘Consolidated Financial Statements  under IFRS’ for further details.
Internal control systems and  their adequacy We have presence across multiple countries, and a large  number of employees, suppliers and other partners  collaborate to provide solutions to our customer needs.
Robust internal controls and scalable processes are  imperative to manage the global scale of operations.
The Management has laid down internal financial controls to  be followed by the Company.
We have adopted policies and  procedures for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of  the business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,  the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection  of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial disclosures.
Outlook Historically, we have followed a practice of providing  revenue guidance for our largest business segment, namely,  IT Services.
The guidance is provided at the release of every  quarterly earnings when revenue outlook for the succeeding  quarter is shared.
Over the years, the Company has  performed in line with quarterly Revenue guidance.
On April 25, 2017, along with our earnings release for quarter  ended March 31, 2017, we provided our most recent quarterly  guidance.
We expect Revenue from IT Services segment for  the quarter ending June 30, 2017 to be in the range of USD  1,915- 1,955 million* .
* Guidance is based on the following exchange rates: GBP/USD at 1.24, Euro/ USD at 1.08, AUD/USD at 0.78, USD/` at 66.25 and USD/CAD at 1.33 47 The market today is witnessing significant disruptions led  by business model transformation of companies driven by  technology.
The high demand for automation and digitization  has reduced technology cycles and skills are becoming  commoditized more rapidly than before.
Meeting rapidly  evolving customer requirements requires a high level of  competence, expertise and learning agility.
Co-innovation,  collaborative working and crowd sourcing are capabilities  which are fast becoming the norm.
In order to sustain in this dynamic business environment,  we continue to prepare our talent pool to embrace the  disruptions, to innovate, to be agile and adapt to the  changes brought by transformed business models.
Today,  we have a large and diverse workforce of over 160,000  employees spread across 50+ countries from amongst 100+  nationalities with more than 33% of them being women.
Our focus is on building a best-in-class organizational  culture to attract, build and retain such diverse talent  across levels, globally.
We are committed to partnering with  our employees and strengthening our human capital by  providing them opportunity to learn, enhance their skills and  grow their careers leading to development of human capital,  intellectual capital and consequently financial capital.
People strategy- core themes Our talent management approach is influenced by the  dynamic industry landscape and is geared to deliver  transformation and growth in the current and emerging  business context.
Our people Strategy focusses on building  a culture that nurtures talent, drives strong performance &  supports customer centricity.
The strategy has the following  core themes: • Culture tr ansformation: The objective here is to  create a culture that drives performance, enables  a Digital mindset and enhances overall employee  experience.
Our efforts here are geared towards  both on improving the demographic diversity as  well as building an inclusive culture through our  various Diversity & Inclusion programs.
We continue  to transform & simplify processes across all our  functions to enhance employee experience and  well-being.
• Career Gro wth: The focus here is to build talent  from within and also build a scalable talent supply  chain model.
Careers within Wipro continue to be  nurtured and strengthened with our forward looking  performance management process, talent mobility  programs, leadership talent reviews and strong  onboarding and assimilation programs for new hires  to jumpstart their careers right from the beginning.
• Talent Capability:   In the face of rapidly changing  client expectations and automation, it has  become imperative to invest in programs that  equips the organization with futuristic skills and  competencies.
Anticipating and defining future  needs and developing these competencies in the  employees is vital to organizational sustainability.
We will continue to invest in our fresher skill  building programs, architect, domain, delivery  transformation, sales cadre and leadership skills.
Our programs are aimed at upskilling, cross-skilling,  and reskilling along with building Design Thinking  capability to drive ideation and innovation.
People strategy - enablers Our people strategy themes are enabled by a set of   processes and programs spanning the complete employee  lifecycle as follows: • Talent A cquisition & On-boarding: Wipro follows  a well-established approach to hiring and on- boarding.
Wipro was awarded a runners up in  “Excellence in Talent Sourcing and Staffing” at  SHRM India  HR awards 2016.
Our talent sourcing  strategies include employee referrals, direct  applications through the career section of our  website, channel partners, job fairs, campus  placements, and internal job postings.
We also  partner with various universities to build teams in  accordance with client expectations.
We are an  equal opportunity employer and drive meritocracy  at all stages of the hiring and on-going deployment  process, including role-mapping and remuneration.
In FY’17 we have seen immense progress in  localization in our key markets.
We have been  significantly investing in US in terms of increased  hiring & setting up of delivery centers.
We are driving  increased localization and expect to have a majority  of our US workforce as local employees soon.
• Employ ee Well Being & Safety: Through our  programs, we believe in influencing all aspects of  an employee’s life – including physical, mental and  emotional well-being.
Protection of employees from  injury or occupational disease is a major continuing  objective.
We continue to enhance safety &  security at the workplace by prescribing policies  & procedures, creating awareness and imparting  trainings.
We have institutionalized key policies  like Prevention of Sexual Harassment policy and a  robust grievance redressal system ( Ombuds).
• Comprehensive Bene fits & Rewards: We continually  strive to provide our employees with competitive and  innovative compensation packages.
As a pioneering  effort among all Indian IT companies, Wipro started  providing long term incentives by granting restricted  stock units (RSU’s) in 2004 towards long term  retention of key talent.
Our benefits program takes an  integrated approach and provides a range of options  for better financial and social security including  efficient tax-management  options, insurance &  48 medical packages, assistance in managing financial  and personal issues.
Our programs are reviewed  to ensure relevance to today’s evolving workforce  and in line with the latest industry offerings, based  on the region’s local regulations / laws and norms.
We continue to drive a high-performance culture  through our variable pay programs.
Our management  compensation is now more closely aligned with  organizational objectives and commitments and  rewards higher performance disproportionately.
• Employ ee Engagement & Empowerment: We  believe that employees become empowered only  when they are aware of the policies and processes  that impact them and when they can truly  participate in the consultation process.
With this  in view, we have institutionalized various channels  that create awareness, foster dialogue, and provide  opportunities for employees to give feedback.
These include awareness campaigns through  mailers, webchats, webinars, policy sessions, group  announcements for key organizational changes/ updates, quarterly ‘Wipro Meets’ session with the  CEO and senior leadership teams, All Hands Meet  with business leaders, and group and individual  connect sessions with the human resources  teams.
Over the years, our focus on participative  engagement has increased and our programs have  been more closely aligned to cater to our diverse  and multi-generational workforce.
• Digitization and T alent Analytics: With all the  technological advances happening in our immediate  environment, we continue to keep pace in embracing  the digital trend and find ways to use digitization  and talent analytics to drive business outcomes and  bring about employee delight.
The above core Strategy themes and enablers are built  on the foundation of our values and driven by globally  recognized principles of business responsibility &  commitment to Human Rights.
Our Company wide Code  of Business Conduct (COBC) and Human Rights Policy  expresses our commitment to do business with ethical  values and embrace practices that supports environment,  human rights, and labor laws on a worldwide basis.
They  are aligned to globally accepted standards and frameworks  like the U.N.
Global Compact, U.N. Universal Declaration  of Human Rights and International Labour Organization’s  Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at  Work (“ILO Declaration”).
Our commitment to human  rights covers employees, suppliers, clients, communities  and countries across geographies where we do business.
We have also established committees like Prevention of  Sexual Harassment Committee, Audit/Risk & Compliance  committees to review progress and formulate strategies to  address material issues pertaining to compliance.
Organisation structure and  approach The HR structure is organized in such a way, that it is closely  aligned to the business at all levels.
Following are the teams  working across business teams & centers of excellence.
Each team is responsible to work on the people strategy  areas and collaborate on joint goals.
• Business HR teams:  are aligned to Wipro lines  of business/service lines, driving the employee  engagement charter & key people processes.
• Staffing teams:  focus on fulfilling open people  positions through internal redeployment or external  hiring • Specialized Center s  of excellence leading  functional areas or driving key projects and  initiatives across the company: • Compensation & benefits • Assessments & Competenc y • Learning & De velopment – Training • Talent  Management (policies & people process  design) • Organization Capability • M & A • Diversity & Inclusion • Ombuds • Prev ention of Sexual Harassment  • Shared Services:   is responsible for helpline/ticket  based day to day employee queries and issues.
A key  charter for the team is to drive employee experience  through simplified and user friendly processes.
It is our belief that long-term sustainability of our human  capital strategy requires a structured approach to identify,  monitor, and measure indicators of performance and  drive higher accountability.
With this in view, we have  built human capital indicators as applicable for the teams  mentioned above into the goals and targets of human  capital functions and business leaders who have maximum  influence in impacting them.
This has created a higher level  of accountability and drive in improving people indicators.
The indicators provide key insights into the effectiveness of  human capital strategies and are reviewed regularly both at  organizational and individual business unit levels through one-to-one performance reviews and team reviews.
Performance highlights Diversity & Inclusion - ( D & I) Nurturing diversity and making inclusivity a part of Wipro’s  culture has remained a key focus area for the organization  and is a strategic enabler for business sustainability.
Our D  & I Program was formally launched in 2008 to give shape and  direction to this commitment.
The focus of our D & I program  49 is multi-dimensional and consists of four pillars – gender,  persons with disability, nationality, and underprivileged  communities.
Our collaboration with research partners and  industry platforms like Catalyst, CII, NASSCOM, Diversity  and Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) bring to the fore focus  areas and industry trends which help in shaping our D & I  charter.
D & I Awards 2016-17  • Wipro won Innovative Policies & Practices for  Per sons with Disabilities  Award 2017 by Zero  Project, Vienna.
• Wipro won  “Excellence in Diversity & Inclusion”  award at SHRM India HR Awards 2016 • Wipro was a warded a runners Up in “Diversity  & Inclusion” in the Corporate HR Best Practices  category at NHRD HR showcase 2016 event Gender Diversity: Our Gender Diversity journey has now  evolved and matured over the past few years.
Focus on  gender diversity in Wipro in 2016-17 has been around  developing and nurturing the talented women in the  organization through various initiatives.
Our programs  have been well received on the ground.
Recognizing that at  different life stages, the needs & expectations of women  employees are different, Wipro adopted a life-stage based  approach to its gender equity initiative program called  ‘Women of Wipro’ (WoW).
In FY’17 we have over 15 percent  women in managerial position.
Key highlights: • Women of Wipr o (WoW) Mentoring Program -  This is now an industry recogonised program  and a leading best practice.
It enables the  careers of high potential women employees in  middle management by providing them a forum  to get mentored by Senior Leaders.
The fourth  batch of the program recently concluded in  FY17.
• Women in  Technology Forum aims at  encouraging women technologists in Wipro and  increasing their visibility through internal &  external forums.
Wipro sponsored participation  of women in IEEE summit, Grace Hopper  Conference and internally launched, a digital  hackathon.
International Women’s Hackathon  for women technologists in Wipro was hosted  where 800 women technologists participated • Women o f Wipro(WoW) speaker series – Senior  women leaders from client organizations  conducted open connect sessions with women  employees of Wipro under the aegis of ‘WoW  Speaker Series’ .
• Day Car e Centers for employees’ children  were inaugurated in our Hyderabad and  Bangalore premises.
The day care centers are  well equipped and have seen enthusiastic  registrations from our employees.
This will  continue to be a key focus area for the coming  year as we   evaluate tie ups or opening in house  day care centers in other locations.
• Thought Leader ship and Advocacy: Wipro has  participated in various eminent forums by  bodies like SHRM (Society for Human Resource  Management), NASSCOM, Catalyst, NHRDN  (National HRD Network), during the year.
This  year Catalyst and Wipro co-hosted a Round  table on ‘Strategies to Retain Mid-Career  Women’ .
Persons with Disability:  Our inclusion framework for  Persons with Disability (PwD) focuses on key themes of  Policy, Accessible Infrastructure, Accessible Information  Systems, Recruitment, Training and Awareness.
Wipro  employees were recognized at prestigious national  and international platforms like Union Ministry  of Social Justice & Empowerment & NCPEDP for  being role models in Persons with Disability space.
As on March 31, 2017 there were 334 employees who had  voluntarily declared their disabilities through our online  Self Identification Form.
Number may vary since a number  of employees with disabilities do not prefer to declare their  disability.
We continued our recruitment efforts through  employee referrals, job fairs, social media & collaboration  with NGOs and hired 39 talented candidates with disabilities  in the year.
Key highlights: • Awar eness & Sensitization: Webinar on  ‘Towards Inclusivity-An Accessible Digital  Future’ by Jennie Lay-Flurrie Microsoft’s  Chief Accessibility Officer was organized.
The  webinar received tremendous response with  550+ attendees  • A number of ev ents were organized to engage  with persons with disability: International Day  for Persons with Disabilities was celebrated  by conducting various awareness programs  & contests.
Activities like awareness mailers,  sensitization sessions, ‘In campus navigation  challenge, Tweet chat were organized.
Annual  All Hands Meet for persons with disability  included panel discussions and provided a  50 • Over 157,000 participants  (employees, contractors  and service pro viders) attended trainings on  Health & Safety covering Occupational Health,  Transportation, Hospitality, Emergency Response  and Security domains.
Health & Wellness  Awards 2016-17   • Wipro won “Employer with best Employee Health  and Wellness Initia tive” award at SHRM India HR  Awards 2016 • Wipro Ranked No 1 in CGP  ( Chestnut Global  Partners) Health and Wellness Ranking 2016 • Wipro won the  “Platinum Arogya World Healthy  Workplace” FY2016 award in the   Health & Wellness category platform to recognise talent across various  award categories.
• Thought Leader ship and Advocacy: Wipro  sponsored National Seminar on ‘Disability  Inclusion across all 17 Sustainable  Developments Goals’ by NCPEDP .
We  participated in the CII platform on new Rights  of Persons with Disabilities (RPD) bill 2016  Webinar series and shared best practices in  Wipro.
• We carried out e valuation work in partnership  with DEOC on the status of disability inclusion  during the year.
All processes were audited from  Inclusion perspective i.e.
Policies, Accessible  Infrastructure, Accessible Information  Systems, Recruitment, Training, Awareness and  Engagement.
Audit results have been taken  ahead for action in the current year FY 18.
Employee Well Being and Safety We have institutionalized health and safety processes  including trainings for service providers, risk assessments,  ergonomic session for employees, vaccination campus,  health awareness sessions and regular cafeteria food  inspections.
There is special focus on aspects such as  women’s safety, assistance to persons with disability,  emergency response, and preventive health & safety  measures.
Key highlights: • Hazard Communication:  Employee connect  programs conducted to bring awareness among  employees on reporting of hazards, unsafe  conditions and unsafe acts to help in reduction of  Injury rate.
• Programs w ere held across locations in India on  emergency response, mock evacuation drills, hazard  recognition, driver safety training, first aid training,  fire-fighting training etc.
• Vehicle based  Quick Reaction Teams deployed in  major locations continues to provide services to  ensure safe commute and help during emergencies.
• Women’ s Safety: Security teams are trained  on gender sensitization as a part of their on- job training and induction.
Cab pickup and drop  facility with security escort is available for women  employees travelling in night hours.
Women of  Wipro committees are formed to discuss concerns  and suggestions on women’s safety.
In FY 17,  1900+  women employees have undergone the Security  Awareness and Self Defense sessions conducted  across locations.
• Women’ s Health: Breast cancer awareness and tests  were conducted across locations,; 800+  women  employee’s participated during the event  • Cafet eria Hygiene:  Regular inspections and audits  performed by both internal and external teams.
Employee Engagement & Empowerment Wipro holds employee feedback in very high regard and  solicits this through formal surveys, informal forums like  one to one meetings, All Hands Meetings, focus group  discussions, roundtables and team meetings.
Through  its social networking platform, Yammer, it has enabled  employees to crowd source ideas & suggestions, provide  real-time feedback and ask queries directly to leaders /  functional teams.
We actively scan for any specific issues &  risks relating to human rights and labour practices through  these various engagement platforms.
Some of these  engagement platforms detailed below: • Freedom o f Association: We respect the right  of employees to free association without fear of  reprisal, discrimination, intimidation or harassment.
A small proportion of our employees (~2%) are  represented through local employee representative  groups, Works Councils and /or Trade Unions in  Australia, Austria, Brazil, Czech Republic, Finland,  France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland,  Romania and Sweden.
In some of these countries,  Collective Bargaining agreements are required by  law.
The HR function meets these groups periodically  to inform and consult on any change that can impact  work environment.
We pro-actively engage with  Works Councils and Unions when it comes to client  employee transfers under the EU Directive of Transfer  51 of Undertaking and respective local legislation  such as TUPE, Art.
613a German Civil Code, Art 338  Czech Labour Code etc.
Engagement starts in early  stage and provides first-hand information to client  employee representatives on terms and conditions  as well as collective employment matters.
• Employ ee Perception Survey (EPS): Our formal  mechanism to capture employee feedback is  through (1) Biennial Employee Perception Survey  (EPS), and (2) a shorter dipstick survey (EPS Pulse)  which is held between two EPS cycles.
EPS Pulse  survey 2016 saw both an increase of participation  and engagement from the previous biennial survey in  2015.
Our employee engagement scores went up by  12.5  percentage points and employee participation  scores went up by 3 percentage points.
Our in- house built EPS analytics tool provides analysis of  the results at various levels e.g geography, business  unit, gender, career levels, age, nationality, tenure  and enables us to formulate action plans.
EPS  Pulse 2016 results have already been studied and  action areas based on employee feedback have  been finalized for the upcoming year.
These include  key initiatives around Process Simplification,  Manager Effectiveness, Careers & Capability.
Overall this formal feedback process of EPS  helps us to identify and mitigate risks on human  rights and any other organisation processes.
• Contract  Employee Engagement: Our focus on  responsible people practices extends across our  people value chain, and covers contract employees  and retainers.
A Partner Employee Engagement  team (PEET) is responsible for building an engaged  and motivated contract workforce deployed on IT  delivery projects.
In FY 16-17, the PEET team led  various initiatives like client-site visits to meet  contractor employees to understand needs and  concerns, initiated programs to build capability  through training programs.
Focused initiatives  through these programs have led to higher  engagement levels.
Audits are conducted by  PRO (Partner Relation Office) to ensure that the  statutory and labour/ human rights requirement  are complied.
Our key focus area continues to be  to check and implement processes and procedures  at regular intervals and in a phased manner based  on audit findings, feedback from various forums,  open houses, and employee connect programs.
A further extended people supply chain, consists of  temporary workers who are in soft service functions  such as Housekeeping, Security etc.
We protect  the interest of such workers by ensuring that  the contracting agency is in compliance with the  Supplier code of conduct and there is no violation  of Human Rights for e.g ensuring salaries of all  workers are in compliance with relevant Minimum  Wages legislations.
We ensure that the temporary  contract workers work under the similar working  conditions as employees and employee benefits  such as recreation and refreshments are also made  available to them.
Enabling Careers Our performance management system is designed to achieve  holistic employee development through performance  differentiation, transparency, and effective evaluation.
There  is a structured process of formally and objectively evaluating  one’s performance against defined goals & objectives.
We continue to drive a high-performance culture.
In FY17,  we institutionalized the practice of quarterly employee  appraisal.
This enables employees to excel based on regular   feedback.
Learning modules were launched to enable  managers and employees alike to embrace the new process  of Performance management.
We also piloted the Agile  Performance Management system for those in Agile roles.
As part of the performance evaluation process, a 360-degree  feedback is provided on leadership competencies for middle  and senior management roles.
Appropriate development  plans and interventions are then charted out based on  discussion between manager and employee.
One of our other initiatives in this category is Talent  Marketplace, which enables internal role fulfillment of  senior roles.
The objective of the initiative is to connect talent  to opportunities within the organization so as to retain the  senior skilled talent pool.
In FY 17 internal redeployment as  a % of total fulfillment was at 66% for senior/strategic roles.
Capability While technology is fast automating manual work, there  is a new breed of jobs that have evolved and will continue  to make use of technology as a tool and encompass use of  broader skill sets to respond to market demands.
In FY 17, our  learning and development (L & D) function launched multiple  programs to upskill/reskill employees in technical as well as  behavioral competences.
Employees built their capabilities  through classroom trainings, e-learning modules, expert  and peer learning, project trainings, webinar participation,  outbound trainings, on-job learnings & mentoring.
52 The focus in FY 17 has been on growing new businesses  with existing customers, becoming strategic partner for our  customers, building strong digital skills and core technical  competencies.
• Learning and Development Awards: Wipro won  the prestigious ATD (Association for Talent  Development) BEST* Award for 2016.
This is the  10th  time that we are winning this award.
The BEST   Awards recognizes the learning and development  initiatives of our organization.
• Delivery Transformation:  To increase the breadth  and depth of engagement with existing customers  and take Delivery to next higher level, we trained  2000+  delivery leaders from strategic accounts  through two programs called “WinMore - Account  Mining for Growth” & ADROIT – for Behavioral  Transformation .
These programs are designed for  delivery leaders to enable them to do delivery-led  sales and next-generation delivery  • Sales Transformation: In this digital enabled  business environment, customers no longer look  for technology services but emphasize on business  outcomes.
Customers are looking for a strategic  partner to co-create a vision and execution strategy.
Keeping this in mind, a new training program  OneVoice was developed for sales transformation  which trains our sales /customer facing people  with more consultative selling and selling digital  solutions.
2,000+ participants have been covered  through the One Voice Program.
We are also creating  a continuum between our delivery and sales teams  through a program called PRISM, which grooms  delivery people to become effective sales people.
Summary dashboard HR indicators 2017 2016 Overall Employee Strength Head  count*** -  as on March 31 181,482 172,912 Diversity & Inclusion Gender Ratio 33% 32%  Number of Nationalities 106 105 Number of people with disabilities  as on 31st March 334 368  Number of people with disabilities   hired 39 17  Employee Engagement & Well Being Voluntary Attrition LTM  %* 16.3 % 16.1 %  Number of Employee on enterprise  social platform  109,000+, 9,400+  groups 85,000+ , 7,500+  groups Gross Utilization**  71.5 % 68.8%  * IT Services excluding BPS, Cellent, DesignIT, HPS and Appirio ** IT Services excluding BPS, Cellent, DesignIT, HPS, Appirio  and IME *** For IT Services.
Employee count for IT Services as on  March 31, 2017 is 165,481.
In addition, contractors and  retainers augment our employees.
In addition we deploy personnel for security services, facility  management and other allied services through our partners.
• Digital Training: In line with the growing demand  for Digital Services, we continue to augment our  workforce with digital skills.
Against our annual plan  of training over 33,000 people in FY’17, we trained  over 39,000 employees.
Overall, now we have  reached over 60,000 technical employees trained on  Digital skills.
• Building core technical competencies: Trend.nxt  Competency framework – in which employees are  encouraged to build depth and width of knowledge in  technical skills –  has helped us to build strong skills  across employees, in FY’17 over 21,000 employees  acquired additional skills in upto 4 technology areas.
Through our crowd sourcing platform (“TopGear”),  we have created 70+ customized cloud based  development environments that enable our  workforce to develop Proof of Concepts, Use Cases,  and Assignments in high-demand technologies.
32,000+ employees have enrolled themselves  through this platform.
Employees have so far  contributed to over 20000 assignments and case  studies and over 100 IP Development/Solution  projects.
Many of our large accounts have started  using this platform to introduce new-age skills  to their teams to fulfill their upcoming client  demands and create a fungible future ready team.
In nutshell, today we are fully geared up for future  business needs from technical, behavioral and  digital competencies standpoint.
Our efforts in  capability building space have helped us increasing  our financial capital by fetching additional business  opportunities & Intellectual Capital by increasing  the technical skill sets of our existing workforce.
53 Intellectual  capital Wipro’s Research and Development initiatives continue to  focus on strengthening and extending our portfolio of IT  services across multiple new and emerging technology areas  as well as in the intersection of these technologies.
We are  investing extensively in developing solutions and services  in multiple advanced technology areas (e.g.
commercial  wearables, smart robotics, machine vision, autonomous  vehicles, augmented reality, virtual reality and among  others), co-innovating with customers on emerging themes  (Digital), enabling new customer experiences, building our  patent portfolio, shaping innovation culture by running a  number of initiatives to support and fund ideas and also by  working closely with partner/startups ecosystem, academia  and expert networks to provide latest innovations to our  customers.
We are also investing in new ways of software  development using crowd sourcing, and in new architectures  like blockchain, edge-based architectures for IOT and  always-on architectures.
We have invested in these advanced technologies to  strengthen existing capabilities and enhance our platforms  for rich customer experience.
For example, we developed  the Wipro IMAGINE solution which has near human  ability of having intuitive conversations thereby providing  personalized experience accurately and efficiently.
It will  empower our customers’ with support available across all  the channels of communication such as interactive voice  response , text chat, SMS, support center, social media and  email irrespective of the modes of communication.
These  investments have resulted in many solution enhancements  and new capabilities, which are unique and differentiated  in the market.
They have also led to multiple patents being  applied and granted.
Wipro has filed for 603 patents across  technology areas in FY17.
Wipro has been committed to furthering the Artificial  Intelligence (“AI”) journey for over five years.
The pursuit  started by experimenting with learning systems using  cognitive technologies for a number of business scenarios,  and with the building blocks in place, it culminated into  the artificial intelligence platform we know today – Wipro  HOLMES Artificial Intelligence PlatformTM (HOLMES)  is a platform which helps enterprises hyper-automate  processes, redefine operations and reimagine customer  journeys.
HOLMES is helping businesses revisit their  processes by offloading specific cognitive tasks to the  AI platform to gain cost efficiencies, achieve hyper- automation, agility and enhanced user experience, thereby  adopting hybrid modes of working (i.e.
hyper-automation  enhanced by human effort).
We have created IP around  many industry processes and horizontal IT processes using  HOLMES that we are taking to our customers.
We have  created an independent unit within the company to scale  this significantly.
To provide open innovation efforts for our customers, we are  driving many new age innovation initiatives through startups  connects, hackathons, and ideathons, among others.
We are  part of various industry and startup forums including the  NASSCOM Industry Partner Program (NIPP) and Microsoft  Accelerator which connect promising startups with  corporations, to enable partnerships and growth.
We are  working with a variety of open innovation intermediaries to  leverage expert networks across the world to complement  our specialists on niche projects and solve complex  customer problems involving Artificial Intelligence and  Cognitive Systems, among others.
We have also entered into  academic and research partnerships across geographies to  collaborate in research in these emerging areas.
We also co- innovate with customers on emerging themes, conducting  joint research, proof of concepts (“POC”) and pilots.
Some  of the emerging areas include human machine interfaces,  smart machines, machine vision and blockchain.
The innovation incubation center, Technovation Center  continues to play an important role in helping customers  ideate, design, and experience solution concepts by  leveraging future of technologies, industry processes and  consumer behavior.
The Technovation Center has now  evolved into an experience platform which helps Wipro  demonstrate solutions to its customers.
We expect to  launch our new and state-of-the-art Technovation Center in  Mountain View, California, USA in the year ended March 31,  2018 which will serve North American clients of Wipro.
We are actively building solutions around industrial robotics,  drones and autonomous vehicles which combined with the  computer vision and cognitive capabilities can address a  variety of market needs across industry verticals.
We are  also working on industrial and enterprise wearable solutions  which help improve work image analytics platform which  uses machine learning/deep learning techniques to analyze  video/image inputs and provide actionable insights.
The  solutions built over the platform will help solve a number of  complex problems across industries especially associated  with human safety and response time.
Highlights for the year • Research and development expenses for the years  ended Marc h 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017 were `2,513,  `2,561 and `3,338 million respectively.
• In the year ended Marc h 31, 2017, Wipro filed 603  patents across different countries of the world.
• Won the “ Asia IP Elite” award for the fourth year  consecutively, for best IP Practices  • Won “India Inno vation” award from Thomson Reuters,  for the second consecutive year, recognizing Wipro  as one of the top 50 Innovative Companies in India.
54 Organizations do not exist in silos; it can be said that an  organization’s value generation is the summative effect of  its interdependent interactions with various stakeholders  over time and across different contexts, either directly or  indirectly.
Customers IT industry is undergoing tremendous change in the  face of disruptive technologies.
Customer stewardship  hinges on meeting customer expectations by being  responsive to the emerging trends and offering a portfolio  of products and services which integrate resource  efficiency, dematerialization, organizational transparency,  connectedness and collaboration- to meet changing  customer needs.
Engagement is critical to understand and  meet expectations of customers and  customer retention is  dependent on the quality of engagements.
Wipro believes in creating value for the customer over and  above the contracted terms.
Our approach is based on  our vision of delivering maximum value to our customer  businesses based on a solid relationship of trust,  collaboration and competence.
We ensure this by providing  solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading  technologies and best in class delivery processes.
Wipro communicates and connects with its customers  through a matrix framework.
Every strategic account has a  dedicated Client Partner to own and manage the relationship.
Client Partner profiles the account and offers solutions that  are strategically relevant to customers.
Business Unit heads  interact & engage with customers via regular governance  meetings, business review meetings, and client-visits.
Service Line heads also interact regularly with the customer.
Our CEO visits clients’ CXO regularly.
Executive sponsors  are assigned for large accounts to maintain and build the  relationship.
Sustainability Expectations from Customers: Apart from  technology driven value creation, our global customers  also expect transparency and compliance on different  sustainability aspects within our operations and in our  extended value chain.
Many customers require acceptance  and alignment with their supplier code of conduct.
Third party  supply chain CSR rating agencies like Ecovadis and Verego  regularly assess and profile our sustainability performance  in their platform which is used by more than 50 customers of  Wipro.
Cutomers have assessed Wipro against sustainability  protocols developed by industry consortium like the JAC (Joint  Audit Consortium) from Europe based telecom companies and  the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI).
Highlights of the year Revenue generated from existing customers / retained  accounts and Net Promoter Score are good indicators of the  relationship capital of Wipro from customer engagement  perspective.
The following data is represented for IT Services  business: • Number of activ e customers - 1,323 (up from 1,223) • Number of gross ne w customers - 256 • Rev enue from existing customers - 98% • Net Promo ter Score increased by 740 basis points in  2016-17 as compared to the previous year Investors Our endeavor is to, not merely, report true and fair financial  results in a timely manner but also communicate the  business outlook, risks and opportunities transparently  to the investor community.
With reliable financial results  and consistent messaging of economic environment,  investors are empowered to take investment decision best  suited to their risk profile.
We deploy multiple channels  of communications to keep the investors informed about  various development and events.
Wipro’s senior management leaders along with our dedicated  Investor Relations team participate in various forums like  investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition  to hosting investors and equity analysts who visit our  campus.
Our quarterly results, regulatory filings, transcripts  of our earnings call, media presentations and schedule of  investor interactions are available at http:/ /www.wipro.com/ investors/ We participate in different investor led disclosures like Dow  Jones Sustainability Index, Vigeo and Carbon Disclosure  Project.
Wipro was selected as a member of the global Dow  Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) - 2016 for the seventh year  in succession.
Wipro is included in both the DJSI World and  Emerging Markets Indices.
Euronext Vigeo Emerging Market  Sustainability Index also includes Wipro among the 70 most  advanced companies in the Emerging Market Region.
Highlights of the year The following table details the different types of engagement  exercises undertaken by the company in 2016-17: Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Investor meetings & calls 28 37 29 50 144 Conferences attended 2 3 1 2 8 Road shows conducted 1 1 2 3 7 Earnings conference call 1 1 1 1 4 Social and  relationship capital 55 Suppliers We value our suppliers as key stakeholders and believe in  engaging with them beyond the scope of legal compliance.
The program is driven more by responsible engagement and  commitment as guided by our values.
Our Code of Business  Conduct provides the ethical guidelines and expectations  for conducting business and directs Wipro’s relationship  with its suppliers.
The Code is applicable to all suppliers,  agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers and  distributors.
The procurement policy addresses social and  environmental aspects like green procurement, supplier  diversity, equal opportunity in sourcing and accessibility of  goods and services for people with disabilities.
Our Supply Chain Engagement is a journey where  sustainability is increasingly becoming critical.
Our approach  to engagement is multi-pronged and the focus is to improve  the capabilities of suppliers in managing their sustainability  performance.
The approach is represented below: Inform Communicate intent  and requirements to  our suppliers Assess  Audits and  assessments of  suppliers Understand Context and current  compliance of  our suppliers and  developing policies  and processes audits  and assessments of  suppliers Collaborate  Educate our suppliers  on environmental,  social and governance  best practices to be  incorporated in their          business A significant feature of our engagement is how we align  our community or CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)  programs with supplier engagement wherever it is possible.
This can address some of the fundamental issues at hand  – our bridge program in education for children of migrant  laborers for our new infrastructure projects and city  municipal solid waste workers are some examples of areas  of engagement in Bengaluru.
Our focus for the next couple of years will be the following: • Supply  Chain Audits/Assessments covering   compliance and sustainability risk aspects:  To conduct  onetime audit for 300 identified suppliers and ongoing  regular audit program.
• Supplier Diver sity Program for Facilities Management   category: To engage diverse suppliers for sourcing  specific sub-categories of products/services.
• Green Procur ement program for ICT Hardware and  Electronic End of Life: To engage on key aspects with  10 strategic suppliers based on our Green Procurement  Guidelines.
For desktops, laptops and display  equipment our guidelines are in accordance with the  EPEAT (Electronic Product Environmental Assessment  Tool) standard from Green Electronics Council.
• Managed Print Services:  This outcome based model  helps bring operational efficiency through better  controls, analytics, reduced resource consumption  (paper, toner) and planned asset refresh.
• E-Was te management: All empaneled vendors  are independently verified as per Wipro e-waste  management guidelines.
We continue to focus  on requirements of regulatory compliance, asset  recovery and traceability of material.
Supplier Diversity: Wipro is an Equal Opportunity employer  and strongly advocates the same through its supply chain  by encouraging supplier diversity.
Qualified enterprises  owned by person with disability or women are identified and  engaged with.
The spend from these suppliers constitute  3% total supplier spend ( as declared by supplier and not  verified).
Local Procurement:  Wipro encourages sourcing from the  local economy.
Local sourcing reduces costs, provides local  employment benefits and reduced environmental footprint  in sourcing.
45 % of suppliers spend is from suppliers based  in India.
Highlights of the year • Purc hased more than 12,000 EPEAT registered  electronic products in 2016 • Received EPEA T Purchaser Award from Green  Electronic Council (US) ENGAGE 56 Communities and CSO’s At Wipro, we think that it is critical for business to engage  with the social and ecological challenges that face  humanity in a deep and meaningful manner with long term  commitment; for that is the only way by which real change  can happen on the ground.
We engage with communities on  issues that matter to them most.
Wipro’s social initiatives center on the following dimensions.
• Education:  Engaging in deep and meaningful  systemic work in the area of school and college  education • Community Care: Engaging with the pr oximate  communities in areas of primary health-care,  education, ecology and disaster rehabilitation • Ecolog y: Addressing environmental issues like  energy, water, solid waste and biodiversity  • Primary Healthcare • Education f or Underprivileged • Children with Disability • Environment • Disaster R ehabilitation • Energy & Carbon • Water • Waste • Biodiversity • School Education in India - WATIS • School Educa tion Outside of          India - USSEF • Sustainability Educa tion - Wipro  earthian • Engineering Education - W ASE,  WiSTA Education Ecology Community  Care Key programs in education Wipro applying thought in  schools Wipro Applying Thought in Schools is Wipro’s social initiative  working on building capacities in school education reform  in India.
Bringing about this educational reform requires  deliberate, long term and sustained work in the larger  education system and civil society organizations have an  important role to play in this.
Our strategy is to support  civil society organizations engaged in school education to  develop their capacities to work towards this education  reform in a systemic manner.
Over the past 16 years, we have supported 70 organizations  through 132 educational projects and initiatives with an  effective reach to over 19,000 schools.
We are currently  in a phase of expanding our work.
Drawing on the lessons  from the last 16 years, we aim to significantly increase the  number of organizations that we support, with a special  focus on new and early stage organizations.
Highlights of the year • Focused outreac h strategy for accelerated  expansion of organization grants developed;  multiple outreach channels and networks were  explored  • Continued suppor t to 23 organizations through  programmatic grants, one-time grants, fellowships  and publications • Devel oped a framework on ecosystem support for  early-stage and shifting organizations from other  domains to education as capacity building has  emerged as critical need • 19 new organiza tions have been supported this  year; of these 14 organizations (26 fellows) were  supported through seeding fellowships and 5  through organization support grants • Orientation work shops were held for two cohorts of  Seeding Fellows • 16th Par tner’s Forum on organizational sharing  was held in April 2016.
The 3 day forum was a well  attended affair with close to 100 participants from  various organizations.
57 Wipro earthian Wipro-earthian is Wipro’s Sustainability Education Initiative  which seeks to support and drive sustainability thinking and  action through the learning process in school and colleges  across India.
This initiative covers two programs - Wipro  earthian Awards and the Continuous Engagement Program  (CEP) program.
The awards program aims at providing school  and college students exposure to multiple perspectives  on biodiversity and water.
The CEP is intended to promote  integrated sustainability education in schools and colleges  and to co-create educational practices within institutions  that leads to sustainability action and thinking.
Highlights of the year • Organized fiel d experiential workshops for students  and teachers from 7 schools • 11 Wipro earthian  ‘Sustainability Learning corners’  have been set up in 11 schools across India with a  diverse collection of Audio, video and print medium  on the theme of sustainability • Complet ed 4 Wipro earthian sustainability quizzes  with a total participation from 360 teams and 720  students  • Offered op portunities to students from different  colleges to work with our partners organizations • The first W estern region sustainability symposium  for educators was successfully hosted in  Ahmedabad in October, 2016 with participation from  35 faculty.
This was hosted in collaboration with IIM  Ahmedabad, CEPT University, CTARA (IIT Mumbai)  and NID Ahmedabad • Funded the Wipro Sus tainability Fellowship at  Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Wipro science education fellowship  program in the U.S.A.
The Wipro Science Education Fellowship is a program  sponsored by Wipro which began in 2012 when Wipro  committed $5.1 million over seven-years, to train three  cohorts of 180 school teachers, fostering leadership and  teaching excellence in science education.
The program is  administered through UMass Boston’s Center of Science  and Mathematics in Context (COSMIC).
In partnership with  COSMIC, the Wipro SEF program is being implemented by  UMass Boston in Boston, Mercy College in New York and  Montclair State University in New Jersey.
Wipro runs another significant STEM Teacher Fellowship  program for teachers in the Chicago Public School System, in  collaboration with Michigan State University.
In 2017, Wipro  partnered with University of North Texas at Dallas (UNT Dallas)  for multi-year program which will involve more than 70 school  teachers, with the aim of nurturing excellence in science,  starting with the public school systems of the Greater Dallas/ Fort Worth (DFW) area.
These programs are a part of Wipro’s deep and long standing  commitment to contributing to improving quality and equity  in education in U.S.A. 58 Key programs in community care Wipro cares Wipro Cares is a not-for-profit trust that engages with our  proximate communities on the issues of education for the  underprivileged, primary healthcare, children with disability  and environment.
In addition, the trust also works on long- term rehabilitation of affected communities after natural  disasters.
The focus areas and the scope of work are: • Education  – Support direct way access to  educational opportunities for underprivileged  children • Children  with Disability – Supports the educational  and rehabilitative needs of underprivileged children  with disabilities • Primary health care – W ork with partners in the  delivery of good quality health care services to  underprivileged communities around our locations  and in remote underserved areas.
Also build the  capacity of the communities in terms of higher  awareness and developing a higher degree of self- reliance to handle their own primary health care  needs • Community ecology  – Work on Environment  projects that have direct benefit for underprivileged  communities.
Examples are (i) social forestry in  rural areas which provide livelihood opportunities to  poor farmers and (ii) Initiatives on social welfare and  improved working conditions of waste pickers in the  urban waste space • Disaster  Rehabilitation – Work on long term  rehabilitation of the affected communities after a  natural disaster Wipro matches 1:1 all monetary contributions made by  employees to Wipro Cares.
The number of employees who  contributed in 2016-17 stands at more than 28000.
Highlights of the year • Nearly 70,000 children of migrant laborers working  in constr uction sites in the city benefitted from our  20 education projects in eight states • ‘Children with Disability ’ program now supports  the educational and rehabilitative needs of 2400  underprivileged children with disabilities through  12projects in six states • Through 3 projec ts in two states, an aggregate of  over 70,000 people get access to primary health  care • Project in urban solid w aste management in  Bangalore provides social, nutritional and health  security to nearly 2700 workers in the informal  sector of waste and provides a comprehensive skills  upgradation program for about 250 such workers • About 60,000 people benefitt ed from livelihoods  projects as part of our disaster rehabilitation work in  Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu and Utharkashi, Uttatrakand.
• Projects on w ater include setting up or reviving  rainwater harvesting systems in schools,  maintenance of a lake, and a study of groundwater  resources  Wipro South Africa initiatives As an IT company operating in South Africa, Wipro’s CSR  strategy in South Africa is aligned to the Broad-Based Black  Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Codes of Good Practice,  particularly the ICT Charter for responsible corporate  citizenship.
The primary purpose of BBBEE is to address  the legacy of apartheid policies and enhance the economic  participation of previously disadvantaged people in the  South African economy.
The codes include elements on  ownership, management control (MC), skills development  (SD), enterprise and supplier development (ESD) & socio- economic development (SED).
59 Ecological sustainability is a cornerstone of our charter  on natural capital stewardship.
Our approach is built on  the pillars of Energy efficiency and Green House Gases  (GHG) mitigation, Water efficiency and Responsible Water  management, Pollution and Waste management, and  Biodiversity.
The increasing centrality of issues like climate change and  water stress in the last few years has led organizations to  look beyond their boundaries.
While internal business drivers  like resource efficiency, waste management and pollution  mitigation have been the primary levers of any corporate  environmental program, organizations have come to realize  that in order to make a real impact at a larger, systemic level,  one can no longer ignore the externalized costs of ecological  damage.
At Wipro, our community programs on water and  waste are two examples of such interventions.
Scope of Reporting India:  55 locations (includes 3 operational data centers)  representing 79% of our workforce.
The majority of  operations are based out of 23 owned locations.
Overseas:  163 locations, which includes 7 customer data  centers.
A majority of the office locations overseas are  leased.
Management system Our programs and management systems are pivoted and  derived from the Ecological Sustainability Commitment,  available at http:/ /www.wipro.com/documents/Ecological_ Sustainability_Policy.pdf.
We have been following the  guidelines of the ISO 14001 framework for more than a  decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental  Management System (EMS).
18 of our campus sites in India  and 2 in Australia are certified to ISO 14001:2004 standard.
Energy eff iciency & GHG  mitigation In 2015-16, we undertook a target setting exercise to  propose targets for the period 2015-16 to 2019-20.
We used  the science based target setting framework from WRI (World  Resource Institute) that tries to align itself with the 2 degree  imperative i.e.
global emissions by 2050 to be 20% of 1990  levels so as to stay within the threshold of 2 degree rise in  average surface temperature.
We have adopted targets for  2025 and 2030 also and these will be revisited at the next  target review exercise in 2020.
The following goals have been set for the period 2015-16 to  2019-20: • Absolute Scope 1 and2 GHG emissions - Absolute  emissions r eduction of 35,000 tonnes.
• Energy Int ensity in terms of EPI (Energy Performance   Index) - Cumulative reduction of 11% in EPI over 5  years • GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) on  Floor Ar ea (FAR) basis - Cumulative reduction of 33  % in GHG intensity from 140 Kg / Sq.
Mt (kpsm) to 94  kpsm of CO –eq • Renew able Energy (RE)- Doubling renewable energy  procurement of 65 Million units in 2015 to a target of  135 Million units in 2019-20 Our performance against these goals are detailed below.
Absolute Emissions: The absolute India’s Scope 1 and 2  emissions for 2016-17 has decreased by 4.4% from 2,52,155  to 2,41,122 tonnes (a reduction of over 11000 tonnes).
Global  Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2016-17 has decreased by  3.4%This is primarily due to higher share of renewable energy  procurement.
The dashboard below provides a summary of  our Global and India GHG emissions for office spaces – from  Scope 1 (emission from direct energy consumption, like fuel)  and Scope 2 (emissions from purchased electricity).
The  figures are net emissions for all years, after considering zero  emissions for renewable energy procured.
Energy Intensity: EPI for office spaces, measured in terms  of energy per unit area is flat at 2015 figures of 195 units  per sq.
meter per annum.
While absolute India offices energy  consumption has decreased by 4% due to energy efficiency,  operating area shows a sharper reduction of 6.3% as of  March 2017 due to consolidation of operations.
We expect  the EPI metric to show an improvement in 2018 when we  look at full year energy data for consolidated operations.
Emissions Intensity: Our India office space emissions  intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) is at 128 Kg Co2 eq.
per  Sq.
Mt.
per annum, an increase of 4.7% from last year,  largely due to a decrease of 6.3% in operating area due to  consolidation of operations throughout the year.
However  the global people based emissions intensity is down by more  than 10% to 1.58 tons per person per annum.
Absolute GHG  emissions reduction of 1.8% for India office operations was  contributed by shift from DG electricity to grid in Chennai,  energy efficiency measures and RE procurement.
Energy Consumption: The total energy consumption,  electricity and back-up diesel generated, for office spaces  across all global operations in IT is 315 Million Units (India  contributes to 289 Million units).
Data centers in India  and overseas (USA and Germany) contribute to another 85  Million units.
96.6 million units of RE was procured through  PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers.
Natural  capital 60 working and collaboration are some of the cost and process  optimization measures implemented over past few years.
We  have seen an air travel footprint reduction (distance as well  as emissions) reduction of over 19% compare to 2015-16.
Employee Commute: Employees have various choices for  commuting are driven primarily by distance, flexibility, work  timings, costs, city infrastructure and connectivity in the  case of group or public transport.
In addition to company  arranged transport (41%), employees utilize public transport  (~45%), with owned cars and two wheelers accounting  for the balance.
Over the past few years, we have taken  steps to facilitate a shift towards improved access to  public transport for employees (buses, commuter trains),  carpooling, apart from encouraging cycling to work through  an active cycling community in the organization.
IT led soft infrastructure enablers like anytime direct  connectivity access to office intranet applications, secure  personal device connectivity through the BYOD initiative  (Bring Your Own Devices) are steps in enabling more flexible  work place options.
Scope 3 Emissions: A summary of our Scope 3 emissions  (other indirect sources) is provided below.
Out of the  15 categories of scope 3 reporting as per the new GHG  corporate value chain standard, we are presently reporting  on all of the 8 applicable categories.
The table overleaf shows the applicability and current  reporting coverage across our operations for the major  Scope 3 categories.
Total Emissions The overall emissions across all scopes is 6,59,831 tonnes.
Within this, the main contributors to our GHG emissions are:  Electricity – Purchased and Generated (35%), Upstream  fuel and energy emissions (16%),  Business Travel (21%) and  Employee Commute (16%).
GHG Mitigation Measures Our five year GHG mitigation consists of three key elements  – Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy (RE) Purchase and  Travel Substitution; of this, RE procurement will contribute  the maximum, 80% share to GHG emission mitigation  strategy.
• Energy  Efficiency: These measures include new  retrofit technologies to improve Chiller and Air  Handling Units (AHUs), integrated design and  monitoring platforms.
We were one of the early  adopters of Green Building Design with 18 of our  current buildings certified to the international LEED  standard (Silver, Gold, and Platinum).Since 2007,  we have been working on a server rationalization  and virtualization program, through which we  have decommissioned old physical servers and  replaced the processing capacity with virtualization  technology on fewer numbers of servers.
As of  March 2017, we have 2,920 virtual servers (2,088  in 2015-16) running on 312 physical servers which  contributes to an energy savings of approximately  12.5 million units annually.
The savings showed an  increase of 35% over the previous year.
• RE procurement:   For the reporting period of 2016- 17, RE contributed to approximately 33% of our total  India energy consumption.
Our target for next year is  110 million units.
• Captive  RE:  The pilot rooftop Solar PV installations  at 3 of our campuses followed by extensive use  of solar water heaters in our guest blocks and  cafeterias have resulted in equivalent savings of 1.3  million units of grid electricity.
Business Travel: The IT services outsourcing model require  frequent travel to customer locations, mainly overseas,  across the delivery life cycle and contributes to around  1/4th of our overall emissions footprint.
This includes travel  by air, bus, train, local conveyance and hotel stays.
Policies  on usage of different modes of travel based on distance  and time taken, need and budget-based travel approval  and increasing focus on  processes which enable remote  GHG Scope 3* (Tons of CO2 Equiv.
per Sq.
Mt.
per annum) 300,000 275,000 250,000 225,000 200,000 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 245,073 279,701 245,975 Global GHG Scope 1 and 2 (Tons of CO2 Equiv.
per Sq.
Mt.
per annum) 270,000 260,000 250,000 240,000 230,000 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 269,117 263,733 254,764254,072 252,155 241,122 Global India *This graph only includes emissions from business travel,  commute, waste and logistics to enable YoY comparison.
61 Scope 3  Emissions Category Applicability Current Reporting, Coverage within IT business Upstream scope 3 emissions Purchased goods and services  Capital Goods Yes Based on purchase ledger for 2015-16 and application of  econometric input-output model for different categories and  business activities: 55, 588 tons of CO2 equiv.
Fuel- and energy-related activities  (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) Yes Well To Tank (WTT) and Transmission and Distribution (T&D)  losses globally is 103,504 tons of CO2 equiv.
Upstream transportation and  distribution Yes Not Reported, as not material Waste generated in operations Yes For India operations, which represents nearly 85% of footprint Employee commuting Yes For India operations, which represents nearly 85% of footprint Business travel Yes Includes air, bus, train, local conveyance and hotel stays Upstream leased assets (Leased  office space) Yes This is reported under Scope 1 & 2 Downstream scope 3 emissions No No product business, leased assets, franchisees or equity  investments with environmental impact Collaborative engagements As a member of the Indo-US joint research program - the  Solar Energy Research Institute for India and the United  States (SERIIUS), we are supporting a long term program  “Design and development of Solar PV-based Smart Micro- Grids in India” .
In the first year of the program, we have  completed a modeling and scenario assessment in non- electrified villages across three sites in Karnataka.
Water eff iciency and  responsible use At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of  Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated  goals are therefore predicated on these three dimensions.
• Wat er Efficiency –   1) Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per  employee) by 5% year on year   2) Reduce absolute w ater consumption in existing  campuses by 20% between FY16 and FY21 • Wat er Responsibility –  To ensure responsible water  management in proximate communities, especially  in locations that are prone to water scarcity • Wat er Security –  Recognizing water availability as a  business risk, to proactively assess and plan for the  water security of the organization in a manner that  is congruent with other two goals  Freshwater recycling and efficiency: The per employee water  consumption for the reporting year is 1.119 m3 per month as  compared to 1.295 in 2015-16, an improvement of around  13.5% and absolute reduction of around 152 million litres  of freshwater.
We recycle 1050.7 million litres of water in 27  of our major locations (884.3 million litres in 2015-16) using  Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), which represents 38%  (32% in 2015-16) of the total water consumed.
The amount  of recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted  is around 61.7%.
This improvement in efficiency is due to  the ultra-filtration and RO projects for STP treated water we  have undertaken across our large locations.
Sourcing of Water: Water input is from four sources - ground  water, municipal water supplies, private purchase and  harvested rain water – with the first two sources accounting  for nearly 64% of the sourced water.
The majority of the  balance 36% is from private sources near our operational  facilities.
The water supplied by the municipal bodies and  the industrial association are in turn sourced primarily from  river or lake systems.
Water that is purchased from private  sources can be traced to have been primarily extracted from  ground water.
Community Water Programs: Wipro partners with experts  organizations, action groups and government bodies to  address issues affecting the communities in the vicinity of  our organizations.
Participatory Ground Water Mapping Program (PGWM):  Ground water is a primary source of water in Bengaluru,  62 We have set 4 ambitious goals for pollution and waste  management and we have achieved 3 goals so far.
The details  of our performance against the goals are given below.
• Goal 1: R educe Mixed Solid Waste (MSW) intensity  to half by 2017 as compared to 2013-14 • MSW intensity decreased fr om 3.26 Kg to 1.55  Kg per employee per annum.
• Goal 2: R educe landfill intensity to half by 2017 as  compared to 2013-14 • Landfill intensity halved fr om 3.12 to 1.55 Kg  per employee per annum.
• Goal 3: 100% o f paper, cardboard, hazardous and  e-waste, mixed metals/scrap and plastics to be  recycled/ handled as per approved methods by 2017 • 100% recy cling of inorganic waste.
Waste  segregation at source is implemented as a  standard practice at all locations and extensive  communication with active involvement of  employees and our partners has been key to  achieving the goal.
• Goal 4: 100% o f organic waste to be handled inhouse  at owned locations by end of 2017 • Presently , 80% of organic waste is handled  incampus.
20% is sent as animal feed to farms.
The total quantum of waste collected was 7484 tonnes in  2016-17, against 6368 tons in 2015-16.
This increase of 17%  is primarily due to increase in Construction and Demolition  (C&D) debris from extensive renovation/retrofit work at  some of our campuses.
Air Emissions We monitor diesel generator stack emissions (NOx, Sox and  SPM) and indoor air quality (CO, CO2, VOC’s, RSPM) across  locations every month.
These meet the specified regulatory  norms.
especially for peripheral areas of the city which are not  connected to the city municipal supply.
In the last three years,  the program has attempted to explore the issues of ground  water in a 35 sq.
km area around our corporate head-quarters  in Bengaluru – an area that is completely dependent on  ground water for its needs and which is largely unregulated.
This is representative of many rapidly developing urban and  peri-urban cities in India; in Bengaluru itself around 40%  of its water needs is met by ground water.
Our approach  was to use a science based approach to understand the  hydrogeology of the area and engage communities through  various platforms (citizen science, advocacy, facilitation  of interventions).
The program involved extensive borewell  monitoring, VES (Vertical Electrical Sounding) studies and  detailed studies in selected clusters.
The idea was to evolve  a decentralized model of ground water management.
The program has established the feasibility of shallow  aquifer as a source of water as well as recharge and its  linkages with how we treat surface water systems like  rivers, lakes, wetlands and wells as part of a connected  hydrogeological system.
In the next phase of the program,  we intend to expand to other areas of the city and also  continue the work on communication and advocacy.
Karnataka State Water Network (KSWN): The Karnataka  State Water Network (KSWN) was launched in 2014 by Wipro  in partnership with the CII-Karnataka.
KSWN is an Industry  outreach that brings Businesses, Government, Academia  and Communities on a common platform to address water  challenges.
The purpose of KSWN is to create synergies  and scale among groups with common interest to be a  force multiplier.
The network has conducted eight Curated  programmes and two annual conferences till date, where  representatives from six geographical clusters and one  theme based cluster around Lakes have come together  towards the creation of Water Sustainable Zones and  restoration of Lakes in Bengaluru.
A Water Sustainable Zone  is a geographic area that is partially / fully self-sufficient with  respect to its water requirements i.e., its water foot-print  does not substantially exceed its geographic boundaries.
The network is now working to scale up its activities for  larger impact, and engage with Government to inform policy.
Pollution and waste  management Pollution of air and water poses one of the most serious  threats to community health and welfare.
Our waste  management strategies  include (i) recycling the waste for  further use or (ii) arranging for safe disposal.
To operationalize  our strategy, we follow segregation of waste into organic,  inorganic, e-waste, hazardous, packaging, and biomedical  and other categories, which is then either recycled in-house  or through outsourced vendor arrangements.
Waste categories  (Quantity in tonnes) Recycle Other Landfill Incineration 3,378 (%) 289 197 (%) 459 63 Waste  Handling  (by Category of Waste) C&D Mixed scrap Mixed solid waste Packaging, plastic,  mixed metals Organic waste Inorganic waste Battery & used oil E Waste Hazardous, Biomedical, Inorganic tissue 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Recycle Other (Animal Food)LandfillIncineration Collaborative Engagements We started working with partners for certain categories  of waste where the recycler ecosystem has not matured  – thermocol, sytrofoam, used oil.
The revised operating  procedures and recycler requirements for electronic end  of life enable better materials recovery, traceability and  disclosure of downstream recycler practices.
We will work  with our partners and vendors in driving better practices  and behaviours keeping in mind both human and ecological  impacts of any changes.
We continue to work with Electronic City Industrial area in  Bangalore on Electronic Waste issues.
A common e-waste  collection center is now operational and we are looking at  management of waste streams, especially lighting and  other lower value waste.
Apart from this, we continued to  be part of the sub-committee on ‘Waste’ in the CII National  Environment Committee.
We also continue to be associated  with “Reimagine Waste” hackathon being conducted in  association with Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru,  Waste Ventures and other partners.
Biodiversity   As an organization with large campuses in urban settings,  we are acutely conscious of our responsibility towards urban  diversity and have set for ourselves the following goals.
• To conv ert five of our existing campuses to  biodiversity zones • All new campuses t o incorporate biodiversity  principles into their design In our approach towards campus biodiversity, our program  takes an integrated approach towards the contribution  in reducing energy and carbon intensity, improving water  retention and ambient air quality.
Our first flagship project  in biodiversity is the unique Butterfly Park and wetland  biodiversity zone that uses recycled water at the Electronic  City campus in Bangalore.
We also have a second project  in Pune which includes five thematic gardens – aesthetic  and palm garden, spring garden, Ficus garden, spice and  fruit garden – through plantations of native spaces specific  to the local geography.
This would be a unique project in a  corporate campus with a dense year-round flowering of  more than 240 species of native plants serving multiple  ecological purposes.
These are long term multi-year projects  and similar programs will commence at two of our other  campuses.
In all these programs we work closely with expert  partners in biodiversity, conservation, ecological design and  communications.
A work environment which integrates biodiverse and  natural design principles has multiple intangible benefits  for employees and visitors – builds a larger sense of  connectedness and emphasizes values of sensitivity and  our place in the world around us.
We regularly conduct  photography, walks and plantation activities for employees  and their children.
One such initiative is the “Nurture Your Patch” program, an  urban farming project at one of our campuses.
Selected  employee teams underwent a session on urban farming from  an experienced landscape architect.
They were provided  with gardening equipment, seeds, compost, water points  and other know how.
The teams are free to grow any variety  of shrubs or small plants.
Teams tend to their patches every  day and some of the teams have already harvested produce.
In addition, our operations team in two locations harvests  produce regularly and donates to orphanages and special  schools in proximate areas.
In association with ecobasics, we are also developing  an ecosystem assessment framework for urban built  campuses – which will address all the  ecosystem services.
This will take in observed floral and faunal species data  along with other environmental data and provide a template  for baselining and action planning.
Our participation in advocacy on biodiversity issues was  through two national levels forums – the CII-India Business  for Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) and the Leaders for Nature  program from the India chapter of International Union of  Conservation Networks (IUCN).
We chair CII-IBBI’s southern  chapter on biodiversity for business.
We also presented at  the CII National conference on biodiversity.
We have been  supporting the “World Sparrow Day” and the “Wipro-Nature  Forever Society Sparrow Awards” for the past five years.
Wipro’s Natural Capital Valuation Program –   An update Natural capital valuation provides a deeper insight because  it factors scale alongside critical environmental parameters  such as regional water scarcity and the ecosystem services  provided by land.
Wipro, in association with Trucost (UK),  has undertaken an annual natural capital valuation  exercise since 2014.
The valuation looks at our global  64 The above figures are net of our positive valuation that are  attributable to our environmental initiatives.
Between 2014- 15 and 2015-16, Wipro’s environmental initiatives such  as emissions reduction activities and renewable energy  procurement reduced its overall environmental costs by  `1,086 million (`884 million in 2014-15).
This accounts to  9% of the total 2015-16 environmental costs.
The valuation  for 2016-17 will be completed by August 2017 – however the  trends are unlikely to be significantly different.
operational footprint - from energy related emissions, water  consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and,  land use change, business travel, employee commute – as  well as from the embedded natural capital in all goods and  services that we procure from our supply chain.
The total environmental costs relating to Wipro’s operations  and supply chain was equal to `11,433 million for 2015- 16.
The largest contributions came from GHG emissions  (50%), air pollution (19%) and water consumption (20%).
The  overall natural capital valuation increased by 14% from the  2014-15 financial year.
The operational value chain stage  accounted for 33% of Wipro’s total environmental cost.
From a geography perspective, India accounts for 83% of the  overall environmental cost.
Environmental Indicator 2015-16: Valuation (` million) %  Contribution GHGs 5,761 50% Air pollution 2,205 19% Water  consumption 2,245 20% Water pollution 822 7% Land use change 240 2% Waste 203 2% Total 11,476 100% Value Chain 2015-16:  Valuation (` million) 2014-15:  Valuation (` million) % Change since 2014-15 Operational 3,815 3,580 7% Supply chain:  Purchased  goods &  services 1,428 792 80% Supply chain:  Fuel & energy- related  activites 3,320 3,196 4% Supply chain:  Business  travel 1,595 1,249 28% Supply chain:  Employee  commuting 1,319 1,258 5% Total 11,476 10,075 100% Value Chain Split (in ` million) Environmental Indicator Valuation (in ` million)  Wipro Limited 65 On behalf of the Board of Directors (the “ Board”), it gives  me great pleasure to present the 71 st  Board’s Report of  your Company, along with the Balance Sheet, Proﬁt and  Loss account and Cash Flow statements, for the ﬁnancial  year ended March 31, 2017.
I.
Financial Performance   Vide notiﬁcation dated February 16, 2015, the Ministry  of Corporate Affairs notiﬁed the Indian Accounting  Standards (“ Ind AS ”) to be applicable to certain  class of companies including listed companies, for  the accounting periods beginning on or after April 1,  2016, with comparatives to be provided for the period  ending on March 31, 2016.
Ind AS has replaced the  existing Indian GAAP prescribed under section 133  of the Companies Act, 2013.
The standalone and  consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial  year ended March 31, 2017, forming part of this  Annual Report, have been prepared in accordance  with Ind AS with a transition date of April 1, 2015.
Explanations capturing areas of differences and  reconciliations from Indian GAAP to Ind AS have been  provided in the notes to accounts to the standalone  and consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
On a consolidated basis, our sales increased to  `/uni00A0550,402 million for the current year as against  `/uni00A0512,440 in the previous year, recording a growth of  7.41%.
Our net proﬁts declined to ` 85,179 million  for the current year as against ` 89,571 million in the  previous year, recording a decline of 4.90%.
On a standalone basis, our sales increased to  `/uni00A0456,396 million for the current year as against  `/uni00A0446,808 million in the previous year, recording a  growth of 2.15%.
Our net proﬁts declined to ` 81,617  million for the current year as against ` 82,005 million  in the previous year, recording a decline of 0.47%.
Key highlights of financial performance of your  Company for the financial year 2016-17 are as  follows:  (` in millions) Standalone Consolidated 2016-17 2015-16 2016-17 2015-16 Sales and Other  Income 4,86,178 4,73,914 5,79,951 5,39,962  Proﬁt before Tax 1,06,871 1,05,942 1,10,393 1,14,937  Provision for Tax  25,254  23,937  25,214  25,366  Net proﬁt for the year* 81,617  82,005  85,179  89,571  Other comprehensive  income for the year  5,154  (2,052)  2,184  2,708  Total comprehensive  income for the year*  86,771 79,953  87,363  92,279  Total comprehensive  income for the period  attributable to: Minority Interest  -  -  (179)  (578) Equity holders  86,771 79,953  87,184  91,701  Appropriations Dividend 7,291 29,635 7,249 29,457 Corporate tax on  dividend distribution 1,485 6,037 1,485 6,037 EPS - Basic - Diluted  33.61 33.51 33.38 33.31 34.97 34.87 36.26 36.19 *   Proﬁt for the standalone results is after considering  a proﬁt of ` 210 million (2016: Loss of ` 563 million)  relating to changes in fair value of forward contracts  designated as hedges of net investment in non- integral foreign operations, translation of foreign  currency borrowings and changes in fair value of  related cross currency swaps together designated  as hedges of net investment in non-integral foreign  operations.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements,  these are considered as hedges of net investment in  non-integral foreign operations.
Board’s Report 66 Annual Report 2016-17  Dividend   Pursuant to regulation 43A of Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“ Listing  Regulations ”), the Board approved a Dividend  Distribution Policy at its meeting held over October  20-21, 2016.
The policy details various considerations  based on which the Board may recommend or declare  Dividend, current dividend track record, usage of  retained earnings for corporate actions, etc.
The  policy is available on the Company’s website at http:// www.wipro.com/investors/corporate-governance/ policies-and-guidelines/ .
Pursuant to the approval of the Board on January  25, 2017, your Company paid an Interim Dividend of  `2/- per equity share of face value of ` 2/- each, to  shareholders who were on the register of members  as on February 3, 2017, being the record date ﬁxed  for this purpose.
The Board did not recommend a ﬁnal  Dividend and therefore total Dividend for the year  ended March 31, 2017 will be `/uni00A02/- per equity share  of face value of ` 2/- each.
During the year 2016-17, unclaimed Dividend  for financial year 2008-09 of ` 41,75,404/- was  transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund (IEPF), as required under the Investor Education  and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit,  Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended from  time to time).
Pursuant to the provisions of section  124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules  mentioned aforesaid, equity shares in respect of  which dividend has not been claimed for the ﬁnancial  year 2008-09 will be transferred to the IEPF Authority  in accordance with the aforesaid rules.
Buyback of Equity Shares   Pursuant to the approval of the Board on April  20, 2016, your Company completed buyback of  4,00,00,000 equity shares in July 2016 for an  aggregate amount of ` 2500,00,00,000/-, being 1.62%  of the total paid up equity share capital, at `/uni00A0625 per  equity share.
The buyback was made from all existing  shareholders of the Company as on May 6, 2016, the  record date for the buyback, on a proportionate basis  under the tender offer route in accordance with the  provisions contained in the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Buy Back of Securities) Regulations,  1998 and the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made  thereunder.
The Board will consider a proposal for  another buyback of equity shares of the Company  around July 2017.
Issue of Bonus Shares   On April 25, 2017, the Board recommended a proposal  for issue of Bonus Equity Shares in the proportion of  1:1, that is 1 (One) bonus equity share of ` 2/- each  for every 1 (One) fully paid-up equity share held  (including ADS holders) as on the record date, subject  to approval of the shareholders of the Company  through postal ballot.
The record date for reckoning  eligible shareholders (including ADS holders) entitled  to receive bonus shares is June 14, 2017.
The bonus  issue is likely to be completed on or before June 24,  2017.
Transfer to Reserves   Appropriations to general reserve for the ﬁnancial  year ended March 31, 2017 as per standalone and  consolidated ﬁnancial statements are as under:  (` in millions) Standalone Consolidated Net proﬁt for the year 81,617 85,179 Balance of Reserve at the  beginning of the year  4,07,316  4,56,507  Transfer to General  Reserve  -  -  Balance of Reserve at the  end of the year  4,62,195  5,11,841   Subsidiary Companies   In accordance with Section 129(3) of the Companies  Act, 2013, a statement containing salient features of  the ﬁnancial statements of the subsidiary companies  in Form AOC-1 is provided from page nos.
262 to 265  of this Annual Report.
The statement also provides  details of performance and ﬁnancial position of each  of the subsidiaries.
In accordance with third proviso to Section 136(1)  of the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Report of   your Company, containing inter alia the audited  standalone and consolidated ﬁnancial statements,  has been placed on the website of the Company  at www.wipro.com .
Further, audited financial  statements together with related information and  other reports of each of the subsidiary companies  have also been placed on the website of the Company  at www.wipro.com.
Wipro Limited 67   During the ﬁnancial year 2016-17, your Company  invested an aggregate of `994 million in its direct  subsidiaries.
Apart from this, your Company funded  its subsidiaries, from time to time, as per the fund  requirements, through loans, guarantees and other  means to meet working capital requirements.
During the year 2016-17, Wipro Promax Holdings Pty  Ltd and Wipro Promax IP Pty Ltd were de-registered  and 3D Networks UK Limited was liquidated.
Further,  Knowledge Infusion LLC was merged with and into  Appirio Inc., Harrington Health Services, Inc. was  merged with and into HealthPlan Services, Inc., and  HealthPlan Holdings, Inc. was merged with and into  HPH Holdings Corp.  Share Capital   In order to have adequate capital to accommodate  the issue of bonus equity shares, the Board at its  meeting held on April 25, 2017 approved increase in  authorized capital from ` 610,00,00,000/- (Rupees  Six Hundred and Ten Crores) to ` 1126,50,00,000/-  (Rupees One Thousand One Hundred and Twenty  Six Crores and Fifty Lakhs) by creation of additional  258,25,00,000 (Two Hundred and Fifty Eight Crores  and Twenty Five Lakhs) equity shares of ` 2/- (Rupees  Two each) and consequent amendment to clause 5  of the Memorandum of Association of the Company.
The increase in authorized share capital is subject to  approval of the shareholders through postal ballot.
During the year 2016-17, the Company allotted  1,87,275 equity shares and transferred 11,01,217  equity shares of ` 2/- each pursuant to exercise  of stock options.
Also, the Company extinguished  4,00,00,000 equity shares consequent to buyback  in July 2016.
Consequently, the paid-up equity share  capital of the Company as at March 31, 2017 stood at  ` 486,18,01,130/- consisting of 243,09,00,565 equity  shares of ` 2/- each.
During the year under review, the Company has not  issued shares with differential voting rights and  sweat equity shares.
Particulars of Loans, Advances, Guarantees and  Investments   Pursuant to section 186 of Companies Act, 2013 and  Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, disclosure on  particulars relating to Loans, Advances, Guarantees  and Investments are provided as part of the ﬁnancial  statements.
Deposits   Your Company has not accepted any deposits from  public and as such, no amount on account of principal  or interest on public deposits was outstanding as on  the date of the balance sheet.
II.
Business   Your Company is one of the leading providers of IT  Services globally.
It combines the business knowledge  and industry expertise of its domain specialists and  the technical knowledge and implementation skills of  its Delivery team leveraging its Products, Platforms,  Partnerships and Solutions in its Development  Centers located around the world.
Your Company develops and integrates innovative  solutions that enable its clients to leverage IT to  achieve their business objectives at competitive  costs.
Your Company uses its quality processes and  global talent pool to deliver “time to development”  advantages, cost savings and productivity  improvements.
Your Company’s IT Services business provides a  range of IT and IT enabled Services which include  Digital Strategy Advisory, Customer-Centric Design,  Technology Consulting, IT  Consulting, Custom  Application Design, Development, Re-Engineering  and Maintenance, Systems Integration, Package  Implementation, Global Infrastructure Services,  Analytics Services, Business Process Services,  Research and Development and Hardware and  Software design to leading enterprises worldwide.
The vision for your Company’s business is “To  earn our Clients’ trust and maximize value of their  businesses by providing Solutions that integrate deep  industry insights, leading technologies and best in  class execution” .
Our ambition for 2020 has set the  direction of our strategy.
The markets your Company serves are undergoing  rapid changes due to the pace of developments  in technology, innovation in business models and  changes in the sourcing strategies of clients.
Pressures on cost-competitiveness, an uncertain  economic environment and immigration restrictions  are causing clients to develop newer business  models.
On the technology front, Digital business  has changed the nature of demand for IT Services.
Development of Advanced Technologies such as  Cloud based Offerings, Big Data Analytics, Mobile  68 Annual Report 2016-17 Applications and the emergence of Social Media are  shifting the point of decision-making on IT Sourcing  within clients’ organization from the traditional Chief  Information Ofﬁcer to newer stakeholders such as  Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Digital Officer and  Chief Risk Ofﬁcer.
These trends on newer business  models, emerging technologies and sourcing patterns  provides your Company with significant growth  opportunities.
Your Company’s IT Products segment provides a range  of third-party IT Products, which allows it to offer  comprehensive IT System Integration Services.
These  products include Computing, Platforms and Storage,  Networking Solutions, Enterprise Information  Security and Software Products, including Databases  and Operating Systems.
Your Company has a diverse  range of clients, primarily in the India and Middle East  markets from small and medium enterprises to large  enterprises in all major industries.
Your Company  continues to focus on being a system integrator of  choice where it provides IT Products as a complement  to its IT Services Offerings rather than sell standalone  IT Products.
Outlook   According to Strategic Review 2017 of the National  Association of Software and Service (“NASSCOM”),  in FY17, IT export revenues from India grew by 7.6%,  to an estimated $117 billion.
NASSCOM projects the  Indian Technology & Services industry to reach $200  billion to $225 billion in revenues by 2020 and over  $350 billion by 2025, from a base of $154 billion in  2017.
Acquisitions and Investments   Acquisitions are a key enabler for driving your  Company’s capability to build industry domain,  strengthen its presence in emerging technology areas  including Digital and Cloud, and increase market  footprint in newer markets.
Your Company focuses  on opportunities where it can further develop its  domain expertise, speciﬁc skill sets and its global  delivery model to maximize service and product  enhancements and higher margins.
Your Company  also uses its acquisition program to increase  footprint in certain large customers and pursue select  business opportunities.
During the year ended March  31, 2017, your Company acquired Appirio Group, a  global Cloud Services company that creates next  generation worker and customer experiences.
In  April 2017, your Company acquired Infoserver S.A., a  specialized IT Services provider for Banking, Financial  Services & Insurance sector in Brazil.
As part of a start-up engagement model, your Company  has invested in building world-class partnerships  through a US$ 100/uni00A0million corporate venture capital  fund, Wipro Ventures, aimed at investing in cutting  edge start-ups in areas such as Digital, Internet of  Things, Big Data, Open Source, Cybersecurity, Fintech  and Security, Supplier Collaboration Platform and  Artificial Intelligence (AI).
During the fiscal year  ended March 31, 2017, Wipro Ventures has seen  strong traction and scale.
Currently, there are 9 such  investments with a cumulative spend of $ 24.5 million  in start-ups working in Big Data and Analytics (Talena,  Inc.), Artificial Intelligence (Vicarious FPC, Inc.,  investments through TLV partners), Internet of Things,  (Altizon Systems Private Limited), Mobility (Avaamo  Inc.), Supplier Collaboration Platform (Tradeshift  Inc.), Fintech and Security (Vectra Networks Inc.,  Emailage Corp., Inc. and IntSights Cyber Intelligence  Limited)- technologies that are reshaping the future  of enterprises.
Brand   Your Company is a trusted name in the marketplace,  with an enviable history of business success, built  on a strong set of values.
Today, the shifting sands  in the market underscore the need to introspect,  self-examine and embrace change.
A little over a  year ago, your Company embarked on a journey of  transformation, with courage and conviction, to shape  its future.
This journey called for a new visual identity.
A visual identity that reﬂects the promise the Wipro  brand makes to its clients - To bring a pioneering,  entrepreneurial spirit and an integrated perspective  to solve its clients’ complex business problems.
Your Company unveiled its new brand identity, and  the new logo represents the way your Company  “connect the dots” for its clients and bring the power  of connected insights with a sense of history – now  seen through a Digital lens for a digital world.
The  brand identity embodies the positive energy that each  one of us brings both individually and collectively.
Along with the new identity, your Company has  rearticulated the Spirit of Wipro.
Values are an  intrinsic part of Wipro and are closely aligned with  its brand.
Your Company’s Brand identity is a visual  expression of its core values, the guidepost for its  decisions, its culture and what it stands for as an  organization.
Your Company’s core Values provide its employees  with the moral compass to deliver on its brand  Wipro Limited 69 promise: Be passionate about clients’ success, Treat  each person with respect, Be global and responsible,  and Unyielding integrity in everything we do.
Key Awards and Recognitions    Your Company is one of the most admired and  recognized companies in the IT industry.
During  the year, your Company won several awards and  accolades, out of which key recognitions are given  below: 	 •	 	Wipro	received	the	Citi	Lean	Partner	 award	for	 2015 in recognition of its high levels of service  and performance.
•	 	 Wipro	was	recognized	 with	the	Best	Global	 Healthcare and Life Sciences IT Consultancy  & Outsourcing Company Award 2016 at Global  Health and Pharma’s 2016 International Life  Sciences Awards.
•	 	Wipro	 was	positioned	as	a	“Leader”	in	Everest	 Group’s 2016 PEAK Matrix™ for Independent  Testing Services for the second consecutive year.
•	 	 Wipro	 was	included	 in	 the	 Dow	Jones 	 Sustainability Index (DJSI) – World and Emerging  Markets for the seventh time in succession.
•	 	 Wipro	won	the	Teradata	Epic	Award	for	ICP	 Collaborative Revenue category at Teradata  Partners Conference & Expo 2016.
•	 	 Wipro	was	recognized	as	the	‘Best	Collaboration	 Partner’ by Land Transport Authority (LTA),  Singapore at the Land Transport Excellence  Awards 2016 	 •	 	 Wipro	was	recognised	a	 Leader	for	 the	Third	 Consecutive Year in Gartner’s Magic Quadrant  for Application Testing Services, Worldwide 	 •	 	 Wipro	was	rated	as	the	leading	player	in	the	 ‘Zinnov	Zones	2016	Product	Engineering	Services	 report’	by	Zinnov	Management	Consulting	for	the	 seventh consecutive year 	 •	 	Wipro	has	been	recognized	with	the	‘Challenge	 the Future® 2017 award by Information Services  Group (ISG), a leading global technology research  and advisory ﬁrm.
•	 Wipro	 was	recognized	as	the	2017	World’s	Most	 Ethical Company® for the sixth successive year  by the Ethisphere Institute, the global leader in  deﬁning and advancing the standards of ethical  business practices.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report   In terms of regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations  and SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/10  dated February 6, 2017, your Company has adopted  salient features of Integrated Reporting prescribed  by the International Integrated Reporting Council  (‘IIRC’)	as	part	of	its	Management	Discussion	and	 Analysis report (“MD&A Report”).
The MD&A report,  capturing your Company’s performance, industry  trends and other material changes with respect  to your Companies and its subsidiaries, wherever  applicable, are presented from page nos.
24 to 64  of this Annual Report.
The MD&A Report provides  a consolidated perspective of economic, social and  environmental aspects material to our strategy and  our ability to create and sustain value to our key  stakeholders and includes aspects of reporting as  required by regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations  on Business Responsibility Report.
Statutory section  on Business Responsibility Report is provided from  page nos.
319 to 324 to this Annual Report.
III.
Governance and Ethics  Corporate Governance   Wipro’s governance framework is driven by the  objective of enhancing long term stakeholder  value without compromising on ethical standards  and corporate social responsibilities.
Corporate  governance principles are enshrined in the Spirit of  Wipro, which form the core values of Wipro.
These  guiding principles are also articulated through the  Company’s code of business conduct, Corporate  Governance Guidelines, charter of various sub- committees and disclosure policy.
As per regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations,  a separate section on corporate governance  practices followed by your Company, together with  a certificate from V. Sreedharan & Associates,  Company Secretaries, on compliance with corporate  governance norms under the Listing Regulations, is  provided at page no.
129 to this Annual Report.
Board of Directors  Board’s Composition and Independence   Your Company’s Board consists of global leaders  and visionaries who provide strategic direction and  guidance to the organization.
As on March 31, 2017,  the Board comprised three executive directors and  seven non-executive Independent Directors.
70 Annual Report 2016-17 	 	Definition	 of	‘Independence’ of Directors is derived  from regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations, NYSE  Listed Company Manual and Section 149(6) of the  Companies Act, 2013.
The Company has received  necessary declarations from the Independent  Directors stating that they meet the prescribed  criteria for independence.
Based on the conﬁrmations/disclosures received  from the Directors under section 149(7) of the  Companies Act 2013 and on evaluation of the  relationships disclosed, the following Non-Executive  Directors are considered as Independent Directors:  a) Mr. N Vaghul  b) Dr. Ashok S Ganguly   c) Mr. William Arthur Owens  d) Mr. M K Sharma  e) Ms. Ireena Vittal  f) Dr. Patrick J Ennis  g) Mr. Patrick Dupuis  Number of Meetings of the Board   The Board met ﬁve times during the ﬁnancial year  2016-17 on April 19-20, 2016, June 3, 2016, July  18-19, 2016, October 20-21, 2016 and January 24- 25, 2017.
The maximum interval between any two  meetings did not exceed 120 days.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel   At the 70 th  Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on July  18, 2016, Dr. Patrick J Ennis and Mr. Patrick Dupuis  were appointed as Independent Directors to hold  ofﬁce from April 1, 2016 up to March 31, 2021.
Pursuant to the recommendation of Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee and based  on the report of performance evaluation, the Board  at its meeting held on April 20, 2016 appointed  Mr./uni00A0M K Sharma as Additional Director with effect  from July 1, 2016 and decided to place the proposal  for re-appointment of Mr. N Vaghul and Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly as Independent Directors for a further term  of 3 years up to July 31, 2019 and Mr. M K Sharma as  Independent Director for a further term of 5 years  up to June 30, 2021, for approval of the Members  at the 70th  AGM.
The aforesaid appointments/re- appointments were approved by the Members at the  70th  AGM held on July 18, 2016.
At the 70 th  AGM held on July 18, 2016, Mr. T K Kurien  was re-appointed as Executive Director designated  as Executive Vice Chairman from February 1, 2016  up	to	March	31,	2017	and	Mr.	Abidali	Z	Neemuchwala	 was appointed as Executive Director designated as  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer from February 1, 2016 up to  January 31, 2021.
At the 69 th  Annual General Meeting held on July  22, 2015, Mr. Azim H Premji was re-appointed as  Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the  Company to hold ofﬁce up to July 30, 2017.
Keeping  in view Mr. Azim H Premji’s rich and varied experience  in the Industry, his involvement in the operations of  the Company over a long period of time, his pioneering  role in guiding the Company through four decades  of diversiﬁcation and growth to emerge as a world  leader in the Software industry, and pursuant to the  recommendation of Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee, the Board at its  meeting held over April 24-25, 2017 approved, subject  to Members’ approval, re-appointment of Mr. Azim H  Premji as Executive Chairman and Managing Director  for a further period of 2 years from July 31, 2017 to  July 30, 2019.
At the 68 th  Annual General Meeting held on July 23,  2014, Mr. William Arthur Owens was appointed as  an Independent Director to hold ofﬁce up to July 31,  2017.
Considering his immense contributions to the  Company and pursuant to the recommendation of  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee and based on the report of performance  evaluation, the Board at its meeting held over April  24-25, 2017 decided to place the proposal for re- appointment of Mr. William Arthur Owens as an  Independent Director for a further term of 5 years  from August 1, 2017 up to July 31, 2022, for approval  of the Members at the 71st  AGM.
The Company has received separate notices under  section 160 from Members, along with the requisite  deposit, signifying their intention to propose re- appointment of Mr. Azim H Premji and Mr. William  Arthur Owens as mentioned in the preceding  paragraphs.
Accordingly, necessary resolutions are  being placed for approval of the Members at the 71 st   Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 152 of the  Companies Act, 2013 and Articles of Association of  the	Company,	Mr.	Abidali	Z	Neemuchwala	will	retire	 by rotation at the 71 st  AGM and being eligible, has  offered himself for re-appointment.
Wipro Limited 71   Mr. Vyomesh Joshi resigned as Independent Director  with effect from close of business hours of July 19,  2016 and Dr. Jagdish N Sheth retired from the Board  effective July 18, 2016.
Mr. T K Kurien ceased to be the Executive Vice  Chairman with effect from close of business hours  on January 31, 2017, consequent to his retirement  from the Company.
The Board places on record immense contributions  made by Mr. Vyomesh Joshi, Dr. Jagdish N Sheth and  Mr. T K Kurien to the growth of your Company over the  years.
Committees of the Board  The Company’s Board has the following committees:  1.
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, which  also acts as the Risk Management Committee  2.
Board Governance, Nomination and   Compensation Committee, which also acts as  the CSR Committee  3.
Strategy Committee  4.
Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee (Stakeholders’   Relationship Committee)   Details of terms of reference of the Committees,  Committee membership and attendance at meetings  of the Committees are provided in the Corporate  Governance report from page nos.
118 to120 of this  Annual Report.
Board Evaluation   In line with the Corporate Governance Guidelines of  the Company, Annual Performance Evaluation was  conducted for all Board Members as well as the  working of the Board and its Committees.
This evaluation was led by the Chairman of the  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee with speciﬁc focus on the performance  and effective functioning of the Board.
The Board  evaluation framework has been designed in  compliance with the requirements under the  Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations,  and in consonance with Guidance Note on Board  Evaluation issued by SEBI recently.
The Board  evaluation was conducted through questionnaire  having qualitative parameters and feedback based  on ratings.
Evaluation of the Board was based on criteria  such as composition and role of the Board, Board  communication and relationships, functioning of  Board Committees, review of performance and  compensation to Executive Directors, succession  planning, strategic planning, etc.
Evaluation of Directors was based on criteria such  as participation and contribution in Board and  Committee meetings, representation of shareholder  interest and enhancing shareholder value, experience  and expertise to provide feedback and guidance to  top management on business strategy, governance  and risk, understanding of the organization’s strategy,  risk and environment, etc.
The outcome of the Board evaluation for ﬁnancial year  2016-17 was discussed by the Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee and  the Board at their meeting held in April 2017.
The  Board has received consistent ratings on its overall  effectiveness and has been rated comparatively  higher this year for composition of Directors and their  skills, attributes and experience.
The Board has also  noted areas requiring more focus in the future.
Policy on Director’s Appointment and Remuneration   The Board Governance, Nomination & Compensation  Committee has framed a policy for selection and  appointment of Directors including determining  qualifications and independence of a Director,  Key Managerial Personnel, Senior Management  Personnel and their remuneration as part of its  charter and other matters provided under Section  178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013.
The policy  covering these requirements is provided in the  Corporate Governance report at page no.
115 to this  Annual Report.
We afﬁrm that the remuneration paid  to Directors is as per the remuneration policy of the  Company.
Vigil Mechanism   Your Company has adopted an Ombuds process as  a channel for receiving and redressing complaints  from employees and Directors, as per the provisions  of Section 177(9) and (10) of the Companies Act, 2013  and regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations.
Under this policy, your Company encourages its  employees to report any fraudulent ﬁnancial or other  information to the stakeholders, and any conduct that  results in violation of the Company’s code of business  conduct, to the management (on an anonymous basis,  72 Annual Report 2016-17 if employees so desire).
Further, your Company has  prohibited discrimination, retaliation or harassment  of any kind against any employees who, based on the  employee’s reasonable belief that such conduct or  practice have occurred or are occurring, reports that  information or participates in the investigation.
Mechanism followed under Ombuds process is  appropriately communicated within the Company  across all levels and has been displayed on the  Company’s intranet and website at www.wipro.com.
The  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee  periodically reviews the functioning of this  mechanism.
No personnel of the Company were  denied access to the Audit, Risk & Compliance  Committee.
Related Party Transactions   Your Company has historically adopted the practice  of undertaking related party transactions only in the  ordinary and normal course of business and at arm’s  length as part of its philosophy of adhering to highest  ethical standards, transparency and accountability.
In line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  and the Listing Regulations, the Board has approved  a policy on related party transactions.
An abridged  policy on related party transactions has been placed  on the Company’s website www.wipro.com.
All Related Party Transactions are placed on a  quarterly basis before the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee and before the Board for approval.
Prior  omnibus approval of the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee is obtained for the transactions which are  of a foreseeable and repetitive nature.
The particulars of contracts or arrangements with  related parties referred to in section 188(1) and  applicable rules of the Companies Act, 2013 in Form  AOC-2 is provided as Annexure I to this Annual Report.
Compliance Management Framework   Your Company has a robust and effective framework  for monitoring compliances with applicable laws.
The  Board has approved a Global Statutory Compliance  Policy providing guidance on broad categories  of applicable laws and process for monitoring  compliance.
In furtherance to this, your Company has  instituted an online compliance management system  within the organization to monitor compliances  and provide updates to senior management and  Board on a periodic basis.
The Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee and the Board periodically  monitor status of compliances with applicable laws  based on quarterly certiﬁcation provided by senior  management.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement  Your Directors hereby conﬁrm that:  (a)  in the preparation of the annual accounts, the  applicable accounting standards have been  followed along with proper explanation relating  to material departures;  (b)  the Directors have selected such accounting  policies and applied them consistently and  made judgments and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and  fair view of the state of affairs of the Company  at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the proﬁt  and loss of the Company for that period;  (c)  the Directors have taken proper and sufﬁcient  care for the maintenance of adequate accounting  records in accordance with the provisions of the  Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets  of the Company and for preventing and detecting  fraud and other irregularities;  (d)  the Directors have prepared the annual accounts  on a going concern basis; and  (e)  the Directors, have laid down internal ﬁnancial  controls to be followed by the Company and that  such internal ﬁnancial controls are adequate  and operating effectively;  (f)  as required under Section 134(5)(f) of the  Companies Act, 2013, and according to the  information and explanations presented to  us, based on the review done by the Audit,  Risk and Compliance Committee and as  recommended by it, we, the Board, hereby,  state that adequate systems and processes,  commensurate with the size of the Company  and the nature of its business, have been put  in place by the Company, to ensure compliance  with the provisions of all applicable laws as per  the Company’s Global Statutory Compliance  Policy and that such systems and processes  are operating effectively.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans (WESOP)/  Restricted Stock Unit Plans   In order to motivate, incentivize and reward  employees, your Company has instituted various  Wipro Limited 73 employee stock options plans/restricted stock unit  plans from time to time.
The Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee  administers these plans.
The stock option plans are  in compliance with Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Share Based Employee Beneﬁts) Regulations,  2014 (“Employee Beneﬁts Regulations ”) and there  have been no material changes to these plans  during the financial year.
Disclosures on various  plans, details of options granted, shares allotted  upon exercise, etc.
as required under the Employee  Benefits Regulations read with Securities and  Exchange Board of India circular no.
CIR/CFD/POLICY  CELL/2/2015 dated June 16, 2015 are available on  the Company’s website at http://www.wipro.com/ investors/ﬁnancial-information/annual-reports/ .
No  employee was issued stock option during the year  equal to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital of the  Company at the time of grant.
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (WERT) is an ESOP Trust  set up by your Company.
Pursuant to approval by  the shareholders at their meeting held in July 2014,  the Company is authorized to transfer shares from  the WERT to employees on exercise of vested Indian  RSUs.
Particulars of Employees   Information required pursuant to Section 197(12)  of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of  the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided as  Annexure II to this report.
A statement containing, inter alia, the names of top  ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn and  every employee employed throughout the ﬁnancial  year and in receipt of remuneration of ` 102 lakhs or  more, and employees employed for part of the year  and in receipt of ` 8.50 lakhs or more per month,  pursuant to Rule 5(2) the Companies (Appointment  and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules,  2014 is provided as Annexure III to this report.
IV.
Internal Financial Controls and Audit  Internal Financial Controls and their Adequacy   The Board of your Company has laid down internal  ﬁnancial controls to be followed by the Company and  that such internal ﬁnancial controls are adequate  and operating effectively.
Your Company has adopted  policies and procedures for ensuring the orderly and  efﬁcient conduct of its business, including adherence  to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its  assets, the prevention and detection of frauds  and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of  reliable ﬁnancial disclosures.
Risk Management   Given the diversified scale of operations, your  Company has put in place an Enterprise Risk  Management (ERM) framework and adopted an  enterprise risk management policy based on  globally recognized standards.
The ERM framework  is administered by the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee.
The objective of the ERM framework  is to enable and support achievement of business  objectives through risk-intelligent assessment  while also placing signiﬁcant focus on constantly  identifying and mitigating risks within the business.
Further details on the Company’s risk management  framework is provided in the MD&A report.
Statutory Auditors   Pursuant to the provisions of section 139 of the  Companies Act, 2013, an audit firm can act as  auditors of a listed company for a maximum tenure  of two terms of 5 consecutive years.
For the purpose  of reckoning this limit, existing tenure of the auditors  needs to be counted.
Further, companies have been  given a transition time of 3 years from April 1, 2014  to comply with this provision.
As per the above requirement, the term of  Company’s auditors, BSR & Co. LLP , (Registration  No.101248W/W-100022) Chartered Accountants,  Bangalore, comes to an end with the conclusion of  audit for the ﬁnancial year 2016-17.
After conducting a detailed evaluation and based on  the recommendation of Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee, the Board approved the proposal for  placing at the 71 st  AGM the matter of appointment of  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants  (Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) as statutory  auditors of the Company for a term of 5 years from  the ﬁnancial year 2017-18 onwards on such terms  and conditions and remuneration as may be decided  by the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
A  resolution to that effect forms part of notice of the  71st  AGM sent along with this Annual Report.
Auditors’ Report   There are no qualiﬁcations, reservations or adverse  remarks made by BSR & Co. LLP , Statutory Auditors,  74 Annual Report 2016-17 in their report for the ﬁnancial year ended March 31,  2017.
Pursuant to provisions of section 143(12) of the  Companies Act, 2013, the Statutory Auditors have not  reported any incident of fraud to the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee during the year under review.
Secretarial Audit   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company has appointed  Mr. V Sreedharan, Partner, V Sreedharan & Associates,  a ﬁrm of Company Secretaries in Practice, to conduct  Secretarial Audit of the Company.
Report of the  Secretarial Audit in Form MR-3 for the ﬁnancial year  ended March 31, 2017 is enclosed as Annexure IV to  the Report.
There are no qualiﬁcations, reservations  or adverse remarks made by the Secretarial Auditor  in his report.
V.  Social Responsibility and Sustainability  Corporate Social Responsibility   Your Company is at the forefront of Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability initiatives and  practices.
Your Company believes in making lasting  impact towards creating a just, equitable, humane  and sustainable society.
Your Company has been  involved with social initiatives for more than decade  and a half and engages in various activities in the ﬁeld  of education, primary healthcare and communities,  ecology and environment, etc.
Your Company has  won several awards and accolades for its CSR and  sustainability efforts.
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  companies having net worth of ` 500 crore or more,  or turnover of ` 1,000 crore or more or net proﬁt of `5  crore or more during any ﬁnancial year are required  to constitute a Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) committee of the board comprising three or  more directors, at least one of whom should be an  independent director and such company shall spend  at least 2% of the average net proﬁts of the company’s  three immediately preceding ﬁnancial years towards  CSR activities.
Accordingly, your Company spent  ` 1,863 million towards CSR activities during the  ﬁnancial year 2016-17.
The contents of the CSR policy  and CSR Report for the year 2016-17 is attached  as Annexure V to this report.
Contents of the CSR  policy is also available on the Company’s website  at http://www.wipro.com/investors/corporate- governance/policies-and-guidelines/ .
The terms of  reference of CSR committee, framed in accordance  with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013,  forms part of Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee.
The Committee consists of  three independent directors, Dr. Ashok S Ganguly, Mr. N  Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens, as its members.
Dr. Ashok S Ganguly is the Chairman of the Committee.
Particulars Regarding Conservation of Energy  and Research and Development and Technology  Absorption   Details of steps taken by your Company to conserve  energy through its “Sustainability” initiatives,  Research and Development and Technology  Absorption have been disclosed as part of the MD&A  Report.
VI.
Other Disclosures  Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgoings   During the year 2016-17, your Company’s foreign  exchange earnings were ` 404,000 million and foreign  exchange outgoings were ` 212,910 million as against  `/uni00A0404,862 million of foreign exchange earnings and  ` 208,181 million of foreign exchange outgoings for  the ﬁnancial year 2015-16.
Extract of Annual Return   Pursuant to section 92(3) and section 134(3)(a),  extract of the Annual Return as on March 31, 2017 in  form MGT-9 is enclosed as Annexure VI to this report.
Material Changes and Commitments Affecting the  Financial Position of the Company   There have been no material changes and  commitments, affecting the ﬁnancial position of the  Company which occurred during between the end of  the ﬁnancial year to which the ﬁnancial statements  relate and the date of this report.
Details of Signiﬁcant and Material Orders Passed by  the regulators/Courts/Tribunals Impacting the Going  Concern Status and the Company’s Operations in  Future   There are no significant material orders passed  by the Regulators/Courts which would impact the  going concern status of the Company and its future  operations.
Information Required Under Sexual Harassment  of Women at Work place (Prevention, Prohibition &  Redressal) Act, 2013   Your Company has a policy and framework for  employees to report sexual harassment cases  at workplace and the process ensures complete  Wipro Limited 75 anonymity and confidentiality of information.
Adequate workshops and awareness programmes  against sexual harassment are conducted across  the organization.
A total of 116 complaints of sexual  harassment were raised in the calendar year 2016,  of which 102 cases were disposed and appropriate  actions were taken in all cases within the statutory  timelines.
Acknowledgements and Appreciation   Your Directors take this opportunity to thank the  customers, shareholders, suppliers, bankers,  business partners/associates, ﬁnancial institutions  and Central and State Governments for their  consistent support and encouragement to the  Company.
I am sure you will join our Directors in  conveying our sincere appreciation to all employees  of the Company and its subsidiaries and associates  for their hard work and commitment.
Their dedication  and competence has ensured that the Company  continues to be a signiﬁcant and leading player in  the IT Services industry.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors,  Bangalore   Azim H Premji  June 2, 2017  Executive Chairman 76 Annual Report 2016-17 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms  Amount (` Mn)  Sales of Goods and services Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  58  Wipro Technologies GmbH Subsidiary 01-03-11- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  636  Wipro LLC Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  22,215  Wipro Portugal S.A. Subsidiary 01-04-07 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  50  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 16-08-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,730  Wipro Technologies S.A DE C. V Subsidiary 01-01-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  569  Wipro Poland Sp.
zo.o Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  30  Wipro Shanghai Limited Subsidiary 27-04-04 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  34  Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland) Limited Subsidiary 12-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  25  Cellent Gmbh Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  32  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd. Subsidiary 01-08-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  460  Wipro (Thailand) Co. Limited Subsidiary 01-11-10- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  32  Appirio Inc. Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  3  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Subsidiary 23-12-06 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  231  Wipro Technologies SA Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  41  Wipro Technologies Austria Gmbh Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  145  Wipro Technology Chile SpA Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  59  PT WT Indonesia Subsidiary 01-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  169  Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietory) Limited Subsidiary 01-04-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  2,813  Wipro Information Technology Austria Gmbh Subsidiary 01-09-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  718  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,475  Wipro Airport IT Services Limited Subsidiary 30-12-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  368  Wipro Gallagher Solutions Inc Subsidiary 01-04-16- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  917  Wipro Information Technology Netherlands BV.
Subsidiary 01-06-08- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  690  Wipro Doha LLC Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  493  Opus Capital Markets Consultants LLC Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  434  Wipro IT Services Poland Sp zo.o.
Subsidiary 01-05-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  370  Wipro Retail UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-13- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  212  Healthplan Services Inc Subsidiary 01-06-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  196  Wipro UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  114  Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL Subsidiary 01-01-15 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  82  Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C Subsidiary 01-10-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  55  Wipro Holdings UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,003  Annexure I Particulars of contracts/arrangements made with related parties Form No.
AOC-2 (Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as on March 31, 2017) This Form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in Sub- section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basisThere were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended March 31, 2017, which were not at arm’s length basis.Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basisThe details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis for the year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows: Wipro Limited 77 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms  Amount (` Mn)  Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  31  Wipro Technologies SDN BHD Subsidiary 01-04-13- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  24  Wipro Australia Pty Limited Subsidiary 01-04-07 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  11  Wipro Technologies Limited, Russia Subsidiary 01-05-08 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  9  Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions LLC Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  3  Wipro Networks Pte Limited Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  2,205  New Logic Technologies SARL Subsidiary 01-04-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  (1) Wipro Information Technology Kazakhstan LLP Subsidiary 15-05-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  60  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by promoters 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  8.14  Asian Paints Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  10.44  Blue Star Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  3.14  ICICI Bank Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  37.40  Inﬁnity Retail Pvt.
Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.17  Titan Company Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.94  Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Joint venture between Wipro  Enterprises Private Limited and General Electric Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  214.07  Arcelor Mittal Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  168.48  LNM Institute of Information Technology Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.39  The Malayala Manorama Co. Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.27  Atria Convergence Technologies Pvt Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  (0.01) Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  22.52  Mahindra World City Developers Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.19  United Spirits Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.47  Purchase of Services Designit Denmark A/S Subsidiary 01-03-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  382  Wipro Travel Services Limited Subsidiary 01-02-03 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  59  Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,707  Wipro Technologies Gmbh Subsidiary 01-03-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,624  Wipro BPO Philippines Ltd. Inc Subsidiary 31-03-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,581  Wipro LLC Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  2,247  Wipro Portugal S.A. Subsidiary 01-04-07 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  767  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 16-08-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  47  Wipro Technologies S.A DE C. V Subsidiary 01-01-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  543  Wipro Poland Sp.
zo.o.
Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  409  Infocrossing Inc Subsidiary 01-04-08 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  48  Wipro Chengdu Limited Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  253  Wipro Shanghai Limited Subsidiary 27-04-04 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  251  Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland) Limited Subsidiary 12-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  225  Wipro	IT	Services	Poland	Sp.
Zo.o.
Subsidiary 01-05-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  941  Wipro (Dalian) Limited Subsidiary 30-12-15 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  149  Cellent Gmbh Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  125  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd Subsidiary 01-08-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  106  Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited Subsidiary 01-11-10- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  70  Appirio Inc. Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  48  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Subsidiary 23-12-06 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  4  Wipro Technologies SA Subsidiary 01-04-09 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  39  78 Annual Report 2016-17 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms  Amount (` Mn)  Designit Munchen GmbH Subsidiary 31-03-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  36  Wipro Technologies Austria Gmbh Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  32  Wipro Technology Chile Spa Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  30  PT WT Indonesia Subsidiary 01-11-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  26  Designit Tokyo Ltd. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  16  Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietory) Limited Subsidiary 01-04-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1  Denextep Spain Digital, S.L Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  10  Wipro Information Technology Austria Gmbh Subsidiary 01-09-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  6  Designit A/S Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  4  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  3,389  Appirio Ltd.(UK) Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  3  Appirio India cloud Solutions Private Limited Subsidiary 01-01-17- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1  Designit Sweden AB Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines 0.11 FRONTWORX Informations Technologie Gmbh Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines 0.06 Wipro Technologies SRL Subsidiary 01-01-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1,332  Wipro Holdings UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  49  Wipro Networks Pte Limited Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  343  Wipro Information Technology Kazakhstan LLP Subsidiary 15-05-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  (9) Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  2.53  Asian Paints Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  14  Blue Star Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  10  ICICI Bank Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  33  The Indian Hotels Company Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  1  Inﬁnity Retail Pvt.
Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  1  Piramal Enterprises Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  1  Titan Company Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  1  Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Joint venture between Wipro  Enterprises Private Limited and General Electric Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  28  Tata Global Beverages Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  3  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  4  Cipla Limited Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  4  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  1  Atria Convergence Technologies Pvt Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  2  LNM Institute of Information Technology Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  0.33  Mahindra World City Developers Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines 0.10 The Malayala Manorama Co. Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  (0.01) Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  6  Indian School Of Business Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  2  Anand Bazar Patrika Pvt.
Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  1  Roots Corporation Ltd. Common Directors Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines 0.03 Commission Paid Wipro Technologies GmbH Subsidiary 01-03-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  443  Wipro Japan KK Subsidiary 26-03-2001 As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  439  Wipro LLC Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines 0.32 Rent Paid Wipro Limited 79 Name of Related Party Nature of Relationship Duration of Contract Salient terms  Amount (` Mn)  Hasham Traders Entity controlled by directors ongoing As per Agreement  8  Yasmeen H Premji Relative of Director ongoing As per Agreement  6  Wipro Holdings UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Agreement  34  Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Subsidiary Ongoing As per Agreement  1  Corporate guarantee commission received Wipro Gulf LLC Subsidiary 01-06-11 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  47  Wipro IT Services Inc. Subsidiary 01-02-16- Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  45  Wipro LLC Subsidiary 01-04-05 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  40  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Subsidiary 16-08-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  43  Infocrossing Inc Subsidiary 01-04-08 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  32  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Subsidiary 23-12-06 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  18  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd Subsidiary 01-08-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  6  Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietory) Limited Subsidiary 01-04-12 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  5  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc. Subsidiary 01-04-16 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  5  Wipro Airport IT Services Limited Subsidiary 01-01-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  2  Wipro Technologies SRL Subsidiary 01-01-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1  Wipro IT Services Poland SP zo.o.
Subsidiary 01-05-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  0.46  Wipro Holdings UK Limited Subsidiary 01-04-10 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines 0.37 Wipro Networks Pte Limited Subsidiary 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Transfer Pricing guidelines  1  Rental IncomeDesignit Denmark A/S Subsidiary 01-03-16 - Ongoing As per Agreement  28  Wipro Travel Services Limited Subsidiary 21-12-15 - Ongoing As per Agreement  3  Wipro Gallaghar Solutions Inc. Subsidiary 01-01-16 - Ongoing As per Agreement  2  Wipro Airport IT Services Limited Subsidiary 01-07-16 - Ongoing As per Agreement 0.04 Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by directors 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Agreement  38  Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by directors Ongoing As per Agreement 0.41 Management Service feesAzim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by directors Ongoing Management Service fees  2  Wipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by directors 01-04-14 - Ongoing Management Service fees  65  Restricted Stock Unit compensation cost allocationWipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by directors 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per Allocation  46  Wipro Limited Subsidiaries Subsidiary Ongoing As per Allocation  55  Other CostsWipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by directors 01-04-14 - Ongoing On Actual Cost Basis  90  Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by directors Ongoing On Actual Cost Basis  4  Asset purchasedWipro Enterprises Private Limited Entity controlled by directors 01-04-14 - Ongoing As per RPT Policy guidelines  106  Interest IncomeWipro Airport IT Services Limited Subsidiary 30-09-14 to 30-09-16 As per Agreement  2  Azim H Premj N Vaghul M Sanaulla Khan Executive Chairman & Managing Director Director Company Secretary Abidali Z Neemuchwala Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer & Executive Director Bangalore: June 2, 2017 80 Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure II Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197 of Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 5(1) of Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014.
Remuneration paid to Whole-time Directors Name of  Directors Title Remuneration  in ﬁscal 2017  (` in Crore) Remuneration  in ﬁscal 2016  (` in Crore) No.
of stock  options/ RSUs  granted in  ﬁscal year % increase/ Decrease of  remuneration  in 2017 as  compared to  2016 Ratio of  remuneration  to MRE (1) Ratio of  remuneration  to MRE and  WTD (1) Azim H Premji Chairman and  Managing Director 0.79 2.17 – -64% 15.11 15.11 T K Kurien* Executive Vice  Chairman 9.70 13.66 – - 185.54 185.54 Abidali	Z	 Neemuchwala** Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer and  Executive Director 13.55 11.96 300,000 13% 259.23 259.23 Rishad A Premji Executive Director  and Chief Strategy  Ofﬁcer 1.68 2.15 – -22% 32.24 32.24 RSU - Restricted Stock Units, MRE - Median remuneration of Employees, WTD - Whole Time Director 1.
The remuneration of Executive Directors is computed on an accrual basis.
It also includes the accelerated  amortization of Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) granted to them, which vest over a period of time.
2.
Rounded off to two decimals *   Mr. T K Kurien retired from the Board of the Company as the Executive Vice Chairman on January 31, 2017.
The  remuneration for ﬁscal 2017 is from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
** Figures mentioned are rupee equivalent - as amount paid in USD Remuneration paid to Independent Directors Name of Directors Remuneration in  ﬁscal 2017 (` in Crore) Remuneration in  ﬁscal 2016 (` in Crore) No.
of stock options/ RSUs granted in  ﬁscal year % increase/ Decrease of  remuneration in  2017 as compared  to 2016 Dr. Ashok S Ganguly 0.55 0.43 - 27.91 N Vaghul 0.66 0.54 - 22.22 M K Sharma 0.54 0.42 - 28.57 William A Owens 1 2.03 2.02 - 0.50 Ireena Vittal 0.53 0.42 - 26.19 Dr. Jagdish N Sheth 1* 0.47 1.56 - - Vyomesh Joshi 1* 0.48 1.56 - - Dr. Patrick J Ennis 1** 1.60 - - - Patrick A Dupuis 1** 1.60 - - - 1   Figures mentioned against these names are rupee equivalent - as amount paid in USD *    Dr. Jagdish Sheth retired from the Board effective July 18, 2016 and Mr. Vyomesh Joshi resigned from the Board  effective July 19, 2016.
The remuneration for ﬁscal 2017 is for the period from April 1, 2016 upto the respective date  of retirement/resignation as mentioned above.
**  Patrick Ennis and Patrick Dupuis were appointed as Independent Directors w.e.f.
April 1, 2016.
Wipro Limited 81 Remuneration paid to other Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) Name of KMP Title Remuneration  in ﬁscal 2017  (INR in Crore) Remuneration  in ﬁscal 2016  (INR in Crore) No.
of Stock  options/RSUs  granted in  ﬁscal year % increase/ Decrease of  remuneration  in 2017 as  compared to  2016 Excl.
WTD Incl.
WTD Ratio of  remuneration  to MRE Ratio of  remuneration  to MRE and  WTD Jatin  Pravinchandra  Dalal Chief Financial  Ofﬁcer 4.54 3.83 87,000 19% 86.91 86.91 M Sanaulla Khan* Company  Secretary 1.18 0.92 15,000 - 22.63 22.63 * Mr. Sanaulla Khan was appointed as Company Secretary effective June 3, 2015 The Median Remuneration of employees (MRE) excluding Whole-time Directors was ` 5,23,000 (USD 8,100) and `/uni00A05,25,000  (USD 7,700) in ﬁscal 2017 and ﬁscal 2016 respectively.
The decrease in MRE excluding the Whole-time Directors in  ﬁscal 2017 as compared to ﬁscal 2016 is 0.4% (in `).
The Median Remuneration of employees (MRE) including whole time directors was ` 5,23,000 (USD 8,100) and `/uni00A05,25,000  (USD 7,700) in ﬁscal 2017 and ﬁscal 2016 respectively.
The decrease in MRE including the Whole-time Directors in  ﬁscal 2017 as compared to ﬁscal 2016 is 0.4% (in `).
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 was 1,37,688  and 123,577 respectively.
The aggregate remuneration of employees excluding WTD grew by 7.89% over the previous ﬁscal.
The aggregate increase  in salary for WTDs and other KMPs was 9% in ﬁscal 2017 over ﬁscal 2016.
The Company afﬁrms that the remuneration is paid as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
82 Annual Report 2016-17 Sl.
No.
Name of the  Employee Date of Joining (dd-mm-yyyy) Gross  Remuneration  (`) Educational  Qualiﬁcation Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation 1 Abidali	Z	Neemuchwala*#  01-Apr-2015 135,575,058 BE, Electronics and  Communication, Masters in Industrial Management 49 25 Tata Consultancy  Services Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Director 2 T K Kurien* 11-Feb-2000  97,037,410 B Com,CA 58 34 Wipro GE Executive Vice Chairman - Wipro Limited 3 Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal* 1-Jul-2002 45,456,040 BE, CA, PGDBA and CMA, (UK) 42 18 GE India Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 4 Bhanumurthy B M 3-Sep-1992  40,979,245 B Tech, PGDM 53 30 CMC LTD President and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 5 Dr. Anurag Srivastava 15-Dec-2000  38,584,413 B Tech, M Tech, PHD 50 25 Evizeon-Apar  Infotech Senior Vice President & Business Head - Business 6 Prasanna Gamma Kali 2-Dec-1999  30,652,262 B Tech, PGD 57 34 Microland Ltd President 7 Saurabh Govil 11-May-2009  28,169,901 B.Sc., PGDM -PM & IR 49 28 GE India President & CHRO 8 Abhijit Bhaduri 1-Oct-2009  27,108,542 MBA 56 32 Microsoft Corp Chief Learning Ofﬁcer 9 Achuthan Nair 29-Apr-1991  24,355,772 BE,PGDBM 51 29 Hindustan  Petroleum COO India & Middle East 10 Soumitro Ghosh 26-Nov-1988 26,667,475 B Tech, MBA 57 33 Blue Star Ltd President - India, Middle East &  APAC Group Annexure III Information as per Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
A) Top 10 employees in terms of salary drawn during the year Notes: 1.
Remuneration comprises salary, allowances, commission, performance based payments, perquisite and company’s contribution to PF and super-annuation as  per the deﬁnition contained in Section 2(78) of the Companies Act, 2013 paid during the year.
It also includes perquisites value of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) exercised, if any, by employees.
2.
The nature of employment is contractual in all the above cases.
3.
None of the employees except the Chairman and Managing Director holds 2% or more of the paid up equity share capital of the Company as per clause (iii) of sub-rule (2) of Rule 5 of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
4.
In terms of the proviso to Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, particulars of employees posted and working in a country outside India, not being Directors or their relatives, have not been included in the above statement.
5.
Mr. T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the Board effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
*     The remuneration of Executive Directors and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is computed on an accrual basis.
It also includes the accelerated amortization of Restricted  Stock Units (“RSUs”) granted to them, which vest over a period of time.
#   Figures mentioned in ` are equivalent to amounts paid in US$ Wipro Limited 83 Sl.
No.
Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining (dd-mm-yyyy) Gross  Remuneration  (`) Educational  Qualiﬁcation Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation 1.
Abidali	Z	Neemuchwala*#  01-Apr-2015 135,575,058 BE, Electronics and  Communication, Masters in Industrial Management 49 25 Tata Consultancy  Services Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Director 2.
Anil K Jain 10-Apr-1989  15,575,895 BE, MBA 53 27 ORG Systems Sr. Vice President & Business  Head-Global Communication 3.
Anil Raibagi 16-Oct-2002  13,152,048 B. Com, MBA 47 25 IBM Senior Vice President and Head - M & A 4.
Anuj Bhalla 15-May-1996  12,341,109 BE, MBA 46 21 First Employment Senior Vice President & Global  Delivery Head, GIS 5.
Anurag Seth 3-May-1990  11,438,087 BE, PGDBM - Information  Management 50 27 First Employment Vice President & SDH -AIM 6.
Arjun Ramaraju 8-Nov-1994  11,970,719 BE 44 22 First Employment Vice President 7.
Ayaskant Sarangi 3-Dec-2012  15,851,530 PGDBM 43 19 GE India Senior Vice President - Human Resources 8.
Bhanumurthy B M 3-Sep-1992  40,979,245 B Tech, PGDM 53 30 CMC LTD President and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 9.
Dipak Kumar Bohra 14-Jun-2002  19,796,172 B Com, CA, ICWAI 44 20 Aditya Birla Group Senior Vice President, Global  Controller, Finance 10.
Gaurav Chadha 15-May-1996  12,347,292 BE, PG Diploma 43 21 First Employment Vice President, Insurance Global  Head 11.
Hari Kishan Burle 15-Mar-1994  10,925,938 B.Tech, M.Tech 45 23 First Employment Vice President 12.
Hariprasad Hegde 22-Apr-2002  11,588,864 B Tech,B.Sc ,PG Diploma 55 33 Satyam Computer  Services Limited Senior Vice President 13.
Harsh Bhatia 7-Nov-2002  11,478,006 B.Sc  51 29 Daksh Vice President - Operations 14.
Hoshedar Contractor 12-Aug-2002  15,680,146 B Com 56 32 Klm/Nw Airlines Vice President - Operations 15.
Inderpreet Sawhney 28-Oct-2011  20,000,640 B.A.
(Hons), LL.B, LL.M 52 25 The Chugh Firm Senior Vice President & General  Counsel 16.
Jatin Pravinchandra  Dalal* 1-Jul-2002 45,456,040 BE, CA, PGDBA and CMA, (UK) 42 18 GE India Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 17.
Keyur Maniar 12-Mar-2007  15,373,472 BE, MBA 47 23 Capital One  Financial Senior Vice President 18.
Kiran K Desai 21-Sep-1998  16,761,906 BE, PG Diploma 52 30 Unicorp Industries Senior Vice President - GIS 19.
Krishnakumar N 5-Sep-1994  12,011,092 B.Sc, MSc (Computer  Science) 49 25 DRDO Vice President- Global Head Service Transformation 20.
Kumudha Sridharan 31-May-1995  11,090,003 BE 53 30 ITI Ltd Senior Vice President 21.
Natarajan Coimbatore  Srinivasan 22-Jan-2015  12,972,402 BE 50 27 IBM India Pvt Ltd Vice President 22.
Prasanna Gamma Kali 2-Dec-1999  30,652,262 B Tech, PGD 57 34 Microland Ltd President 23.
Priti Kataria 1-Jun-1998  10,912,995 MBA, Tata Institute Of  Social Sciences (TISS, Mumbai) 44 19 First Employment Vice President & Global HR Head-  Mfg & Tech B) Employees drawing salary of ` 102 lakhs or above per annum and posted in India 84 Annual Report 2016-17 Sl.
No.
Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining (dd-mm-yyyy) Gross  Remuneration  (`) Educational  Qualiﬁcation Age Experience  (yrs) Last Employment Designation 24.
Raja Ukil 15-Jul-2002  14,431,216 BE 48 21 Price Waterhouse Senior Vice President & Chief  Information Ofﬁcer 25.
Rajan Kohli 15-May-1995  19,615,052 BE (E&C),PGDM  (Marketing and Finance) 45 22 First Employment Senior Vice President & Global  Head - Wipro Digital 26.
Rajeev Mendiratta 23-Aug-2002  12,351,109 B Tech.
43 22 GE India Vice President & Head-Work Force  Planning & Development 27.
Ramesh Nagarajan 25-Jan-1991  16,761,589 ME 52 28 First Employment Senior Vice President & Head 28.
Rishad Premji* 20-Jul-2007  16,861,917 B.A., MBA 40 18 Bain & Co Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer and Member of the Board 29.
Rohit Adlakha 30-May-1995  13,319,448 BE 43 21 First Employment Vice President & Global Head,  Practice and Presale 30.
Sanaulla Khan Mohammed 12-May-2015  11,834,941 FCS, M Com 47 23 ICICI  Prudential Life  Insurance Co Ltd Vice President & Company Secretary 31.
Sanjesh K Gupta 4-Dec-1984  13,933,835 Diploma, AMIE (Elec.
and   Communication) 53 32 Televista  Electronics – Computer Division Vice - President 32.
Sanjiv K R 16-Nov-1988  21,193,633 MMS 53 29 DCM Data Products Chief Technology Ofﬁcer 33.
Santhosh G Nair 30-Apr-1990  12,896,219 B Tech, PGDM 51 27 First Employment Vice President & Global Business  Head 34.
Saurabh Govil 11-May-2009  28,169,901 B.Sc., PGDM -PM & IR 49 28 GE India President & CHRO 35.
Sheetal Sharad Mehta 16-Sep-1994  12,943,520 BE 44 23 First Employment Vice President 36.
Siby Abraham 16-Feb-1987  10,312,103 B Tech, M Tech 53 30 First Employment Vice President - CTO 37.
Soumitro Ghosh 26-Nov-1988  26,667,475 B Tech, MBA 57 33 Blue Star Ltd President - India, ME & APAC 38.
Sreenath A  Venkappiah 29-Nov-2002  10,966,183 BE 53 29 Kshema  Technologies Senior Vice President & India BU Head 39.
Srinivas Pallia 1-Feb-1992  24,113,607 B Tech, M Tech 50 25 First Employment President - Consumer 40.
Srinivasan G 14-Apr-1999  11,084,522 BE 47 26 Indchem  Electronics Vice President 41.
Subrahmanyam P 8-Nov-1983  16,451,021 B.Sc, MSc,M PHIL 56 32 First Employment Chief Global Delivery Enablement 42.
Subramanian L 3-Aug-1992  10,281,314 B.Sc, ME 49 24 First Employment Senior Vice President 43.
Sunita Cherian 4-Nov-1996  12,566,709 B Tech, PGDBA 43 20 First Employment Senior Vice President - Human  Resources 44.
Suresh B 22-May-1989  13,991,252 BE, ME 53 30 AF Ferguson & Co Vice President - Application  Support & Maintenance 45.
Vasudevan A 31-Mar-1986  12,756,382 BE, M Tech 55 31 First Employment Vice President 46.
Vijayasimha  Alilughatta 28-Feb-2014  10,601,380 BE 43 21 Infosys Limited Senior Vice President 47.
Vinod Kumar T V 13-Jan-1988  13,749,582 B.Sc, MSc 56 31 Usha  Microprocessors Vice President & SDH - Mfg & Hi Tech 48.
Vishwas Santurkar 6-Nov-1991  14,805,423 BE (Mechnacial) 54 32 Unicad  Technologies Vice President & Head - Talent Transformation 49.
Viswanathan  Ramaswamy 6-Feb-2014  12,038,855 M Tech 50 30 Vodafone India Ltd Vice President Wipro Limited 85 Notes: 1.
Remuneration comprises salary, allowances, commission, performance based payments, perquisite and company’s contribution to PF and super-annuation as  per the deﬁnition contained in Section 2(78) of the Companies Act, 2013 paid during the year.
It also includes perquisites value of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) exercised, if any, by employees.
2.
Rishad A Premji, who is in the employment of the Company is a relative of Azim H Premji, Director of the Company.
3.
The nature of employment is contractual in all the above cases.
4.
None of the employees except the Chairman and Managing Director holds 2% or more of the paid up equity share capital of the Company as per clause (iii) of sub-rule (2) of Rule 5 of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
5.
In terms of the proviso to Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, particulars of employees posted and working in a country outside India, not being Directors or their relatives, drawing salary more than the prescribed limits have not been included in the above statement.
6.
Mr. T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the Board effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
*     The remuneration of Executive Directors and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is computed on an accrual basis.
It also includes the accelerated amortization of Restricted  Stock Units (“RSUs”) granted to them, which vest over a period of time.
#   Figures mentioned in ` are equivalent to amounts paid in US$ Employed for Part of the Year with an average salary of ` 8.5 lakhs or above per month and posted in India Sl  No.
Name of the  Employee Date of  Joining Gross  Remuneration  (Rupee Symbol) Educational Qualiﬁcation Age Experience  (yrs) Previous  Employment Designation 1 Abhijit Bhaduri 1-Oct-2009  27,108,542 MBA 56 32 Microsoft Corp Chief Learning Ofﬁcer 2 Achuthan Nair 29-Apr-1991  24,355,772 BE,PGDBM 51 29 Hindustan  Petroleum COO India & Middle East 3 Aneesh Garg 11-Nov-2002  5,067,829 CA 44 15 Timer Internet  Limited Vice President 4 Anil Kumar Khera 11-Mar-2010  1,144,628 BE 59 37 AT O S  O R I G I N                                                  General Manager & Head  Delivery- Large Programs 5 Ashish Kumar  Srivastava 27-Feb-1995  11,048,811 B Tech 49 28 TISCO Vice President and Global Head Industry 6 Ashutosh Chadha 4-May-2015  5,038,912 MBA 51 30 INTEL                                                       Vice President 7 Bhavani Padmanabhan 9-May-2016  9,684,066 MBL 48 25 SABMiller India  Limited Deputy General Counsel 8 Deepak Jain 21-Mar-1986  11,908,831 BE 52 30 Raba Contel (P) Ltd Sr. Vice President and Head for  Internal Audit 9 Dr. Anurag Srivastava 15-Dec-2000  38,584,413 B Tech, M Tech, PHD 50 25 Evizeon-Apar  Infotech Senior Vice President & Business Head - Business 10 Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya 3-Nov-2003  2,631,289 B Com, PGD 59 34 Verizon General Manager 11 Krishnakumar  Nandagopal 16-Aug-2004  2,241,981 B Sc, M Sc, ICWA 45 22 Providian Finl Account Delivery Head 12 Pushpa Neelakantan 20-Feb-2012  2,692,300 MCA 49 26 Mphasis Ltd Delivery Head 13 Ravi Ahuja 12-May-2008  5,410,549 BE 48 26 T a t a  C u m m i n s  L t d                                             General Manager 14 Suresh Kolati 15-Jun-2016  10,815,369 BE 48 22 Strategic Business  Unit P&L Vice President 15 T K Kurien* 11-Feb-2000  97,037,410 B Com,CA 58 34 Wipro GE Executive Vice Chairman - Wipro Limited 86 Annual Report 2016-17 FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED  March 31, 2017 To The Members Wipro Limited, Bengaluru   We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to  good corporate practices by Wipro Limited (hereinafter  called the “Company”).
Secretarial Audit was conducted  in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for  evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances  and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books,  papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and  other records maintained by the Company and also the  information provided by the Company, its ofﬁcers, agents  and authorized representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion,  the Company has, during the audit period covering the  ﬁnancial year ended on March 31, 2017 (the audit period)  complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder  and also that the Company has proper Board-processes  and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the  manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:  We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms  and returns ﬁled and other records maintained by the  Company for the ﬁnancial year ended on March 31, 2017  according to the provisions of:  I.
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made  thereunder; II .
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  (‘SCRA’)	and	the	rules	made	thereunder; III .
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and  Bye-laws framed thereunder; IV .
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the  rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent  of Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct  Investment.
There was no External Commercial  Borrowing by the Company during the period under  review.
V.   The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992	(‘SEBI	Act’):- Annexure IV Form No.
MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT [Pursuant to Sub Section (1) Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]  a.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and  Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  b.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015  c.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2009 (Not Applicable to the  Company during the Audit Period);   d.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Share Based Employee Beneﬁts) Regulations,  2014   e.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008  (Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit  Period);  f.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer  Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the  Companies Act and dealing with client;   g.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009  (Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit  Period); and   h.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998;   i.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 VI .
Other laws applicable speciﬁcally to the Company  namely:  a.
Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules  made thereunder 	 b.
Special	Economic	Zones	Act,	2005	and	the	rules	 made thereunder  c.   Software Technology Parks of India rules and  regulations  d. Copyright Act, 1957  e.  The Patents Act, 1970  f.  The Trade Marks Act, 1999 Wipro Limited 87 We have also examined compliance with the applicable  clauses of the following: I.   Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of  Company Secretaries of India on Meetings of the  Board of Directors and General Meeting.
II .
Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with  BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India  Limited  We have not examined compliance by the Company with  applicable ﬁnancial laws, like direct and indirect tax laws,  since the same have been subject to review by statutory  ﬁnancial audit and other designated professionals.
During the period under review, the Company has complied  with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations,  Guidelines, etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted  with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in  the composition of the Board of Directors that took  place during the period under review were carried out in  compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the  Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda  were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system  exists for seeking and obtaining further information and  clariﬁcations on the agenda items before the meeting and  for meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings duly recorded and  signed by the Chairman, the decisions of the Board of  Directors were unanimous and no dissenting views have  been recorded.
We further report that based on the review of the  compliance reports/certiﬁcates of the Company Secretary  which were taken on record by the Board of Directors,  there are adequate systems and processes in the  Company commensurate with the size and operations  of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with  applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, except  for buy back of 4,00,00,000 (Four Crore) Equity Shares of  face value of `2/- each at ` 625/- per share aggregating to  `2500,00,00,000/- (Rupees Two Thousand Five Hundred  Crore), there was no event/action having a major bearing on  the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred  laws, rules, regulations, guidelines etc.,  For V. SREEDHARAN & ASSOCIATES  Company Secretaries  (V. Sreedharan) Partner Bangalore  FCS: 2347; CP No: 833 Date: April 15, 2017 88 Annual Report 2016-17 We present our report on Wipro’s social and environmental  initiatives for the year 2016-17.
The core foundation and  strategic direction of our social initiatives has essentially  remained the same since inception in 2001 even as we  have evolved in terms of scale and scope of our programs.
Let us start by emphasizing the key strategic elements of  our social programs: •	 	 The	values	of	Spirit	of	Wipro	guide	all	our	actions.
We recently rearticulated our values as part of the  relaunch of our brand.
Our rearticulated values  remain the same in their essence though with a slight  shift in emphasis on a few elements.
•	 	 Three	of	our	four	values	have	a	direct	correlation	with	 our social initiatives –Respect for every individual,  Being global and responsible and Unyielding integrity.
These are tenets which are cornerstones of any social  change for the better.
•	 Even 	the	fourth	value	‘Being	passionate	about	clients’	 success’ can be interpreted in the social sector as the  principle of engaging with our partners in a manner  that is based on mutual trust and that is empowering  for both sides.
•	 To 	conduct	our	business	on	sound	ethical	principles	 and widely accepted tenets of good corporate  governance.
This includes compliance in letter and  spirit with laws and regulations everywhere we  operate.
•	 To 	make	our	organization	 more	sustainable	 as	 deﬁned by the triple bottom-line framework.
The  primary areas of focus are to (i) reduce our ecological  footprint (ii) foster a more diverse, empowered and  fair workplace (iii) enhance employees’ well being in  terms of their health and safety as well cognitive and  emotional development.
•	 To 	engage	 on	systemic	and	long	term	issues	 of	 importance in our chosen domains of Education and  Ecology.
•	 To 	work	with	communities	 who	are	proximate	to	 wherever we have signiﬁcant operational presence.
As a global organization, we think that it is important  to try and make a difference to communities  everywhere, not only in India.
The salient highlights of our initiatives for 2016-17 are  articulated below.
You will also ﬁnd in this year’s annual  report a detailed summary of our sustainability initiatives  as	part	of	the	‘Management	Discussion	and	Analysis’	 section.
Starting from last year, we have structured  the MD&A on the principle of integrated reporting.
The  principle is aligned with the guidelines of the International  Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) that seeks to integrate  ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial capitals as a driving principle  of business.
Non-financial capitals include Human,  Intellectual, Natural and Social capitals.
Our integrated  reporting emphasizes this fundamental principle of  continuity and connectedness between business and  society.
For a fuller understanding, you may also want to  refer to our comprehensive annual sustainability reports  based on GRI principles.
These and various other details  are available at the websites, www.wipro.com and www.
wipro.org.
A.
Education   Our work in education covers a range of initiatives in  school and higher education from systemic reforms  to sustainability education.
Apart from India, we  have signiﬁcant programs in the U.S.A. as well.
The  common vision that ties this together is our belief  that education is a key enabler of change towards a  better society.
A.1 Systemic reforms in school education: Over  the past 16 years, we have worked to contribute to  systemic reform in school education in India, through  Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS).
The  strategy for this has been to support the development  and strengthening of good organizations working  in this space.
We have closely partnered with over  70 organizations in different areas of systemic  reform.
The impact of this wide network of education  organizations has been inthe areas of curriculum, text  books, teacher capacity, and school leadership.
Over  the last 16 years, our work has spanned132 projects  with a collective reach of nearly 20,000 schools  across 17 states.
During 2016-17, we accelerated  our initiative of supporting new and young start-ups  in school education through a structured program of  seeding fellowships.
26 Fellows from 14 organizations  working across a very interesting spectrum of  educational ideas were chosen for support.
Our  hope is that such early stage support will eventually  help build a bulwark of strong organizations across  the country which are deeply committed to change  in school education.
The second element of our  Annexure V Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year 2016-17 Wipro Limited 89 strategy is to support organizations working in other  developmental areas like livelihoods or healthcare to  expand their focus of work to school education.
Five  such organizations were identiﬁed for partnering  during the year.
We expect to see accelerated  momentum in this element of our strategy in the next  2 to 3 years.
As part of the advocacy of such issues,  the 16th  national forum was organized – a unique  platform that brings together the best minds in  education in the country to deliberate and exchange  thoughts and ideas on some of the most important  issues in education-.
A.2 Education for underprivileged children:  Education  is so critical that it is necessary to focus on multiple  points of leverage.
While systemic reforms will  continue to be an important area for us, we also  have a large program that is designed for more direct  impact on underprivileged children.
Run through  Wipro Cares, the employee-supported trust of Wipro,  the program reached out to nearly 70,000 children  across eight states.
The number of projects in this  area has doubled in the past couple of years.
The  projects address a gamut of critical issues faced by  disadvantaged communities when it comes to school  education – starting from enrolment in schools to  nutrition for children, counseling services for parents,  remedial education, just to name a few.
These  children are from some of the most vulnerable groups  in our society – urban slums, tribal communities,  street children.
In parallel, we continue to strengthen our program on  children with disability through 12 projects across  six states that work closely with 2,500 children with  disability from socioeconomically underprivileged  backgrounds.
Education for such disadvantaged  sections is never about just schooling.
It is linked  to a host of other enabling factors like availability  of nutrition, community support, specially trained  teachers, assistive technology, access to healthcare  etc.
Our approach tries to integrate these dimensions  to the extent possible.
Our work in this space covers  multiple categories of disability and focuses on early  intervention and inclusive education.
A.3 Science education in the U.S.A.: The Wipro  Science Education Fellowship (SEF) is a signiﬁcant  initiative we started four years back in the U.S. with  a focus on improving STEM (Science, Technology,  Engineering and Math)  in schools that primarily serve  disadvantaged communities.
Our work centers around  helping teachers become better STEM educators and  change leaders for STEM in their school districts.
The  teachers are chosen for 2 to 3 year fellowships and  our partners are the University of Massachusetts,  Boston and Michigan State University.
Mercy College  in New York, Mont Clair State University, New Jersey  and University of Northern Texas, Dallas are also  involved with the program.
We have worked with more  than 400 teachers till now.
This initiative is aligned with the U.S. federal  government’s priority on improving science and  math education in their school system.
The program  runs across 30 school districts in 5 cities – Boston,  Chicago, Dallas, New Jersey and New York.
We are  satisﬁed with the outcomes of this program till now  and will be actively considering expanding it to other  cities.
Wipro’s commitment of about USD 10.8 million  over a period of 6 years is one of the largest such  commitments made by a non-US company to the  cause of improving science and math education out  there.
While this expenditure is not allowed under the  CSR rules of the Companies Act 2013, we think that  it is important to include this as part of our report  as it highlights our core underlying principle here  that corporations must engage with social issues  wherever they have large operational presence in the  world, not just in India.
A.4 Sustainability Education: Over the last six  years, we have been trying to bring together two  of our key concerns, Education and Sustainability,  through Wipro-earthian, a nation-wide program for  schools and colleges.
In the past year, the schools  program saw a signiﬁcant expansion of coverage to  over 2,500 schools across 75 districts in 27 states  and 2 union territories.
One major highlight of this  outreach was the deliberative focus on the North- East where we had participation from all states  except Mizoram and Tripura.
While our strategy  for schools is centered on wide outreach and  awareness building, our engagement with colleges  is more selective and aligned with the particular  characteristics of different disciplines and institutes.
We continue our collaboration with IIM Bangalore for  encouraging doctoral level sustainability research  and with Xavier University, Bhubaneswar for their  School of Sustainability.
Like every year, students  from leading institutes got an opportunity to intern  with some of our sustainability partners working on  areas as diverse as water, energy, forest-livelihoods  and natural capital valuation.
We also hosted a  unique symposium in the western region that brought  together leading institutes in Design, Architecture,  90 Annual Report 2016-17 Technology and Management (NID, CEPT, IITB, ICT  and IIMA) in an effort to foster  new thinking on inter- disciplinary pedagogy that is so much at the heart of  sustainability education.
A.5 Technology Education: People with the right  skills and competencies form the bedrock of IT  services organizations.
The challenge for the Indian  IT industry going forward would be to ensure that the  skills required for the rapidly changing dynamic of the  industry are met.
We have always owned this as our  primary responsibility.
In 1995, we started a program  for science graduates that would enable them to  study for a post-graduate degree in engineering and  technology.
Called the Wipro Academy of Software  Excellence (WASE) program, it helps Science  graduates to study for a Masters degree in Software  Engineering (M.Tech).
Run in partnership with the  Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani,  India, this unique program blends rigorous academic  exposure with practical professional learning at the  workplace.
We run a similar program called WISTA  in collaboration with Vellore Institute of Technology  (VIT) for science graduates without a mathematics  background.
Since its inception in 1995, Wipro has  supported and enabled more than 28,000 students  to graduate from the WASE and WISTA programs  with an MS degree in Software Engineering.
During  2016-17, the total number of new entrants into the  two programs was 3,274 while the aggregate strength  across four years was 13,636.
B.
Working with communities everywhere   A primary tenet of our CSR strategy is that we must  engage with communities proximate to wherever we  have signiﬁcant operational presence in the world.
We choose to work with underprivileged communities  in particular.
Our work is channeled  through Wipro  Cares, a unique trust that is based on the operating  model of employee contributions matched by Wipro  Limited.
Our work spans primary health-care,  education, ecology and disaster rehabilitation.
Of  these, we have already spoken about our work on  community education in an earlier section above.
We  articulated our progress on the other dimensions.
B.1 Primary health care: Access to primary health  care is a key determinant of an individual’s future  trajectory in life, including the ability to engage in  productive livelihoods and responsible citizenship,  In India, nearly 600 million people do not have  access to basic, affordable, good-quality health care.
Wipro Cares works with partners who provide good  quality primary health care services to underserved  communities covering more than 40,500 people  belonging to extremely disadvantaged communities.
Our work in Nagaland is in remote, inaccessible  villages where health care access has been weak  or non-existent till now.
Similarly, the work that we  support in Maharashtra is in the difﬁcult to access  tribal district of Gadchiroli as well as in the urban  slums of Mumbai.
In both instances, the primary goals  are to build the capacity of the local community in  managing their health needs, to augment government  infrastructure and in training health workers to  address the unique needs of the communities.
B.2 Disaster rehabilitation:  Natural disasters like  earthquakes, floods and cyclonic storms are an  unfortunate fact of life, especially in a climatically  and geologically diverse country like India.
Whenever  these happen, the disadvantaged sections get  affected the most as the already fragile basis of their  livelihoods gets further disrupted.
Starting with the  Gujarat earthquake in 2001, we have responded to  several natural calamities wherein Wipro’s employees  have also risen to the occasion and played a sterling  role.
By design, we focus on the more difficult  challenge of long term rehabilitation of the affected  communities.
During	2016-17,	‘Unnati’	the	rehabilitation	project	 that we had initiated in Uttarakhand in the aftermath  of the ﬂoods there in 2013 has progressed to an  advanced stage.
Our program seeks to strengthen  local livelihoods of communities in 22 villages in  the Uttarkashi district through improved farming  practices in organic agriculture.
The farmers’  cooperative that was set up the previous year is  operational now and we are actively examining how  to steer its activities in the direction of more value- added products that will help enhance their incomes  in the years to come.
Chennai and adjoining coastal areas in Tamil Nadu  had seen unprecedented rains, ﬂooding and damage  in December 2015.
We had responded immediately  then by providing relief in terms of dry rations, food  and other essentials to thousands of affected people  in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Cuddalore  districts.
In addition, we started a rehabilitation  project last year in partnership with the Law trust.
The project will focus on strengthening the resilience  of the fishermen community in Cuddalore district  but with a deliberative emphasis on working with the  women of the community.
The objective is to build  the capacity of the women in engaging with a broader  Wipro Limited 91 range of livelihoods than what they have been doing  till now.
Women are the bulwark of any community and  such efforts will enable the ﬁshermen community to  respond to any future disaster in more effective ways.
B.3 International Chapters:  The First Book library  that we initiated the previous year in the U.S.A has  taken of well.
Based on the premise that access  to good books is a catalyst for good education, the  program has made available nearly 100,000 books  to children from disadvantaged communities across  15 school locations.In this effort, Wipro employees in  the U.S.A have played a central role in volunteering  as well as in fund raising.
Wipro employees have  also been involved closely in the Million Women  Network, an initiative designed to engage more  women in STEM careers in the U.S.A. More than  100 employees have committed time to mentoring  women to choose careers in STEM.
Our chapters in  Philippines, UK and Ireland have also been very active  in engaging with communities on a range of initiatives  that include disaster rehabilitation, housing for the  very poor, biodiversity conservation and schools for  underprivileged children.
In South Africa, we have been active participants  in	a	number	of	programs	aligned	with	the	‘Broad	 Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act’   that aims to distribute wealth across a spectrum of  previously disadvantaged South African society.
Our  work covers computer literacy for youth, skills and  entrepreneurship development and working with  underprivileged schools.
C.  Ecology & Environment   Managing economic development in a manner that  does not compromise the ecological integrity of the  environment has posed one of the biggest challenges  to humanity ever since the industrial revolution  started.
It will be even more so in the coming  decades of this century.
It is no surprise therefore  that 7 of the 17 U.N.
Sustainable Development Goals  directly reﬂect these concerns while the remaining  10 goals have indirect intersects with ecology  and environment in some way or the other.
The  manifold problems of climate change, water scarcity,  biodiversity loss and the pollution and depletion of  our natural commons require all stakeholders to act.
Responsible corporations can make a signiﬁcant  difference by aligning their resources, energy and  commitment with these problems in a purposeful  way.
Wipro’s engagement with these issues goes back  several years and is based on the dual approach of  (a) continually improving the energy, water, waste  and biodiversity footprint of our business operations  and (b) engaging on community-level actions and  advocacy on these issues.
We present below some  salient highlights of our work in 2016-17.
C.1 The challenges of urban water:  Water scarcity  is perhaps the top most challenge facing large  parts of the world including in India.
The crisis is as  much agrarian as it is urban.
For example, the city  of Bangalore which is dependent on the Cauvery  river 100 KM away as well as on ground water  stands at greatly enhanced risk of its aggregate  demand being unmet.
Plummeting ground water  tables and severe pollution of its lakes present a  complex challenge that requires responses which  are a carefully crafted blend of technology, citizen  involvement and policy governance.
Over the past  three years, we have been running the “Participative  Ground Water Program”program that seeks to involve  multiple stakeholders in systemically understanding  and addressing the water problem in the periphery  area of Sarjapur in Bangalore which is completely  dependent on groundwater.
A signiﬁcant outcome  of the project is the development of a granular map  of the groundwater aquifer of an area of nearly 35 sq  km.
This, in turn, has generated new insights on how  residential communities can adopt more sustainable  practices of water withdrawal and harvesting based  on which part of the aquifer they are resident on.
This  project is part of a larger initiative, the Karnataka  State Water Network (KSWN), that works with  industry, government and civil society to catalyze  actions on water across Bangalore.
KSWN has  completed four years and has seen strong traction  in ﬁve different geographical clusters of Bangalore   C.2 Urban Biodiversity:  Our urban biodiversity  program addresses the twin goals of creating  biodiversity in our urban campuses while also using  it as a platform for wider education and advocacy.
Our  projects in our Electronic City, Bangalore and Pune  campuses have been completed.
After completing  the ﬁrst phase of the butterﬂy park in the E-City  campus, the second phase of creating an aquatic  wetland zone is in an advanced stage of completion.
The Pune campus has also seen a transformation over  the last two years.
While the number of native species  has trebled, the creation of speciﬁc ecological spaces  within the campus – for example, a herbal garden  and a kitchen garden – serves to illustrate the multi- dimensional beneﬁts of biodiversity.
The importance  of biodiversity being what it is, we have made it a  92 Annual Report 2016-17 central plank of our sustainability education program,  Wipro-earthian as well as with our own employees.
C.3 Urban Waste Management: Accelerated by  growing urban densities and changing lifestyles,  urban solid waste continues to be a tough challenge  for most of our cities.
In this space, the work of  the informal sector is often unrecognized.
Over  the last three years, our deliberative focus has  been on providing access to social, nutritional and  health security to the informal sector in solid waste  management in the city of Bangalore.
In partnership  with HasiruDala, more than 2,700 such workers now  have access to increased health and social beneﬁts.
The initiative also provided comprehensive skills  upgradation training to 250 workers.
In our internal  operations, we continue to maintain the highest  standards of waste management: 100% of our  inorganic waste is processed and recycled as per  approved methods while 80% of our organic waste is  recycled within our campuses itself getting converted  to compost for plants or biogas for cooking.
D.  The power of engaged employees   Employees are integral to many of our social  programs.
The Wipro Cares trust is built on a model  of employee contribution that is matched by Wipro.
Nearly 40,000 Wipro employees are engaged with  Wipro Cares either through volunteering or by way  of monetary contributions or both.
During 2016-17,  nearly 9,000 employees from more than 30 chapters  in India and overseas collectively spent more than  20,000 hours in voluntary engagement on a wide  range of community and environmental initiatives.
This represent a more than 50% increase over the  previous year.
Involved and engaged employees add  great value to our programs.
It also enhances their  own sense of larger purpose and alignment with the  Company’s values.
One of our prime goals for the next  two years is going to be to further increase the scale  and scope of employee engagement.
We	started	this	report	with	dwelling	on	the	‘Why’	 of our social initiatives, our underlying vision and  beliefs.
We would like to conclude by emphasizing  that	the	‘What’	and	‘How’	are	equally	important.
Thus,	 the	‘What’	of	choosing	our	domains,	partners	and	 locations in a strategic, deliberative manner and the  ‘How’	of	running	our	programs	on	the	bedrock	of	good	 governance are equally critical.
Good governance  requires multiple elements to come together: (a)  Robust Board and management oversight through  regular reviews and feedback, (b) Choosing the right  partners who are passionate about positive social  change and whose values are aligned with ours and (c)  Transparent and comprehensive reporting of our CSR  programs in the public domain inviting constructive  scrutiny and feedback.
Our endeavor going forward  will be to continue to ensure that Wipro’s social  initiatives continue to go beyond compliance and are  designed to make deep, long lasting impact.
Wipro Limited 93 1.
A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy, including overview of the projects or programs proposed to be undertaken is available at www.wipro.
com.
Details are provided as part of Boards’ Report on page no.
74.
2.
The Composition of the CSR Committee:The terms of reference of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) broadly comprises and forms part of  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee and these terms of reference are in accordance with Section 135 of the Companies  Act, 2013.
The Committee comprises Dr. Ashok Ganguly, Mr. N Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens, Independent Directors.
3.
Average Net Proﬁt of the Company for the last three ﬁnancial years: ` 64,154 Million.
4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two percent of the amount as in the point 3 above): 2% of the average PBT for the last three preceding ﬁnancial years  amounts to ` 1,764 Million; against this, our CSR spending for 2016-17 was ` 1,863 Million.
5.
Details of the CSR Spent during the ﬁnancial year:  a)  Total amount to be spent for the ﬁnancial year: ` 1,764 Million  b)  Amount unspent: Not Applicable  c)  Manner in which the amount is spent during the ﬁnancial year is detailed below: 6.
The following table provides a summary of the domain wise expenditure on CSR for 2016-17 along with the geographies.
The list of partners with  whom we collaborate are provided below after the table.
7.
In	the	column	‘Cumulative	expenditure	till	reporting	period’,	we	have	chosen	to	take	2014-15	as	the	base	year.
It	is	however	not	to	be	interpreted	 that this is the First year of our CSR programs.
Many of our programs go back more than 10 years and some more than 15 years.
Given the practical  challenges in reporting the cumulative expenditure from inception, we have chosen to start with the year 2014-15 as the base year.
8.
All our programs are executed and implemented through our partners.
The ﬁgures under the last column therefore are entirely through our partners.
(` in Million) Sl.
No.
CSR project or activities  identiﬁed Sector in  which the  project is  covered Projects or Programs 1) Local area or  others 2) specify the state and district  where the project or programs are under  taken Amount   Outlay   (Budget)  project or   Program   Wise Amount  spent   on the   projects or   Programs  Cumulative  expenditure  upto   Previous  reporting   period   Cumulative  expenditure  upto   reporting   period   Amount   spent : direct  or through   implementing  agency   1 Providing preventive and  curative health services with  speciﬁc focus on malnutrition  and infant mortality rate.
Community  Healthcare Tuensang (Nagaland), Mumbai (Maharashtra)  2.00  1.90  16.50  18.40  1.90  2 Education for Underprivileged  in proximate communities Education  for Under  privileged Mumbai, Pune (Maharashtra), Bangalore  (Karnataka), Hyderabad (Telangana),   Kolkata and Sunderbans (West Bengal),  Chennai (Tamil Nadu), New Delhi, Dimapur  (Nagaland), Tawang (Arunachal Pradesh)  35.00  35.08  43.90  78.98  35.08  Systemic reform initiatives  in school education in India,  in the areas of ecology,   social science, languages  and affective education,   material development, public  advocacy, assessment reform,  teacher capacity building,  strengthening the school  system through community  and systemic engagement * Education:  Systemic  Reforms Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar (Assam), Meghalaya,  Unakoti, Sepahijala, North District  (Tripura), Kolkata (West Bengal), Tehri  Garhwal (Uttarakhand), Chandigarh, Punjab,  Gurgaon,Samalkha, Ambala (Haryana), Delhi,  Ajmer, Sirohi, Udaipur (Rajasthan), Bhopal  ,Dewas, Chindwara (Madhya Pradesh), Kutch,  Panchmahal, Ahmedabad (Gujarat), NCR,  Mumbai, Jalgaon (Maharashtra), Bangalore,  Chamrajnagar, Koppal, Mysore (Karnataka),  Hyderabad (Telangana), Kurnool (Andhra  Pradesh), Chennai,Trichy, Coimbatore,  Karur (Tamil Nadu), Kerala, Sambalpur,  Bhubaneswhar, Rayagada (Odisha),   Bandipora, Jammu (Jammu &Kashmir),  Ukhrul (Manipur),Sukma,Dantewada  (Chhattisgarh)  95.00  95.59  133.33  228.92  95.59   Initiatives in Education of  children with Disability Education for  Children with  Disability Delhi (Delhi), Hyderabad (Telangana), Jaipur  (Rajasthan), Mumbai, Pune (Maharashtra),  Chennai (Tamil Nadu)  14.00  14.48  52.15  66.63  14.48   -   -  Initiatives in sustainability  education in schools and  colleges across India Sustainability  Education 45 districts in 21 states of India  22.00  25.80  47.60  73.40  25.80  Program of higher education  in engineering and  technology linked to skills  development for the IT  industry Higher  Education for  skills building Bangalore  990.00  1,118.00  1,734.13  2,852.13  1,118.00  Initiatives in improving  education in engineering  colleges in India Engineering  Education All parts of India  5.00  2.00  14.56  16.56  2.00  Summary of CSR spend for 2016-17 94 Annual Report 2016-17 (` in Million) Sl.
No.
CSR project or activities  identiﬁed Sector in  which the  project is  covered Projects or Programs 1) Local area or  others 2) specify the state and district  where the project or programs are under  taken Amount   Outlay   (Budget)  project or   Program   Wise Amount  spent   on the   projects or   Programs  Cumulative  expenditure  upto   Previous  reporting   period   Cumulative  expenditure  upto   reporting   period   Amount   spent : direct  or through   implementing  agency   3 Ensuring environmental  sustainability, ecological  balance, Agroforestry Water Bangalore, Karnataka  11.00  11.51  7.10  18.61  11.51  Biodiversity Bangalore, Karnataka, Pune, Maharastra  8.00  8.45  15.20  23.65  8.45  Energy Bangalore, Karnataka, Pune, Maharastra  605.00  529.78  827.32  1,357.10  529.78  Waste  Management Bangalore, Karnataka  2.00  2.60  2.90  5.50  2.60   Sustainability  Advocacy and  Research Bangalore, New Delhi, Mumbai,  Bhubhaneshwar and others (not location  dependent)  12.00  14.67  19.33  34.00  14.67   4 Rural Development projects Rural  livelihood  programs Uttarkashi (Uttarakhand), Cuddalore (Tamil  Nadu  3.00  3.10  7.40  10.50  3.10   Total  1,804  1,863  2,921.42  4,784.38  1,862.96  Note : List of implementing partners are provided below.
9.
A responsibility statement of the CSR Committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy: Yes, is in compliance with CSR Policy and Objectives  of the Company.
Sd/- Azim H Premji (Executive Chairman and Managing Director) Sd/- Ashok S Ganguly (Chairman of Board Governance,   Nomination and Compensation Committee) List of implementing partners: 1.
Jubayer Masud Educational Charitable Trust, Assam  2.
Vikramshila Education Resource Society, Kolkata  3.
Pratham, Delhi  4.
JodogyanShiksha, Delhi  5.
Education Dialog Trust  6.
Muskaan, Bhopal  7.
Janvikas, Ahmedabad  8.
Avehi Public Charitable Trust, Mumbai  9.
Vidya Mytri, Koppal 10.
Nature Conservation Foundation, Mysore  11.
Punarchith, Chamrajnagar 12.
Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Education, Bengaluru  13.
DOST Educational Foundation, Bengaluru  14.
Gubbachi, Bengaluru  15.
National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru 16.
The Teacher Foundation, Bengaluru 17.
Center for Learning, Bengaluru  18.
EZ	Vidya	Pvt.
Ltd,	Chennai 19.
Goodbooks Trust, Chennai  20.
The Tiny Seed, Kottayam  21.
Centre for Environment Education, Ahmedabad  22.
Innovation and Science Promotion Foundation, Bangalore  23.
ShahidVierendra Smarak Samiti, Samalkha 24.
ArtSparks, Bangalore  25.
Patang, Sambalpur  26.
Jan Sahas, Dewas 27.
Agragamee,Rayagada 28.
BachpanBanao, Dantewada  29.
Samerth, Ahmedabad 30.
Art of Play, Delhi  31.
We, the People  32.
Simple Education Foundation, Delhi  33.
Khel Khel Mein, Delhi  34.
School Social Science Initiative, Bhubaneshwar  35.
Library for All, Ukhrul  36.
Mantra Social Services, Bangalore  37.
ApniShala, Mumbai  38.
Vardishnu Social Research and Development Society, Jalgaon 39.
Pratyaya EduResearch Lab, Chindwara 40.
Kshamtalaya, Udaipur 41.
Shiksharth, Sukma 42.
Virasat-e-Hind, Ahmedabad 43.
Mobile Paatshala in Sunderbans, 24 South Paraganas  44.
Samavesh, Bhopal 45.
Bangalore Little Theater  46.
Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment  47.
Centre for Environment Education   48.
BIOME Trust   49.
CSTEP Bangalore  50.
IIM Bengaluru  51.
IIM Lucknow  52.
Dakshin Foundation  53.
RV College of Engineering Bengaluru  54.
Xavier University Bhubaneshwar  55.
CPREEC - Chennai  56.
Eco-concept  57.
AZTEC	 58.
Himachal State council for Science and Technology  59.
Delhi Education Department, Yuvasatta  60.
Punjab state council for science and technology  61.
ENVIS Sikkim  62.
Wild Ecologues 63.
Aseema Charitable Trust, Mumbai  64.
ASHA Foundation, Bangalore  65.
Ashray Akruti, Hyderabad  66.
Association for Rural and Urban Needy (ARUN), Kolkata 67.
Association for the Welfare of Persons with a Mental Handicap in  Maharashtra (AWMH), Mumbai  68.
Community Educational Centre Society (CECS), Dimapur  69.
Dnyangangotri Pratishthan, Pune  70.
Door Step School (DSS), Pune 71.
Eleutheros Christian Society (ECS), Tuensang  72.
Foundation for Mother and Child Health (FMCH), Mumbai  73.
Gosaba Panchayat Committee, Sunderbans  74.
Gubbachi Learning Community, Bangalore  75.
Hasiru Dala, Bangalore  76.
Jhamtse Gatsal Children's Community, Tawang  77.
Legal Aid to Women (LAW) Trust, Cuddalore  78.
Magic Bus, Bangalore  79.
Mahadevapura ParisaraSamrakshaneMattuAbhivrudhi Samiti (MAPSAS)  Bangalore  80.
Makkala Jagriti, Bangalore  81.
National Association for the Blind (NAB), Delhi  82.
Olcott Education Society, Chennai  83.
Prayas Society, Jaipur  84.
Sahasra Deepika International for Education (SDIE), Bangalore  85.
Shri Bhuvaneshwari Mahila Ashram (SBMA), Uttarkashi 86.
Shri Sadguru Sai Baba Seva Trust, Pune  87.
Society of Parents of Children with Autistic Disorders (SOPAN), Mumbai  88.
Sugra Humayun Mirza Wakf, Hyderabad  89.
Swadhar IDWC, Pune  90.
The Institution of Social Studies Trust (ISST), Delhi  91.
V -Excel Education Trust, Chennai  92.
Youngistaan Foundation, Hyderabad  93.
Wipro Cares, Bangalore - Independent Public Trust 94.
Nature Forever Society 95.
BIOME Trust 96.
Advanced Centre for Water Resources Development and Management  97.
Hariyalee Landscapes 98.
Oorvani Foundation 99.
Confederation of Indian Industry 100.
4 individual fellowships 101.
The Energy and Resources Institute 102. International Union for Conservation of Nature  Wipro Limited 95 Annexure VI Form No.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN as on the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2017 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i. CIN L32102KA1945PLC020800 ii.
Registration Date December 29, 1945 iii.
Name of the Company Wipro Limited iv.
Category/Sub-Category of the Company Public Limited Company - Limited by Shares Indian Non-Government Company.
v. Address of the Registered office and  contact details Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore – 560 035 Ph: 080 28440011, Fax: 080 28440258 Website: www.wipro.com Email: info@wipro.com vi.
Whether listed company Yes vii.
Name, Address and Contact details of  Registrar and Transfer Agent,ifany Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District,  Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Contact Person: Mr. B Srinivas Deputy Manager Tel: +91 40 67161500 Fax: +91 40 23440674 Email: srinivas.b@karvy.com II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY  All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:- Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main  products/services NIC Code of the  Product/service % to total turnover of  the company 1 IT Software, Services and related  activities 62013 62020 100% III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 1.
Wipro LLC 2 Tower Center Blvd, Suite 2200; East Brunswick, NJ  08816, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 2.
Wipro Gallagher Solutions,  Inc. 810 Crescent Centre Drive, Suite 400, Franklin, TN  37067, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 3.
Opus Capital Market  Consultants LLC 100 Tri State International, Ste, 300A Lincolnshire, IL  60069, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 4.
Infocrossing, Inc. 2 Christie Heights Street, Leonia, NJ 07605, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 5.
Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions LLC 2 Tower Center Blvd, Suite 2200; East Brunswick, NJ  08816, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 6.
Wipro Data Centre and  Cloud Services, Inc. 2 Christie Heights Street, Leonia, NJ 07605, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 7.
Wipro Insurance Solutions  LLC 1209, Orange St, Wilmington, New Castle  Country-19801, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 96 Annual Report 2016-17 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 8.
Wipro IT Services, Inc. 2 Tower Cenyer Blvd., Ste.
2200, East Brunswick NJ.
08816, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 9.
Wipro Solutions Canada  Limited Atco Center, 909 11 th  Ave SW, Calgary, AB T2R 1L7, Canada N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 10.
Wipro Japan KK Yokohama Landmark Tower 26F #2605, 2-2-1-1 Minato- Mirai 2208126 Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 11.
Wipro Shanghai Limited F3,	Bldg	9,	Zhangjiang	Hi-Tech	Park,	Shanghai,	Chna N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 12.
Wipro Information  Technology Netherlands BV Hoogoorddreef 15, 1101 BA Amsterdam,   The Netherlands N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 13.
Wipro Chengdu Limited 3/F , A3, Building, Tianfu Software Park, Tianfu Avenue,  Hi-Tech	Zone,	Chengdu,	China	-	610041 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 14.
Wipro (Thailand) Co. Limited 152, Chartered Square Building, Unit 17-02B, North  Sathorn Road, Kwaeng Silom, Khet Bangrak, Bangkok,  Thailand N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 15.
Wipro Australia Pty Limited 1198 Toorak Road Camberwell/uni00A0Melbourne/uni00A0Victoria/uni00A03124,  PO Box 1143 Hartwell Victoria 3124 Australia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 16.
Wipro Technologies Limited,  Russia str.
1, 109028, dom 13, Khokhlovsky pereulok Moscow,  Russia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 17.
Wipro Technologies  Australia Pty Ltd. Unit 1, 7 Sky Close, Taylors Beach NSW 2316, Australia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 18.
PT WT Indonesia Regus Jakarta Menara Standard Chartered 30/F Menara  Standard Chartered Jl.
164 Jakarta.
12930.
Indonesia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 19.
Wipro Travel Services  Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakannelli, Bangalore 560035, India U91200KA1996PLC020622 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 20.
Wipro Holdings (Mauritius)  Limited IFS Court, Twenty Eight, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 21.
Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakannelli, Bangalore - 560 035,  India U93090KA1982PLC021795 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 22.
Wipro Networks Pte  Limited 31, Cantonment Road, Singapor - 089747 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 23.
Wipro Technologies SDN  BHD Suite 702, 7 th  ﬂoor, Wisma Hangsam, Jalan Hang lekir,  50000, Kualalumpur, Malaysia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 24.
Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakanelli, Bangalore 560035, India U72200KA2009PLC051272 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 25.
Wipro BPO Philippines  Limited, Inc. Cebu IT Tower 1 corner Archbishop Reyes Avenue and  Mindanao Street, Cebu Business Park, 6000 Cebu City,  Cebu, Philippines N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 26.
Wipro Information  Technology Kazakhstan  LLP 7, Azattyk Ave., Atyrau city, Kazakhstan N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 27.
Wipro IT Services Ukraine  LLC Regus - 42 - 44 Shovkovychna Street, Kiev 01601,  Ukraine N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 28.
Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Suite No.
209, Jarrir, Book Store Building, Alkhobar, PO  Box 31349, 31952, Saudi Arabia.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 29.
Wipro Information  Technology Egypt SAE B-124, Smart Village, Cairo-Alex Desert Road, Giza, Egypt N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 30.
Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL Seef Business Centre Building #2795 5th Floor # 510  Road 2835, Kingdom of Bahrain N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 31.
Wipro Gulf LLC 322 Ofﬁce # 28, KOM 4 Ground Floor, Knowledge Oasis  Muscat, Sultanate of Oman N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 32.
Wipro Doha LLC Servcorp, Level 22, Tomado Tower, West Bay, Doha N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 33.
Rainbow Software LLC D603, St.14, Building 43, Al Mansour, Baghdad, Iraq N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 34.
Wipro Technologies SA  DE CV Ave. Pedro Ramírez Vázquez 200-1, 4º Piso Valle Oriente,  Garza García, N.L., México 66269  N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 35.
Wipro Do Brasil Technologia  LTDA João Marchesini street, No.
139 - 5 th  and 6 th  ﬂoor Post  Code: 80215-432 Curitiba/Parana - Brazil N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 36.
Wipro Do Brasil Sistemetas  De Informatica Ltd. Av.
Maria Coelho Aguiar, 215 – Bloco B – 6º.
Andar – Jd.
São	LuisSão	Paulo	–	SP	Zip	code.
:	05804-900,	Brazil N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 37.
Wipro Technlogies SA Carlos Pellegrini, 581 (Piso 7) 1009 Capital Federal,  Buenos Aires – Argentina N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) Wipro Limited 97 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 38.
Wipro Technologies Peru  SAC Av.De la Floresta No.
497, Piso 5, San Borja, Lima, Peru N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 39.
Wipro	Technologies	VZ,	C.A Av.Blandin, Torre B.O.D.
La Castellana.Caracas,  Venezuela.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 40.
Wipro Technologies W.T  Sociedad Anonima Escalante, Calle 31, Avenida 13, #2575, 7813-1000 San  José, Costa Rica N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 41.
Wipro Technologies Chile  SPA Andrés Bello 2711, 8 th  ﬂoor, Las Condes, Torre  Costanera, CP 7550611, Santiago, Chile.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 42.
Wipro Information  Technology Austria GmbH Millennium Park 6, A-6890 Lustenau, Austria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 43.
Wipro	Poland	Sp	Zoo Arkonska Business Park, ul.
Arkońska 6/A2, 2 Floor,   80-387 Gdansk, Poland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 44.
Wipro IT Services Poland  SP	ZOO 16 th  Floor, (Millennium Plaza), Al.
Jerozolimskie 123a,  Warsaw 02-017, Poland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 45.
Wipro Portugal SA Avenida Da Boavista, 1223, 4100-130, Portugal N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 46.
Wipro Technologies Norway  AS Martin Linges Vei 25, No.1364, Snaroya, Norway N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 47.
Wipro Technologies SRL Trust Center Splaiul Independentei, nr 319C, sector 6,  Bucharest, Romania.
N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 48.
Wipro Technologies Austria  GmbH Millennium Park 6, A-6890 Lustenau, Austria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 49.
Newlogic Technologies  SARL “9/11 Allee de L’arche, 92671 Courbevoie Cedex, France N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 50.
Wipro Technologies GmbH Dusseldorferstr 71B, 40667 Meerbusch, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 51. cellent GmbH /uni00A0Ringtrabe, 70, 70736 Fellbach, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 52. cellent Mittelst and  sberatung GmbH Schickardstr.
30, 71034 Böblingen, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 53. cellent GmbH Austria Lassallestraße 7b, 1020 Vienna, Austria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 54.
Wipro Digital APS Philip Heymans Alle 7, 2900 Hellerup, Denmark N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 55.
Designit A/S (Group  Company) Bygmestervej 61, 2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 56.
Designit Denmark A/S Bygmestervej 61, 2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 57.
Designit MunchenGmbH Steinerstrasse 15, building F , 81369 Munich N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 58.
Denextep Spain Digital S.L C/ Mártires de Alcalá 4, 1º, 28015 Madrid N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 59.
Designit Oslo A/S Storgata 53A, 0182 Oslo, Norway N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 60.
Designit Sweden AB Norra Stationsgatan 99, 11364 Stockholm N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 61.
Designit T.L.V Ltd. 2, Sapir St, Herzeliya Pituach, Israel N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 62.
Designit Tokyo Ltd.
The Park Rex Koamicho Bldg 8F , 11-8 Koamicho  Nihombashi Chuo-ku Tokyo 103-0016 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 63.
FRONTWORX Informations  technologie GmbH Lassallestraße 7b, 1020 Vienna, Austria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 64.
Wipro Cyprus Pvt.
Ltd. Diomidous 10, Alphamega-Akropolis Building, 3 rd  Floor,  Ofﬁce 401, 2024 Nicosia, Cyprus  N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 65.
Wipro Holdings Hungary  KFT H-1143 Budapest, Stefánia út 101-103, Hungary N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 66.
Wipro Outsourcing Services  (Ireland) Limited Dromore House #rd Floor,Eastpark Business Centre,  Shannon , Co. Clare, Ireland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 67.
Wipro Holdings ( UK)  Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London, EC1M 7AD,  United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 68.
Wipro Europe Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London, EC1M 7AD,  United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 69.
Wipro UK Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London, EC1M 7AD,  United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 70.
Wipro Retail UK  Limited Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London, EC1M 7AD,  United Kingdom N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 71.
Wipro Financial Services  UK Ltd. Devonshire House, 60 Goswell Road, London, United  Kingdom, EC1M 7AD N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 72.
Wipro Technologies SA  PTY Ltd.
The Forum, 10th Floor Ofﬁce 162 Maude Street,  Sandton, 2198 Johannesburg, South Africa N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 98 Annual Report 2016-17 Sr.  No.
Name of the Company Address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding/  Subsidiary /Associate % of  shares  held Applicable Section 73.
Wipro Technologies Nigeria  Limited 7th Floor, Mulliner Towers, 39 Alfred Rewane Road,  (Kingsway Road), Ikoyi Lagos, Nigeria N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 74.
Wipro Corporate  Technologies Ghana Ltd. 2 nd  Floor, Opeibea House, 37 Liberation Road, ACCRA,  PO.
BOX.
CT 9347 Cantonments, ACCRA, Ghana N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 75.
Wipro (Dalian) Limited /uni00A0D7, Spring-Field Park, Ganjingzi District, Dalian, China,  Peoples Republic of China, 116034 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 76.
Wipro Overseas IT Services  Private Limited Sarjapur Road, Doddakanelli, Bangalore 560035, India U72200KA2015PTC080266 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 77.
Healthplan Services  Insurance Agency, Inc. 3501 E Frontage Rd, Tampa, FL 33607, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 78.
Healthplan Services, Inc. 3501 E Frontage Rd, Tampa, FL 33607, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 79.
HPH Holdings Corp. State of Delaware, 1209 Orange Street, City of  Wilmington, Country of New Castle, 19801, USA N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 80.
Appirio, Inc. 201 S. Capitol Ave., #1100 Indianapolis, IN 46225 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 81.
Appirio, K.K METLIFE Aoyama Building 8F , 2-11-16, Minami Aoyama,  Minato-ku, Tokyo, japan N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 82.
Topcoder, Inc. 201 S. Capitol Ave., #1100, Indianapolis, IN 46225 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 83.
Appirio GmbH TorstraBe, 138, 10119, Berlin, Germany N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 84.
Appirio Ltd. 92-93- St. Stephens Green, Dublin-2, Ireland N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 85.
Apprio Ltd. (UK) Longcraft House, 2-8 Victoria Avenue, London, EC2M4NS,  UK N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 86.
Saaspoint, Inc. 201 S. Capitol Ave., #1100, Indianapolis, IN 46225 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 87.
Appirio Singapore Pte Ltd. 3 - Rafﬂes place, # 06-01, Bharat Building, Singapore  (048617) N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 88.
Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private Limited Fourth Floor, Tower b-1 Evolve Mahindra World City  Jaipur Rajasthan - 302037, India U72200RJ2013FTC04201 8 Subsidiary 100 2(87) 89.
Wipro Holdings Investment KFT 1143 Budapest, Stefánia út 101-103, Hungary N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 90.
Designit Colombia S A S Carrera 48 20 114 OFICINA 834, Medellín, Antioquia,  Colombia N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 91.
Designit Peru S.A.C Av.
Benavides 1180, Piso 7, Miraﬂores - Lima, Peru N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 92.
KI Management Inc 201 S. Capitol Ave., #1100 Indianapolis, IN 46225 N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) 93.
Wipro SA Broad Based  Ownership Scheme SPV  (RF) (PTY) LTD* The Forum, 10th Floor Ofﬁce 162 Maude Street, Sandton, 2198 Johannesburg, South Africa N/A Subsidiary 100 2(87) *  Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD is incorporated in South Africa and controlled by Wipro Technologies SA Pty Ltd. IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity) i.  Category-wise Share Holding CATE GORY  CODE CATEGORY OF SHAREHOLDER No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year  (April 01, 2016) No.
of shares held at the end of the year (March 31, 2017) % Change  during the  yearDemat Physical Total % of Total  shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  shares (A) PROMOTER AND PROMOTER  GROUP (1) INDIAN /uni00A0 (a) Individual /HUF 95,419,432 - 95,419,432 3.86 95,419,432 - 95,419,432 3.93 0.06 (b) Central Government/State  Government(s) - - - - - - - - - (c) Bodies Corporate (Promoter in  his capacity as Director of Private  Limited/Section 25 Companies) 11,406,331 - 11,406,331 0.46 10,632,953 - 10,632,953 0.44 -0.02 (d) Financial Institutions / Banks - - - - - - - - - (e) Any Other -- Partnership ﬁrms  (Promoter in his capacity as  partner of Partnership ﬁrms) 1,275,482,581 - 1,275,482,581 51.62 1,275,482,581 - 1,275,482,581 52.47 0.85 (f) Others - Trust  429,714,120  -  429,714,120 17.39  399,065,641  399,065,641 16.42  (0.98) /uni00A0 Sub-Total A(1) : 1,812,022,464  -    1,812,022,464 73.34 1,780,600,607  -    1,780,600,607 73 .25  (0.09) Wipro Limited 99 CATE GORY  CODE CATEGORY OF SHAREHOLDER No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year  (April 01, 2016) No.
of shares held at the end of the year (March 31, 2017) % Change  during the  yearDemat Physical Total % of Total  shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  shares (2) FOREIGN (a) Individuals (NRIs/Foreign  Individuals)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (b) Bodies Corporate  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (c) Institutions  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (d) Qualiﬁed Foreign Investor  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (e) Others  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  /uni00A0  Sub-Total A(2) :  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     /uni00A0  Total A=A(1)+A(2) 1,812,022,464  -    1,812,022,464  73 .34 1,780,600,607  -    1,780,600,607  73.25  (0.09) (B) PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING  /uni00A0  (1) INSTITUTIONS (a) Mutual Funds/UTI  48,295,077  -  48,295,077 1.95  61,163,808  -  61,163,808 2.52 0.56 (b) Financial Institutions/Banks  9,418,428  -  9,418,428 0.38  15,143,905  -  15,143,905 0.62 0.24 (c) Central Government/State  Government(s)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -     (d) Venture Capital Funds  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (e) Insurance Companies  55,168,621  -  55,168,621 2.23  63,947,020  -  63,947,020 2.63 0.40 (f) Foreign Institutional Investors 270,144,642  - 270,144,642 10.93 247,779,877 247,779,877 10.19  (0.74) (g) Foreign Venture Capital  Investors   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (h) Qualiﬁed Foreign Investor  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (i) Others  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  /uni00A0  Sub-Total B(1) :  383,026,768  -     383,026,768 15.50  388,034,610  -     388,034,610 15.96 0.46 (2) NON-INSTITUTIONS  /uni00A0  (a) Bodies Corporate  57,724,943  239,807  57,964,750 2.35  33,111,912  239,224  33,351,136 1.37  (0.97) (b) NBFCs Registered with RBI  21,089  -  21,089 0.00  20,517  20,517 0.00 0.00 /uni00A0 Overseas Corporate Bodies  11,772  -  11,772 0.00  11,772  11,772 0.00 0.00 Individuals (i)   Individuals holding nominal  share capital upto `1 lakh  54,102,846  1,752,175  55,855,021 2.26  54,843,521  1,350,914  56,194,435 2.31 0.05 /uni00A0 (ii)   Individuals holding nominal  share capital in excess of  `1 lakh  43,663,026  22,507,907  66,170,933 2.68  59,000,352  19,193,573  78,193,925 3.22 0.54 (c) Qualiﬁed Foreign Investor  -     -  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     (d) Others /uni00A0 NON-RESIDENT INDIANS  9,352,050  1,805,443  11,157,493 0.45  8,272,838  21  8,272,859 0.34  (0.11) /uni00A0 Foreign Bodies - DR  56,396  -  56,396 0.00  42,949  42,949 0.00 0.00 /uni00A0 TRUSTS  (a)  Wipro Equity Reward Trust  14,829,824  -  14,829,824 0.60  13,728,607  13,728,607 0.56  (0.04) /uni00A0 (b) Other Trusts  2,814,046  -  2,814,046 0.11  2,820,938  2,820,938 0.12 0.01 /uni00A0 Non-Executive Directors and  Executive Directors & Relatives  217,526  -  217,526 0.01  1,867  1,867  0.00   (0.01) /uni00A0 CLEARING MEMBERS  1,118,380  -  1,118,380  0.05  2,146,392  2,146,392 0.09 0.04 /uni00A0 FOREIGN NATIONAL  16,785,376  -  16,785,376 0.68  18,642,447  18,642,447 0.77 0.09 /uni00A0  Sub-Total B(2) :  200,697,274  26,305,332  227,002,606 9.19  192,644,112  20,783,732  213,427,844 8.78  (0.41) /uni00A0  Total B=B(1)+B(2) :  583,724,042  26,305,332  610,029,374 24.69  580,678,722  20,783,732  601,462,454 24.74 0.05 /uni00A0  Total (A+B) : 2,395,746,506  26,305,332 2,422,051,838 98.03 2,361,279,329  20,783,732 2,382,063,061 97.99  (0.04) (C) Shar  es held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued/uni00A0 (1) Promoter and Promoter Group  -  -  -  (2) Public  48,661,452  -  48,661,452 1.97  48,837,504  48,837,504 2.01 0.04 /uni00A0  GRAND TOTAL (A+B+C) : 2,444,407,958  26,305,332 2,470,713,290  100 .00 2,410,116,833  20,783,732 2,430,900,565  100  100 Annual Report 2016-17 ii.
Shareholding of Promoters Sr.  No.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the year  (April 01, 2016) Shareholding at the end of the year (March 31, 2017) % change in  shareholding  during the  year No.
of Shares % of total  Shares of the  Company %of Shares  Pledged /  encumbered  to total  shares No.
of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company %of Shares  Pledged /  encumbered  to total  shares 1 Azim H Premji 93,405,100  3.78 0 93,405,100 3.84 0 0.06 2 Yasmeen A Premji 1,062,666  0.04 0 1,062,666 0.04 0 0 3 Rishad A Premji 686,666  0.03 0 686,666 0.03 0 0 4 Tariq A Premji 265,000  0.01 0 265,000 0.01 0 0 5 Mr. Azim H Premji Partner  representing Prazim Traders 452,906,791  18.33 0 452,906,791 18.63 0 0.30 6 Mr. Azim H Premji Partner  representing	Zash	Traders 451,619,790 18.28 0 451,619,790 18.58 0 0.30 7 Mr. Azim H Premji Partner  representing Hasham Traders 370,956,000 15.01 0 370,956,000 15.26 0 0.25 8 Azim Premji Philanthropic  Initiatives Private Limited  (1) 10,843,333  0.44 0 10,069,955 0.42 0 -0.02 9 Hasham Investment and  Trading Company Pvt Ltd. 562,998  0.02 0 562,998 0.02 0 0 10 Azim Premji Trust (2) 429,714,120 17.39 0 399,065,641 16.42 0 (0.97) TOTAL 1,812,022,464 73.34 0 1,780,600,607 73.25 0 (0.09) Note: (1)   Mr. Azim H Premji has disclaimed the beneﬁcial ownership of shares held by Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Private Limited  (2)   Mr. Azim H Premji has disclaimed the beneﬁcial ownership of shares held by Azim Premji Trust  iii.
Change in Promoters’ Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change) Sr.    No.
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 Shareholding at the beginning  of the year (April 01, 2016) D a t e                           Reason Increase/  Decrease in Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year No.
of Shares % total  shares of the  Company No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of shares % of total  shares of the  company /uni00A0 At the beginning of the year (April  01, 2016) 1,812,022,464 73.34 31,421,857 0.09 1,780,600,607 73.25 /uni00A0 Date wise Increase/Decrease  in Promoters Share holding  during the year specifying the  reasons for increase/decrease  (e.g.
allotment/transfer/bonus/  sweat equity etc): /uni00A0 /uni00A0 1 Azim Premji Trust 429,714,120 17.39 July 8,  2016 Buyback of  Shares by Wipro  Limited (30,648,479) (0.97) 399,065,641 16.42 2 Azim Premji Philanthropic  Initiatives Private limited 10,843,333 0.44 July 8,  2016 Buyback of  Shares by Wipro  Limited (773,378) (0.03) 10,069,955 0.41 /uni00A0 At the End of the year (March  31, 2017) 1,780,600,607 73.25 Wipro Limited 101 iv.
Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs): Sl.
No.
For Each of the Top 10  Shareholders Shareholding at the beginning  of the year Cumulative Shareholding/ during the year No.of shares % of total shares  of the company No.of shares % of total shares  of the company 1.
At the beginning of the year (April  01, 2016) Refer Annexure A 2.
Date wise Increase/Decrease  in Shareholding during the year  specifying the reasons for increase/ decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/ bonus /sweatequity etc): 3, At the End of the year (or on the date  of separation,if separated during  the year) V.  Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: Sl.
No.
For Each of the Directors and KMP Shareholding at  the beginning of  the year (April 1, 2016) Cumulative Shareholding during the  year (2016-17) No.
of shares % of total shares  of the company No.
of shares % of total shares  of the company 1.
At the beginning of the year Refer Annexure B 2.
Date wise Increase/Decrease  in Shareholding during the year  specifying the reasons for increase/  decrease (e.g.
allotment/transfer/  bonus/sweat equity etc): 3.
At the end of the year (March 31, 2017) V.  INDEBTEDNESS  Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment.
( ` in Million) Secured Loans  excluding deposits Unsecured   Loans Deposits Total  Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the  ﬁnancial year i) Principal Amount ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due 2,037 -  - 66,092 - 126 - -  - 68,129 - 126 Total (i+ii+iii) 2,037 66,218 - 68,255 Change in Indebtedness during the  ﬁnancial year •	 Addition •	 Reduction 1,426 1,194 82,619 90,433 -  - 84,045 91,627 ERF (Gain)/Loss for foreign currency  loans - 2,519 - 2,519 Net Change 232 (5,295) - (5,063) Indebtedness at the end of the ﬁnancial  year i) Principal Amount ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due   2,268 - -   60,830 - 93   - - -   63,098 - 93 Total (i+ii+iii) 2,268 60,923 - 63,192 Note:  Obligation under ﬁnance lease is secured by underlying ﬁxed assets.
These obligations are repayable in monthly, quarterly  and yearly installments up to year ending March 31, 2021.
The interest rate for these obligations ranges from 1.82% to 17.19%.
102 Annual Report 2016-17 VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL A.  Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager (` in Crores) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager Azim H Premji T K Kurien* Abidali Z  Neemuchwala ** Rishad A Premji 1.
Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained  in section17(1) of the Income-tax  Act,1961 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s17(2)  Income-tax Act,1961 (c)  Proﬁts in lieu of salary under  section 17(3) Income-Tax Act,1961 0.30 - - 1.77 - - 5.19 - - 0.58 - - 2.
Stock Options - 4.99 7.33 - 3.
Sweat Equity - - - - 4.
Commission - as % of net proﬁts - others - - - - - - - - 5.
Others- Variable Pay - 0.94 0.97 0.31 6 Allowances & Other Annual  Compensation 0.40 1.48 - 0.62 7 Retirals 0.09 0.52 0.06 0.17 Total (A) 0.79 9.70 13.55 1.68 Ceiling as per the Act `1,046.40 Crores (being 10% of Net Proﬁts of the Company as calculated  as under Section 198 of the Companies Act 2013) *   Mr. T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the  Board effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
** Figures mentioned are rupee equivalent as amount paid in USD.
The remuneration of Executive Directors is computed on an accrual basis.
It also includes the accelerated amortization  of Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) granted to them, which vest over a period of time.
B.  Remuneration to other Directors 2016-17: Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of Directors 1.
Independent Directors 	 •	 Fee	for 	attending	board	committee	meetings 	 •	 Commission 	 •	 Others,	please	specify Refer Annexure CTotal (1) 2.
Other Non-Executive Directors 	 •	 Fee	for 	attending	board	committee	meetings 	 •	 Commission 	 •	 Others,	please	specify Total (2) Total (B)=(1+2)  Total Managerial Remuneration Overall Ceiling as per the Act ` 104.64 Crores (being 1% of Net Proﬁts of the Company  as calculated as under Section 198 of the Companies  Act 2013).
Wipro Limited 103 C.  Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel Other Than MD/Manager/WTD   (` in Crores) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Chief Financial  Ofﬁcer Company Secretary 1.
Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the  Income-tax Act, 1961 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 (c)  Proﬁts in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961 1.89  – – 1.13 – – 2.
Stock Option 2.48 – 3.
Sweat Equity – – 4.
Commission - as % of proﬁt - others – – – – 5.
Retirals 0.17 0.05 Total 4.54 1.18 The remuneration of Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is computed on an accrual basis.
It also includes the accelerated amortization  of Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) granted to him, which vest over a period of time.
VII.
PENALTIES/PUNISHMENT/COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:  There were no penalties, punishment or compounding of offences during the year ended March 31, 2017.
Type Section of the  companies Act Brief  description Details of  Penalty/ Punishment/ Compounding  fees imposed Authority [RD/ NCLT/Court] Appeal made.
If any (give  details) A.
Company Penalty NILPunishment Compounding B.
Directors Penalty NILPunishment Compounding C. Other Ofﬁcers in Default Penalty NILPunishment Compounding 104 Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure A SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN APRIL 01, 2016 AND MARCH 31, 2017 /parenleft.caseOTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRS/parenright.case Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company 1 01/04/2016 Opening Balance LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA  53,059,178 2.15  53,059,178 2.15 /uni00A0 13/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  26,643 0.00  53,085,821 2.15 /uni00A0 20/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  1,493,773 0.06  54,579,594 2.21 /uni00A0 27/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  640,962 0.03  55,220,556 2.24 /uni00A0 03/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  158,488 0.01  55,379,044 2.24 /uni00A0 10/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  977,660 0.04  56,356,704 2.28 /uni00A0 17/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  378,801 0.02  56,735,505 2.30 /uni00A0 09/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  439,031 0.02  57,174,536 2.35 /uni00A0 16/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  1,590,581 0.07  58,765,117 2.42 /uni00A0 23/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  1,574,260 0.06  60,339,377 2.48 /uni00A0 30/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  1,340,707 0.06  61,680,084 2.54 /uni00A0 07/10/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  55,421 0.00  61,735,505 2.54 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  61,735,505 2.54 2 01/04/2016 Opening Balance ALCO COMPANY PRIVATE LIMITED  16,787,000 0.68  16,787,000 0.68 /uni00A0 24/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  87,000 0.00  16,700,000 0.68 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  16,700,000 0.69 3 01/04/2016 Opening Balance ABDULREHMAN HAJI EBRAHIM COCHINWALA  (Shares in custody of Custodian of enemy property)  17,221,818 0.62  17,221,818 0.62 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  17,221,818 0.71 4 01/04/2016 Opening Balance WIPRO EQUITY REWARD TRUST* (ESOP Trust) 14,829,824 0.60 14,829,824 0.60 01/04/2016  to  31/03/2017 Transfer of  shares pursuant  to exercise of  vested stock  options 1,101,217 0.04 13,728,607 0.56 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 - 13,728,607 0.56 5 01/04/2016 Opening Balance WGI EMERGING MARKETS FUND LLC  14,130,408 0.57  14,130,408 0.57 /uni00A0 08/04/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  428,119 0.02  14,558,527 0.59 /uni00A0 03/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  275,039 0.01  14,833,566 0.60 /uni00A0 08/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  303,284 0.01  15,136,850 0.62 /uni00A0 15/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  423,172 0.02  15,560,022 0.64 /uni00A0 05/08/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  260,840 0.01  15,820,862 0.65 /uni00A0 12/08/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  166,076 0.01  15,986,938 0.66 /uni00A0 19/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  97,180 0.00  15,889,758 0.65 /uni00A0 26/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,025,016 0.04  14,864,742 0.61 /uni00A0 02/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,801,922 0.07  13,062,820 0.54 /uni00A0 09/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,203,142 0.05  11,859,678 0.49 /uni00A0 16/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  963,839 0.04  10,895,839 0.45 /uni00A0 23/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,110,275 0.05  9,785,564 0.40 *  1,101,217 shares were transferred to eligible employees pursuant to exercise of vested stock options.
Wipro Limited 105 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN APRIL 01, 2016 AND MARCH 31, 2017 /parenleft.caseOTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRS/parenright.case Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company /uni00A0 30/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,077,160 0.04  8,708,404 0.36 /uni00A0 07/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  996,122 0.04  7,712,282 0.32 /uni00A0 14/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  359,941 0.01  7,352,341 0.30 /uni00A0 21/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  755,439 0.03  6,596,902 0.27 /uni00A0 28/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,261,518 0.05  5,335,384 0.22 /uni00A0 04/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  887,700 0.04  4,447,684 0.18 /uni00A0 11/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  743,252 0.03  3,704,432 0.15 /uni00A0 18/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  3,223,156 0.13  481,276 0.02 /uni00A0 25/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  481,276 0.02  -    - /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  -    - 6 01/04/2016 Opening Balance ATEM ENTERPRISES LLP  11,950,000 0.48  11,950,000 0.48 /uni00A0 30/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  190,000 0.01  11,760,000 0.48 /uni00A0 15/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  24,278 0.00  11,784,278 0.48 /uni00A0 17/03/2017 Sale /uni00A0  11,784,278 0.48  -    - /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  -    - 7 01/04/2016 Opening Balance COPTHALL MAURITIUS INVESTMENT LIMITED  11,247,303 0.46  11,247,303 0.46 /uni00A0 08/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0 813,825 0.03  10,433,478 0.42 /uni00A0 15/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0 99,725 0.00  10,333,753 0.42 /uni00A0 22/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0  363,444 0.01  9,970,309 0.40 /uni00A0 29/04/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  41,035 0.00  10,011,344 0.41 /uni00A0 20/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  7,914 0.00  10,019,258 0.41 /uni00A0 03/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  72,877 0.00  9,946,381 0.40 /uni00A0 10/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  150,000 0.01  10,096,381 0.41 /uni00A0 24/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  68,238 0.00  10,164,619 0.41 /uni00A0 30/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  8,271,113 0.33  1,893,506 0.08 /uni00A0 01/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  97,624 0.00  1,991,130 0.08 /uni00A0 08/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  8,297,136 0.34  10,288,266 0.42 /uni00A0 22/07/2016 Sale /uni00A0  484,430 0.02  9,803,836 0.40 /uni00A0 29/07/2016 Sale /uni00A0  450,000 0.02  9,353,836 0.38 /uni00A0 05/08/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  522,224 0.02  9,876,060 0.41 /uni00A0 12/08/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  536,286 0.02  10,412,346 0.43 /uni00A0 19/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  61,330 0.00  10,351,016 0.43 /uni00A0 26/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  342,713 0.01  10,008,303 0.41 /uni00A0 02/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  510,000 0.02  9,498,303 0.39 /uni00A0 09/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,411,153 0.06  8,087,150 0.33 /uni00A0 16/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  532,750 0.02  7,554,400 0.31 /uni00A0 23/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  639,280 0.03  6,915,120 0.28 /uni00A0 30/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  653,529 0.03  6,261,591 0.26 /uni00A0 07/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  306,000 0.01  5,955,591 0.25 106 Annual Report 2016-17 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN APRIL 01, 2016 AND MARCH 31, 2017 /parenleft.caseOTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRS/parenright.case Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company /uni00A0 14/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  96,656 0.00  5,858,935 0.24 /uni00A0 21/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  232,956 0.01  5,625,979 0.23 /uni00A0 28/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  392,093 0.02  5,233,886 0.22 /uni00A0 04/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  308,662 0.01  4,925,224 0.20 /uni00A0 11/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  426,888 0.02  4,498,336 0.19 /uni00A0 18/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  509,723 0.02  3,988,613 0.16 /uni00A0 25/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  607,053 0.02  3,381,560 0.14 /uni00A0 02/12/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  41,210 0.00  3,422,770 0.14 /uni00A0 09/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  120,000 0.00  3,302,770 0.14 /uni00A0 16/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  40,791 0.00  3,261,979 0.13 /uni00A0 23/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  110,000 0.00  3,151,979 0.13 /uni00A0 30/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  18,041 0.00  3,133,938 0.13 /uni00A0 06/01/2017 Sale /uni00A0  3,757 0.00  3,130,181 0.13 /uni00A0 13/01/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  10,275 0.00  3,140,456 0.13 /uni00A0 20/01/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  1,129 0.00  3,141,585 0.13 /uni00A0 27/01/2017 Sale /uni00A0  3,712 0.00  3,137,873 0.13 /uni00A0 10/02/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  73,794 0.00  3,211,667 0.13 /uni00A0 17/02/2017 Sale /uni00A0  2,571 0.00  3,209,096 0.13 /uni00A0 24/02/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  67,206 0.00  3,276,302 0.13 /uni00A0 03/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  247,000 0.01  3,523,302 0.14 /uni00A0 10/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  155,652 0.01  3,678,954 0.15 /uni00A0 17/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  23,206 0.00  3,702,160 0.15 /uni00A0 24/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  418,562 0.02  4,120,722 0.17 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  83,444 0.00  4,204,166 0.17 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  4,204,166 0.17 8 01/04/2016 Opening Balance PINEBRIDGE INVESTMENTS GF MAURITIUS  LIMITED   9,366,679 0.38  9,366,679 0.38 /uni00A0 06/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  557,333 0.02  9,924,012 0.40 /uni00A0 13/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  230,000 0.01  10,154,012 0.41 /uni00A0 20/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  31,833 0.00  10,185,845 0.41 /uni00A0 27/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  288,805 0.01  10,474,650 0.42 /uni00A0 10/06/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  523,140 0.02  10,997,790 0.45 /uni00A0 30/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  9,924,012 0.40  1,073,778 0.04 /uni00A0 08/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  9,637,129 0.40  10,710,907 0.44 /uni00A0 02/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  216,926 0.01  10,927,833 0.45 /uni00A0 16/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  238,407 0.01  11,166,240 0.46 /uni00A0 30/09/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  3,000 0.00  11,169,240 0.46 /uni00A0 07/10/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  300,000 0.01  11,469,240 0.47 /uni00A0 28/10/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  160,000 0.01  11,629,240 0.48 /uni00A0 04/11/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  390,256 0.02  12,019,496 0.49 /uni00A0 11/11/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  335,000 0.01  12,354,496 0.51 Wipro Limited 107 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN APRIL 01, 2016 AND MARCH 31, 2017 /parenleft.caseOTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRS/parenright.case Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company /uni00A0 18/11/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  16,176 0.00  12,370,672 0.51 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  12,370,672 0.51 9 01/04/2016 Opening Balance GOVERNMENT OF SINGAPORE  8,788,402 0.36  8,788,402 0.36 /uni00A0 08/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0  437,596 0.02  8,350,806 0.34 /uni00A0 15/04/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  2,538 0.00  8,353,344 0.34 /uni00A0 22/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0  307,800 0.01  8,045,544 0.33 /uni00A0 29/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0  147,598 0.01  7,897,946 0.32 /uni00A0 06/05/2016 Sale /uni00A0  183,937 0.01  7,714,009 0.31 /uni00A0 20/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  2,215 0.00  7,716,224 0.31 /uni00A0 03/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  603,027 0.02  7,113,197 0.29 /uni00A0 10/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  301,248 0.01  6,811,949 0.28 /uni00A0 30/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  5,550,917 0.22  1,261,032 0.05 /uni00A0 08/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  5,191,074 0.21  6,452,106 0.27 /uni00A0 22/07/2016 Sale /uni00A0  222,689 0.01  6,229,417 0.26 /uni00A0 29/07/2016 Sale /uni00A0  121,664 0.01  6,107,753 0.25 /uni00A0 05/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  485,381 0.02  5,622,372 0.23 /uni00A0 12/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  6,760 0.00  5,615,612 0.23 /uni00A0 19/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  149,425 0.01  5,466,187 0.22 /uni00A0 02/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  42,172 0.00  5,424,015 0.22 /uni00A0 09/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  21,553 0.00  5,402,462 0.22 /uni00A0 16/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  5,913 0.00  5,396,549 0.22 /uni00A0 07/10/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  69,285 0.00  5,465,834 0.22 /uni00A0 04/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  21,831 0.00  5,444,003 0.22 /uni00A0 11/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  20,955 0.00  5,423,048 0.22 /uni00A0 25/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  7,183 0.00  5,415,865 0.22 /uni00A0 02/12/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  124,541 0.01  5,540,406 0.23 /uni00A0 09/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  7,653 0.00  5,532,753 0.23 /uni00A0 16/12/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  51,796 0.00  5,584,549 0.23 /uni00A0 23/12/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  846,315 0.03  6,430,864 0.26 /uni00A0 30/12/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  357,894 0.01  6,788,758 0.28 /uni00A0 06/01/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  61,192 0.00  6,849,950 0.28 /uni00A0 13/01/2017 Sale /uni00A0  111,834 0.00  6,738,116 0.28 /uni00A0 20/01/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  12,401 0.00  6,750,517 0.28 /uni00A0 03/02/2017 Sale /uni00A0  362,028 0.01  6,388,489 0.26 /uni00A0 10/02/2017 Sale /uni00A0  126,340 0.01  6,262,149 0.26 /uni00A0 17/02/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  33,202 0.00  6,295,351 0.26 /uni00A0 03/03/2017 Sale /uni00A0  45,744 0.00  6,249,607 0.26 /uni00A0 10/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  49,065 0.00  6,298,672 0.26 108 Annual Report 2016-17 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS BETWEEN APRIL 01, 2016 AND MARCH 31, 2017 /parenleft.caseOTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND HOLDERS OF ADRS/parenright.case Sl.
No.
Date of  Transaction Nature of  Transaction Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the  beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding  during the Year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  Company /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Sale /uni00A0  186,075 0.01  6,112,597 0.25 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  6,112,597 0.25 10 01/04/2016 Opening Balance STICHTING DEPOSITARY APG EMERGING MARKETS  EQUITY P   8,429,989 0.34  8,429,989 0.34 /uni00A0 08/04/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  129,628 0.01  8,559,617 0.35 /uni00A0 29/04/2016 Sale /uni00A0  200,970 0.01  8,358,647 0.34 /uni00A0 06/05/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  320,263 0.01  8,678,910 0.35 /uni00A0 20/05/2016 Sale /uni00A0  95,066 0.00  8,583,844 0.35 /uni00A0 27/05/2016 Sale /uni00A0  1,099,000 0.04  7,484,844 0.30 /uni00A0 03/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  766,844 0.03  6,718,000 0.27 /uni00A0 10/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  510,500 0.02  6,207,500 0.25 /uni00A0 30/06/2016 Sale /uni00A0  584,650 0.02  5,622,850 0.23 /uni00A0 08/07/2016 Purchase /uni00A0  625,251 0.03  6,248,101 0.26 /uni00A0 22/07/2016 Sale /uni00A0  15,794 0.00  6,232,307 0.26 /uni00A0 29/07/2016 Sale /uni00A0  189,179 0.01  6,043,128 0.25 /uni00A0 05/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  88,713 0.00  5,954,415 0.24 /uni00A0 12/08/2016 Sale /uni00A0  72,488 0.00  5,881,927 0.24 /uni00A0 23/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  31,472 0.00  5,850,455 0.24 /uni00A0 30/09/2016 Sale /uni00A0  104,645 0.00  5,745,810 0.24 /uni00A0 07/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  35,987 0.00  5,709,823 0.23 /uni00A0 21/10/2016 Sale /uni00A0  202,848 0.01  5,506,975 0.23 /uni00A0 04/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  265,486 0.01  5,241,489 0.22 /uni00A0 18/11/2016 Sale /uni00A0  202,398 0.01  5,039,091 0.21 /uni00A0 02/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  229,832 0.01  4,809,259 0.20 /uni00A0 09/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  140,680 0.01  4,668,579 0.19 /uni00A0 23/12/2016 Sale /uni00A0  32,768 0.00  4,635,811 0.19 /uni00A0 20/01/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  274,691 0.01  4,910,502 0.20 /uni00A0 27/01/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  224,679 0.01  5,135,181 0.21 /uni00A0 03/02/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  81,268 0.00  5,216,449 0.21 /uni00A0 10/02/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  256,091 0.01  5,472,540 0.23 /uni00A0 17/02/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  35,612 0.00  5,508,152 0.23 /uni00A0 24/02/2017 Sale /uni00A0  42,975 0.00  5,465,177 0.22 /uni00A0 03/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  118,709 0.00  5,583,886 0.23 /uni00A0 10/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  405,086 0.02  5,988,972 0.25 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Purchase /uni00A0  47,659 0.00  6,036,631 0.25 /uni00A0 31/03/2017 Closing Balance /uni00A0  /uni00A0 -  6,036,631 0.25 Opening Balance denotes: As on April 01, 2016 Closing Balance denotes: As on March 31, 2017 Wipro Limited 109 Annexure B Name of the Directors and   Key Managerial Personnel /uni00A0Date of the transaction Shareholding at the  beginning of the year  April 01, 2016 Cumulative  Shareholding of the year  (2016-17) No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  company No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  company Azim H Premji /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Executive Chairman & Managing Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 95,419,432 @ 3.86 - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - /uni00A0 - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 95,419,432 3.86 95,419,432 @ 3.93 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Rishad A Premji /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Executive Director and Chief Strategy  Ofﬁcer Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 686,666 0.03 - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - /uni00A0 - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 686,666 0.03 686,666 0.03 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Ashok S Ganguly /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 1,867 0.00008 - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - /uni00A0 - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 1,867 0.00008 1,867 0.00008 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 N Vaghul /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - /uni00A0 - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - - - /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 William A Owens /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - /uni00A0 - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - - - /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 T K Kurien* /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Executive Vice-Chairman Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 215,659 0.008 - - /uni00A0 Sale - 8/07/2016 3,090 /uni00A00.0001 - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 212,569 0.008 212,569 0.008 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Abidali	Z	Neemuchwala Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - Chief Executive Officer and Executive  Director Purchase/Sales - - - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - - - 110 Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the Directors and   Key Managerial Personnel /uni00A0Date of the transaction Shareholding at the  beginning of the year  April 01, 2016 Cumulative  Shareholding of the year  (2016-17) No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  company No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  company M K Sharma /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - - - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - - - /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Ireena Vittal /uni00A0 -/uni00A0 /uni00A0- - - Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - - - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - -/uni00A0 /uni00A0 Patrick J Ennis /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 - - Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - - - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - -/uni00A0 -/uni00A0 Patrick A Dupuis /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 - - Independent Director Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - - - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 1,200 $ - - - Sale - 08/07/2016 31 0.00 /uni00A0 Purchase - 23/11/2016 (ESOP) 5,606 0.0002 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Sale - 2/02/2017 3,500 /uni00A00.0001 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Sale - 27/02/2017 1,500 0.00 /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 1,775 - 1,775 $ - M Sanaulla Khan /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Company Secretary Opening Balance - 01/04/2016 - - - - /uni00A0 Purchase/ Sales - - - - /uni00A0 Closing Balance 31/03/2017 - - - - *     Mr. T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the  Board effective January 31, 2017.
@   includes shares held jointly by Mr. Azim Premji and members of his immediate family.
$   includes shares held jointly by Mr. Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal and a member of his immediate family.
Wipro Limited 111 Annexure C Remuneration to other Directors 2016-17: (` in Crores) Particulars of Remuneration Name of Independent Directors Independent Directors Mr. N  Vaghul Dr.  Ashok  Ganguly Dr.  Jagdish  Sheth*# Mr.  Vyomesh  Joshi*^ Mr.M K  Sharma Mr.  William  Owens* Ms  Ireena  Vittal Mr.  Patrick  Dupuis  *@ Dr.  Patrick  Ennis*@ Fee for attending  board and committee  meetings** 0.04 0.03 - 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 Commission 0.62 0.52 0.47 0.47 0.50 2.00 0.50 1.57 1.57 Others, please specify - - - - - - - - - TOTAL (1) 0.66 0.55 0.47 0.48 0.54 2.03 0.53 1.60 1.60 *  Figures mentioned are rupee equivalent as amount paid in USD.
**  Till October 31, 2016, each of our non-executive directors received an attendance fee of ` 20,000 for every Board  and Committee meeting they attended.
Effective November 1, 2016, each of our non-executive directors are entitled  to receive an attendance fee of `100,000 for every Board meeting they attend.
#  Dr. Jagdish Sheth retired from the Board with effect from July 18, 2016.
^  Mr. Vyomesh Joshi resigned from the Board of Directors effective July 19, 2016.
@  Dr. Patrick Ennis and Mr. Patrick Dupuis were appointed as Independent Directors effective April 1, 2016.
Apart from Independent Directors as detailed above, the Company did not have any other Non-Executive Directors.
112 Annual Report 2016-17 I. Wipro’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance   Wipro’s governance framework is driven by the  objective of enhancing long term stakeholder value  without compromising on ethical standards and  corporate social responsibilities.
Efﬁcient corporate  governance requires a clear understanding of the  respective roles of the Board of Directors (“Board”)  and of senior management and their relationships  with others in the corporate structure.
Sincerity,  fairness, good citizenship and commitment to  compliance are key characteristics that drive  relationships of the Board and senior management  with other stakeholders.
Corporate governance philosophy of Wipro ﬂows from  the “Spirit of Wipro” which represents core values  by which policies and practices of the organization  are guided.
The values encapsulated in the “Spirit of  Wipro” are:   Corporate governance at Wipro is implemented  through robust board governance processes,  internal control systems and processes, and strong  audit mechanisms.
These are articulated through  Company’s Code of Business Conduct, Corporate  Governance Guidelines and charters of various sub- committees of the Board and Company’s Disclosure  Policy.
Wipro’s corporate governance practices can  be described through the following four layers: 	 •	 Governance	by 	Shareholders, 	 •	 Governance	by 	Board	of	Directors 	 •	 Governance	by 	Sub-committees	of	Board,	and 	 •	 Governance	through	management	process   In this report, we have provided details on how the  corporate governance principles are put in to practice  within Wipro.
Be passionate about  clients’ success Treat each person  with respect Be global and responsible Unyielding integrity  in everything we do II.
Board of Directors  Composition of Board   As at March 31, 2017, our Board had seven non- executive Directors and three executive Directors.
Out of the three Executive Directors, one Director  is the Executive Chairman and Managing Director,  other is Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Whole  time Director and another is Executive Director and  Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer.
The CEO is responsible for  the day to day operations of the Company.
All the  seven non-executive Directors are Independent  Directors free from any business or other relationship  that could materially inﬂuence their judgment.
All  the Independent Directors satisfy the criteria of  independence as deﬁned under the Companies Act,  2013, the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (“ Listing Regulations ”) and the  New York Stock Exchange Listed Company manual.
The Board is well diversiﬁed and consists of one  Woman Director and three Directors who are foreign  nationals.
The proﬁles of our Directors are given from  page nos.
20 to 23 to this Annual Report.
Information Flow to the Board Members   Information is provided to the Board Members on  a continuous basis for their review, inputs and  approval from time to time.
More speciﬁcally, we  Corporate Governance Report Wipro Limited 113 present our annual Strategic Plan and Operating  Plans of our business to the Board for their review,  inputs and approval.
Likewise, our quarterly ﬁnancial  statements and annual financial statements  are first presented to the Audit Committee and  subsequently to the Board for their approval.
In  addition, speciﬁc cases of acquisitions, important  managerial decisions, material positive/negative  developments and statutory matters are presented  to the respective Committees of the Board and later  with the recommendation of such Committees to the  Board for their approval.
As a system, in most cases, information to Directors is  submitted along with the agenda papers well in advance  of the Board meeting.
Inputs and feedback of Board  Members are taken and considered while preparation  of agenda and documents for the Board meeting.
Board Meetings   We decide about the Board meeting dates in  consultation with Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee and all our Directors,  based on the practices of earlier years.
Once  approved by the Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee, the schedule of the  Board meeting and Board Committee meetings is  communicated in advance to the Directors to enable  them attend the meetings.
Our Board meetings  are normally scheduled over two days.
In addition,  every quarter, Independent Directors meet amongst  themselves exclusively.
The Board met ﬁve times during the ﬁnancial year  2016-17 on April 19-20, 2016, June 3, 2016, July 18- 19, 2016, October 20-21,2016 and January 24-25,  2017.
The necessary quorum was present for all the  meetings.
The maximum interval between any two  meetings did not exceed 120 days.
Details of attendance of Directors at the Board  Meetings during the year 2016-17 is provided below: Name Designation Number of  Board Meetings  attended Mr. Azim H  Premji Executive  Chairman and  Managing  Director 5 Mr. N Vaghul Independent  Director 5 Mr. M K Sharma Independent  Director 5 Name Designation Number of  Board Meetings  attended Ms. Ireena Vittal Independent  Director 4 1 Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly Independent  Director 4 1 Mr. William  Arthur Owens Independent  Director 4 1 Mr. Vyomesh  Joshi Independent  Director 1 2 Dr. Jagdish N  Sheth Independent  Director 0 3 Mr. T K Kurien Executive Vice  Chairman 5 4 Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer and  Executive  Director 3 5 Mr. Rishad A  Premji Executive  Director and Chief  Strategy Ofﬁcer 5 Dr. Patrick Ennis Independent  Director 4 6 Mr. Patrick  Dupuis Independent  Director 4 6  1   Ms. Ireena Vittal, Dr. Ashok S Ganguly and Mr. William  Arthur Owens did not attend the Board Meeting held  on June 3, 2016.
2   Mr. Vyomesh Joshi did not attend the Board Meetings  held on April 19-20, 2016 and June 3, 2016.
Further,  he resigned from the Board of Directors with effect  from July 19, 2016.
3   Dr. Jagdish N Sheth did not attend the Board  Meetings held on April 19-20, 2016 and June 3, 2016.
Further, he retired from the Board of Directors with  effect from July 18, 2016.
4   Mr./uni00A0T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman  of the Company retired from the services of the  Company and the Board effective January 31, 2017.
5   Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala did not attend the  meeting held on June 3, 2016 and participated in  the Board meeting held on October 21, 2016 through  video conference.
6   Dr. Patrick Ennis and Mr. Patrick Dupuis were  appointed as Independent Directors of the Company  with effect from April 1, 2016.
They did not attend  the Board Meeting held on June 3, 2016.
114 Annual Report 2016-17  Post-Meeting Follow-up System   After the Board meeting, we have formal system of  follow up, review and reporting on actions taken by  the management on the decisions of the Board and  sub-committees of the Board.
Lead Independent Director   The Board has designated Mr. N Vaghul as the  Lead Independent Director.
The role of the Lead  Independent Director is described in the Corporate  Governance guidelines of your Company and is  available on the Company’s website www.wipro.com .
Appointment of Directors   The provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 with  respect to appointment and tenure of the Independent  Directors have come into effect from April 1, 2014.
As  per the said provisions, the Independent Directors  shall be appointed for not more than two terms of  maximum of ﬁve years each and shall not be liable  to retire by rotation.
Your Board has adopted the provisions with respect  to appointment and tenure of Independent Directors  consistent with the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations.
At the time of appointment of an Independent  Director, the Company issues a formal letter of  appointment outlining his/her role, function, duties  and responsibilities as a Director.
The template of  the letter of appointment is available on our website  at http://www.wipro.com/investors/corporate- governance/policies-and-guidelines.
Details of Directors proposed for re-appointment at  the ensuing Annual General Meeting is provided at  page no.
70 of the Board’s Report and in Annexure  A to the notice convening the 71 st  Annual General  Meeting.
Policy for Selection and Appointment of Directors  and their Remuneration   Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee has adopted a policy which, inter alia,  deals with the manner of selection of Board of  Directors and payment of their remuneration.
Criteria of Selection of Independent Directors   The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee considers, inter alia, the following  attributes/criteria, whilst recommending to the Board  the candidature for appointment as Independent  Director: 	 •	 	Qualification,	expertise	and	experience	in	their	 respective ﬁelds such as Information Technology  Business, Scientiﬁc Research & Development,  International Markets, Leadership, Risk  Management and Strategic Planning etc.
•	 	 Personal	 characteristics	 which	 align	 with	 the Company’s values, such as integrity,  accountability, financial literacy, high  performance standards, etc.
•	 	 Diversity	of	thought,	experience,	knowledge,	 perspective and gender in the Board.
•	 	 Such	other	criteria	as	prescribed	in	the	Corporate	 Governance Guidelines of the Company or  prescribed by the Board from time to time.
In case of appointment of Independent Directors, the  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee satisfies itself with regard to the  independence of the Directors vis-à-vis the Company  so as to enable the Board to discharge its functions  and duties effectively.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee ensures that the candidates identiﬁed for  appointment as Directors are not disqualiﬁed for  appointment under Section 164 and other applicable  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
In case of re-appointment of Independent Directors,  the Board takes into consideration the performance  evaluation of the Independent Directors and their  engagement level.
Familiarization Programme and Training for  Independent Directors   At the time of appointment, the Company conducts  familiarization programmes for an Independent  Director through meetings with key ofﬁcials such as  Chairman and Managing Director, Chief Executive  Officer, Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Financial  Officer, General Counsel, Company Secretary  and other senior business leaders.
During these  meetings, presentations are made on the roles and  responsibilities, duties and obligations of the Board  members, Company’s business and strategy, ﬁnancial  reporting, governance and compliances and other  related matters.
Details regarding familiarization  programme imparted by the Company is available  on our website at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ corporate-governance/policies-and-guidelines.
Wipro Limited 115   As part of ongoing training, the Company schedules  quarterly meetings of business heads and functional  heads with the Independent Directors.
During these  meetings, comprehensive presentations are made on  the various aspects such as business models, new  strategic initiatives, risk minimization procedures,  recent trends in technology, changes in domestic/ overseas industry scenario, and regulatory regime  affecting the Company globally.
These meetings  also facilitate Independent Directors to provide  their inputs and suggestions on various strategic  and operational matters directly to the business and  functional heads.
Board Evaluation   Details of methodology adopted for Board evaluation  have been provided at page no.
71 of the Board’s  Report.
Remuneration Policy and Criteria of Making  Payments to Directors, Senior Management and Key  Managerial Personnel   The Independent Directors are entitled to receive  remuneration by way of sitting fees, reimbursement  of expenses for participation in the Board/Committee  meetings and commission as detailed hereunder: 	 •	 	sitting	fees	for	each	meeting	of	the	Board	attended	 by him or her, of such sum as may be approved  by the Board of Directors within the overall limits  prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
•	 	commission	on	a	quarterly	basis,	of	such	sum	as	 may be approved by the Board and Members on  the recommendation of the Board Governance,  Nomination and Compensation Committee.
The  total commission payable to the Independent  Directors shall not exceed 1% of the net proﬁts  of the Company during any ﬁnancial year.
The  commission is payable on pro-rata basis to those  Directors who occupy ofﬁce for part of the year.
•	 	reimbursement	 of	expenses	for	participation	in	 Board/Committee meetings.
•	 	 Independent	 Directors	 are	not	entitled	 to	 participate in the stock option schemes of the  Company.
In determining the remuneration of Chairman and  Managing Director, Executive Directors, Senior  Management Employees and Key Managerial  Personnel, the Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee and Board considers the  following: 	 	•	 	 the	balance	between	fixed	and	variable	pay	 reflecting short and long term performance  objectives, appropriate to the working of the  Company and its goals.
•	 	 alignment	of	remuneration	of	KMP	and	Directors	 with long-term interests of the Company.
•	 	 Directors	 forming	part	of	the	Promoter	 and	 Promoter Group shall not be entitled to receive  stock options.
•	 	 Company’s	performance	vis-à-vis	the	annual	 achievement, individuals’ performance vis-à- vis KRAs/KPIs, industry benchmark and current  compensation trends in the market.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee recommends the remuneration for the  Chairman and Managing Director, other Executive  Directors, Senior Management and Key Managerial  Personnel.
The payment of remuneration to Executive  Directors is approved by the Board and Members.
Prior approval of Members is also obtained in case  of remuneration to Non-Executive Directors.
Details of Remuneration to Directors   Details of remuneration paid to the Directors for the  services rendered and stock options granted during the  ﬁnancial year 2016-17 are given below.
No stock options  were granted to any of the Independent Directors and  Promoter Directors during the year 2016-17.
116 Annual Report 2016-17 (in `) Azim H  Premji N Vaghul Dr. Jagdish  N Sheth* Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly William  Arthur Owens* T K Kurien** M K  Sharma Vyomesh  Joshi* Ireena  Vittal Abidali Z  Neemuchwala* Rishad A  Premji Patrick Ennis* Patrick  Dupuis* Relationship  with directors Father of  Rishad A  Premji None None None None None None None None None Son of Azim  H Premji None None Salary 30,00,000 - - - - 1,77,08,330 - - - 5,18,79,999 58,33,320 - - Allowances 13,10,184 - - - - 1,26,52,708 - - - /uni00A0 60,36,549 - - Commission/  Incentives/  Variable Pay - 61,90,833 46,91,048 51,71,666 1,99,73,800 93,64,512 50,15,833 47,33,693 50,15,833  97,43,323 31,45,073 1,56,93,700 1,56,93,700 Other annual  compensation 27,06,947 - - - - 5,20,87,903 - - -  7,33,67,175 1,26,146 - - Retirals 8,85,000 - - - -  52,23,957 - - - 5,84,560 17,20,829 - - Sitting fees # -  3,60,000 -  2,80,000  2,80,000 - 3,60,000 40,000 3,20,000 - - 2,60,000 2,60,000 Total 79,02,131 65,50,833 46,91,048 54,51,666 2,02,53,800 9,70,37,410 53,75,833 47,73,693 53,35,833 13,55,75,058 1,68,61,917 1,59,53,700 1,59,53,700 Grant of  Restricted  Stock Units - - - - - - - - - 3,00,000*** - - - Notice period Up to 180  days - - - - - - - - Up to 180 days Up to 180  days - - *  Figures mentioned in ` are equivalent to amounts paid in US$ ** The Compensation disclosed is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
***   The RSU’s granted to Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala will vest as per the vesting pattern approved by the Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee and the expiration for these grants are as under:  For 200,000 RSUs - December 2021  For 100,000 RSUs - July 2019 #  Till October 31, 2016, each of our non-executive directors received a sitting fee of ` 20,000 for every Board and Committee meeting they attended.
Effective November 1, 2016, each of our non-executive directors are entitled to a sitting fee of `100,000 for every Board and Committee meeting  they attend.
The remuneration of executive directors is computed on an accrual basis.
It also includes the accelerated amortization of Restricted Stock Units  (“RSUs”) granted to them, which vest over a period of time.
Terms of Employment Arrangements   Under the Companies Act, 2013, our shareholders  must approve the salary, bonus and beneﬁts of all  Executive Directors.
Each of our Executive Directors  has signed an agreement containing the terms and  conditions of employment, including a monthly  salary, performance bonus and beneﬁts including  vacation, medical reimbursement and pension fund  contributions.
These agreements have varying terms  ranging from two to ﬁve year periods, but either we or  the Executive Director may generally terminate the  agreement upon six months’ notice to the other party.
The terms of our employment arrangements with  Mr./uni00A0Azim H Premji, Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala and  Mr./uni00A0Rishad A Premji provide for up to a 180-days’ notice  period, up to 21 days of leave per year in addition  to statutory holidays, and an annual compensation  review.
Additionally, these ofﬁcers are required to  relocate as we may determine, and to comply with  confidentiality provisions.
Service contracts with  our Executive Directors and ofﬁcers provide for our  standard retirement beneﬁts that consist of a pension  and gratuity which are offered to all of our employees,  but no other beneﬁts upon termination of employment  except as mentioned below.
Pursuant to the terms of Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala’ s  employment, he is entitled to the following severance  payment:   If the Agreement is terminated by the Company,  the Company is required to pay Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala severance pay equivalent of 12  months’ base pay.
We also indemnify our Directors and Ofﬁcers for claim  brought under any rule of law to the fullest extent  permitted by applicable law.
Among other things,  we agree to indemnify our Directors and Ofﬁcers for  certain expenses, judgments, ﬁnes and settlement  amounts incurred by any such person in any action  or proceeding, including any action by or in the right  of the Company, arising out of such person’s services  as our Director or Ofﬁcer, including claims which  are covered by the Director’s and Ofﬁcer’s liability  insurance policy taken by the Company.
Wipro Limited 117  Key Information pertaining to Directors as on March 31, 2017 is given below: Sl.
No.
Name of the Director Designation Date of initial  appointment Date of  appointment  as  Independent  Director  under  Companies  Act, 2013 and  SEBI Listing  Regulations  (ﬁrst term) # Directorship  in other  companies 1 Chairmanship  in Committees  of Board of other Companies Membership  in  Committee  of Board of other Companies Attendance  at the last  AGM held  on July 18,  2016 No.
of shares  held as on  March 31, 2017 DIN of  Directors 1 Azim H Premji 2 Chairman and  Managing Director  (designated as ‘Executive Chairman’) 01-Sep-1968 - 10 1 - Yes 95,419,432 @ 00234280 2 N Vaghul Independent  Director 09-Jun-1997 23-Jul-2014 7 3 1 Yes - 00002014 3 Dr. Ashok S Ganguly Independent  Director 01-Jan-1999 23-Jul-2014 2 1 Yes 1,867 00010812 4 M K Sharma Independent  Director 01Jul-2011 23-Jul-2014 10 1 1 Yes - 00327684 5 Dr. Jagdish N Sheth 3 Independent  Director 01-Aug-2015 23-Jul-2014 - - - Yes - 00332717 6 T K Kurien 4 Executive Vice- Chairman 01-Feb-2011 - - - - Yes 212,569 03009368 7 William Arthur Owens 5 Independent  Director 01-Jul-2006 23-Jul-2014 - - - Yes - 00422976 8 Vyomesh Joshi 3 Independent  Director 01-Oct-2012 23-Jul-2014 - - Yes - 06404484 9 Ireena Vittal Independent  Director 01-Oct-2013 23-Jul-2014 9 1 11 Yes - 05195656 10 Rishad A Premji Executive Director  and Chief Strategy  Ofﬁcer 01-May-2015 - 2 - - Yes 686,666 02983899 11 Abidali Z Neemuchwala Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer and  Executive Director 01-Feb-2016 - - - - Yes - 02478060 12 Patrick Ennis 6 Independent  Director 01-April-2016 01-April-2016 - - - Yes - 07463299 13 Patrick Dupuis 6 Independent  Director 01-April-2016 01-April-2016 - - - Yes - 07480046 1   This does not include position in foreign companies, position as an advisory board member but includes position in private companies.
2   Mr. Azim H Premji’s current term expires on July 30, 2017.
The Board of Directors has approved the re-appointment for a period of 2 years, which is  subject to approval of the shareholders at the 71 st  Annual General Meeting.
@   includes shares held jointly with immediate family members.
3   Dr. Jagdish Sheth retired from the Board effective July 18, 2016 and Mr. Vyomesh Joshi resigned from the Board effective July 19, 2016.
4  Mr. T K Kurien retired as Executive Vice Chairman of the Board effective January 31, 2017.
5   The current term of Mr. William Arthur Owens expires on July 31, 2017.
The Board of Directors has approved his re-appointment as an Independent  Director for a period of 5 years, which is subject to approval of the shareholders at the 71 st  Annual General Meeting.
6  Dr. Patrick Ennis and Mr. Patrick Dupuis were appointed as Independent Directors effective April 1, 2016.
#   At the 70 th  Annual General Meeting, Mr. N Vaghul, Dr. Ashok Ganguly and Mr. M K Sharma were re-appointed as Independent Directors for a second  term as under:   Mr. N Vaghul - From August 1, 2016 to July 31, 2019   Dr. Ashok Ganguly - From August 1, 2016 to July 31, 2019   Mr. M K Sharma - From July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2021  Succession Planning   We have an effective mechanism for succession planning which focuses on orderly succession of Directors, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, senior management and other executive ofﬁcers.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee implements this mechanism in concurrence with the Board.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee presents to the Board on a periodic basis,  succession plans for appointments to the Board  based on various factors such as current tenure of  Directors, outcome of performance evaluation, Board  diversity and business requirements.
In addition, the  Company conducts an annual Talent Review Process  for senior management and other executive ofﬁcers  which provides a leadership-level talent inventory and  118 Annual Report 2016-17 capability map that reﬂects the extent to which critical  talent needs are fulﬁlled vis-a-vis business drivers.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee reviews the outcome of this process and  presents the succession plan for senior management  and other executive ofﬁcers to the Board.
III.
Committees of Board   Our Board has constituted sub-committees to focus  on speciﬁc areas and make informed decisions within  the authority delegated to each of the Committees.
Each Committee of the Board is guided by its Charter,  which deﬁnes the scope, powers and composition of  the Committee.
All decisions and recommendations  of the Committees are placed before the Board for  information or approval.
We have four sub-committees of the Board as at  March 31, 2017: 	 •	 	Audit,	Risk	and	Compliance	Committee,	which	 also acts as Risk Management Committee 	 •	 	 Board	 Governance,	 Nomination	 and	 Compensation Committee, which also oversees  the CSR initiatives of the Company 	 •	 Strategy	Committee 	 •	 	 Administrative 	and	Shareholders/Investors 	 Grievance Committee (Stakeholders   Relationship Committee)  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee   The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of the  Board, reviews, acts on and reports to our Board with  respect to various auditing and accounting matters.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee, inter- alia, are: 	 •	 	 Auditing	 and	accounting	 matters,	 including	 recommending the appointment of our  independent auditors to the shareholders.
•	 	Compliance	with	legal	and	statutory	requirements.
•	 	 Integrity	of	the	Company’s	financial	statements,	 discussions with the independent auditors  regarding the scope of the annual audits, and  fees to be paid to the independent auditors.
•	 	 Performance	of	the	Company’s	internal	audit	 function, independent auditors and accounting  practices.
•	 	 Review	of	related 	party	transactions	 and	 functioning of whistle blower mechanism; and 	 •	 	Implementation	of	the	applicable	provisions	of	 the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, including review  of the progress of internal control mechanisms  to prepare for certiﬁcation under Section 404 of  the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
•	  Evaluation of internal ﬁnancial controls and risk  management systems and policies.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee was present at the Annual General  Meeting held on July 18, 2016.
The detailed charter of  the Committee is available on our website at http:// www.wipro.com/investors/corporate-governance/ charters/ .
All members of our Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee are Independent Directors  and ﬁnancially literate.
The Chairman of our Audit,  Risk and Compliance Committee has the accounting  and ﬁnancial management related expertise.
Statutory Auditors as well as Internal Auditors always  have independent meetings with the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee and also participate in the  Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meetings.
Our  Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, General Counsel and other  Corporate Ofﬁcers make periodic presentations to  the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee on various  issues.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee met  seven times during the year 2016-17 on April 19,  2016, May 26, 2016**, June 3, 2016, July 18, 2016,  October 20, 2016, January 24, 2017 and March 1,  2017.
Composition of the Audit, Risk and Compliance  Committee and details of attendance of members at  its meetings during the year 2016-17 is given below: Name Position Number of  meetings attended Mr. N Vaghul Chairman 6 Mr. M K Sharma Member 6 Ms. Ireena Vittal Member 4 *  *   Ms. Ireena Vittal was not present at the meetings  held on June 3, 2016 and March 1, 2017.
**  The meeting on May 26, 2016 was held over a  telephone call and attendance of the same is not  included in the above table.
Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee   The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee is the apex body that oversees our  Corporate Social Responsibility policy and programs.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee reviews, acts on and reports to our Board  of Directors with respect to various governance,  nomination and compensation matters.
The primary  responsibilities of this Committee, inter alia, are: 	 •	 	 Developing and recommending to the Board  Corporate Governance guidelines applicable to  the Company.
Wipro Limited 119 	 •	 	Evaluating the Board on a continuing basis,  including an assessment of the effectiveness of  the full Board, operations of the Board Committees  and contributions of individual directors.
•	 	Establishing	policies	and	procedures	 to	assess	 the requirements for induction of new members  to the Board.
•	 	 Ensuring	that	appropriate	procedures	are	in	 place to assess Board membership needs and  Board effectiveness.
•	 	Reviewing	the	Company’s	policies	that	 relate	to	 matters of corporate social responsibility (CSR),  including public issues of signiﬁcance to the  Company and its shareholders.
•	 	 Formulating	the	Disclosure	Policy,	its	review	and	 approval of disclosures.
•	 	 Approving	and	evaluating	 the	compensation	 plans, policies and programs for Directors and  senior management and 	 •	 	Acting	 as	Administrator	 of	the	Company’s	 Employee Stock Option Plans and Employee  Stock Purchase Plans drawn up from time to time.
The detailed charter of Board Governance, Nomination  and Compensation Committee is available on  our website at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ corporate-governance/charters/ .
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 and the Listing Regulations, the Board has  carried out an Annual Performance Evaluation of its  own performance, the Directors individually as well  as the evaluation of the working of its Committees.
The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee met four times during the year 2016- 17 on April 20, 2016, July 18, 2016, October 20,  2016 and January 24, 2017.
Composition of the  Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation  Committee and details of attendance of members at  its meetings during the year 2016-17 is given below: Name Position Number of  meetings attended Dr. Ashok S  Ganguly Chairman 4 Mr. N Vaghul Member 4 Mr. William  Arthur Owens Member 4  Strategy Committee   The Strategy Committee reviews, acts and reports  to our Board with respect to the mission, vision  and strategic direction of the Company.
Primary  responsibilities of this Committee, inter alia, are: 	 •	 	Making	recommendations	 to	the	Board	relating	 to the Company’s mission, vision, strategic  initiatives, major programs and services.
•	 	 Ensuring	 management	 has	established	 an	 effective strategic planning process, including  development of a three to ﬁve-year strategic  plan with measurable goals and time targets.
•	 	 Establishing	criteria	for	management	to	evaluate	 potential strategic investments, reviewing  proposals for acquisition or divestment  opportunities for the Company and making  appropriate recommendations to the Board, and  reviewing post-transaction integration matters.
•	 	 Monitoring	 the	organization’s	 performance 	 against measurable targets or progress points.
•	 	 Annually	reviewing	the	strategic	plan	for	the	 Company and for each division and entity as well  and recommending updates to the Board.
•	 	 Assissting	 in	the	development	 of	strategic	 dashboard of key indicators.
The Strategy Committee met once in the ﬁnancial year  on April 19, 2016.
Subsequently, the Strategy Committee  reviewed the progress on strategy initiatives as part  of meetings of the Board.
Composition of the Strategy  Committee and details of attendance of members at its  meetings during the year 2016-17 is given below: Name Position Number of  meetings  attended Mr. William Arthur Owens Chairman 1 Dr. Jagdish N Sheth Member 0 1 Mr. Vyomesh Joshi Member 0 2 Mr. Azim H Premji Member 1 Mr. T K Kurien Member 1 3 Dr. Patrick Ennis Member 1 Mr. Patrick Dupuis Member 1 Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala Member NA 4 Mr. Rishad A Premji Member NA 4  1    Dr. Jag dish Sheth retired from the Board of Directors  effective July 18, 2016   2   Mr. Vyomesh Joshi resigned from the Board of  Directors effective July 19, 2016  3   Mr. T K Kurien was a member of the Strategy  Committee till January 31, 2017.
4   Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala and Mr. Rishad A Premji  became members of the Strategy Committee with  effect from February 1, 2017 120 Annual Report 2016-17   Administrative and Shareholders/Investors Grievance  Committee (Stakeholders Relationship Committee)   The Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee carries out the role of  Stakeholders Relationship Committee in compliance  with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations.
The Committee is responsible for resolving investor’s  complaints pertaining to share transfers, non-receipt  of annual reports, dividend payments, issue of  duplicate share certiﬁcates, transmission of shares  and other shareholder related queries, complaints,  etc.
In addition to above, the Administrative and  Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee is  also empowered to oversee administrative matters  like opening/closure of Company’s Bank accounts,  grant and revocation of general, speciﬁc and banking  powers of attorney, consider and approve allotment of  equity shares pursuant to exercise of stock options,  setting up branch ofﬁces and other administrative  matters as delegated by Board from time to time.
The Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee met four times during the year  2016-17 on April 20, 2016, July 18, 2016, October  20, 2016 and January 24, 2017.
In addition, the  management updates the Committee of investor  complaints and redressal of shareholders’ queries  once in 15 days.
Composition of the Administrative  and Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee  and details of attendance of members at its meetings  during the year 2016-17 is given below: Name Position Number of  meetings  attended Mr. M K Sharma Chairman 4 Mr. T K Kurien Member 3 * Ms. Ireena Vittal Member 4 Mr. Rishad A Premji Member NA ** *   Mr. T K Kurien was not present in the meeting  held on April 20, 2016.
He was a member of  the Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance till January 31, 2017.
**  Mr Rishad A Premji became member of the  Administrative and Shareholders/Investors  Grievance Committee with effect from February  1, 2017.
Status Report of investor queries and complaints for  the period from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 is as  follows: Sl.
No.
Particulars No.
of   Complaints 1 Investor complaints pending at  the beginning of the year NIL 2 Investor complaints received  during the year 479 3 Investor complaints disposed of  during the year 479 4 Investor complaints remaining  unresolved at the end of the year NIL   Apart from these queries/complaints, there are  certain pending cases relating to dispute over title  to shares in which in certain cases the Company  has been made a party.
However, these cases are not  material in nature.
Mr. M Sanaulla Khan, Company Secretary is our  Compliance Ofﬁcer under the Listing Regulations.
IV.
Governance Through Management process  Code of Business Conduct   In the year 1983, we articulated ‘Wipro Beliefs’  consisting of six statements.
At the core of beliefs  was integrity, articulated as “individual and Company  relationship should be governed by the highest  standard of conduct and integrity” .
Over years, this articulation has evolved in form but  remained constant in substance.
Today we articulate  it as Code of Business Conduct.
In our Company, the Board and all employees have  a responsibility to understand and follow the Code  of Business Conduct.
All employees are expected to  perform their work with honesty and integrity.
Wipro’s  Code of Business Conduct reﬂects general principles  to guide employees in making ethical decisions.
This  Code is also applicable to our representatives.
This  Code outlines fundamental ethical considerations  as well as speciﬁc considerations that need to be  maintained for professional conduct.
This Code  is available on the Company’s website at http:// www.wipro.com/investors/corporate- governance/ policies-and-g)uidelines/ .
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading   The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct to  regulate, monitor and report trading by insiders under  the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,  2015.
This Code of Conduct also includes code  for practices and procedures for fair disclosure  of unpublished price sensitive information and is  available on the Company’s website at http://www.
wipro.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies- and-guidelines/ .
Wipro Limited 121  Disclosure Policy   In line with requirements under regulation 30 of  the Listing Regulations, the Company has framed  a policy on disclosure of material events and  information as per the Listing Regulations, which  is available on our website at http://www.wipro.
com/investors/corporate-governance/policies-and- guidelines/ .
The objective of this policy is to have  uniform disclosure practices and ensure timely,  adequate and accurate disclosure of information  on an ongoing basis.
The Company has constituted a  Disclosure Committee consisting of senior ofﬁcials,  which approves all disclosures required to be made  by the Company.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to  the Disclosure Committee.
Considering that the  Company’s securities are listed on New York Stock  Exchange, parity in disclosures are maintained  through simultaneous disclosure on National  Stock Exchange of India Limited, the Bombay Stock  Exchange Limited and the New York Stock Exchange.
Ombuds Policy   The Company has adopted an ombuds process  which is a channel for receiving and redressing  complaints from employees and Directors.
Under  this policy, we encourage our employees to report  any fraudulent ﬁnancial or other information to the  stakeholders, any conduct that results in violation  of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct, to  management (on an anonymous basis, if employees  so desire).
Likewise, under this policy, we have  prohibited discrimination, retaliation or harassment  of any kind against any employees who, based on  the employee’s reasonable belief that such conduct  or practice have occurred or are occurring, reports  that information or participates in the investigation.
Mechanism followed on under ombuds process is  appropriately communicated within the Company  across all levels and is displayed on Wipro’s intranet  and on Wipro’s website at http://www.wipro.com/ investors/corporate-governance/policies-and- guidelines/.
Policy for Preservation of Documents   Pursuant to the requirements under regulation 9 of  the Listing Regulations, the Board has formulated and  approved a Document Retention Policy prescribing  the manner of retaining the Company’s documents  and the time period up to certain documents are to  be retained.
The policy percolates to all levels of the  organization who handle the prescribed categories  of documents.
Policy for Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal of  Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace   Pursuant to the requirements of Sexual Harassment  of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition &  Redressal) Act, 2013, your Company has a policy  and framework for employees to report sexual  harassment cases at workplace and our process  ensures complete anonymity and conﬁdentiality of  information.
Adequate workshops and awareness  programmes against sexual harassment are  conducted across the organization.
Compliance Committee   We have a Compliance Committee which considers  matters relating to Wipro’s Code of Business Conduct,  Ombuds process, Code for Prevention of Insider  Trading and other applicable statutory matters.
The  Compliance Committee held one meeting during the  year 2016-17.
V.  Disclosures   Disclosure of Materially Signiﬁcant Related Party  Transactions   All related party transactions that were entered into  during the ﬁnancial year were at an arm’s length basis  and were in the ordinary course of business.
There are  no materially signiﬁcant related party transactions  made by the Company with Promoters, Directors, Key  Managerial Personnel or other designated persons  which may have a potential conﬂict with the interest  of the Company at large.
As required under regulation 23 of the Listing  Regulations, the Company has adopted a policy on  Related Party Transactions.
The abridged policy  on Related Party Transactions is available on the  Company’s website at http://www.wipro.com/ investors/corporate-governance/policies-and- guidelines/ .
Apart from receiving director remuneration, none  of the Directors has any pecuniary relationships or  transactions vis-à-vis the Company.
During the year  2016-17, no transactions of material nature were  entered into by the Company with the Management  or their relatives that may have a potential conﬂict  of interest with the Company and the concerned  ofﬁcials have given undertakings to that effect as  per the provisions of the Listing Regulations.
The Register under Section 189 of the Companies Act,  2013 is maintained and particulars of transactions  have been entered in the Register, wherever  applicable.
122 Annual Report 2016-17  Subsidiary Monitoring Framework   All the subsidiaries of the Company are managed  by their Boards having the rights and obligations  to manage these companies in the best interest of  respective stakeholders.
The Company nominates its  representatives on the Board of subsidiary companies  and monitors performance of such companies, inter  alia, by reviewing; 	 •	 	Financial	statements,	in	particular	the	investment	 made by the unlisted subsidiary companies,  statement containing all signiﬁcant transactions  and arrangements entered into by the unlisted  subsidiary companies forming part of the  ﬁnancials being reviewed by the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee of your Company on a  quarterly basis.
•	 	 Minutes 	of	the	 meetings 	of	the	 unlisted 	 subsidiary companies, if any, are placed before  the Company’s Board regularly.
•	 	 Providing	 necessary	 guarantees, 	Letter	 of	 Comfort and other support for their day-to-day  operations from time-to-time.
The Company does not have any material subsidiary  whose net worth exceeds 20% of the consolidated  net worth of the holding Company in the immediately  preceding accounting year or which has generated  20% of the consolidated income of the Company  during the previous ﬁnancial year.
Certiﬁcate on Corporate Governance   The certiﬁcate dated April 15, 2017 issued by Mr./uni00A0V  Sreedharan, Partner, V Sreedharan & Associates,  Company Secretaries, is given at page no.129 of  this Annual Report in compliance with corporate  governance norms prescribed under the Listing  Regulations.
Details of non-compliance by the Company,  penalties, and strictures imposed on the Company by  Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority,  on any matter related to capital markets, during the  last three years.
The Company has complied with the requirements of the  Stock Exchanges or SEBI on matters related to Capital  Markets, as applicable, during the last three years.
Settlement with Securities and Exchange Commission   During the year ended March 31, 2017, your Company  resolved the previously disclosed investigation of  the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
In  agreeing to the settlement, your Company neither  admitted nor denied the SEC’s allegations that your  Company violated certain provisions of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (“ Exchange Act”).
The SEC  acknowledged your Company’s cooperation and  remedial measures in arriving at the settlement.
Under the terms of the settlement, your Company  consented to pay a civil money penalty of US $5  million, to cease and desist from committing or  causing violations of the Exchange Act, and to  undertake certain follow through actions.
Whistle Blower Policy and affirmation that no  personnel have been denied access to the Audit, Risk  & Compliance Committee   As mentioned earlier in this report, the Company has  adopted an Ombuds process which is a channel for  receiving and redressing employees’ complaints.
No  personnel in the Company has been denied access  to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee or its  Chairman.
Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/  unclaimed suspense account (Unclaimed Shares)   Pursuant to regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations,  reminder letters have been sent to shareholders whose  shares remain unclaimed from the Company.
Based  on their response, such shares will be transferred to  “unclaimed suspense account” as per the provisions of  Schedule VI of the Listing Regulations.
The disclosure  as required under schedule V of the Listing Regulations  as of March 31, 2017 is given below:  (a)  Aggregate number of shareholders and the  outstanding shares in the suspense account lying  at the beginning of the year - 308 shareholders  holding 2,00,968 shares  (b)  Number of shareholders who approached listed  entity for transfer of shares from suspense  account during the year - Nil  (c)  Number of shareholders to whom shares were  transferred from suspense account during the  year - Nil  (d)  Aggregate number of shareholders and the  outstanding shares in the suspense account  lying at the end of the year - 308 shareholders  holding 2,00,968 shares  (e)  Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen  till the rightful owner of such shares claims the  shares - Yes  Shareholder Information   Various shareholder information required to be  disclosed pursuant to Schedule V of the Listing  Regulations are provided in Annexure I to this report.
Wipro Limited 123  Compliance with Mandatory Requirements   Your Company has complied with all the mandatory  corporate governance requirements under the Listing  Regulations.
Speciﬁcally, your Company conﬁrms  compliance with corporate governance requirements  speciﬁed in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i)  of sub- regulation (2) of regulation 46 of the Listing  Regulations.
VI.
Compliance Report on Non-mandatory requirements  under Regulation 27(1)  1.
The Board    As per para A of Part E of Schedule II of the Listing  Regulations, a non-executive Chairman of the  Board may be entitled to maintain a Chairman’s  Office at the company’s expense and also  allowed reimbursement of expenses incurred in  performance of his duties.
The Chairman of the  Company is an Executive Director and hence this  provision is not applicable to us.
2.
Shareholders rights    We display our quarterly and half yearly results  on our web site www.wipro.com and also publish  our results in widely circulated newspapers.
We  have communicated the payment of dividend by  e-mail to shareholders in addition to dispatch of  letters to all shareholders.
We publish the voting  results of shareholder meetings and make it  available on our website www.wipro.com, and  report the same to Stock Exchanges in terms of  regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations.
3.
Modiﬁed opinion(s) in audit report    The Auditors have issued an un-modiﬁed opinion  on the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
4.
Separate posts of Chairperson and Chief  Executive Ofﬁcer    Mr. Azim H Premji is the Executive Chairman  and Managing Director of the Company and Mr.  Abidali Z Neemuchwala is the Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer of the Company.
The Company’s Board  consists of majority of Independent Directors.
All  policy and strategic decisions of the Company  are taken through a majority decision of this  independent Board.
5.
Reporting of Internal Auditor    Reporting of Head of Internal Audit is to the  Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board  and administratively to the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer.
Head of Internal Audit has regular and exclusive  meetings with the Audit Committee prior to  reports of Internal Audit getting discussed with  the Management team.
6.
NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards    The Company has made this disclosure in  compliance with the New York Stock Exchange  Listing Standards and NYSE Listed Company  Manual on its website www.wipro.com/ investors/corp-governance and has ﬁled the  same with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
Declaration as required under Regulation 34(3) and  Schedule V of the Listing Regulations   All Directors and senior management personnel of  the Company have afﬁrmed compliance with Wipro’s  Code of Business Conduct for the ﬁnancial year ended  March 31, 2017.
Place: Bangalore  Azim H Premji  Date: June 2, 2017 Executive Chairman 124 Annual Report 2016-17 ANNEXURE I Shareholder Information Corporate Identity Number (CIN) Our Corporate Identity Number (CIN),allotted by  Ministry of Company Affairs, Government of India is  L32102KA1945PLC020800, and our Company Registration  Number is 20800.
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting for the year ended March 31, 2017  is scheduled to be held on Wednesday, July 19, 2017 at  4.00 p.m. at Wipro Campus, Cafeteria Hall EC-3, Ground  Floor, Opp.
Tower 8, No.
72, Keonics Electronic City, Hosur  Road, Bangalore - 561229.
The facility to appoint a proxy to represent the Members  at the meeting is also available for the Members who  would be unable to attend the meeting.
You are required  to ﬁll a proxy form and send it so as to reach us latest by  July 17, 2017 before 4.00 p.m. You can also cast your vote  electronically by following the instructions of e-voting  sent separately.
Annual General Meetings and Other General Body meeting  of the Last Three Years and Special Resolutions, if any.
For the Year 2013-14 , we had our Annual General meeting  on July 23, 2014 at 4:00pm.
The meeting was held at Wipro  Campus, Cafeteria Hall EC-3, Ground Floor, Opp.
Tower 8,  No.
72, Keonics, Electronic City, Hosur Road, Bangalore  – 561229.
The following resolutions were passed at the  meeting (last three being Special Resolutions): •	 	 Appointment	of	Mr.	Vyomesh	Joshi	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Appointment	 of	Mr.	N	Vaghul	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Appointment	of	Dr.		Ashok	S	Ganguly	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Appointment	of	Dr.	Jagdish	N	Sheth	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Appointment	 of	Mr.	William	Arthur	Owens	as	an	 Independent Director •	 	Appointment	 of	Mr.	M	K	Sharma	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	Appointment	 of	Ms.	Ireena	Vittal	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	Adoption	 of	new	substituted	Articles	of	Association	 to align with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 •	 	 Amendments	to	Wipro	Employee	Restricted	Stock	 Unit Plan 2004, Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit  Plan 2005, Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan  2007 and Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock  Purchase Scheme2013, and Wipro Equity Reward  Trust (WERT).
•	 	 Payment	of	remuneration	to	Non-Executive	Directors  For the Year 2014-15 , we had our Annual General Meeting  on July 22, 2015 at 4.00 pm.
The meeting was held at Wipro  Campus, Cafeteria Hall EC-3, Ground Floor, Opp.
Tower 8,  No.
72, Keonics, Electronic City, Hosur Road, Bangalore  – 561229.
The following resolutions were passed at the  meeting: •	 	 Re-appointment	of	Mr.	Azim	H	Premji	(DIN	00234280),	 as Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the  Company (special resolution) •	 	 Appointment	 of	Mr.	Rishad	 Azim	 Premji	 (DIN	 02983899), as a Whole-time Director of the Company  (ordinary resolution)  For the Year 2015-16 , we had our Annual General Meeting  on July 18, 2016 at 4.00 pm.
The meeting was held at Wipro  Campus, Cafeteria Hall EC-3, Ground Floor, Opp.
Tower 8,  No.
72, Keonics, Electronic City, Hosur Road, Bangalore  – 561229.
The following resolutions were passed at the  meeting (third, fourth and ﬁfth being Special Resolutions): •	 	Appointment	of 	Dr.	Patrick	Ennis	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Appointment	of	Mr.	Patrick	Dupuis	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	Re-appointment	 of	Mr.	N	Vaghul	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Re-appointment	 of	Dr.	Ashok	S	 Ganguly	 as	an	 Independent Director •	 	 Re-appointment	of	Mr.	M	K	Sharma	as	an	Independent	 Director •	 	 Re-appointment	of	Mr.	T	K	Kurien	as	an	Executive	 Director •	 	Appointment	 of	Mr.	Abidali	Z	Neemuc hwala	as	the	 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Director  •	 	 Revision	in	the	payment	of	remuneration	to	Mr.	Rishad	 A Premji as an Executive Director and Chief Strategy  Ofﬁcer Means of Communication with Shareholders/Analysis  We have established procedures to disseminate, in a  planned manner, relevant information to our shareholders,  analysts, employees and the society at large.
Our Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee reviews the  earnings press releases, Securities Exchange Commission  (SEC) filings and annual and quarterly reports of the  Company, before they are presented to the Board for their  approval for release.
Wipro Limited 125 News Releases and Presentations: All our news releases  and presentations made at investor conferences and to  analysts are posted on the Company’s website at www.
wipro.com/corporate/investors.
Quarterly results:  Our quarterly results are published  in widely circulated national newspapers such as The  Business Standard and the local daily Kannada Prabha.
Website:  The Company’s website contains a separate  dedicated section “Investors” where information sought  by shareholders is available.
The Annual Report of the  Company, earnings, press releases, SEC filings and  quarterly reports of the Company, apart from the details  about the Company, Board of Directors and Management,  are also available on the website in a user friendly and  downloadable form at www.wipro.com/investors/ .
Annual Report:  Annual Report containing audited  standalone accounts, consolidated ﬁnancial statements  together with Board’s Report, Auditors Report and other  important information are circulated to Members entitled  thereto.
Other Disclosures/Filings:  Further, our Form 20-F ﬁled  with SEC containing detailed disclosures and along  with other disclosures including Press Releases etc.
are  available at www.wipro.com/investors/ .
Communication of Results Means of  Communications Number of times during  2016-17 Earnings Calls 4 Publication of results 4 Analysts meet - Financial Calendar The ﬁnancial year of the Company starts from on the 1 st   day of April and ends on 31 st  day of March of next year.
Our tentative calendar for declaration of results for the  ﬁnancial year 2017-18 is as given below: Quarter Ending Release of Results For	the	Quarter	ending	 June 30, 2017 Third week of July, 2017 For	the	Quarter	and	half	 year ending September  30, 2017 Fourth week of October, 2017 For	the	Quarter	and	 nine months ending  December 31, 2017 Third week of January, 2018 For the year ending  March 31, 2018 Third week of April, 2018 In addition,  the Board may meet on other dates as and  when required.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer books will  remain closed from July 17, 2017 to July 19, 2017 (both  days inclusive).
Dividend Pursuant to the approval of the Board on January 25,  2017, your Company paid an interim dividend of `2/-  per equity share of face value of `2/- each on February  10, 2017, to shareholders who were on the register of  members as on February 3, 2017, being the record date  ﬁxed for this purpose.
The Board did not recommend a  ﬁnal dividend and therefore total dividend for the year  ended March 31, 2017 will be `2/- per equity share of  face value of ` 2/- each.
Unclaimed Dividends and Transfer to IEPF Pursuant to section 124 of Companies Act, 2013, the  Company has transferred the unpaid or unclaimed ﬁnal  dividend for the financial year 2008-09 on due date  to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)  administered by the Central Government.
Pursuant to the provisions of Investor Education and  Protection Fund (Uploading of information regarding  unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with companies)  Rules, 2012, the Company has uploaded the details  of unpaid and unclaimed dividends lying with the  Company as on July 18, 2016 (date of last Annual General  Meeting) on the website of the Company (www.wipro.
com/investors), as also on the website of the Ministry of  Corporate Affairs.
After completion of seven years, no claims shall lie  against the said Fund or against the Company for the  amounts of Dividend so transferred nor shall any payment  be made in respect of such claims under the Companies  Act, 1956.
The Companies Act, 2013 provides for claiming  such dividends from the Central Government.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 124(6) of the  Companies Act, 2013 and Investor Education and  Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer  and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended from time to  time), equity shares in respect of which dividend has  not been claimed for the ﬁnancial year 2008-09 will be  transferred to the IEPF Authority in accordance with the  aforesaid rules.
Listing on Stock Exchanges, Stock Codes, International  Securities Identiﬁcation Number (ISIN) and Cusip Number  for ADRs Your Company’s shares are listed in the following exchanges  as on March 31, 2017 and the stock codes are: 126 Annual Report 2016-17 Equity shares Stock Codes Address Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (BSE) 507685 BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers Dalal Street,  Mumbai - 400 001 National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) WIPRO Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex,  Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051 American Depository Receipts New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) WIT 11 Wall St, New York, NY 10005, United States of America Notes: 1.
Listing fees for the year 2017-18 has been paid to the Indian Stock Exchanges as on date of this report.
2.
Listing fees to NYSE for the calendar year 2017 has been paid as on date of this report.
3.
The stock code on Reuters is WPRO.NS and on Bloomberg is WIPRO.IN International Securities Identiﬁcation Number (ISIN) ISIN is an identiﬁcation number for traded shares.
This number needs to be quoted in each transaction relating to the  dematerialized equity shares of the Company.
ISIN for our equity shares is INE075A01022.
CUSIP Number for American Depository Shares The Committee on Uniform Security Identiﬁcation Procedures (CUSIP) of the American Bankers Association has  developed a unique numbering system for American Depository Shares.
This number identiﬁes a security and its issuer  and is recognized globally by organizations adhering to standards issued by the International Securities Organization.
Cusip number for Wipro American Depository Scrip is 97651M109.
Description of Voting Rights All our equity shares carry voting rights on a pari-passu basis.
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2017  Category (No.
of Shares) 31-Mar-17 31-Mar-16 No.
of Shareholders % of shareholders No.
of shares % of Total equity No.
of shareholders % of shareholders No.
of shares % of total equity 1-5000 236,761 98.17 24,636,146 1.01 222,793 97.99 23,400,173 0.95 5001- 10000 1,626 0.67 5,824,521 0.24 1,605 0.71 5,697,804 0.23 10001- 20000 1,024 0.42 7,269,189 0.30 1,084 0.48 7,672,666 0.31 20001- 30000 365 0.15 4,469,797 0.18 423 0.19 5,185,043 0.21 30001- 40000 227 0.10 3,955,075 0.16 234 0.10 4,062,455 0.16 40001- 50000 145 0.06 3,251,627 0.13 154 0.07 3,451,385 0.14 50001- 100000 314 0.13 11,365,237 0.47 328 0.14 11,968,612 0.48 100001& Above 692 0.30 2370,128,973 97.50 748 0.32 2,409,275,152 97.52 Total 241,154 100.00 2,430,900,565 100.00 227,369 100.00 2,470,713,290 100.00 Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity 99.14% of outstanding equity shares have been dematerialized as at March 31, 2017.
Outstanding ADR/GDR/Warrants or any other Convertible instruments, Conversion Date and Likely Impact on Equity The Company has 2.01% of outstanding ADRs as on March 31, 2017.
Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities  Please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report for details.
Wipro Limited 127 Wipro NYSE Composite IndexSensexBase 100 = April 1, 2016 Market Share Price Data The performance of our stock in the ﬁnancial year 2016-17 is tabulated below: Month April May June July August September October November December January February March Volume traded NSE  33,059,942  25,698,511  27,951,298  34,396,041  38,166,384  39,856,651  30,248,119  35,682,020  19,931,126  22,372,827  20,721,851  28,076,754  Price in NSE during the month (in ` per share) High 601.25 550.15 563.7 573.95 557.7 484.2 499.2 465.25 474.45 484.75 489.75 515.95 Date 20-Apr-16 30-May-16 23-Jun-16 13-Jul-16 1-Aug-16 27-Sep-16 21-Oct-16 30-Nov-16 30-Dec-16 16-Jan-17 27-Feb-17 30-Mar-17 Volume traded /uni00A0NSE 4,693,918 1,069,996 671,251 1,057,197 2,273,195 1,852,179 1,990,718 2,172,696 521,181 605,125 1,411,538 2,679,436 Low 549.55 533.1 535.1 537.75 478.8 472.2 461.7 437.15 453.35 458 455.65 484.5 Date 8-Apr-16 6-May-16 6-Jun-16 22-Jul-16 29-Aug-16 29-Sep-16 27-Oct-16 18-Nov-16 7-Dec-16 31-Jan-17 2-Feb-17 9-Mar-17 Volume traded /uni00A0NSE 940,527 1,288,204 1,932,039 1,374,380 5,095,626 4,940,828 1,883,031 1,080,583 589,671 2,742,827 1,532,200 704,895 S&P CNX Nifty Index during each month High  7,979.90  8,178.50  8,287.75  8,666.30  8,786.20  8,952.50  8,769.15  8,626.25  8,261.75  8,641.25  8,939.50  9,173.75  Low  7,546.45  7,706.55  8,088.60  8,323.20  8,544.85  8,591.25  8,520.40  7,929.10  7,908.25  8,179.50  8,716.40  8,897.55  Wipro Price Movement vis-as-vis Previous Month High/Low (%) High % 5.48% -8.50% 2.46% 1.82% -2.83% -13.18% 3.10% -6.80% 1.98% 2.17% 1.03% 5.35% Low % 4.99% -2.99% 0.38% 0.50% -10.96% -1.38% -2.22% -5.32% 3.71% 1.03% -0.51% 6.33% S&P CNX Nifty Index Movement vis a vis High % 2.60% 2.49% 1.34% 4.57% 1.38% 1.89% -2.05% -1.63% -4.23% 4.59% 3.45% 2.62% Low % 7.27% 2.12% 4.96% 2.90% 2.66% 0.54% -0.82% -6.94% -0.26% 3.43% 6.56% 2.08% ADS Share Price During the Financial Year 2016-17 April May June July August September October November December January February March Wipro ADS price in NYSE  during each month closing ($)  12.15  12.01  12.36  11.34  10.32  9.71  9.67  9.59  9.68  9.23  9.78  10.23  NYSE TMT index during each  month closing  7,506.99  7,593.52  7,641.34  7,851.37  7,736.74  7,752.75  7,475.61  7,585.23  7,778.59  7,933.40  8,078.43  8,200.28  Wipro ADS Price Movement  (%) Vis a vis Previous month  Closing $ -3.42% -1.15% 2.91% -8.25% -8.99% -5.91% -0.41% -0.83% 0.94% -4.65% 5.96% 4.60% NYSE TMT Index movement  (%) vis a vis Previous month  closing $ -1.00% 1.15% 0.63% 2.75% -1.46% 0.21% -3.57% 1.47% 2.55% 1.99% 1.83% 1.51% Performance of Wipro equity share relative to the SENSEX and NYSE Composite Index during the period April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 is given in the following chart: 70 80 90 100 110 120 1-Mar-2017 1-Feb-2017 1-Jan-2017 1-Dec-2016 1-Nov-2016 1-Oct-2016 1-Sept-2016 1-August-2016 1-July-2016 1-June-2016 1-May-2016 1-Apr-2016 128 Annual Report 2016-17 Registrar and Transfer Agents Company’s share transfer and related operations is  operated through its Registrar and Share Transfer Agents  Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Hyderabad.
Share Transfer System The turnaround time for completion of transfer of shares in  physical form is generally less than 7(seven) days from the  date of receipt, if the documents are clear in all respects.
Address for Correspondence The address of our Registrar and Share Transfer Agents  is given below: Karvy Computershare Private Limited Unit: Wipro Limited  Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032.
Phone: 040-23420818 Fax: 040 23420814 Contact Person: Mr. B. Srinivas - E-mail id: srinivas.b@karvy.com Mr. Rajesh Mishra - E-mail id: rajesh.mishra@karvy.com Shareholders Grievance can also be sent through email to  the following designated email id: einward.ris@karvy.com.
Overseas Depository for ADSs J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
60, Wall Street New York, NY 10260 Tel: 001 212 648 3208 Fax: 001 212 648 5576 Indian Custodian for ADSs India Sub Custody J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
J.P .
Morgan Towers, 1st  Floor, off C.S.T.
Road, Kalina,   Santacruz (East), Mumbai - 400 098 Tel: 022-61573484 Fax: 022-61573910 Web-Based Query Redressal System Members may utilize this facility extended by the Registrar  & Transfer Agents for redressal of their queries.
Please visit http://karisma.karvy.com and click on  “investors” option for query registration through free  identity registration to log on.
Investor can submit the  query	in	the	“QUERIES”	option	provided	on	the	website,	 which would give the grievance registration number.
For  accessing the status/response to your query, please use  the same number at the option “VIEW REPLY” after 24  hours.
The investors can continue to put additional queries  relating to the case till they are satisﬁed.
Shareholders can also send their correspondence to the  Company with respect to their shares, dividend, request  for annual reports and shareholder grievance.
The contact  details are provided below: Mr. M Sanaulla Khan  Company Secretary  Wipro Limited  Doddakannelli,  Sarjapur Road  Bangalore - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011  (Extn 226185)  Fax: +91 080 28440258 Email: sanaulla.khan@wipro.com Mr. G Kothandaraman  Head - Secretarial &  Compliance Wipro Limited  Doddakannelli,  Sarjapur Road  Bangalore - 560035 Ph: +91 80 28440011   (Extn 226183)  Fax: +91 080 28440258 Email:   kothandaraman.gopal@wipro.com Analysts can reach our Investor Relations Team for any  queries and clarification Financial/Investor Relations  related matters: Mr. Aravind V S Vice President and  Corporate Treasurer  Wipro Limited  Doddkannelli, Sarjapur Road  Bangalore - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011  (Extn: 226186)  Fax: +91 80 28440258 Email:  aravind.viswanathan@wipro.com Mr. Pavan N Rao  Senior Manager- Investor Relations  Wipro Limited  Doddkannelli, Sarjapur Road  Bangalore - 560 035 Ph: +91 80 28440011  (Extn: 226143)  Fax: +91 80 28440258 Email: pavan.rao@wipro.com Mr. Abhishek Kumar  Jain  Senior Manager, 2 Tower Center,  Boulevard, 22 nd  Floor, East  Brunswick,  NJ-08816, USA Ph: +1 9788264700 Fax: +1 8005724852 Email:  abhishekkumar.jain@wipro.com Plant Locations  The Company has various ofﬁces in India and abroad.
Details of these locations are available on our website  www.wipro.com.
Wipro Limited 129 Corporate Governance Compliance  Certif  icate Corporate Identity No : L32102KA1945PLC020800 Nominal Capital  : ` 610 Crores  To the Members of  WIPRO LIMITED  Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035 We have examined all the relevant records of Wipro Limited for the purpose of certifying compliance of the conditions  of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for  the ﬁnancial year ended March 31, 2017.
We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of  our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of certiﬁcation.
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management.
Our examination was  limited to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the  conditions of the corporate governance.
This certiﬁcate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efﬁcacy or effectiveness  with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to  us, we certify that the Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of Corporate Governance as  stipulated in Schedule II of the said SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
As  regards Discretionary Requirements speciﬁed in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company has complied with items C, D and E.  For V. Sreedharan & Associates  Company Secretaries  Sd/-  V. Sreedharan Bengaluru Partner April 15, 2017 F .C.S.2347; C.P .
No.
833 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 130 Annual Report 2016-17 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Members of Wipro Limited Report on the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS  ﬁnancial statements of Wipro Limited  (‘the Company’),  which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31,  2017, the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss (including other  comprehensive income), the Statement of Cash Flows and  the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended  and a summary of the signiﬁcant accounting policies and  other explanatory information (herein after referred to as  “standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Ind AS  Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for  the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies  Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with respect to the preparation of  these standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements that give  a true and fair view of the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial  performance including other comprehensive income, cash  ﬂows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance  with the accounting principles generally accepted in  India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant  rules issued thereunder.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of  the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;  selection and application of appropriate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal ﬁnancial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant  to the preparation and presentation of the standalone  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view  and are free from material misstatement, whether due to  fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements based on our  audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the  accounting and auditing standards and matters which  are required to be included in the audit report under the  provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS  ﬁnancial statements in accordance with the Standards  on Auditing speciﬁed under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical  requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the standalone  Ind AS financial statements are free from material  misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the  standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements, whether  due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments,  the auditor considers internal ﬁnancial control relevant  to the Company’s preparation of the standalone Ind AS  financial statements that give a true and fair view in  order to design audit procedures that are appropriate  in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating  the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and  the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made  by the Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the  overall presentation of the standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is  sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information  and according to the explanations given to us, the  aforesaid standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements give  the information required by the Act in the manner so  required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the  accounting principles generally accepted in India including  the Ind AS, of the ﬁnancial position of the Company as at  March 31, 2017 and its ﬁnancial performance including  other comprehensive income, its cash ﬂows and changes  in equity for the year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements: 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report)  Order, 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central  Government of India in terms of section 143(11) of  the Act, we give in the Annexure A, a statement on  the matters speciﬁed in the paragraph 3 and 4 of the  order, to the extent applicable.
2.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report,  to the extent applicable, that:  (a) We have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 131 knowledge and belief were necessary for the  purposes of our audit;  (b) In our opinion proper books of account as  required by law have been kept by the Company  so far as it appears from our examination of  those books;  (c) The balance sheet, the statement of proﬁt and  loss including other comprehensive income, the  statement of cash ﬂows and the statement of  changes in equity dealt with by this Report are  in agreement with the books of account;  (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS  ﬁnancial statements comply with the Indian  Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section  133 of the Act read with relevant rule issued  thereunder;  (e) On the basis of the written representations  received from the directors as on March 31, 2017  taken on record by the Board of Directors, none  of the directors is disqualiﬁed as on March 31,  2017 from being appointed as a director in terms  of Section 164 (2) of the Act;  (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of  the Company and the operating effectiveness  of such controls, refer to our separate report in  “Annexure B”; and  (g) With respect to the other matters to be included  in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with  Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)  Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our  information and according to the explanations  given to us:   i.
The Company has disclosed the impact  of pending litigations on its financial  position in its standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements – Refer Note 16 and 34 to the  standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements;   ii.
The Company has made provision,   as required under the applicable law  or accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts  – Refer Note 18 to the standalone Ind AS  ﬁnancial statements;   iii.
There has been no delay in transferring  amounts, required to be transferred, to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund by  the Company;   iv.
According to the information and  explanations given to us and the  audit procedures performed including  management representations obtained,  we report that the Company did not have  any cash in hand during the period from  November 8, 2016 to December 30, 2016.
Accordingly, the disclosure requirement  as envisaged in Notiﬁcation G.S.R 308 (E)  dated March 30, 2017 as to holdings as  well as dealings in Speciﬁed Bank Notes  during these period is not applicable to the  Company.
Refer Note 9 to the Standalone  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
for  B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm registration number: 101248W/W-100022 Jamil Khatri Partner Membership Number: 102527 Bangalore June 2, 2017 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 132 Annual Report 2016-17 In respect of the Annexure referred to in paragraph 1 of our  report to the Members of Wipro Limited (“the Company”)  for the year ended March 31, 2017, we report that: i. a) The Company has maintained proper records  showing full particulars, including quantitative  details and situation of ﬁxed assets.
b) The Company has a regular program of physical  veriﬁcation of its ﬁxed assets by which ﬁxed  assets are veriﬁed in a phased manner over  a period of three years.
In our opinion, this  periodicity of physical veriﬁcation is reasonable  having regard to the size of the Company and  the nature of its assets.
In accordance with  this program, certain ﬁxed assets were veriﬁed  during the year and no material discrepancies  were noticed on such veriﬁcation.
c) According to the information and explanations  given to us and on the basis of our examination  of the records of the Company, title deeds of  immovable properties are held in the name of  the Company.
ii.
The inventory, except goods-in-transit, has been  physically veriﬁed by the management during the year  and the discrepancies noticed on such veriﬁcation  between the physical stock and the book records  were not material.
In our opinion, the frequency of  such veriﬁcation is reasonable.
iii.
During the current year, the Company has not granted  any loans, secured or unsecured to parties covered  in the register required to be maintained under  Section 189 of the Act.
However, in an earlier year,  an interest free loan was granted to a party (wholly  owned subsidiary) covered in the register maintained  under Section 189 of the Act.
a) The Company has not granted any loans, secured  or unsecured to the parties covered in the  register maintained under Section 189 of the  Act during the current year.
b) In the case of a loan granted to the party listed in  the register maintained under Section 189 of the  Act, the loan is interest free and the principal is  repayable on demand and the Company has not  Annexure-A to the Independent Auditor’s Report sought repayment of the loan during the current  year.
c) There are no overdue amounts in respect of the  loan granted to a party listed in the register  maintained under Section 189 of the Act.
iv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company does not have  any transactions to which the provisions of Section  185 apply.
The Company has complied with the  provisions of Section 186 of the Act, with respect to  the loans, investments, guarantees and security.
v.  The Company has not accepted any deposits from  the public.
vi.
The Central Government has not prescribed the  maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of  the Act, for any of the products or services rendered  by the Company.
vii.
a) According to the information and explanations  given to us and on the basis of our examination of  the records of the Company, amounts deducted/  accrued in the books of account in respect of  undisputed statutory dues including provident  fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax,  sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of  excise, value added tax, cess and other material  statutory dues have generally been regularly  deposited during the year by the Company with  the appropriate authorities.
According to the information and explanations  given to us, no undisputed amounts payable  in respect of provident fund, employees’ state  insurance, income tax, sales-tax, service tax,  duty of customs, duty of excise, value added  tax, cess and other material statutory dues were  in arrears as at March 31, 2017 for a period of  more than six months from the date they became  payable.
b) According to the information and explanations  given to us, the following dues of income tax,  duty of excise, duty of customs, sales tax and  service tax, have not been deposited by the  Company on account of disputes: Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 133 Name of the Statute Nature of the dues Amount  unpaid March  31, 2017*  (` in million) Period to which  the amount relates  (Assessment year) Forum where dispute is  pending The Income Tax Act,  1961 Income Tax and interest  demanded 11,127 2001-02 to 2004-05 Supreme Court The Income Tax Act,  1961 Income Tax and interest  demanded 20,841 2005-06 to 2007-08 High Court ** The Income Tax Act,  1961 Income Tax and interest  demanded 3,101 2007-08 to 2011- 12**** Income Tax Appellate  Tribunal The Income Tax Act,  1961 Income Tax and interest  demanded 4,124 2013-14 Dispute Resolution Panel  *** The Income Tax Act,  1961 Income Tax and interest  demanded 4 2012-13 Appellate Authorities State Sales Tax/VAT  and CST Sales tax, interest and penalty  demanded 2,772 1986-87 to 2015-16 Appellate Authorities State Sales Tax/VAT  and CST Sales tax demanded 254 1998-99 to 2009-10 Appellate Tribunal State Sales Tax/VAT  and CST Sales tax and penalty demanded 51 1999-00 to 2007-08 High court/ Supreme  court The Central Excise Act,  1944 Excise duty demanded 66 1995-96 to 2013-14 Appellate Authorities The Central Excise Act,  1944 Excise duty demanded 177 2004-05 to 2010-11 CESTAT The Central Excise Act,  1944 Excise duty demanded 1 2007-08 High Court/ Supreme  Court The Customs Act, 1962 Customs duty, interest and  penalty demanded 296 1995-96 to 2009-10 Appellate Authorities The Customs Act, 1962 Customs duty and penalty  demanded 7 1991-92 to 2011-12 CESTAT The Customs Act, 1962 Customs duty demanded 44 1990-91 to 1998-99 High court/ Supreme  court The Finance Act, 1994 Service tax demanded 109 2004-05 to 2010-11 Appellate Authorities The Finance Act, 1994 Service tax demanded 386 2001-02 to 2011-12 CESTAT *  The amounts paid under protest have been reduced from the amounts demanded in arriving at the aforesaid  disclosure.
**  No subsequent demand has been raised as the matter is pending with High Court based on appeals ﬁled by the  department.
*** Pending directions from Dispute Resolution Panel, the Company has not received any demand for payment.
**** The assessment pertaining to AY 2008-09 was disposed off by the ITAT during January 2017.
The Company has  ﬁled an appeal against the order of the ITAT with the High Court during the month of April 2017. viii.
In our opinion and according to the information  and explanations given to us, the Company has not  defaulted in repayment of its dues to the banks and  financial institutions.
The Company did not have  any outstanding dues to Government or debenture  holders during the year.
ix.
The Company did not raise any moneys by way of  initial public offer or further public offer (including  debt instruments) during the year.
In our opinion and  according to the information and explanations given  to us, the term loans taken by the Company have been  applied for the purposes for which they were raised.
x.
According to the information and explanations given  to us, no fraud by the Company or on the Company by  its ofﬁcers or employees has been noticed or reported  during the year.
xi.
According to the information and explanations give  to us and based on our examination of the records  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 134 Annual Report 2016-17 of the Company, the Company has paid/provided for  managerial remuneration in accordance with the  requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of  Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
xii.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi  company.
xiii.
According to the information and explanations given  to us and based on our examination of the records of  the Company, transactions with the related parties  are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the  Act where applicable and details of such transactions  have been disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements as  required by the applicable accounting standards.
xiv.
According to the information and explanations give to  us and based on our examination of the records of the  Company, the Company has not made any preferential  allotment or private placement of shares or fully or  partly convertible debentures during the year.
xv.
According to the information and explanations given  to us and based on our examination of the records  of the Company, the Company has not entered into  non-cash transactions with directors or persons  connected with him.
xvi.
According to the information and explanations given  to us, the Company is not required to be registered  under Section 45 IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act,  1934. for  B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm registration number: 101248W/W-100022 Jamil Khatri Partner Membership Number: 102527 Bangalore June 2, 2017 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 135 Annexure – B to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even  date on the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements of  Wipro Limited Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause  (i) of Sub-Section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Act”) We have audited the internal financial controls over  ﬁnancial reporting of Wipro Limited (“the Company”) as  of March 31, 2017 in conjunction with our audit of the  standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements of the Company  for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The Company’s management is responsible for establishing  and maintaining internal ﬁnancial controls based on the  internal control over ﬁnancial reporting criteria established  by the Company considering the essential components of  internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of  Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal ﬁnancial controls  that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly  and efﬁcient conduct of its business, including adherence  to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,  the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and  the timely preparation of reliable ﬁnancial information, as  required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company’s internal financial controls over financial  reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in  accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance  Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI  and deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of  the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an  audit of internal ﬁnancial controls, both applicable to an  audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by  the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Those  Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply  with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate  internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial reporting was  established and maintained and if such controls operated  effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal ﬁnancial  controls system over financial reporting and their  operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal ﬁnancial  controls over ﬁnancial reporting included obtaining an  understanding of internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness  exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgment, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
Annexure-B to the Independent Auditor’s Report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained  is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion on the Company’s internal ﬁnancial controls  system over ﬁnancial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting  and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external  purposes in accordance with generally accepted  accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial  control over ﬁnancial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of  records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly  reﬂect the transactions and dispositions of the assets  of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance  that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  preparation of Standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,  and that receipts and expenditures of the company are  being made only in accordance with authorizations of  management and directors of the company; and (3) provide  reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition  of the company’s assets that could have a material effect  on the Standalone Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over  Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal ﬁnancial  controls over ﬁnancial reporting, including the possibility  of collusion or improper management override of controls,  material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and  not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the  internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial reporting to future  periods are subject to the risk that the internal ﬁnancial  control over ﬁnancial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of  compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects,  an adequate internal financial controls system over  ﬁnancial reporting and such internal ﬁnancial controls  over financial reporting were operating effectively as  at March 31, 2017, based on the internal control over  ﬁnancial reporting criteria established by the Company  considering the essential components of internal control  stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial  Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India.
for  B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm registration number: 101248W/W-100022 Jamil Khatri Partner Membership Number: 102527 Bangalore June 2, 2017 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 136 Annual Report 2016-17 Balance Sheet The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes As at   March 31, 2017 As at   March 31, 2016 As at   April 01, 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 5  ` 37,555  ` 36,418  ` 34,805  Capital work-in-progress 5  6,941  3,251  3,612  Goodwill 6  3,882  3,882  3,882  Other intangible assets 6  2,185  375  499  Financial assets  Investments 7  59,994  57,811  56,260   Derivative assets 18  106  260  736   Trade receivables 8  3,998  1,362  2,443   Loans to subsidiaries 33  -  1,958  1,848   Other ﬁnancial assets 10  3,545  4,067  4,221  Deferred tax assets 19  2,352  4,254  3,022  Non-current tax assets 19  12,008  11,751  11,409  Other non-current assets 12  11,732  11,257  9,425  Total non-current assets  144,298  136,646  132,162  Current assets Inventories 11  3,559  5,262  4,794  Financial assets  Investments 7  291,467  204,195  93,827   Trade receivables 8  81,299  83,980  77,797   Cash and cash equivalents 9  35,166  84,088  149,425   Derivative assets 18  9,747  5,549  4,889   Unbilled revenues  32,845  37,100  33,387   Loans to subsidiaries 33  1,917  -  -   Other ﬁnancial assets 10  6,151  7,658  11,730  Current tax assets 19  7,701  6,519  5,497  Other current assets 12  17,419  18,252  16,838  Total  current assets  487,271  452,603  398,184  TOTAL ASSETS  ` 631,569  ` 589,249  ` 530,346  EQUITY Share capital 13  ` 4,861  ` 4,941  ` 4,937  Other equity  462,195  407,316  361,448  TOTAL EQUITY  467,056  412,257  366,385  LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities  Borrowings 14  11,463  11,465  10,632   Derivative liabilities 18  2  118  71   Other ﬁnancial liabilities 15  77  55  -  Provisions 16  3,733  3,991  2,736  Deferred tax liabilities 19  1,391  722  567  Non-current tax liability 19  9,099  8,231  6,695  Other non-current liabilities 17  349  291  210  Total non-current liabilities  26,114  24,873  20,911  Current liabilities Financial liabilities  Borrowings 14  50,186  55,495  49,704   Trade payables  38,186  43,623  40,191   Derivative liabilities 18  2,708  2,340  753   Other ﬁnancial liabilities 15  17,628  18,174  18,548  Unearned revenues  11,506  14,222  14,021  Provisions 16  6,269  6,426  6,357  Current tax liabilities 19  6,792  6,363  7,360  Other current liabilities 17  5,124  5,476  6,116  Total current liabilities  138,399  152,119  143,050  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  ` 631,569  ` 589,249  ` 530,346  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 137 Statement of Profit and Loss The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes Year ended March 31, 2017  2,016  REVENUE Revenue from operations 20  ` 456,396  ` 446,808  Other operating income 21  4,082  -  Other income 22  25,700  27,106  Total  486,178  473,914  EXPENSES Cost of materials consumed 23  -  2  Purchases of stock-in-trade  21,869  26,560  Changes in inventories of ﬁnished goods, work in progress and stock-in-trade 24  1,640  (531) Employee beneﬁts expense 25  218,544  212,671  Finance costs 26  3,921  5,499  Depreciation and amortisation expense 5, 6  10,477  8,754  Other expenses 27  122,856  115,017  Total Expenses  379,307  367,972  Proﬁt before tax  106,871  105,942  Tax expense Current tax 19  24,304  24,523  Deferred tax 19  950  (586) Total tax expense  25,254  23,937  Proﬁt for the year  ` 81,617  ` 82,005  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to statement of proﬁt or loss Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains/(losses) 25  191  (1,010) Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 18  (183)  25  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss 19  (28)  214  Items that will be reclassiﬁed to statement of proﬁt or loss Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 18  1,787  393  Net change in time value of option contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 18  9  -  Net change in intrinsic value of option contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 18  77  -  Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 18  4,872  (1,900) Income tax relating to items that may be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss 19  (1,571)  226  Total Other Comprehensive Income for the year, net of tax  5,154  (2,052) Total comprehensive income for the year  ` 86,771  ` 79,953  Earnings per equity share 28 (Equity shares of par value ` 2 each) Basic  ` 33.61  ` 33.38  Diluted  ` 33.51  ` 33.31  No of shares Basic  2,428,540,505  2,456,559,400  Diluted  2,435,673,569  2,461,689,908  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 138 Annual Report 2016-17 A.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Balance as at April 1, 2016 Changes during the year (1) Balance as of March 31, 2017 4,941 (80) 4,861 Balance as at April 1, 2015 Changes during the year Balance as of March 31, 2016 4,937 4 4,941  (1)  Refer Note 29 B.
OTHER EQUITY Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment  Share  Premium   Capital  Reserve   Capital  Redemption  Reserve   Retained  Earnings   Share  based  payment  reserve   Special  economic  zone re- investment  reserve    Other  Comprehensive  income   Cash ﬂow  hedging  Reserve   Foreign  currency  translation  reserve   Total other  equity  Balance as at April 1, 2016  ` ^  ` 14,254  ` 1,139  ` 14  ` 385,672  ` 2,229  ` -  ` 216  ` 1,910  ` 1,882  ` 407,316  Total Comprehensive income for the  period Proﬁt for the period  -  -  -  -  81,617  -  -  -  -  -  81,617  Other comprehensive income for the  period  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  1,158  3,996  -  5,154  Total Comprehensive income for the period  -  -  -  -  81,617  -  -  1,158  3,996  -  86,771  Issue of equity shares on exercise of options  -  81  -  -  -  (81)  -  -  -  -  -  Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon)  -  -  -  -  (8,776)  -  -  -  -  -  (8,776) Buyback of equity shares (refer note 29)  -  (14,254)  -  80  (10,746)  -  -  -  -  -  (24,920) Transferred to Special economic zone re-investment reserve  -  -  -  -  (13,521)  -  13,521  -  -  -  -  Transferred from Special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilization  -  -  -  -  13,521  -  (13,521)  -  -  -  -  Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of options  (1)  -  -  -  -  384  (384)  -  -  -  -  -  Compensation cost related to employee share based payment transactions  -  -  -  -  13  1,791  -  -  -  -  1,804   -  (14,173)  -  80  62,492  1,326  -  1,158  3,996  -  54,879  Balance as at March 31, 2017  ` ^  ` 81  ` 1,139  ` 94  ` 448,164  ` 3,555  ` -  ` 1,374  ` 5,906  ` 1,882  ` 462,195  (1)  1,101,217 shares have been issued by the controlled trust on exercise of options during the year ended March 31, 2017.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 139 Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment  Share  Premium   Capital  Reserve   Capital  Redemption  Reserve   Retained  Earnings   Share  based  payment  reserve   Special  economic  zone re- investment  reserve    Other  Comprehensive  income   Cash ﬂow  hedging  Reserve   Foreign  currency  translation  reserve   Total other  equity  Balance as at April 1, 2015  ` ^  ` 13,643  ` 1,139  ` 14  ` 339,280  ` 1,312  ` -  ` 628  ` 3,550  ` 1,882  ` 361,448  Total Comprehensive income for the  period Proﬁt for the period  -  -  -  -  82,005  -  -  -  -  -  82,005  Other comprehensive income for the  period  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (412)  (1,640)  -  (2,052) Total Comprehensive income for the period  -  -  -  -  82,005  -  -  (412)  (1,640)  -  79,953  Issue of equity shares on exercise of options  -  611  -  -  -  (611)  -  -  -  -  -  Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon)  -  -  -  -  (35,672)  -  -  -  -  -  (35,672) Transferred to Special economic zone re-investment reserve  -  -  -  -  (1,342)  -  1,342  -  -  -  -  Transferred from Special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilization  -  -  -  -  1,342  -  (1,342)  -  -  -  -  Compensation cost related to employee share based payment transactions  -  -  -  -  59  1,528  -  -  -  -  1,587   -  611  -  -  46,392  917  -  (412)  (1,640)  -  45,868  Balance as at March 31, 2016  ` ^  ` 14,254  ` 1,139  ` 14  ` 385,672  ` 2,229  ` -  ` 216  ` 1,910  ` 1,882  ` 407,316  ^ Value is less than ` 1 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer& Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 140 Annual Report 2016-17 Statement of Cash Flow (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) For the Year Ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 A.
Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Proﬁt for the year ` 81,617 ` 82,005  Adjustments: Loss/ (gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment, net  181  (52) Depreciation and amortization expense  10,477  8,753  Unrealized Exchange loss, net  3,714  3,323  Gain on sale of investments, net  (3,486)  (2,634) Share based compensation expense  1,687  1,493  Income tax expense  25,254  23,937  Dividend and interest (income)/expenses, net  (17,259)  (20,141) Gain from sale of division  (4,082)  -  Provision for diminution in the value of non-current investments  403  1,793  Changes in operating assets and liabilities; net of effects from acquisitions Trade receivables  (5)  (9,110) Unbilled revenue  4,236  (3,713) Inventories  1,703  (468) Other assets  1,973  4,603  Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions  (6,422)  2,276  Unearned revenue  (2,711)  201  Cash generated from operating activities before taxes  97,280  92,266  Income taxes paid, net  (23,573)  (25,399) Net cash generated from operating activities  73,707  66,867  B.
Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (16,867)  (10,583) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  813  699  Proceeds from sale of EcoEnergy division, net of related expenses  4,372  -  Purchase of  investments  (812,704)  (897,062) Investment in subsidiaries  (995)  (3,207) Proceeds from sale of investments  730,078  793,275  Interest received  16,955  18,762  Dividend received  311  66  Income tax paid on sale of EcoEnergy division  (871)  -  Net cash used in investing activities  (78,908)  (98,050) C. Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Proceeds from issuance of equity shares                               ^  4  Repayment of loans and borrowings  (91,627)  (119,764) Proceeds from loans and borrowings  82,619  121,429  Interest paid on loans and borrowings  (892)  (893) Shares bought back  (25,000)  -  Payment of cash dividend (including dividend tax thereon)  (8,776)  (35,673) Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities  (43,676)  (34,897) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year  (48,877)  (66,080) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (932)  313  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  83,431  149,198  Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note 9) ` 33,622 ` 83,431  Total taxes paid amounted to ` 24,444 and ` 25,399 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
^   value less than ` 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 141 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes to the financial statements 1.
The Company overview  Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or “Company”), is a leading  India based provider of IT Services, including  Business Process Services (“BPS”), globally.
Wipro is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
The address of its registered  office is Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur  Road, Bangalore – 560 035, Karnataka, India.
Wipro has its primary listing with Bombay Stock  Exchange and National Stock Exchange in India.
The  Company’s American Depository Shares representing  equity shares are also listed on the New York  Stock Exchange.
These ﬁnancial statements were  authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on June  02, 2017.
2.
Basis of preparation of ﬁnancial statements (i) Statement of compliance and basis of preparation  These financial statements are prepared in  accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind  AS), the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Companies Act”), as applicable and guidelines  issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (“SEBI”).
The Ind AS are prescribed under Section 133  of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules,  2016.
Up to the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company  prepared its financial statements in accordance  with the requirements of the Indian GAAP (“Previous  GAAP”), which included Standards notiﬁed under the  Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006.
The  date of transition to Ind AS is April 1, 2015.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently to  all periods presented in these ﬁnancial statements.
The financial statements correspond to the  classification provisions contained in Ind AS 1,  “Presentation of Financial Statements” .
For clarity,  various items are aggregated in the statements of  proﬁt and loss and balance sheet.
These items are  disaggregated separately in the notes to the ﬁnancial  statements, where applicable.
All amounts included in the ﬁnancial statements  are reported in millions of Indian rupees (in millions)  except share and per share data, unless otherwise  stated.
Due to rounding off, the numbers presented  throughout the document may not add up precisely to  the totals and percentages may not precisely reﬂect  the absolute ﬁgures.
(ii) Basis of measurement  These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on  a historical cost convention and on an accrual basis,  except for the following material items which have  been measured at fair value as required by relevant  Ind AS:-  a) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments;  b) Financial instruments classiﬁed as fair value  through other comprehensive income or fair  value through proﬁt or loss; and  c) The deﬁned beneﬁt asset/(liability) is recognised  as the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  less fair value of plan assets.
(iii) Use of estimates and judgment  The preparation of the financial statements in  conformity with Ind AS requires management to  make judgments, estimates and assumptions that  affect the application of accounting policies and  the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income  and expenses.
Actual results may differ from those  estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates  are recognized in the period in which the estimates  are revised and in any future periods affected.
In  particular, information about signiﬁcant areas of  estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in  applying accounting policies that have the most  signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognized in the  ﬁnancial statements are included in the following  notes:  a) Revenue recognition: The Company uses the  percentage of completion method using the  input (cost expended) method to measure  progress towards completion in respect of  ﬁxed price contracts.
Percentage of completion  method accounting relies on estimates of  total expected contract revenue and costs.
This method is followed when reasonably  dependable estimates of the revenues and costs  applicable to various elements of the contract  can be made.
Key factors that are reviewed in  estimating the future costs to complete include  estimates of future labor costs and productivity  efﬁciencies.
Because the ﬁnancial reporting of  these contracts depends on estimates that are  assessed continually during the term of these  contracts, recognized revenue and proﬁt are  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 142 Annual Report 2016-17 subject to revisions as the contract progresses  to completion.
When estimates indicate that a  loss will be incurred, the loss is provided for in  the period in which the loss becomes probable.
Volume discounts are recorded as a reduction  of revenue.
When the amount of discount varies  with the levels of revenue, volume discount is  recorded based on estimate of future revenue  from the customer.
b) Impairment testing:  Investments in subsidiaries,  goodwill and intangible assets are tested for  impairment at least annually and when events  occur or changes in circumstances indicate  that the recoverable amount of the asset or  cash generating units to which these pertain  is less than its carrying value.
The recoverable  amount of cash generating units is higher  of value-in-use and fair value less cost to  dispose.
The calculation of value in use of a  cash generating unit involves use of signiﬁcant  estimates and assumptions which includes  turnover and earnings multiples, growth rates  and net margins used to calculate projected  future cash ﬂows, risk-adjusted discount rate,  future economic and market conditions.
c) Income taxes: The major tax jurisdictions for  the Company are India and the United States  of America.
Signiﬁcant judgments are involved  in determining the provision for income taxes  including judgment on whether tax positions are  probable of being sustained in tax assessments.
A tax assessment can involve complex issues,  which can only be resolved over extended time  periods.
d) Deferred taxes:  Deferred tax is recorded on  temporary differences between the tax bases  of assets and liabilities and their carrying  amounts, at the rates that have been enacted  or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets  is dependent upon the generation of future  taxable profits during the periods in which  those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company  considers the expected reversal of deferred tax  liabilities and projected future taxable income  in making this assessment.
The amount of  the deferred tax assets considered realizable,  however, could be reduced in the near term if  estimates of future taxable income during the  carry-forward period are reduced.
e) Business combination:  In accounting for  business combinations, judgment is required  in identifying whether an identiﬁable intangible  asset is to be recorded separately from goodwill.
Additionally, estimating the acquisition date  fair value of the identiﬁable assets acquired  (including useful life estimates), liabilities  acquired and contingent consideration  assumed involves management judgment.
These measurements are based on information  available at the acquisition date and are based  on expectations and assumptions that have  been deemed reasonable by management.
Changes in these judgments, estimates, and  assumptions can materially affect the results  of operations.
f) Defined benefit plans and compensated  absences: The cost of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans,  compensated absences and the present value  of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are based on  actuarial valuation using the projected unit  credit method.
An actuarial valuation involves  making various assumptions that may differ  from actual developments in the future.
These  include the determination of the discount rate,  future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due  to the complexities involved in the valuation  and its long-term nature, a defined benefit  obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these  assumptions.
All assumptions are reviewed at  each reporting date.
g) Expected credit losses on ﬁnancial assets: The  impairment provisions of ﬁnancial assets are  based on assumptions about risk of default  and expected timing of collection.
The Company  uses judgment in making these assumptions  and selecting the inputs to the impairment  calculation, based on the Company’s past  history, customer’s creditworthiness, existing  market conditions as well as forward looking  estimates at the end of each reporting period.
h) Measurement of fair value of non-marketable  equity investments: These instruments are  initially recorded at cost and subsequently  measured at fair value.
Fair value of investments  is determined using the market and income  approaches.
The market approach includes the  use of ﬁnancial metrics and ratios of comparable  companies, such as revenue, earnings,   comparable performance multiples, recent  ﬁnancial rounds and the level of marketability  of the investments.
The selection of comparable  companies requires management judgment  and is based on a number of factors, including  comparable company sizes, growth rates, and  development stages.
The income approach  includes the use of discounted cash ﬂow model,  which requires signiﬁcant estimates regarding  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 143 the investees’ revenue, costs, and discount  rates based on the risk proﬁle of comparable  companies.
Estimates of revenue and costs  are developed using available historical and  forecast data.
i) Other estimates:  The share based compensation  expense is determined based on the Company’s  estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest.
Fair valuation of derivative  hedging instruments designated as cash ﬂow  hedges involves signiﬁcant estimates relating  to the occurrence of forecast transaction 3.
Signiﬁcant accounting policies (i) Functional and presentation currency  These ﬁnancial statements are presented in Indian  rupees, the national currency of India, which is the  functional currency of the Company.
(ii) Foreign currency transactions and translation  Transactions in foreign currency are translated  into the functional currency using the exchange  rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from  the settlement of such transactions and from  translation at the exchange rates prevailing at the  reporting date of monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies are recognized  in the statement of profit and loss and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net within  results of operating activities except when deferred  in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash  ﬂow hedges.
Gains/(losses) relating to translation  or settlement of borrowings denominated in foreign  currency are reported within ﬁnance expense.
Non- monetary assets and liabilities denominated in  foreign currency and measured at historical cost  are translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the  date of transaction.
Translation differences on non- monetary ﬁnancial assets measured at fair value  at the reporting date, such as equities classiﬁed as  FVTOCI are included in other comprehensive income,  net of taxes.
(iii)  Financial instruments a) Non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments:  Non derivative ﬁnancial instruments consist of: 	 •	 financial	 assets, 	which	 include	 cash	 and	 cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, ﬁnance lease receivables, employee  and other advances, investments in equity and  debt securities and eligible current and non- current assets; 	 •	 financial 	liabilities,	which	include	long	and	short- term loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts,  trade payables, eligible current and non-current  liabilities.
Non derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognized  initially at fair value.
Financial assets are derecognized  when substantial risks and rewards of ownership of  the ﬁnancial asset have been transferred.
In cases  where substantial risks and rewards of ownership  of the ﬁnancial assets are neither transferred nor  retained, financial assets are derecognized only  when the Company has not retained control over the  ﬁnancial asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative  ﬁnancial instruments are measured as described  below:  A.
Cash and cash equivalents   The Company’s cash and cash equivalents  consist of cash on hand and in banks and  demand deposits with banks, which can be  withdrawn at any time, without prior notice or  penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash ﬂow statement,  cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand,  in banks and demand deposits with banks, net of  outstanding bank overdrafts that are repayable  on demand and are considered part of the  Company’s cash management system.
In the  balance sheet, bank overdrafts are presented  under borrowings within current liabilities.
B.
Investments   Financial instruments measured at amortised  cost:   Debt instruments that meet the following criteria  are measured at amortized cost (except for  debt instruments that are designated at fair  value through Proﬁt or Loss (FVTPL) on initial  recognition): 	 	 •	 the	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	 whose objective is to hold assets in order  to collect contractual cash ﬂows; and 	 	 •	 the 	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that  are solely payment of principal and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income (FVOCI):   Debt instruments that meet the following  criteria are measured at fair value through  other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) (except  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 144 Annual Report 2016-17 for debt instruments that are designated at fair  value through Proﬁt or Loss (FVTPL) on initial  recognition) 	 	 •	 the	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	 whose objective is achieved both by  collecting contractual cash flows and  selling ﬁnancial asset; and 	 	 •	 the 	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that  are solely payment of principal and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Interest income is recognized in statement of  proﬁt and loss for FVTOCI debt instruments.
Other changes in fair value of FVTOCI ﬁnancial  assets are recognized in other comprehensive  income.
When the investment is disposed of, the  cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated  in reserves is transferred to statement of proﬁt  and loss.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through proﬁt or loss (FVTPL):   Instruments that do not meet the amortised  cost or FVTOCI criteria are measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair  value at the end of each reporting period, with  any gains or losses arising on re-measurement  recognized in statement of profit and loss.
The gain or loss on disposal is recognized in  statement of proﬁt and loss.
Interest income is recognized in statement of  profit and loss for FVTPL debt instruments.
Dividend on financial assets at FVTPL is  recognized when the Company’s right to receive  dividend is established.
Investments in equity instruments designated to  be classiﬁed as FVTOCI:   The Company carries certain equity instruments  which are not held for trading.
The Company  has elected the FVTOCI irrevocable option for  these instruments.
Movements in fair value  of these investments are recognized in other  comprehensive income and the gain or loss is not  reclassiﬁed to statement of proﬁt and loss on  disposal of these investments.
Dividends from  these investments are recognized in statement  of proﬁt and loss when the Company’s right to  receive dividends is established.
Investments in subsidiaries:   Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost  less impairment.
C.  Other ﬁnancial assets:   Other financial assets are non-derivative  financial assets with fixed or determinable  payments that are not quoted in an active  market.
They are presented as current assets,  except for those maturing later than 12 months  after the reporting date which are presented  as non-current assets.
These are initially  recognized at fair value and subsequently  measured at amortized cost using the effective  interest method, less any impairment losses.
These comprise trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, cash and cash equivalents and other  assets.
D.  Trade and other payables   Trade and other payables are initially recognized  at fair value, and subsequently carried at  amortized cost using the effective interest  method.
For these ﬁnancial instruments, the  carrying amounts approximate fair value due to  the short term maturity of these instruments.
b) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments  The Company is exposed to foreign currency  ﬂuctuations on foreign currency assets, liabilities,  net investment in foreign operations and forecasted  cash ﬂows denominated in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange  rate fluctuations by following established risk  management policies including the use of derivatives.
The Company enters into derivative financial  instruments where the counterparty is primarily a  bank.
Derivatives are recognized and measured at fair  value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognized  in statement of proﬁt and loss as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative ﬁnancial  instruments are measured as described below:  A.
Cash ﬂow hedges   Changes in the fair value of the derivative  hedging instrument designated as a cash ﬂow  hedge are recognized in other comprehensive  income and held in cash ﬂow hedging reserve,  net of taxes, a component of equity, to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent  that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair  value are recognized in the statement of proﬁt  and loss and reported within foreign exchange  gains/(losses), net within results from operating  activities.
If the hedging instrument no longer  meets the criteria for hedge accounting, then  hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 145 If the hedging instrument expires or is sold,  terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain  or loss on the hedging instrument recognized  in cash flow hedging reserve till the period  the hedge was effective remains in cash ﬂow  hedging reserve until the forecasted transaction  occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss previously  recognized in the cash ﬂow hedging reserve is  transferred to the statement of proﬁt and loss  upon the occurrence of the related forecasted  transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is  no longer expected to occur, such cumulative  balance is immediately recognized in the  statement of proﬁt and loss.
B.
Others   Changes in fair value of foreign currency  derivative instruments not designated as cash  ﬂow hedges are recognized in the statement  of proﬁt and loss and reported within foreign  exchange gains, net within results from operating  activities.
Changes in fair value and gains/(losses) on  settlement of foreign currency derivative  instruments relating to borrowings, which have  not been designated as hedges are recorded in  ﬁnance expense.
c) Derecognition of ﬁnancial instruments  The Company derecognizes a ﬁnancial asset when the  contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial  asset expires or it transfers the ﬁnancial asset and  the transfer qualiﬁes for derecognition under IFRS  9.
If the Company retains substantially all the risks  and rewards of a transferred ﬁnancial asset, the  Company continues to recognise the ﬁnancial asset  and also recognizes a borrowing for the proceeds  received.
A ﬁnancial liability (or a part of a ﬁnancial  liability) is derecognized from the Company’s balance  sheet when the obligation speciﬁed in the contract  is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(v) Equity a) Share capital and share premium  The authorized share capital of the Company as of  March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015  is 6,100 million divided into 2,917,500,000 equity  shares of ` 2 each, 25,000,000 10.25% redeemable  cumulative preference shares of ` 10 each and  150,000, 10% optionally convertible cumulative  preference shares of ` 100 each.
Par value of the  equity shares is recorded as share capital and the  amount received in excess of par value is classiﬁed  as share premium.
Every holder of the equity shares, as reﬂected in  the records of the Company as of the date of the  shareholder meeting shall have one vote in respect  of each share held for all matters submitted to vote  in the shareholder meeting.
b) Capital Reserve  Capital reserve amounting to/uni00A0 ` 1,139 (March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015: ` 1,139, respectively) is not freely  available for distribution.
c) Capital Redemption Reserve  Capital redemption reserve amounting ` 94 (March  31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: ` 14, respectively) is not  freely available for distribution.
c) Retained earnings  Retained earnings comprises of the Company’s  undistributed earnings after taxes.
e) Share based payment reserve  The share based payment reserve is used to record  the value of equity-settled share based payment  transactions with employees.
The amounts recorded  in share based payment reserve are transferred to  share premium upon exercise of stock options and  restricted stock unit options by employees.
f) Special Economic Zone Re-Investment reserve  The Special Economic Zone Re-Investment Reserve  has been created out of proﬁt of eligible SEZ units as  per provisions of section 10AA (1)(ii) of the Income– tax Act, 1961 for acquiring new plant and machinery.
The reserve has also been utilized for other business  purposes of SEZ units as per provisions of section  10AA of the Income-tax Act, 1961 till the time the  said reserve is utilized completely for the purposes  of purchasing new plant and machinery.
g) Other comprehensive income  Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income and actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned  beneﬁt plans are recognized in other comprehensive  income (net of taxes), and presented within equity as  other comprehensive income.
h) Cash ﬂow hedging reserve  Changes in fair value of derivative hedging instruments  designated and effective as a cash ﬂow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income (net of  taxes), and presented within equity as cash ﬂow  hedging reserve.
i) Foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR)  The exchange differences arising from the translation  of ﬁnancial statements of foreign operations with  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 146 Annual Report 2016-17 functional currency other than Indian rupees is  recognized in other comprehensive income, net of  taxes and is presented within equity in the FCTR.
j) Dividend  A ﬁnal dividend, including tax thereon, on equity  shares is recorded as a liability on the date of  approval by the shareholders.
An interim dividend,  including tax thereon, is recorded as a liability on the  date of declaration by the board of directors.
(vi) Property, plant and equipment a) Recognition and measurement  Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment  losses, if any.
Cost includes expenditures directly  attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
General  and speciﬁc borrowing costs directly attributable to  the construction of a qualifying asset are capitalized  as part of the cost.
b) Depreciation  The Company depreciates property, plant and  equipment over the estimated useful life on a  straight-line basis from the date the assets are  available for use.
Assets acquired under finance  lease and leasehold improvements are amortized  over the shorter of estimated useful life of the asset  or the related lease term.
Term licenses are amortized  over their respective contract term.
Freehold land is  not depreciated.
The estimated useful life of assets  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of assets are as  follows: Category Useful life Buildings 28 to 40 years Plant and machinery 5 to 21 years Computer equipment and  software  2 to 7 years Furniture, ﬁxtures and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles 4 to 5 years  When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment  have different useful lives, they are accounted for as  separate items (major components) of property, plant  and equipment.
Subsequent expenditure relating to  property, plant and equipment is capitalized only  when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts  associated with these will ﬂow to the Company and  the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The cost of property, plant and equipment not  available for use as at each reporting date is  disclosed under capital work- in-progress.
(vii)  Business combination, Goodwill and Intangible  assets a) Business combination  Business combinations are accounted for using  the purchase (acquisition) method.
The cost of an  acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets  transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity  instruments issued at the date of exchange by the  Company.
Identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities  and contingent liabilities assumed in a business  combination are measured initially at fair value at  the date of acquisition.
Transaction costs incurred in  connection with a business acquisition are expensed  as incurred.
The cost of an acquisition also includes the fair value  of any contingent consideration measured as at the  date of acquisition.
Any subsequent changes to the  fair value of contingent consideration classified  as liabilities, other than measurement period  adjustments, are recognized in the statement of proﬁt  and loss.
b) Goodwill  The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the  Company’s share in the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent  liabilities is recognized as goodwill.
If the excess is  negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognized in  equity as capital reserve.
c) Intangible assets  Intangible assets acquired separately are measured  at cost of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired  in a business combination are measured at fair  value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial  recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less  accumulated amortization and impairment losses, if  any.
The amortization of an intangible asset with a ﬁnite  useful life reﬂects the manner in which the economic  beneﬁt is expected to be generated.
The estimated useful life of amortizable intangibles  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of the amortizable  intangible assets for the current and comparative  periods are as follows: Category Useful life Customer related intangibles 5 to 10 years Marketing related intangibles 3 to 10 years (viii) Leases  The determination of whether an arrangement is, or  contains, a lease is based on the substance of the  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 147 arrangement at the inception date.
The arrangement  is, or contains a lease if, fulﬁllment of the arrangement  is dependent on the use of a speciﬁc asset or assets  or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset  or assets, even if that right is not explicitly speciﬁed  in an arrangement.
a) Arrangements where the Company is the lessee  Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the  Company assumes substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases.
Finance leases are capitalized at lower of the fair  value of the leased property and the present value  of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments  are apportioned between the ﬁnance charge and the  outstanding liability.
The ﬁnance charge is allocated  to periods during the lease term at a constant  periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of  the liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as  operating leases.
Payments made under operating  leases are recognized in the statement of proﬁt and  loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b) Arrangements where the Company is the lessor  In certain arrangements, the Company recognizes  revenue from the sale of products given under  finance leases.
The Company records gross  finance receivables, unearned income and the  estimated residual value of the leased equipment  on consummation of such leases.
Unearned income  represents the excess of the gross ﬁnance lease  receivable plus the estimated residual value over  the sales price of the equipment.
The Company  recognizes unearned income as ﬁnance income over  the lease term using the effective interest method.
(ix) Inventories  Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net  realizable value, including necessary provision for  obsolescence.
Cost is determined using the weighted  average method.
(x) Impairment  A) Financial assets   The Company applies the expected credit loss  model for recognizing impairment loss on  ﬁnancial assets measured at amortised cost,  debt instruments at FVTOCI, lease receivables,  trade receivables and other ﬁnancial assets.
Expected credit loss is the difference between  the contractual cash ﬂows and the cash ﬂows  that the entity expects to receive discounted  using effective interest rate.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and lease  receivables are measured at an amount equal  to lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime  expected credit losses are the expected credit  losses that result from all possible default  events over the expected life of a financial  instrument Lifetime expected credit loss  is computed based on a provision matrix  which takes in to the account historical credit  loss experience adjusted for forward looking  information.
For other ﬁnancial assets, expected  credit loss is measured at the amount equal to  twelve months expected credit loss unless there  has been a signiﬁcant increase in credit risk  from initial recognition, in which case those are  measured at lifetime expected credit loss.
Refer  note 2 (iii) (g) for further information.
B) Non - ﬁnancial assets   The Company assesses long-lived assets such  as property, plant, equipment and acquired  intangible assets for impairment whenever  events or changes in circumstances indicate  that the carrying amount of an asset or group  of assets may not be recoverable.
If any such  indication exists, the Company estimates the  recoverable amount of the asset or group of  assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset  or cash generating unit is the higher of its fair  value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) and its  value-in-use (VIU).
The VIU of long-lived assets  is calculated using projected future cash ﬂows.
FVLCD of a cash generating unit is computed  using turnover and earnings multiples.
If  the recoverable amount of the asset or the  recoverable amount of the cash generating  unit to which the asset belongs is less than its  carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced  to its recoverable amount.
The reduction is  treated as an impairment loss and is recognized  in the statement of profit and loss.
If at the  reporting date, there is an indication that a  previously assessed impairment loss no longer  exists, the recoverable amount is reassessed and  the impairment losses previously recognized are  reversed such that the asset is recognized at its  recoverable amount but not exceeding written  down value which would have been reported if  the impairment losses had not been recognized  initially.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least  annually at the same time and when events  occur or changes in circumstances indicate  that the recoverable amount of the cash  generating unit is less than its carrying value.
The goodwill impairment test is performed at  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 148 Annual Report 2016-17 the level of cash-generating unit or groups of  cash-generating units which represent the  lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for  internal management purposes.
An impairment  in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
(xi) Employee beneﬁts a) Post-employment and pension plans  The Company participates in various employee  beneﬁt plans.
Pensions and other post-employment  beneﬁts are classiﬁed as either deﬁned contribution  plans or defined benefit plans.
Under a defined  contribution plan, the Company’s only obligation is to  pay a ﬁxed amount with no obligation to pay further  contributions if the fund does not hold sufﬁcient  assets to pay all employee benefits.
The related  actuarial and investment risks fall on the employee.
The expenditure for deﬁned contribution plans is  recognized as an expense during the period when the  employee provides service.
Under a deﬁned beneﬁt  plan, it is the Company’s obligation to provide agreed  beneﬁts to the employees.
The related actuarial and  investment risks fall on the Company.
The present  value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations is calculated  by an independent actuary using the projected unit  credit method.
All actuarial gains or losses are immediately  recognized in other comprehensive income, net of  taxes and permanently excluded from proﬁt or loss.
Further, the proﬁt or loss will no longer include an  expected return on plan assets.
Instead net interest  recognized in proﬁt or loss is calculated by applying  the discount rate used to measure the defined  beneﬁt obligation to the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability  or asset.
The actual return on the plan assets above  or below the discount rate is recognized as part of re- measurement of net deﬁned liability or asset through  other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
The Company has the following employee beneﬁt  plans:  A.  Provident fund   Employees receive beneﬁts from a provident  fund, which is a defined benefit plan.
The  employer and employees each make periodic  contributions to the plan.
A portion of the  contribution is made to the approved provident  fund trust managed by the Company while  the remainder of the contribution is made to  the government administered pension fund.
The contributions to the trust managed by the  Company is accounted for as a deﬁned beneﬁt  plan as the Company is liable for any shortfall  in the fund assets based on the government  speciﬁed minimum rates of return.
B.  Superannuation   Superannuation plan, a deﬁned contribution  scheme is administered by third party fund  managers.
The Company makes annual  contributions based on a speciﬁed percentage  of each eligible employee’s salary.
C.  Gratuity   In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity  Act, 1972, applicable for Indian companies, the  Company provides for a lump sum payment to  eligible employees, at retirement or termination  of employment based on the last drawn salary  and years of employment with the Company.
The gratuity fund is managed by the third party  funds.
The Company’s obligation in respect of the  gratuity plan, which is a deﬁned beneﬁt plan, is  provided for based on actuarial valuation using  the projected unit credit method.
The Company  recognizes actuarial gains and losses in other  comprehensive income, net of taxes.
b) Termination beneﬁts  Termination benefits are expensed when the  Company can no longer withdraw the offer of those  beneﬁts.
c) Short-term beneﬁts  Short-term employee benefit obligations are  measured on an undiscounted basis and are recorded  as expense as the related service is provided.
A  liability is recognized for the amount expected to  be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit- sharing plans, if the Company has a present legal  or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a  result of past service provided by the employee and  the obligation can be estimated reliably.
d) Compensated absences  The employees of the Company are entitled to  compensated absences.
The employees can carry  forward a portion of the unutilized accumulating  compensated absences and utilize it in future  periods or receive cash at retirement or termination  of employment.
The Company records an obligation  for compensated absences in the period in which the  employee renders the services that increases this  entitlement.
The Company measures the expected  cost of compensated absences as the additional  amount that the Company expects to pay as a result  of the unused entitlement that has accumulated  at the end of the reporting period.
The Company  recognizes accumulated compensated absences  based on actuarial valuation using the projected  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 149 unit credit method.
Non-accumulating compensated  absences are recognized in the period in which the  absences occur.
(xii) Share based payment transactions  Selected employees of the Company receive  remuneration in the form of equity settled instruments,  for rendering services over a deﬁned vesting period.
Equity instruments granted are measured by  reference to the fair value of the instrument at the  date of grant.
In cases, where equity instruments  are granted at a nominal exercise price, the intrinsic  value on the date of grant approximates the fair value.
The expense is recognized in the statement of proﬁt  and loss with a corresponding increase to the share  based payment reserve, a component of equity.
The equity instruments generally vest in a graded  manner over the vesting period.
The fair value  determined at the grant date is expensed over  the vesting period of the respective tranches of  such grants (accelerated amortization).
The stock  compensation expense is determined based on the  Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest.
(xiii) Provisions  Provisions are recognized when the Company has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of a past event, it is probable that an outﬂow  of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the  obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the  amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best  estimate of the consideration required to settle the  present obligation at the end of the reporting period,  taking into account the risks and uncertainties  surrounding the obligation.
When some or all of the economic beneﬁts required  to settle a provision are expected to be recovered  from a third party, the receivable is recognized as an  asset, if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will  be received and the amount of the receivable can be  measured reliably.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when  the expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Company  from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs  of meeting the future obligations under the contract.
Provisions for onerous contracts are measured at  the present value of lower of the expected net cost  of fulﬁlling the contract and the expected cost of  terminating the contract.
(xiv) Revenue  The Company derives revenue primarily from software  development, maintenance of software/hardware  and related services, business process services, sale  of IT and other products.
a) Services  The Company recognizes revenue when the signiﬁcant  terms of the arrangement are enforceable, services  have been delivered and the collectability is  reasonably assured.
The method for recognizing  revenues and costs depends on the nature of the  services rendered:  A.
Time and materials contracts   Revenues and costs relating to time and  materials contracts are recognized as the  related services are rendered.
B.  Fixed-price contracts   Revenues from ﬁxed-price contracts, including  systems development and integration contracts  are recognized using the “percentage-of- completion” method.
Percentage of completion  is determined based on project costs incurred  to date as a percentage of total estimated  project costs required to complete the project.
The cost expended (or input) method has been  used to measure progress towards completion  as there is a direct relationship between input  and productivity.
If the Company does not have  a sufﬁcient basis to measure the progress of  completion or to estimate the total contract  revenues and costs, revenue is recognized  only to the extent of contract cost incurred for  which recoverability is probable.
When total cost  estimates exceed revenues in an arrangement,  the estimated losses are recognized in the  statement of proﬁt and loss in the period in  which such losses become probable based on  the current contract estimates.
‘Unbilled revenues’ represent cost and earnings  in excess of billings as at the end of the reporting  period.
‘Unearned revenues’ represent billing  in excess of revenue recognized.
Advance  payments received from customers for which  no services have been rendered are presented  as ‘Advance from customers’ .
C.  Maintenance contracts   Revenue from maintenance contracts is  recognized ratably over the period of the  contract using the percentage of completion  method.
When services are performed through  an indeﬁnite number of repetitive acts over a  speciﬁed period of time, revenue is recognized  on a straight-line basis over the speciﬁed period  unless some other method better represents the  stage of completion.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 150 Annual Report 2016-17   In certain projects, a ﬁxed quantum of service or  output units is agreed at a ﬁxed price for a ﬁxed  term.
In such contracts, revenue is recognized  with respect to the actual output achieved till  date as a percentage of total contractual output.
Any residual service unutilized by the customer  is recognized as revenue on completion of the  term.
b) Products  Revenue from products are recognized when the  significant risks and rewards of ownership have  been transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial  involvement usually associated with ownership  and effective control have ceased, the amount of  revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that  economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction  will ﬂow to the Company and the costs incurred or  to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be  measured reliably.
c) Multiple element arrangements  Revenue from contracts with multiple-element  arrangements are recognized using the guidance  in Ind AS 18, Revenue.
The Company allocates the  arrangement consideration to separately identiﬁable  components based on their relative fair values or  on the residual method.
Fair values are determined  based on sale prices for the components when it  is regularly sold separately, third-party prices for  similar components or cost plus an appropriate  business-specific profit margin related to the  relevant component.
d) Others 	 •	 The	 Company	accounts	for	volume	discounts	 and pricing incentives to customers by reducing  the amount of revenue recognized at the time of  sale.
•	 Revenues	 are	shown	net	of	sales	tax,	value	added	 tax, service tax and applicable discounts and  allowances.
•	 The	 Company	accrues	the	estimated	cost	of	 warranties at the time when the revenue is  recognized.
The accruals are based on the  Company’s historical experience of material  usage and service delivery costs.
•	 Costs	 that	relate	directly	 to	a	contract	 and	 incurred in securing a contract are recognized as  an asset and amortized over the contract term  as reduction in revenue 	 •	 Contract	expenses	 are	recognised	as	expenses	 by reference to the stage of completion of  contract activity at the end of the reporting  period.
(xv) Finance cost  Finance cost comprise interest cost on borrowings,  gain or losses arising on re-measurement of ﬁnancial  assets at FVTPL, gains/ (losses) on translation  or settlement of foreign currency borrowings  and changes in fair value and gains/ (losses) on  settlement of related derivative instruments.
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to  a qualifying asset are recognized in the statement of  proﬁt and loss using the effective interest method.
(xvi) Other income  Other income comprises interest income on deposits,  dividend income and gains / (losses) on disposal of  ﬁnancial assets that are measured at FVTPL, and debt  instruments classiﬁed as FVTOCI.
Interest income  is recognized using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognized when the right to  receive payment is established.
(xvii) Income tax  Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax expense is recognized in the statement  of proﬁt and loss except to the extent it relates to a  business combination, or items directly recognized  in equity or in other comprehensive income.
a) Current income tax  Current income tax for the current and prior periods  are measured at the amount expected to be recovered  from or paid to the taxation authorities based on the  taxable income for the period.
The tax rates and tax  laws used to compute the current tax amount are  those that are enacted or substantively enacted as at  the reporting date and applicable for the period.
The  Company offsets current tax assets and current tax  liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to  set off the recognized amounts and where it intends  either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset  and liability simultaneously.
b) Deferred income tax  Deferred income tax is recognized using the balance  sheet approach.
Deferred income tax assets and  liabilities are recognized for deductible and taxable  temporary differences arising between the tax base  of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount  in ﬁnancial statements, except when the deferred  income tax arises from the initial recognition of  goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that  is not a business combination and affects neither  accounting nor taxable proﬁts or loss at the time of  the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the  extent it is probable that taxable profit will be  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 151 available against which the deductible temporary  differences and the carry forward of unused tax  credits and unused tax losses can be utilized.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for  all taxable temporary differences except in respect  of taxable temporary differences associated  with investments in subsidiaries, associates and  foreign branches where the timing of the reversal  of the temporary difference can be controlled and  it is probable that the temporary difference will not  reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is  reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the  extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient  taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part of  the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are  measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply  in the period when the asset is realized or the liability  is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that  have been enacted or substantively enacted at the  reporting date.
The Company offsets deferred income tax assets  and liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable  right to offset current tax assets against current  tax liabilities, and they relate to taxes levied by the  same taxation authority on either the same taxable  entity, or on different taxable entities where there is  an intention to settle the current tax liabilities and  assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities  will be realized simultaneously.
(xviii) Earnings per share  Basic earnings per share is computed using  the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the period adjusted for treasury  shares held.
Diluted earnings per share is computed  using the weighted-average number of equity and  dilutive equivalent shares outstanding during the  period, using the treasury stock method for options  and warrants, except where the results would be  anti-dilutive.
New accounting standards not yet adopted:  Certain amendments to accounting standards are  not yet effective for annual periods beginning after  1 April 2015, and have not been applied in preparing  these financial statements.
The amendments to  standards that could have potential impact on the  ﬁnancial statements of the Company are:  Amendment to Ind AS 7:  In March 2017, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  (Amendments) Rules, 2017, notifying amendments  to Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ .
These  amendments are in accordance with the amendments  made by International Accounting Standards Board  (IASB) to IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash ﬂows’ in January  2016, requiring the entities to provide disclosures  that enable users of ﬁnancial statements to evaluate  changes in liabilities arising from ﬁnancing activities,  including both changes arising from cash flows  and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion of a  reconciliation between the opening and closing  balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising  from financing activities, to meet the disclosure  requirement.
The amendments are applicable to the  Company for annual periods commencing on or after  from April 1, 2017.
The Company is assessing the  disclosure requirements of the amendment and the  effect on its ﬁnancial statements.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 152 Annual Report 2016-17 4.
Notes on Transition to Ind AS  These ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance with Ind AS.
For years up to and including the year ended  March 31, 2016, the Company prepared its ﬁnancial statements in accordance with Indian GAAP (i.e.
Previous  GAAP).
Exemptions from retrospective application:  In preparation of the Ind AS ﬁnancial statements, the Company has:  1.
Elected to apply Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, retrospectively to past business combinations from  April 1, 2008.
2.
Elected to adopt the Previous GAAP carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment as deemed cost on date  of transition.
Accordingly, the Company has prepared ﬁnancial statements which comply with Ind AS for periods ending on March  31, 2017, together with the comparative period data as at and for the year ended March 31, 2016.
In preparing  these ﬁnancial statements, the Company’s opening balance sheet was prepared as at April 1, 2015, the Company’s  date of transition to Ind AS.
Reconciliations between Previous GAAP and Ind AS i.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on equity as at March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 Notes Equity as reported under Previous GAAP (1) ` 409,052 ` 346,216  Effect of transition to Ind AS    Dividend and tax on dividend  2,974  20,739 A Provisions for expected credit loss  (1,347)  (1,186) B Fair valuation of investments  2,135  1,338 C Amortization of intangible assets  (369)  (303) D Incremental deferred tax recognized, net  (337)  (475) H Others  149  56  Equity under Ind AS (1) ` 412,257  ` 366,385    (1)  Includes share capital of ` 4,941 and ` 4,937 as at March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
ii.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2016 Notes Net proﬁt under Previous GAAP ` 80,990 Effect of transition to Ind AS Expected credit loss recognized  (161) B Change in fair valuation of investments  359 C Depreciation, amortization and impairment charge  (65) D Employee beneﬁts  1,011 E Share based compensation expenses  108 F Tax impact (net)  (107) H Others  (130) Proﬁt for the year under Ind AS ` 82,005 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 153 Year ended March 31, 2016 Notes Ind AS adjustments in other comprehensive income, net of tax : Items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to the statement of proﬁt or loss: Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains/(losses)  (1,010) E  Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI  25 C  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss  214 H Items that will be reclassiﬁed subsequently to the statement of proﬁt or loss:  Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 393 C  Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges (1,900) G  Income tax relating to items that will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss  226 H Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of taxes under Ind AS ` (2,052) Total comprehensive income for the year under Ind AS ` 79,953 Notes to equity and net proﬁt reconciliation: A) Proposed dividend: Under the Previous GAAP , dividend payable including dividend distribution tax was recorded as  a liability in the period to which it relates.
Under Ind AS, dividend to holders of equity instruments is recognized as  a liability in the period in which the obligation to pay is established (post approval of shareholders in the Annual  General Meeting).
B) Expected credit loss: Under Previous GAAP , loss provision for trade receivables was created based on credit risk  assessment.
Under Ind AS, these provisions are based on assessment of risk of default and timing of collection.
C) Fair valuation of investments:  Under the Previous GAAP , current investments were measured at lower of cost or  fair value and long term investments were measured at cost less diminution in value which is other than temporary.
Under Ind AS, investments are measured at fair value and the mark-to-market gains/ losses are recognized either  through proﬁt or loss (FVTPL) or through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) based on the business model  test.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on total comprehensive income represents the mark-to-market gains/ losses on  investment.
D)  Amortization of intangible assets: Under Previous GAAP , in case of Business Combinations, assets and liabilities  were carried at carrying value in the books of the acquired entity.
Under Ind AS, all assets and including intangibles  are recorded at fair value.
Such intangibles are amortized over their useful life.
E) Employee beneﬁts:  Under the Previous GAAP , actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt obligations were  recognized in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
Under Ind AS, these are recognized in other comprehensive income.
This difference has resulted in an increase in net income for the year ended March 31, 2016.
However, the same  does not result in difference in equity or total comprehensive income.
F) Share based compensation expenses:  Under the Previous GAAP , the share based compensation cost was amortized  over the vesting period on a straight line basis.
Under Ind AS, the share based compensation cost is determined  based on the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest and amortized over the vesting  period on an accelerated basis.
However, the same does not result in difference in equity.
G) Change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges: Under Ind AS, changes in the fair value  of derivative hedging instruments designated and effective as a cash ﬂow hedge are recognized through other  comprehensive income.
H)  Tax impact (net):  Tax adjustments include deferred tax impact on account of differences between Previous GAAP  and Ind AS.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 154 Annual Report 2016-17 5.
Property, Plant and Equipment Land Buildings Plant and  Equipment (2)   Furniture  and  Fixtures Vehicles Ofﬁce  equipment Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2015 `  3,443 `  20,351 `  52,500 `  8,342 `  701 `  3,178 `  88,515  Additions  (3)   1,476   8,345  589  13  410  10,830  Disposal / adjustments  50  (55)   (1,552)  (425)  (224)  (77)  (2,283) As at March 31, 2016 `  3,490 `  21,772 `  59,293 `  8,506 `  490 `  3,511 `  97,062  As at April 1, 2016 `  3,490 `  21,772 `  59,293 `  8,506 `  490 `  3,511 ` 97,062  Additions   -  353   10,772  756  5  562  12,448  Disposal / adjustments   -  (13)   (5,336)  (335)  (164)  (26)  (5,874) As at March 31, 2017 `  3,490 `  22,112 `  64,729 `  8,927 `  331 `  4,047 `  103,636  Accumulated depreciation/  impairment: As at April 1, 2015  - `  3,212 `  40,562 `  6,636 `  693 `  2,607 `  53,710  Depreciation  -  644   7,115  605  2  248  8,614  Disposal / adjustments  -  (42)   (982)  (391)  (220)  (45)  (1,680) As at March 31, 2016  - `  3,814 `  46,695 `  6,850 `  475 `  2,810 `  60,644  As at April 1, 2016  - `  3,814 `  46,695 `  6,850 `  475 `  2,810 `  60,644  Depreciation  -  718   8,586  486  4  288  10,082  Disposal / adjustments  -  34   (4,301)  (225)  (160)  7  (4,645) As at March 31, 2017  - `  4,566 `  50,980 `  7,111 `  319 `  3,105 `  66,081  Net carrying value As at April 1, 2015 `  3,443 ` 17,139 `  11,938 ` 1,706 `  8 `  571 `  34,805  As at March 31, 2016 `  3,490 ` 17,958 `  12,598 `  1,656 `  15 `  701 `  36,418  As at March 31, 2017 `  3,490 ` 17,546 `  13,749 `  1,816 `  12 `  942 `  37,555  Capital w ork-in-progress As at April 1, 2015 `  3,612 As at March 31, 2016 `  3,251 As at March 31, 2017 `  6,941   (1)  Interest capitalized during the year ended March 31, 2017, aggregated to ` 89 (2016: ` 73).
The capitalization  rate used to determine the amount of borrowing cost capitalized for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 are  2.4% and 4.8%, respectively.
(2)  Includes net carrying value of computer equipment and software amounting to ` 7,099 as at March 31, 2017  (March 31, 2016 – 6,687, April 1, 2015 – ` 5,858) Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 155 6.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets  The carrying value of goodwill is ` 3,882 as at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
The Company is organized by two operating segments: IT Services and IT Products.
Goodwill as at March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 has been allocated to the IT Services operating segment.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the company realigned its CGUs.
This realignment did not have any impact  on allocation of goodwill to the CGUs.
Below is the allocation of the goodwill to the CGUs: CGUs  As at  March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU) ` 3,782 ` 3,782 ` 3,782  Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)  100  100  100  Total ` 3,882 ` 3,882 ` 3,882   For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within the  Company at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and which is not higher than the  Company’s operating segment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the Company’s  procedure for determining the recoverable value of such assets.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the basis of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD).
The  FVLCD of the CGU is determined based on the market capitalization approach, using the turnover and earnings  multiples derived from observable market data.
The fair value measurement is categorized as a level 2 fair value  based on the inputs in the valuation techniques used.
Based on the above, no impairment was identiﬁed as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 as the recoverable value of the  CGUs exceeded the carrying value.
Further, none of the CGU’s tested for impairment as of March 31, 2017 and 2016  were at risk of impairment.
An analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a change in the key parameters (revenue  growth, operating margin, discount rate and long-term growth rate) based on reasonably probable assumptions,  did not identify any probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable amount would fall below its carrying amount.
Movement in intangible assets is given below – Customer  related Marketing  related (1) Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2015 ` 738 ` 89  ` 827 Additions - - - Disposal/ adjustment  -  (11)  (11) As at March 31, 2016 ` 738 ` 78 ` 816 As at April 1, 2016 ` 738 ` 78 ` 816 Additions 2,175 - 2,175 Disposal/ adjustment  -  -  - As at March 31, 2017 ` 2,913 ` 78 ` 2,991  Accumulated amortization and impairment: As at April 1, 2015 ` 302 ` 26 ` 328 Amortization 65 49 114 Disposal/ adjustment  -  (1)  (1) As at March 31, 2016 ` 367 ` 74 ` 441 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 156 Annual Report 2016-17 Customer  related Marketing  related (1) Total As at April 1, 2016 ` 367 ` 74 ` 441 Amortization 387 13 400 Disposal/ adjustment  -  (35)  (35) As at March 31, 2017 ` 754  ` 52 ` 806  Net carrying value  As at April 1, 2015 ` 436 ` 53 ` 499 As at March 31, 2016 ` 371 ` 4 ` 375 As at March 31, 2017 ` 2,159 ` 26 ` 2,185   (1)  Marketing related intangible assets include Technical Know-how, Patents and trademarks.
Addition during the year ended March 31, 2017 represents customer relationship assigned to the Company under  a contract with a Group company.
The estimated remaining useful life of this is 6 years as of March 31, 2017.
7.
Investments  Investments consist of the following: Note As at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Financial instruments at FVTPL  Liquid and short-term mutual funds (1) ` 104,675 ` 10,578 ` 10,202   Others – Debentures 569 816 822 Financial instruments at FVTOCI  Equity instruments 7.1 3,533 3,716 3,574  Commercial paper, Certiﬁcate of deposits and bonds 7.2 145,614 121,676 43,072 Financial instruments at amortized cost  Inter corporate and term deposits (2) (3)  42,383  71,125  39,731  ` 296,774 ` 207,911 ` 97,401  Investment in Subsidiaries 7.3  54,687  54,095  52,686  ` 351,461 ` 262,006 ` 150,087  Non-current  59,994 57,811 56,260 Current 291,467 204,195 93,827 Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value  thereof Non-current - - - Current 104,675 11,672 12,248 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments Non-current 59,994 57,811 56,260 Current 186,792 192,523 81,579 Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments in  subsidiaries 2,196 1,793 26  (1)    Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds include investments amounting to ` 117 (March 31, 2016:   ` 109, April 1, 2015: ` Nil) pledged as margin money deposits for entering into currency future contracts.
(2)  These deposits earn a ﬁxed rate of interest.
(3)   Term deposits include deposits in lien with banks amounting to ` 308 (March 31, 2016: ` 300, April 1, 2015:   ` 300).
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 157 Details of Investments 7.1 Details of investments in equity instruments – other than subsidiaries (fully paid up) – classiﬁed as FVTOCI Particulars Number of units as at Balance as at  March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Opera Solutions LLC 2,390,433 2,390,433 2,390,433 ` 3,232 ` 3,472 ` 3,434 Mycity Technology Limited 44,935 44,935 44,935 45 45 45 Wep Peripherals Limited 306,000 306,000 306,000 42 42 70 Wep Solutions Limited 1,836,000 1,836,000 1,836,000 97 40 25 Drivestream India Private Limited 267,600 267,600 - 19 19 - Altizon Systems Private Limited 16,018 16,018 - 98 98 - Total ` 3,533 ` 3,716 ` 3,574 7.2 Details of investments in commercial paper, certiﬁcate of deposits and bonds – classiﬁed as FVTOCI Particulars of issuer Balance as at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 National Highways Authority of India  ` 18,361  ` 16,881 ` -  L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited  12,089  13,317  5,012  Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited  11,955  9,988  4,068  IDFC Limited  11,570  1,587  -  HDB Financial Services Limited  11,479  2,940  -  LIC Housing Finance Limited  9,812  13,683  5,266  Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited  9,061  10,600  1,072  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  7,293  6,693  -  Aditya Birla Finance Limited  7,085  6,313  2,177  L&T Housing Finance Limited  7,065  1,293  204  Sundaram Finance Limited  6,832  6,335  4,030  Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited  6,724  6,839  2,850  Shriram Transport Finance Limited  6,545  -  -  Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited  6,358  2,495  993  Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  3,776  3,557  -  Bajaj Finance Limited  2,937  6,387  4,862  Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited  2,119  -  4,574  Gruh Finance Limited  1,024  -  -  Power Finance Corporation Limited  958  1,070  374  Canﬁn Homes Limited  753  -  -  L&T Floating Rate Bond  530  -  -  NABARD  440  416  -  NTPC Limited  425  404  -  Rural Electriﬁcation Corporation Limited  423  404  -  Indian Government Bond  -  3,535  3,384  IL&FS Financial Services Limited  -  1,785  3,236  Allahabad Bank  -  999  -  Andhra Bank  -  999  -  Axis Bank Limited  -  999  -  Syndicate Bank  -  999  -  IDBI Bank Limited  -  998  -  Tube Investments of India Limited  -  160  161  Bharat Aluminium Company Limited  -  -  267  Export Import Bank of India  -  -  268  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 158 Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars of issuer Balance as at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited  -  -  274  Total ` 145,614 ` 121,676 ` 43,072 7.3 Details of investment in unquoted equity and preference instruments of subsidiaries (fully paid up) Name of the  subsidiary Number of Units as at Balances as at  Cur- rency Face  Value March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Equity Instrument Wipro Trademarks  Holding Limited ` 10 93,250 93,250 93,250 ` 22 ` 22 ` 22 Wipro Travel Services  Limited ` 10 66,171 66,171 66,171 1 1 1 Wipro Holdings  (Mauritius) Limited USD 1 105,468,318 105,468,318 105,468,318 4,747 4,747 4,747 Wipro LLC USD 2,500 180,378 180,378 180,378 23,135 23,135 23,135 Wipro Japan KK JPY Note 1 650 650 650 10 10 10 16 16 16 1002 1002 1002 Wipro Shanghai  Limited (Note 2) 9 9 9 Wipro Cyprus Private  Limited EUR 1 163,611 163,611 163,611 18,903 18,903 18,903 Wipro Networks Pte  Limited SGD 1 28,126,108 28,126,108 28,126,108 1,339 1,339 1,339 Wipro Chengdu  Limited (Note 2) 24 24 24 Wipro Airport IT  Services Limited ` 10 3,700,000 3,700,000 3,700,000 37 37 37 Wipro Overseas IT  Services Pvt.
Ltd. ` 10 50,000 50,000 - ^ ^ - Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private  Limited ` 10 800,000 - - 995 - - Sub-total ` 50,224  ` 49,229 ` 49,229 Preference Shares Wipro Cyprus Private  Limited (Redeemable) EUR 1 45,000 45,000 35,000 ` 5,055 ` 5,055 ` 3,483 Wipro Mauritius (Redeemable) USD 1 25,000,000 25,000,000 - 1,604 1,604 - Wipro Trademarks  Holding Limited (9% cumulative  redeemable) ` 10 1,800 1,800 1,800 ^ ^ ^ Sub-total `  6,659 `  6,659 `  3,483 Total ` 56,883 ` 55,888 ` 52,712  Note 1- As per the local laws of Japan, there is no concept of Face value of Shares.
Note 2 - As per the local laws of People’s Republic of China, there is no concept of issuance of Share Certiﬁcate.
Hence the investment by the Company is considered as equity contribution.
^ Value less than ` 1  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 159 8.
Trade receivables As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Unsecured Considered good ` 85,297  ` 85,342  ` 80,240  Doubtful  7,722  7,568  5,694   93,019  92,910  85,934  Less: Allowance for expected credit loss  (7,722)  (7,568)  (5,694)  ` 85,297  ` 85,342  ` 80,240  Included in the ﬁnancial statement as follows: Non-current 3,998 1,362 2,443 Current 81,299 83,980 77,797  The activities in the allowance for doubtful receivables is given below:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Balance at the beginning of the year ` 7,568 ` 5,694 Addition during the year, net 1,825 1,938 Uncollectable receivables charged against allowance (1,671) (64) Balance at the end of the year ` 7,722 ` 7,568 9.
Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 consists of the following:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Balances with Banks  - Current accounts  ` 15,969 ` 52,717 ` 41,903   - Unclaimed dividend  50  53  25   - Demand deposits (1) (2)  18,555  30,716  106,429  Cheques, drafts on hand  592 602 1,067 Cash on hand  -  -  1  ` 35,166 ` 84,088 ` 149,425   (1)   These deposits can be withdrawn by the Company at any time without prior notice and without any penalty on  the principal.
(2)   Demand deposits with banks include deposits in lien with banks amounting to ` Nil (March 31, 2016: ` 3;   April 1, 2015: Nil)  Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following for the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents ` 35,166 ` 84,088 Bank overdrafts  (1,544)  (657)  ` 33,622 ` 83,431   Speciﬁed Bank Notes –  As per the Notiﬁcation G.S.R 308(E) dated March 31, 2017 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Company  needs to provide the details of Speciﬁed Bank Notes (SBN) held and transacted during the period from November  08, 2016 to December 30, 2016.
The term ‘Speciﬁed Bank Notes’ shall have the same meaning as provided in the  notiﬁcation of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs number S.O.
3407(E), dated the 8th November, 2016.
The Company did not have any cash in hand as on November 8, 2016 and  December 30, 2016.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 160 Annual Report 2016-17 10.
Other ﬁnancial assets  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Advance to related parties ` 43 - - Security deposits 1,497 1,530 1,383 Other deposits 49 273 206 Finance lease receivables (secured by underlying assets given on lease) 1,956 2,264 2,632 ` 3,545 ` 4,067 ` 4,221 Current Considered good  Due from ofﬁcers and employees ` 757 ` 1,673 ` 876  Finance lease receivables    (secured by underlying assets given on lease) 1,560 1,824 3,190  Interest receivable 2,147 2,486 3,758  Security deposits 173 251 1,620  Other deposits - - 253  Others 1,514 1,424 2,033 Considered doubtful  469  714  865  6,620 8,372 12,595 Less: Allowance for doubtful advances  (469)  (714)  (865)  ` 6,151 ` 7,658 ` 11,730  Finance lease receivables  Leasing arrangements  Finance lease receivables consist of assets that are leased to customers for contract terms ranging from 1 to 7  years, with lease payments due in monthly or quarterly installments.
Amounts receivable under ﬁnance leases:  The components of ﬁnance lease receivables are as follows: Minimum lease payments as of Present value of minimum lease  payments as of March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Not later than one year ` 1,737 ` 1,977 ` 3,397 ` 1,560 ` 1,824 ` 3,149 Later than one year but not  later than ﬁve years 1,979 2,384 2,835 1,898 2,206 2,558 Later than ﬁve years - - 73 - - 57 Unguaranteed residual  values 62 62 62 58 58 58 Gross investment in lease 3,778 4,423 6,367 3,516 4,088 5,822 Less: Unearned finance  income (262) (335) (545) - - - Present value of minimum  lease payment receivable ` 3,516 ` 4,088 ` 5,822 ` 3,516 ` 4,088 ` 5,822 Included in the financial  statements as follows: -  Non-current ﬁnance lease  receivables 1,956 2,264 2,632 -  Current finance lease  receivables  1,560 1,824 3,190 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 161 11.
Inventories   As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Raw materials - - 2 Work-in-progress - - 2 Finished goods [including goods in transit - ` 2 (March 31,  2016 : ` 2, April 1, 2015 : ` 8)] 5 8 8 Stock-in-trade 2,746 4,383 3,850 Stores and spares 808 871 932 ` 3,559 ` 5,262 ` 4,794 12.
Other assets As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Capital advances ` 1,573 ` 2,388 ` 1,483 Prepaid expenses including rentals for lease hold land 6,984 5,062 3,497 Deferred contract costs 3,175 3,807 4,445 ` 11,732 ` 11,257 ` 9,425 Current Prepaid expenses ` 8,583 ` 9,683 ` 7,276 Due from ofﬁcers and employees 1,384 1,899 2,388 Advance to suppliers 1,169 1,377 2,089 Deferred contract costs 4,270 3,720 3,610 Balance with excise, customs and other authorities 2,013 1,573 1,475 ` 17,419 ` 18,252 ` 16,838 13.
Share Capital  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1.
2015 Authorised Capital 2,917,500,000 (2016: 2,917,500,000, 2015: 2,917,500,000)  equity shares [Par value of ` 2 per share] ` 5,835 ` 5,835 ` 5,835 25,000,000 (2016: 25,000,000, 2015: 25,000,000) 10.25%  redeemable cumulative preference shares [Par value of   ` 10 per share] 250 250 250 150,000 (2016: 150,000, 2015: 150,000) 10% Optionally  convertible cumulative preference shares [Par value of   ` 100 per share] 15 15 15 ` 6,100 ` 6,100 ` 6,100 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up capital 2,430,900,565 (2016: 2,470,713,290, 2015: 2,469,043,038)  equity shares of ` 2 each [refer note (i) below] ` 4,861 ` 4,941 ` 4,937  Terms / Rights attached to equity shares  The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2 per share.
Each holder of equity shares  is entitled to one vote per share.
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees.
The dividend proposed  by the Board of Directors is subject to shareholders approval in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 162 Annual Report 2016-17  Following is the summary of per share dividends recognised as distributions to equity shareholders:  For the year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Interim dividend ` 2 ` 5 Final dividend - ` 1  In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive the remaining assets  of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any, in proportion to the number of equity shares  held by the shareholders.
(i) Reconciliation of number of shares and equity share capital: As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 No of shares ` million No of shares ` million No of shares ` million Opening number of equity  shares / American Depository  Receipts (ADRs) outstanding 2,470,713,290 4,941 2,469,043,038 4,937 2,466,317,273 4,932 Equity shares/American  Depository Receipts (ADRs)  issued pursuance to   Employee Stock Option Plan 187,275            ^ 1,670,252 4 2,725,765 5 Buyback of Equity shares/ American Depository   Receipts (ADRs) (Refer Note  29) (40,000,000) (80) - - - - Closing number of equity  shares / ADRs outstanding 2,430,900,565 4,861 2,470,713,290 4,941 2,469,043,038 4,937  ^ Value is less than ` 1 (ii) Details of shareholders having more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company: Sl.
No.
Name of the Shareholder As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 No of shares % held No of shares % held No of shares % held 1 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner  representing Hasham Traders 370,956,000 15.26 370,956,000 15.01 370,956,000 15.02 2 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner  representing Prazim Traders  452,906,791 18.63 452,906,791 18.33 452,906,791 18.34 3 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner  representing Zash Traders 451,619,790 18.58 451,619,790 18.28 451,619,790 18.29 4 Azim Premji Trust 399,065,641 16.42 429,714,120 17.39 429,714,120 17.40 (iii) Other details of Equity Shares for a period of ﬁve years immediately preceding March 31, 2017: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Aggregate number of share allotted as fully paid up pursuant  to contract(s) without payment being received in cash (Allotted to the Wipro Inc Trust, the sole beneﬁciary of which  is Wipro LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, in  consideration of acquisition of inter-company investments) - 195,717 841,585 Aggregate number of shares allotted as fully paid bonus  shares - - 979,119,256 Aggregate number of shares bought back (Refer Note 29) 40,000,000 - - (iv) Shares reserved for issue under option  For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock option plan of the Company, refer note 31.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 163 14.
Borrowings  A summary of loans and borrowings is as follows: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current borrowings  Secured   Long term maturities of ﬁnance lease obligations (1) ` 1,161 ` 1,201 ` 1,143   Unsecured    External commercial borrowings (ECB) 9,728 9,938 9,375    Term loans (2)  574  326  114 Total ` 11,463 ` 11,465 ` 10,632 Current borrowings   Unsecured    Cash credit ` 1,544 ` 657 ` 227     Borrowings from banks  48,642  54,838 49,477  Total ` 50,186 ` 55,495 ` 49,704   (1)   Current obligation under ﬁnancial lease amounting to ` 1,108 (March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: ` 836 and ` 586  respectively) is classiﬁed under “Other current ﬁnancial liabilities” .
Refer note 32.
(2)   Current maturities of term loans amounting to ` 342 (March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: ` 333 and ` 104 respectively)  is classiﬁed under “Other current ﬁnancial liabilities” .
Short-term loans and borrowings As at March 31,   2017 As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 Indian Rupee Interest rate Interest rate Indian Rupee Indian Rupee Unsecured cash credit ` 1,544 Monthly/ currency  Libor + Spread 0.9% - 1.1% `  657 `  227 Unsecured borrowings  from banks `  48,642 Monthly Libor +  Spread 0.93% - 1.58% `  54,838 `  49,477 `  50,186 `  55,495 `  49,704  The principal source of Short-term borrowings from banks as of March 31, 2017 primarily consists of lines of credit  of approximately ` 204 (2016: ` 10,399, 2015: ` 2,700), U.S. Dollar (U.S. $) 1,386 Million (2016: U.S. $ 1,184 Million,  2015: U.S. $ 1,069 Million), United Kingdom Pound sterling (GBP) 20 million, Australian Dollar (AUD) 13 million,  Canadian Dollar (CAD) 4 million and EUR 1 million from bankers for working capital requirements and other short  term needs.
As of March 31, 2017, the Company has unutilized lines of credit aggregating U.S.$ 632 Million (2016:  353, 2015: U.S. $ 279 Million), United Kingdom Pound sterling (GBP) 5 million, Australian Dollar (AUD) 13 million,  Canadian Dollar (CAD) 4 million and EUR 1 million.
To utilize these unused lines of credit, the Company requires  consent of the lender and compliance with certain ﬁnancial covenants.
Signiﬁcant portion of these lines of credit  are revolving credit facilities and ﬂoating rate foreign currency loans, renewable on a periodic basis.
Signiﬁcant  portion of these facilities bear ﬂoating rates of interest, referenced to LIBOR and a spread, determined based on  market conditions.
The Company has non-fund based revolving credit facilities in INR and U.S. $ equivalent to ` 44,136, ` 36,523 and  ` 34,880 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively, towards operational requirements  that can be used for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015, an amount of ` 26,761, ` 15,449 and ` 16,796 respectively, was unutilized out of these non-fund  based facilities.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 164 Annual Report 2016-17  Long-term loans and borrowings  A summary of long-term loans and borrowings is as follows: As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 Foreign  currency in  millions Indian  Rupee Interest  rate Final  maturity Foreign  currency in  millions Indian  Rupee Foreign  currency in  millions Indian  Rupee Unsecured ECB  U.S. Dollar 150 9,728 1.81% June 2018 150 9,938 150 9,375 Unsecured Other  term loans  Indian Rupee NA 916 8.3% -  10.3% May 2021 NA 659 NA 218 Secured  obligations under  ﬁnance lease  (Refer Note 32) 2,269 1.82% -  17.19% March 2021 2,037 1,729 12,913 12,634 11,322  The contracts governing the Company’s unsecured external commercial borrowing contain certain covenants  that limit future borrowings and payments towards acquisitions in a ﬁnancial year.
The terms of the loans and  borrowings also contain certain restrictive covenants primarily requiring the Company to maintain certain ﬁnancial  ratios.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 the Company has met all the covenants under these  arrangements.
The interest expense was ` 769 and ` 906 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
15.
Other ﬁnancial liabilities As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current  Others – Deposits ` 77 ` 55 - Total ` 77 ` 55 - Current  Salary Payable ` 15,904 ` 16,510 ` 16,968 Current maturities of long-term debt  342  333  104 Current maturities of ﬁnance lease obligations (Refer note  32) 1,108 836 586 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 93 126 404 Unpaid dividends 50 53 25 Balances due to related parties (Refer note 33) 91 196 340 Others 40 120 121 Total ` 17,628 ` 18,174 ` 18,548  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 165 16.
Provisions As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current  Provision for employee beneﬁts ` 3,729 ` 3,977 ` 2,731 Others - Warranty Provision 4 14 5 Total ` 3,733 ` 3,991 ` 2,736  Current  Provision for employee beneﬁts ` 5,601 ` 5,734 ` 5,650 Others   Provision for warranty 307 336 333  Provision – Other taxes 361 356 374 Total ` 6,269 ` 6,426 ` 6,357   Provision for warranty represents cost associated with providing sales support services which are accrued at  the time of recognition of revenues and are expected to be utilized over a period of 1 to 2 years.
Other provisions  primarily include provisions for indirect tax related contingencies and litigations.
The timing of cash outﬂows in  respect of such provision cannot be reasonably determined.
A summary of activity for provision for warranty and  other provisions is as follows:      Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2016  Provision for  warranty  Others  taxes Total  Provision for  warranty  Others  taxes Total  Balance at the beginning of the year ` 350 ` 356 ` 706 ` 338 ` 374 ` 712 Additional provision during the year 381 11 392 272 - 272 Provision used during the year (420) (6) (426) (260) (18) (278) Balance at the end of the year  ` 311  ` 361  ` 672  ` 350  ` 356  ` 706  Current 307 361 668 336 356 692 Non-current 4 - 4 14 - 14 17.
Other liabilities As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Others ` 349 ` 291 ` 210 Total ` 349 ` 291 ` 210 Current Statutory liabilities `2,668 `3,443 `3,417 Advances from customers 1,843 1,880 1,989 Others 613 153 710 Total `  5,124 `   5,476 `   6,116 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 166 Annual Report 2016-17 18.
Financial instruments  Offsetting ﬁnancial assets and liabilities  The following table contains information on ﬁnancial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Financial assets Trade receivables and unbilled revenues Gross amounts of recognized ﬁnancial assets ` 122,480 ` 125,925 ` 116,711 Gross amounts of recognized ﬁnancial liabilities set off in  the balance sheet (4,338) (3,483) (3,084) Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance  sheet ` 118,142 ` 122,442 ` 113,627 Financial liabilities Trade payables Gross amounts of recognized ﬁnancial liabilities ` 42,524 ` 47,106 ` 43,275 Gross amounts of recognized ﬁnancial assets set off in the  balance sheet (4,338) (3,483) (3,084) Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance  sheet ` 38,186 ` 43,623 ` 40,191  For the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or similar arrangements, each agreement between the  Company and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant ﬁnancial assets and liabilities when both  elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, ﬁnancial assets and liabilities will be settled on  a gross basis and hence are not offset.
Fair value  The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues, borrowings, trade payables, other  current ﬁnancial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount largely due to the short-term nature of  these instruments.
The Company’s long-term debt has been contracted at market rates of interest.
Accordingly,  the carrying value of such long-term debt approximates fair value.
Further, ﬁnance lease receivables that are  overdue are periodically evaluated based on individual credit worthiness of customers.
Based on this evaluation,  the Company records allowance for estimated losses on these receivables.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015, the carrying value of such receivables, net of allowances approximates the fair value.
Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds, which are classiﬁed as FVTPL are measured using net asset  values at the reporting date multiplied by the quantity held.
Fair value of investments in certiﬁcate of deposits,  commercial papers classiﬁed as FVTOCI is determined based on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in  the market at the reporting date.
Fair value of investments in equity instruments classiﬁed as FVTOCI is determined  using market and income approaches.
The fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments is determined based on observable market inputs including  currency spot and forward rates, yield curves, currency volatility etc.
Fair value hierarchy  The different levels have been deﬁned as follows:  Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  either directly (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 167  The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring  basis: As at March 31, 2017 Particulars Total Fair value measurements at  reporting date using Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Derivative instruments:   Cash ﬂow hedges ` 7,307 ` - ` 7,307 ` -   Others  2,546  - 2,120 426  Investments:   Investment in liquid and short-term mutual funds 104,675 104,675 - -   Other investments – Debentures 569 - 569 -    Investment in equity instruments – Other than  subsidiaries 3,533 - -  3,533    Commercial paper, Certiﬁcate of deposits and  bonds 145,614 - 145,614 - Liabilities  Derivative instruments:   Cash ﬂow hedges (55) - (55) -   Others (2,655) - (2,655) - As at March 31, 2016 Particulars Total Fair value measurements at  reporting date using Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Derivative instruments:   Cash ﬂow hedges ` 3,072 ` - ` 3,072 ` -   Others 2,737 - 2,179 558  Investments:   Investment in liquid and short-term mutual funds 10,578 10,578 - -   Other investments – Debentures 816 - 816 -    Investment in equity instruments – Other than  subsidiaries 3,716 - - 3,716    Commercial paper, Certiﬁcate of deposits and  bonds 121,676 1,094 120,582 - Liabilities  Derivative instruments:   Cash ﬂow hedges (706) - (706) -   Others (1,752) - (1,752) - Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 168 Annual Report 2016-17 As at April 1, 2015 Particulars Total Fair value measurements at  reporting date using Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Derivative instruments    Cash ﬂow hedges ` 4,237 ` - ` 4,237 ` -    Others 1,388 - 864 524  Investments:   Investment in liquid and short-term mutual funds 10,202 10,202 - -   Other investments – Debentures 822 - 822 -    Investment in equity instruments – Other than  subsidiaries 3,574 - - 3,574    Commercial paper, Certiﬁcate of deposits and  bonds 43,072 2,046 41,026 - Liabilities  Derivative instruments   Cash ﬂow hedges (80) - (80) -   Others (744) - (744) -  The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the level 2 ﬁnancial instruments  included in the above table.
Derivative instruments (assets and liabilities): The Company enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments with  various counter-parties, primarily banks with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation  techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and  foreign exchange option contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing, swap  models and Black Scholes models (for option valuation), using present value calculations.
The models incorporate  various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate  curves and forward rate curves of the underlying.
As at March 31, 2017, the changes in counterparty credit risk  had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships  and other ﬁnancial instruments recognized at fair value.
Investment in Commercial paper, certiﬁcate of deposits and bonds: Fair valuation is derived based on the indicative  quotes of price and yields prevailing in the market as on the reporting date.
Details of assets and liabilities considered under Level 3 classiﬁcation: Investments in  equity instruments Derivative Assets –  Others Opening balance as on April 1, 2015 ` 3,574 ` 524 Additions/adjustments 117 - Gain/loss recognized in statement of proﬁt and loss - 34 Gain/loss recognized in other comprehensive income 25 - Closing balance as on March 31, 2016 ` 3,716 ` 558 Opening Balance as on April 1, 2016 ` 3,716 ` 558 Additions/(Deletions) - - Gain/loss recognized in statement of proﬁt and loss - (132) Gain/loss recognized in other comprehensive income (183) - Closing balance as on March 31, 2017 ` 3,533 426 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 169  Description of signiﬁcant unobservable inputs to valuation: As at March 31, 2017 Item Valuation technique Signiﬁcant unobservable  inputs Movement  by Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash ﬂow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 55 (51) Discount rate 0.5% (93) 101 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 179 (186) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 31 (31) Time to liquidation event 1 year 60 (69) As at March 31, 2016 Item Valuation technique Signiﬁcant unobservable  inputs Movement  by Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash ﬂow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 57 (53) Discount rate 0.5% (95) 103 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 182 (187) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 31 (32) Time to liquidation event 1 year 60 (69) As at April 1, 2015 Item Valuation technique Signiﬁcant unobservable  inputs Movement  by Increase  (`) Decrease  (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash ﬂow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 44 (40) Discount rate 0.5% (85) 91 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 148 (152) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 32 (33) Time to liquidation event 1 year 63 (85)  Derivatives assets and liabilities:  The Company is exposed to foreign currency ﬂuctuations on foreign currency assets / liabilities, forecasted cash  ﬂows denominated in foreign currency and net investment in foreign operations.
The Company follows established  risk management policies, including the use of derivatives to hedge foreign currency assets / liabilities, foreign  currency forecasted cash ﬂows and net investment in foreign operations.
The counter party in these derivative  instruments is a bank and the Company considers the risks of non-performance by the counterparty as not material.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 170 Annual Report 2016-17  The following table presents the aggregate contracted principal amounts of the Company’s derivative contracts  outstanding: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Designated derivative instruments  Sell – Forward contracts $  886 $  897 $  790 £  280 £  248 £  198 €  228 €  271 €  220 AUD  129 AUD  139 AUD  83 SAR  - SAR  19 SAR   - AED  - AED  7 AED  -   Range Forward Option contracts $  130 $  25 $  43 €  - €  7 €  -  Par – Forward Contracts $  - $  - $  3   Interest rate swaps $  - $  150 $  150 Non designated derivative instruments  Sell – Forward contracts $  889 $  1,280 $  1,304 £  82 £  55 £  67 €  83 €  87 €  60 AUD  51 AUD  35 AUD  53 ¥  - ¥  490 ¥  490 SGD  3 SGD  3 SGD  13 ZAR  262 ZAR  110 ZAR  69 CAD  41 CAD  11 CAD  30 CHF  - CHF  10 CHF  10 SAR  49 SAR  58 SAR  - AED  69 PLN  31 AED  7 PLN  - AED  - PLN  -   Range Forward Option contracts $  - $  18  $  -  Buy – Forward contracts $  750 $  822  $  790  The following table summarizes activity in the cash ﬂow hedging reserve within equity related to all derivative  instruments classiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges: March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Balance as at the beginning of the year ` 2,367 ` 4,268  Deferred cancellation gain / (loss), net 74 (3) Changes in fair value of effective portion of derivatives 12,391 1,079  Net (gain) / loss reclassiﬁed to statement of proﬁt and loss on occurrence of  hedged transactions  (7,507)  (2,977)  Gain / (loss) on cash ﬂow hedging derivatives, net ` 4,958 ` (1,901)  Balance as at the end of the year ` 7,325 ` 2,367  Deferred tax asset / (liability) thereon ` (1,419) ` (457)  Balance as at the end of the year, net of deferred tax….. ` 5,906 ` 1,910  As at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, there were no signiﬁcant gains or losses on derivative  transactions or portions thereof that have become ineffective as hedges, or associated with an underlying exposure  that did not occur.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 171  Sale of ﬁnancial assets  From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company transfers accounts receivables, unbilled revenues,  net investment in ﬁnance lease receivables (ﬁnancials assets) to banks.
Under the terms of the arrangements, the  Company surrenders control over the ﬁnancial assets and transfer is without recourse.
Accordingly, such transfers  are recorded as sale of ﬁnancial assets.
Gains and losses on sale of ﬁnancial assets without recourse are recorded  at the time of sale based on the carrying value of the ﬁnancial assets and fair value of servicing liability.
In certain cases, transfer of ﬁnancial assets may be with recourse.
Under arrangements with recourse, the Company  is obligated to repurchase the uncollected ﬁnancial assets, subject to limits speciﬁed in the agreement with the  banks.
These are reﬂected as part of loans and borrowings in the balance sheet.
The incremental impact of such  transaction on our cash ﬂow and liquidity for the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 is not material.
Financial risk management  General  Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair values or to future cash ﬂows that may result from a change  in the price of a ﬁnancial instrument.
The value of a ﬁnancial instrument may change as a result of changes in  the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other market changes that affect market risk sensitive  instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive ﬁnancial instruments including investments,  foreign currency receivables, payables and loans and borrowings.
The Company’s exposure to market risk is a function of investment and borrowing activities and revenue generating  activities in foreign currency.
The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure of the  Company’s earnings and equity to losses.
Risk Management Procedures  The Company manages market risk through a corporate treasury department, which evaluates and exercises  independent control over the entire process of market risk management.
The corporate treasury department  recommends risk management objectives and policies, which are approved by senior management and Audit  Committee.
The activities of this department include management of cash resources, implementing hedging  strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing strategies, and ensuring compliance with market risk limits  and policies.
Foreign currency risk  The Company operates internationally and a major portion of its business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through receiving payment for sales and services  in the United States and elsewhere, and making purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted  cash ﬂows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
A signiﬁcant portion of the Company’s revenue  is in the U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar,  while a large portion of costs are in Indian rupees.
The exchange rate between the rupee and these currencies  has ﬂuctuated signiﬁcantly in recent years and may continue to ﬂuctuate in the future.
Appreciation of the rupee  against these currencies can adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from these transactions and enters into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
The Company follows established risk management policies,  including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange forward/option contracts to hedge forecasted cash ﬂows  denominated in foreign currency.
The Company has designated certain derivative instruments as cash ﬂow hedges to mitigate the foreign exchange  exposure of forecasted highly probable cash ﬂows.
The Company has also designated foreign currency borrowings  as hedge against respective net investments in foreign operations.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively, a ` 1 increase/decrease in the spot exchange  rate of the Indian rupee with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately 1,155, 1,398 and 1,495 respectively  decrease/increase in the fair value of foreign currency dollar denominated derivative instruments.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 172 Annual Report 2016-17  The below table presents foreign currency risk from non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments as of March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016: As at March 31, 2017 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables 31,293 5,564 5,683 2,614 1,780 8,590 55,524  Unbilled revenues 14,030 2,606 4,417 2,023 570 2,461 26,107  Cash and cash equivalents 11,934 366 561 335 - 590 13,786  Other assets 1,237 1,291 189 1,568 7 348 4,640  Borrowings (including current  maturities of long-term debt  and ﬁnance lease obligations  included in other financial  liabilities) (58,785) (494) (604) (537)  - (509) (60,929) Trade payables and other  ﬁnancial liabilities (21,050) (5,159) (5,838) (1,457) (443) (3,101) (37,048) Net assets / (liabilities) (21,341) 4,174 4,408 4,546 1,914 8,379 2,080 As at March 31, 2016 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables 32,695 4,238 6,734 2,134 879 6,679 53,359 Unbilled revenues 16,542 4,230 4,446 1,773 245 1,394 28,630 Cash and cash equivalents 43,934 1,829 32 335 43 1,065 47,238 Other assets 3,205 1,036 42 2,091 14 174 6,562 Borrowings (including current  maturities of long-term debt  and ﬁnance lease obligations  included in other financial  liabilities) (65,180) - (189) (776) - - (66,145) Trade payables and other  ﬁnancial liabilities (19,795) (4,798) (4,840) (1,417) (149) (3,066) (34,065) Net assets / (liabilities) 11,401 6,535 6,225 4,140 1,032 6,246 35,579 As at April 1, 2015 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables 27,709 5,285 8,156 1,376 211 7,674 50,411 Unbilled revenues 13,704 2,822 4,979 915 196 1,277 23,893 Cash and cash equivalents 38,452 970 740 255 26 1,988 42,431 Other assets 3,041 1,188 306 1,782 12 193 6,522 Borrowings (including current  maturities of long-term debt  and ﬁnance lease obligations  included in other financial  liabilities) (58,750) - (318) (932) - (227) (60,227) Trade payables and other  ﬁnancial liabilities (24,640) (5,379) (4,707) (797) (119) (3,059) (38,701) Net assets / (liabilities) (484) 4,886 9,156 2,599 326 7,846 24,329  #  other currencies reﬂect currencies such as Singapore Dollars, CHF , etc.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 173  As at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, every 1% increase/decrease of the respective foreign currencies compared  to functional currency of the Company would impact result from operating activities by approximately ` 21 and   ` 356 respectively.
Interest rate risk  Interest rate risk primarily arises from ﬂoating rate borrowing, including various revolving and other lines of  credit.
The Company’s investments are primarily in short-term investments, which do not expose it to signiﬁcant  interest rate risk.
The Company manages its net exposure to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it to exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rates.
Certain borrowings are also transacted at ﬁxed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March 31, 2017, additional net annual interest expense on ﬂoating  rate borrowing would amount to approximately ` 502.  Credit risk  Credit risk arises from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
To manage  this, the Company periodically assesses the ﬁnancial reliability of customers, taking into account the ﬁnancial  condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts receivable.
Individual  risk limits are set accordingly.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as of  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively and revenues for the year ended March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016, respectively.
There is no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk.
Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired  Cash and cash equivalents, unbilled revenues, investment in liquid mutual fund units, certiﬁcates of deposits  and interest bearing deposits with corporates are neither past due nor impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents  with banks and interest-bearing deposits are placed with corporate, which have high credit-ratings assigned by  international and domestic credit-rating agencies.
Certiﬁcates of deposit represent funds deposited with banks  or other ﬁnancial institutions for a speciﬁed time period.
Financial assets that are past due but not impaired  There is no other class of ﬁnancial assets that is past due but not impaired except for receivables of ` 7,722,   ` 7,568 and ` 5,694 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
Of the total receivables,  ` 65,604, ` 67,831 and ` 63,562 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively, were neither  past due nor impaired.
The Company’s credit period generally ranges from 45-60 days from invoicing date.
The  aging analysis of the receivables has been considered from the date the invoice falls due.
The age wise break up  of receivables, net of allowances that are past due, is given below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired ` 65,604 ` 67,831 ` 63,562 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired  Past due 0-30 days 4,957 4,135  5,438   Past due 31-60 days 2,180 2,380  3,179   Past due 61-90 days 2,802 2,003  2,346    Past due over 90 days 13,270 13,081  11,537  Total past due but not impaired ` 23,209 ` 21,599 ` 22,500 Total ` 88,813 ` 89,430 ` 86,062  Counterparty risk  Counterparty risk encompasses issuer risk on marketable securities, settlement risk on derivative and money  market contracts and credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimized by only buying securities which  are at least AA rated in India based on Indian rating agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the policy  of entering into transactions with counterparties that are usually banks or ﬁnancial institutions with acceptable  credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are closely monitored and maintained within predetermined parameters.
There are limits on credit exposure to any ﬁnancial institution.
The limits are regularly assessed and determined  based upon credit analysis including ﬁnancial statements and capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 174 Annual Report 2016-17  Liquidity risk  Liquidity risk is deﬁned as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or  at a reasonable price.
The Company’s corporate treasury department is responsible for liquidity and funding as  well as settlement management.
In addition, processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior  management.
Management monitors the Company’s net liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis  of expected cash ﬂows.
As of March 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents are held with major banks and ﬁnancial  institutions.
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of signiﬁcant ﬁnancial liabilities  at the reporting date.
The amounts include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting  agreements, if any.
As at March 31, 2017 Contractual cash ﬂows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2  years 2-4  years 4-7  years Total Borrowings (including current maturities of  long-term debt and ﬁnance lease obligations  included in other ﬁnancial liabilities) ` 63,099 ` 52,387 ` 10,745 ` 631 ` 20 ` 63,783 Trade payables 38,186 38,186 - - - 38,186 Derivatives liabilities 2,710 2,708 2 - - 2,710 Other ﬁnancial liabilities ` 16,255 ` 16,178 - - ` 77 ` 16,255   As at March 31, 2016 Contractual cash ﬂows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2  years 2-4  years 4-7  years Total Borrowings (including current maturities of  long-term debt and ﬁnance lease obligations  included in other ﬁnancial liabilities) ` 68,129 ` 57,134 ` 1,172 ` 10,631 ` 26 ` 68,963 Trade payables 43,623 43,623 - - - 43,623 Derivatives liabilities 2,459 2,340 82 37 - 2,459 Other ﬁnancial liabilities ` 17,060 ` 17,005 - - ` 55 ` 17,060 As at April 1, 2015 Contractual cash ﬂows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2  years 2-4  years 4-7  years Total Borrowings (including current maturities of  long-term debt and ﬁnance lease obligations  included in other ﬁnancial liabilities) ` 61,026 ` 50,767 ` 854 ` 1,268 ` 9,389 ` 62,278 Trade payables 40,191 40,191 - - - 40,191 Derivatives liabilities 824 753 39 22 10 824 Other ﬁnancial liabilities ` 753 ` 753 - - - ` 753  The balanced view of liquidity and ﬁnancial indebtedness is stated in the table below.
This calculation of the net  cash position is used by the management for external communication with investors, analysts and rating agencies: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Cash and cash equivalents ` 35,166 ` 84,088 ` 149,425 Investments  291,467  204,195 93,827 Borrowings (including current maturities of long-term debt  and ﬁnance lease obligations) (63,099) (68,129) (61,026) Loans to subsidiaries 1,917 - - Net cash position ` 265,451 ` 220,154 ` 182,226 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 175 19.
Income taxes  Income tax expense has been allocated as follows: For the year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Income tax expense  Current taxes ` 24,304  ` 24,523   Deferred taxes  950 (586) Income tax included in other comprehensive income on:     Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 594 42  Net change in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges 962 (260)  Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains/(losses) 43 (222) Total income taxes ` 26,853 ` 23,497  Income tax expenses are net of reversal of provisions recorded in earlier periods, amounting to ` 771 and ` 1,371  for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The reconciliation between the provision of income tax and amounts computed by applying the Indian statutory  income tax rate to proﬁt before taxes is as follows:    Year ended March 31,  2017 2016  Proﬁt before taxes ` 106,871  ` 105,942  Enacted income tax rate in India 34.61% 34.61% Computed expected tax expense  36,986  36,664  Effect of:     Income exempt from tax  (9,754)  (10,435)  Basis differences that will reverse during a tax holiday period  (53)  (380)  Income taxed at higher/ (lower) rates  (2,549)  (2,218)  Income taxes relating to prior years  (771)  (1,371)  Expenses disallowed for tax purposes  1,408  1,677   Others, net  (13)  - Total income tax expense ` 25,254 ` 23,937   The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Other Liabilities ` 2,882 ` 3,161 ` 2,321 Allowances for doubtful accounts receivable 2,783 2,819 2,108 Minimum alternate tax 1,469 1,490 1,842 Others 135 51 104 ` 7,269 ` 7,521 ` 6,375 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets ` (1,683) ` (2,225) ` (1,944) Amortizable goodwill (899) (508) (303) Interest on bonds and fair value movement of investments (2,245) (814) (448) Cash ﬂow hedges (1,419) (458) (719) Deferred revenue (62) 16 (506) ` (6,308) ` (3,989) ` (3,920) Net deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) ` 961 ` 3,532 ` 2,455 Included in the ﬁnancial statements as follows: Deferred tax assets ` 2,352 ` 4,254 ` 3,022 Deferred tax liabilities ` 1,391 `    722 `    567 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 176 Annual Report 2016-17  Deferred taxes on unrealized foreign exchange gain / loss relating to cash ﬂow hedges, fair value movements in  investments and actuarial gains/losses on deﬁned beneﬁt plans are recognized in other comprehensive income  and presented within equity.
Other than these, the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities is primarily recorded  in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers the extent to which it is probable  that the deferred tax asset will be realized.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the  generation of future taxable proﬁts during the periods in which those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company considers the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected  future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment.
Based on this, the Company believes  that it is probable that the Company will realize the beneﬁts of these deductible differences.
The amount of  deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the estimates of future  taxable income during the carry-forward period are reduced.
Pursuant to the changes in the Indian income tax laws, Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) has been extended to  income in respect of which deduction is claimed under Section 10A, 10B and 10AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961;  consequently, the Company has calculated its tax liability for current domestic taxes after considering MAT.
The excess tax paid under MAT provisions over and above normal tax liability can be carried forward and set-off  against future tax liabilities computed under normal tax provisions.
The Company was required to pay MAT and  accordingly, a deferred tax asset of ` 1,469, ` 1,490 and ` 1,842 has been recognized in the balance sheet as of  March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively, which can be carried forward for a period of ten  years from the year of recognition.
A substantial portion of the proﬁts of the Company’s India operations are exempt from Indian income taxes being  proﬁts attributable to export operations and proﬁts from units established under Special Economic Zone, 2005  scheme.
Units in designated special economic zones providing service on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible  for a deduction of 100 percent of proﬁts or gains derived from the export of services for the ﬁrst ﬁve years from  commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of such proﬁts and gains for a further ﬁve years.
Certain tax  beneﬁts are also available for a further ﬁve years subject to the unit meeting deﬁned conditions.
Proﬁts from certain  other undertakings are also eligible for preferential tax treatment.
The tax holiday period being currently available  to the Company expires in various years through ﬁscal 2030-31.
The expiration period of tax holiday for each unit  within a SEZ is determined based on the number of years that have lapsed following year of commencement of  production by that unit.
The impact of tax holidays has resulted in a decrease of current tax expense of ` 9,109 and  ` 10,212 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, compared to the effective tax amounts that we  estimate we would have been required to pay if these incentives had not been available.
The effect of these tax  incentives on earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was ` 3.75 and ` 4.16 respectively.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with US branch where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can  be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly,  deferred income tax liabilities on branch proﬁt tax @ 15% of the US branch proﬁts have not been recognized as  the Company intends to reinvest the earnings in the branch operations.
Further, it is not practicable to estimate  the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for these undistributed earnings.
20.
Revenue from operations Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Sale of services ` 432,788 ` 420,378 Sale of products  23,608  26,430 ` 456,396 ` 446,808 21.
Other operating income  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has concluded the sale of the EcoEnergy division for a  consideration of ` 4,670.
Net gain from the sale, amounting to ` 4,082 has been recorded as other operating income.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 177 22.
Other income Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Interest income ` 17,163 ` 20,529 Dividend income 311 66 Net gain on sale of investments 3,486 2,634 Unrealized gains/losses on ﬁnancial instruments measured at fair value  through proﬁt or loss 556 359 Foreign exchange gain/ (losses), net 4,184 3,518 ` 25,700 ` 27,106 23.
Cost of materials consumed Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Opening stock - ` 2 Add: Purchases - - Less: Closing stock - - - ` 2 24.
Changes in inventories of ﬁnished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Opening stock Finished products ` 8 ` 8 Traded goods 4,383 3,850 Work-in-progress - 2 4,391 3,860 Less: Closing stock Finished products 5 8 Traded goods 2,746 4,383 Work-in-progress - - 2,751 4,391 Decrease/ (Increase) ` 1,640 ` (531) 25.
Employee beneﬁts expense (a) Employee costs include: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Salaries and wages ` 211,575 ` 206,548 Contribution to provident and other funds 5,282 4,630 Share based payments to employees 1,687 1,493 ` 218,544 ` 212,671 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 178 Annual Report 2016-17  Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial loss/(gains) recognized in other comprehensive income include: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Re-measurement of net deﬁned beneﬁt liability/(asset)  Return on plan assets excluding interest income ` (189) ` 30  Actuarial loss/ (gain) arising from ﬁnancial assumptions 358 180  Actuarial loss/ (gain) arising from demographic assumptions (59) 2  Actuarial loss/ (gain) arising from experience adjustments (301) 798 ` (191) ` 1,010 (b) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans – Gratuity:  In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, applicable for Indian companies, the Company provides  for a lump sum payment to eligible employees, at retirement or termination of employment based on the last  drawn salary and years of employment with the Company.
The gratuity fund is managed by certain third party fund  managers.
The Company’s obligation in respect of the gratuity plan, which is a deﬁned beneﬁt plan, is provided for  based on actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method.
The Company recognizes actuarial gains and  losses immediately in other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
Amount recognized in the statement of proﬁt  and loss in respect of gratuity cost (deﬁned beneﬁt plan) is as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Current service cost ` 1,041 ` 909 Net interest on net deﬁned beneﬁt liability/(asset) 6 9 Net gratuity cost/(beneﬁt) ` 1,047 ` 918 Actual return on plan assets ` 642 ` 312  Gratuity is applicable only to employees drawing a salary in Indian rupees and there are no other foreign deﬁned  beneﬁt gratuity plans.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of actuarial valuation are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Discount rate 6.90% 7.75% Expected return on plan assets 6.90% 7.75% Expected rate of salary increase 8.00% 8.00%  The expected return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on  investments of the fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian government securities for the estimated term  of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary increases considered takes into account the inﬂation, seniority,  promotion and other relevant factors.
Attrition rate considered is the management’s estimate, based on previous  years’ employee turnover of the Company.
Change in present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is summarized below:     As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016  Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the beginning of the year ` 6,080 ` 4,365 Current service cost 1,041 909 Past service cost - - Interest on obligation 459 356 Beneﬁts paid (722) (530) Remeasurement loss/(gains)     Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from ﬁnancial assumptions 358 180  Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from demographic assumptions (59) 2  Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from experience assumptions (302) 798 ` 6,855 ` 6,080 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 179  Change in plan assets is summarized below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016  Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year ` 5,996 ` 4,327 Expected return on plan assets 453 365 Employer contributions 186 1,887 Beneﬁts paid (4) (530) Re-measurement loss/(gains)  Return on plan assets excluding interest income 189 (53) Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year ` 6,820 ` 5,996 Present value of unfunded obligation (35) (84) Recognized asset/(liability) `   (35) `    (84)  The Company has invested the plan assets in the insurer managed funds.
The expected rate of return on plan  assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on investments of the fund during  the estimated term of the obligation.
The Company has established an income tax approved irrevocable trust fund to which it regularly contributes to  ﬁnance the liabilities of the plan.
The fund’s investments are managed by certain insurance companies as per the  mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation is within the permissible limits prescribed in  the insurance regulations.
The expected future contribution and estimated future beneﬁt payments from the fund are as follows:  Expected contribution to the fund during the year ending March 31, 2018 ` 1,197  Estimated beneﬁt payments from the fund for the year ending March 31:    2018 ` 1,171  2019  1,062   2020  977   2021  870   2022  756   Thereafter  5,378  Total  ` 10,214   The expected beneﬁts are based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company’s beneﬁt obligations  as of March 31, 2016.
Sensitivity for signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions is computed to show the movement in deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  by 0.5 percentage.
As of March 31, 2017, every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in discount rate will result in (decrease)/ increase of gratuity beneﬁt obligation by approximately ` (187) and ` 207 respectively.
As of March 31, 2017 every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in expected rate of salary will result in  increase/ (decrease) of gratuity beneﬁt obligation by approximately ` 176 and ` (169) respectively.
(c) Provident fund:  In addition to the above, all employees receive beneﬁts from a provident fund.
The employee and employer each  make monthly contributions to the plan.
A portion of the contribution is made to the provident fund trust established  by the Company, while the remainder of the contribution is made to the Government administered pension fund.
The interest rate payable by the trust to the beneﬁciaries is regulated by the statutory authorities.
The Company  has an obligation to make good the shortfall, if any, between the returns from its investments and the administered  rate.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 180 Annual Report 2016-17  The details of fund and plan assets are given below:   As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015  Fair value of plan assets ` 40,059 ` 36,019 ` 28,445 Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 40,059 36,019 28,445 Net (shortfall)/excess - - -  The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of interest guarantee under the  deterministic approach are as follows:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015  Discount rate  6.90% 7.75% 7.95% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio  6 years 6 Years 6 Years Guaranteed rate of return  8.65% 8.75% 8.75%  For the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company contributed ` 3,616 (2016: ` 3,164) towards provident fund.
26.
Finance costs Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Interest expense `  769 `  906 Exchange ﬂuctuations on foreign currency borrowings, net 3,152 4,593 (to the extent regarded as borrowing cost) `  3,921 `  5,499 27.
Other expenses Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Sub-contracting / technical fees / third party application `  74,614 `  64,863 Travel Facility expenses 17,536 12,509 21,065 11,399 Communication 3,463 3,098 Legal and professional fees 3,211 3,261 Rates, taxes and insurance 1,514 1,545 Advertisement and brand building 2,737 2,222 Provision for doubtful debts 1,825 1,939 Provision for diminution in value of investments 403 1,793 Auditor’s remuneration  Audit fees 37 40  For tax matters 1 1  For reimbursement of expenses 3 3 Miscellaneous expenses 5,003 3,788 `  122,856 `  115,017 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 181 28.
Earnings per equity share  A reconciliation of proﬁt for the year and equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share is set out below:  Basic: Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year, excluding equity shares  purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Year ended March 31,  2017  2016 Proﬁt for the year `  81,617 `  82,005  Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,428,540,505 2,456,559,400 Basic earnings per share `  33.61 `  33.38   Diluted: Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year for assumed conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Employee share options  are dilutive potential equity shares for the Company.
The calculation is performed in respect of share options to determine the number of shares that could have  been acquired at fair value (determined as the average market price of the Company’s shares during the year).
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued  assuming the exercise of the share options.
Year ended March 31,  2017  2016 Proﬁt for the year `  81,617 `  82,005  Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,428,540,505 2,456,559,400 Effect of dilutive equivalent share options  7,133,064        5,130,508 Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted earnings per share 2,435,673,569 2,461,689,908 Diluted earnings per share `  33.51 `  33.31  29.
Dividends and Buy back of equity shares  According to the Companies Act, 2013 any dividend should be declared out of accumulated distributable proﬁts.
A company may, before the declaration of any dividend, transfer a percentage of its proﬁts for that ﬁnancial year  as it may consider appropriate to the reserves.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has concluded the buyback of 40 million equity shares as  approved by the Board of Directors on April 20, 2016.
This has resulted in a total cash outﬂow of ` 25,000.
In line  with the requirement of the Companies Act 2013, an amount of ` 14,254 and ` 10,666 has been utilized from  the share premium account and retained earnings respectively.
Further, a capital redemption reserves of ` 80  (representing the nominal value of the shares bought back) has been created as an apportionment from retained  earnings.
Consequent to such buy back, share capital has been reduced by ` 80.
The cash dividends paid per equity share were ` 3 and ` 12 during the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016,  respectively, including an interim dividend of ` 2 and ` 5 for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016.
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on April 25, 2017 approved issue of bonus shares in India, in the  proportion of 1:1, i.e.
1 (One) equity share of ` 2 each for every 1 (one) fully paid-up equity share held (including  ADS holders) as on the record date, subject to approval by the Members of the Company through postal ballot/  e-voting.
The bonus issue, if approved, will not affect the ratio of ADSs to equity shares, such that each ADS after  the bonus issue will continue to represent one equity share of par value of ` 2 per share.
30.
Additional capital disclosures  The key objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with  the focus on total equity to uphold investor, creditor, and customer conﬁdence and to ensure future development  of its business.
The Company focused on keeping strong total equity base to ensure independence, security, as  well as a high ﬁnancial ﬂexibility for potential future borrowings, if required without impacting the risk proﬁle of  the Company.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 182 Annual Report 2016-17  The Company’s goal is to continue to be able to return excess liquidity to shareholders by continuing to distribute  annual dividends in future years.
The amount of future dividends/buy back of equity shares will be balanced with  efforts to continue to maintain an adequate liquidity status.
The capital structure as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 was as follows: As at % Change 2017-16 % Change  2016-15March 31,  2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Total equity (A) ` 467,056 ` 412,257 ` 366,385 13.29% 12.52% Current loans and borrowings 51,636 56,664 50,394 Non-current loans and borrowings 11,463 11,465 10,632 Total loans and borrowings (B) 63,099 68,129 61,026 (7.38%) 11.64% As percentage of total equity 13.51% 16.53% 16.66% Total capital (A)+(B) ` 530,155 ` 480,386 ` 427,411 10.36% 12.39%  Loans and borrowings represented 14%, 17% and 17% of total capital as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016, and  April 1, 2015 respectively.
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
31.
Employee stock option  Employees covered under Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Option Plans (collectively “stock  option plans”) are granted an option to purchase shares of the Company at the respective exercise prices, subject  to requirements of vesting conditions.
These options generally vest in tranches over a period of three to ﬁve years  from the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the employees can acquire one equity share for every option.
The maximum  contractual term for aforementioned stock option plans is generally 10 years.
The stock compensation cost is computed under the intrinsic value method and amortized on accelerated vesting  period.
The intrinsic value on the date of grant approximates the fair value.
For the year ended March 31, 2017,  the Company has recorded stock compensation expense of ` 1,687 (March 31, 2016: ` 1,493).
The compensation committee of the board evaluates the performance and other criteria of employees and approves  the grant of options.
These options vest with employees over a speciﬁed period subject to fulﬁllment of certain  conditions.
Upon vesting, employees are eligible to apply and secure allotment of Company’s shares at a price  determined on the date of grant of options.
The particulars of options granted under various plans are tabulated  below.
(The numbers of shares in the table below are adjusted for any stock splits and bonus shares issues).
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”)  In 1984, the Company established a controlled trust called the Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”).
In the earlier  years, WERT purchased shares of the Company out of funds borrowed from the Company.
The Company’s Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee recommends to WERT certain ofﬁcers and key employees,  to whom WERT grants shares from its holdings at nominal price.
Such shares are then held by the employees  subject to vesting conditions.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit Option Plans  A summary of the general terms of grants under stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plans are as  follows: Name of Plan Authorized Shares Range of  Exercise Prices Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 1999 (1999 Plan) 50,000,000  `  171 – 490  Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 2000 (2000 Plan) 280,303,030  `  171 – 490  Stock Option Plan (2000 ADS Plan) 15,000,000 US $  3 – 7  Wipro Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WRSUP 2004 plan) 22,424,242  `  2  Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan) 22,424,242 US$  0.03  Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2005 (WSRUP 2005 plan) 22,424,242  `  2  Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) 18,686,869  `  2  Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2013 14,829,824  `  2  Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 183  The activity in these stock option plans is summarized below: Stock option plans Range of  Exercise  prices Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2016 Number Weight Average  exercise price Number Weight Average  exercise price Outstanding at the beginning of  the year ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 7,254,326 3,747,430 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 6,332,219 2,576,644 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 Granted ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 - 2,398,000 2,379,500 ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 - 2,870,400 1,697,700 ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 Exercised ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (1,113,775) (174,717) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (1,329,376) (340,876) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 Forfeited and lapsed ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (586,468) (663,430) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (618,917) (186,038) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 Outstanding at the end of the year ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 7,952,083 5,288,783 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 7,254,326 3,747,430 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 Exercisable at the end of the year ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 698,320 141,342 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 1,204,405 256,753 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03  The following table summarizes information about outstanding stock options: Range of  exercise  price March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Numbers Weighted Average  Remaining Life  (Months) Weight  Average  Exercise Price Numbers Weighted Average  Remaining Life  (Months) Weight  Average  Exercise Price ` 480 - 489 20,181 - ` 480.20 20,181 - ` 480.20 ` 2 7,952,083 19 ` 2 7,254,326 23 ` 2  US $ 0.03 5,288,783 24 US $ 0.03 3,747,430 24 US $ 0.03  The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2017, March 31,  2016 and April 1, 2015 was ` 569.52, ` 699.96 and ` 658.12 for each option, respectively.
The weighted average  share price of options exercised during the year ended March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 was   ` 536.80, ` 608.62 and 603.58 for each option, respectively.
32.
Assets taken on lease  Finance leases:  Obligation under ﬁnance lease is secured by underlying assets leased.
The legal title of these assets vests with  the lessors.
These obligations are repayable in monthly, quarterly and yearly installments up to year ending March  31, 2021.
The interest rate for these obligations ranges from 1.82% to 17.19%.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 184 Annual Report 2016-17  The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases, together with the present  value of the future minimum lease payments as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: Minimum lease payments as of Present value of minimum   lease payments as of March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Not later than one year `  1,219 `  960 `  702 `  1,108 `  836 `  586 Later than one year but not later than  ﬁve years 1,245 1,311 1,243 1,161 1,201 1,143 2,464 2,271 1,945 2,269 2,037 1,729 Less: future ﬁnance charges (195) (234) (216) - - - Present value of minimum lease  payments `  2,269 `  2,037 `  1,729 `  2,269 `  2,037 `  1,729 Included in the balance sheet as  follows: -  Current maturities of obligation  under ﬁnance lease `  1,108 `  836 `  586 -  Long term maturities of finance  lease obligations `  1,161 `  1,201 `  1,143  Operating leases:  The Company leases ofﬁce and residential facilities under cancelable and non-cancelable operating lease  agreements that are renewable on a periodic basis at the option of both the lessor and the lessee.
Rental payments  under such leases are ` 2,878, ` 2,905 and ` 2,682 during the years ended March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and  April 1, 2015.
Details of contractual payments under non-cancelable leases are given below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Not later than one year ` 2,243 ` 1,875 ` 1,488 Later than one year and not later than ﬁve years 5,801 4,407 2,985 Later than ﬁve years 2,175 1,561 837 Total ` 10,219 ` 7,843 ` 5,310 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 185 33.
Related party relationships and transactions  List of subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017 are provided in the table below: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro LLC USA Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. USA Opus Capital Markets  Consultants LLC USA Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions  LLC USA Infocrossing, Inc. USA Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc. Wipro IT Services, Inc. USA USA USA HPH Holdings Corp. (3) USA Appirio, Inc. (3) USA Wipro Overseas IT Services  Pvt.
Ltd India Wipro Japan KK Japan Wipro Shanghai Limited China Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited India Wipro Travel Services  Limited India Wipro Holdings (Mauritius)  Limited Mauritius Wipro Holdings UK Limited U.K. Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH (3) Wipro Digital Aps (3) Austria Denmark Wipro Europe Limited (3) U.K. Wipro Financial Services UK  Limited (formerly Wipro Promax  Analytics Solutions (Europe)  Limited) U.K. Wipro Cyprus Private  Limited Cyprus Wipro Doha LLC (1) Qatar Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V Mexico Wipro BPO Philippines LTD. Inc Philippines Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság  Hungary Wipro Holdings Investment Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary Wipro Technologies SA Argentina Wipro Information Technology  Egypt SAE Egypt Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Saudi Arabia Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o Poland Wipro IT Services Poland Sp.
z o. o Poland Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 186 Annual Report 2016-17 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Technologies Australia  Pty Ltd. Australia Wipro Corporate Technologies  Ghana Limited Ghana Wipro Technologies South  Africa (Proprietary) Limited South Africa Wipro Technologies Nigeria  Limited Nigeria Wipro IT Services Ukraine LLC Ukraine Wipro Information Technology  Netherlands BV.
Netherlands Wipro Portugal S.A. (3) Portugal Wipro Technologies Limited,  Russia Russia Wipro Technology Chile SPA Chile Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Canada Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad  Anonima Wipro Outsourcing Services  (Ireland) Limited Wipro Technologies Norway AS Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
Costa Rica Ireland Norway Venezuela Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C Peru Wipro Technologies SRL Romania  PT WT Indonesia Indonesia Wipro Australia Pty Limited Australia Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited Thailand Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL Bahrain Wipro Gulf LLC Sultanate of  Oman Rainbow Software LLC Iraq Cellent GmbH Cellent Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH Cellent Gmbh (3) Germany Germany Austria Wipro Networks Pte  Limited  Singapore Wipro (Dalian) Limited China Wipro Technologies SDN BHD Malaysia Wipro Chengdu Limited China Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited (3) India Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private Limited India  (1)   51% of equity securities of Wipro Doha LLC are held by a local shareholder.
However, the beneﬁcial interest in  these holdings is with the Company.
The Company controls ‘The Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme Trust’ and ‘Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD incorporated in South Africa.
(2)   All the above direct subsidiaries are 100% held by the Company except that the Company holds 66.67% of the  equity securities of Wipro Arabia Limited Co and 74% of the equity securities of Wipro Airport IT Services Limited  (3)   Step Subsidiary details of Wipro Information Technology Austria GmbH, Wipro Europe Limited, Wipro Portugal  S.A, Wipro Digital Aps, Cellent Gmbh, HPH Holdings Corp. and Appirio, Inc. are as follows: Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 187 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH Austria Wipro Technologies Austria  GmbH Austria New Logic Technologies SARL France Wipro Europe Limited U.K. Wipro UK Limited U.K. Wipro Portugal S.A. Portugal Wipro Retail UK Limited U.K. Wipro do Brasil Technologia  Ltda  Brazil Wipro Technologies Gmbh Germany Wipro Do Brasil Sistemetas De  Informatica Ltd Brazil Wipro Digital Aps Designit A/S Designit Denmark  A/S Designit  MunchenGmbH Designit Oslo A/S Designit Sweden  AB Designit T.L.V Ltd. Designit Tokyo Ltd. Denextep Spain  Digital, S.L Denmark Denmark Denmark Germany Norway Sweden Israel Japan Spain Designit  Colombia S A S Colombia Designit Peru  S.A.C.
Peru Cellent GmbH Frontworx  Informationstechnologie  Gmbh Austria Austria HPH Holdings Corp. Healthplan Services Insurance  Agency, Inc. Healthplan Services, Inc. USA USA USA Appirio, Inc. Appirio K.K.
Topcoder, Inc. Appirio Ltd Appirio Pvt Ltd KI Management Inc. Appirio GmbH Appirio Ltd (UK) Saaspoint, Inc. USA Japan USA Ireland Germany UK USA Singapore USA Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 188 Annual Report 2016-17 The list of trusts are:   Name of entity Nature Country of Incorporation  Wipro Equity Reward Trust  Trust  India  Wipro Inc Beneﬁt Trust  Trust  India  The other related parties are: Name of the related parties Nature Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Foundation for Development Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji education trust Entity controlled by Director Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Director Prazim Traders Entity controlled by Director Zash Traders Entity controlled by Director Hasham Investment and Trading Co. Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Trust Entity controlled by Director Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited Entity controlled by Director Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Entity controlled by Director Key management personnel  Azim H. Premji Chairman and Managing Director  T K Kurien       Executive Vice Chairman (7)  Abidali Z. Neemuchwala          Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Director (5)  Rishad Azim Premji     Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer and Executive Director (1)  Dr. Ashok Ganguly       Non-Executive Director  Narayanan Vaghul        Non-Executive Director  Dr. Jagdish N Sheth      Non-Executive Director (8)  William Arthur Owens  Non-Executive Director  M.K.
Sharma    Non-Executive Director  Vyomesh Joshi Non-Executive Director (3)  Ireena Vittal     Non-Executive Director (4)  Dr. Patrick J. Ennis       Non-Executive Director (6)  Patrick Dupuis Non-Executive Director (6)  Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal         Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (2)  M Sanaulla Khan Company Secretary (9) (1)   Effective May 1, 2015 (2)   Effective April 1, 2015 (3)   Up to July 19, 2016 (4)   Effective October 1, 2013 (5)   Effective February 1, 2016 (6)   Effective April 1, 2016 (7)  Up to January 31, 2017 (8)  Up to July 18, 2016 (9)   Effective June 3, 2015 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 189 Relative of key management personnel  - Yasmeen H. Premji  - Tariq Azim Premji The Company has the following related party transactions for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Transactions Subsidiaries /  Trusts Entities controlled  by Directors Key Management  Personnel (2) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sales of services `  38,802 `  28,416 `  69 `  186 - - Purchase of services 16,895 13,719 3 2 - - Assets purchased / capitalized - - 106 231 - - Dividend paid 42 178 5,087 20,599 287 1,147 Commission paid 882 909 - - - - Rent paid 35 38 8 22 6 6 Rent Income 33 - 43 36 - - Acquisition of customer relationship (refer note 6) 2,175 - - - - - Others 1,852 (1,170) 90 41 - - Key management personnel (1)  Remuneration and short-term beneﬁts - - - - 242 279  Other beneﬁts - - - - 157 137 Interest Income 2 4 - - - - Corporate guarantee commission 246 166 - - - - The Company has the following balances outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: Balances at year end Subsidiaries / Trusts Entities controlled   by Directors Key Management   Personnel (2) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Receivables 17,117 (3) 11,853 (3) 10,770 (3) 44 135 134 - - - Payables 6,099 7,055 9,059  22  232  340 27 37 66 (1)   Post-employment beneﬁt comprising gratuity, and compensated absences are not disclosed as these are determined  for the Company as a whole.
Beneﬁts includes the prorated value of Restricted Stock Units (“RSU’s”) granted to the  personnel, which vest over a period of time.
(2)  Including relative of key management personnel.
(3)   Includes the following balances being in the nature of loans given to subsidiaries of the Company including interest  accrued, where applicable and inter-corporate deposits with subsidiary.
Loan amounts outstanding from subsidiaries: Name of the entity Balance As at   March 31, Maximum amount due during the  year 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Wipro Cyprus Private Limited `  1,917 `  1,958 `  1,848 `  2,022 `  1,958 `  1,864 Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 190 Annual Report 2016-17 The following are the signiﬁcant related party transactions during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Particulars  Year ended March 31,  2017 2016 Sale of services Wipro LLC ` 22,215 ` 15,383 Wipro Technologies South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 2,813 4,084 Wipro Networks PTE LTD 2,205 2,673 Purchase of services Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services, Inc.  3,389  NA Wipro LLC  2,247  2,007  Wipro do Brasil Technologia Ltda  1,707  1,532  Wipro Technologies Gmbh  1,624  1,507  Wipro BPO Philippines Limited Inc  1,581 - Wipro Technologies SRL  1,332 - Infocrossing Inc  48  3,229  Asset purchased / capitalized Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 106 231 Dividend paid Prazim Traders  1,359 5,435 Zash Traders  1,355 5,419 Azim Premji Trust  1,228 5,157 Hasham Traders  1,113 4,451 Commission paid Wipro Japan KK  439 468 Wipro Technologies Gmbh  443 440 Rent paid Wipro Holdings UK Limited 34 38 Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited - 15 Rental Income Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 38 35 Designit Denmark A/S 28 NA Remuneration paid to key management personnel Azim Premji 8 22 T K Kurien  (1) 97 137 Abidali Z. Neemuchwala 136 120 Rishad Premji 17 22 Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal 45 38 M Sanualla Khan 12 9 Corporate guarantee commission Wipro Gulf LLC  47  35  Wipro IT Services Inc.  45  23  Wipro Solutions Canada Ltd  43  38  Wipro LLC  40  38  Infocrossing Inc  32  43  Wipro Arabia Limited  18  15  (1)   Mr. T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the  Board effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 191 34.
Commitments and contingencies  Capital commitments:  As at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, the Company had committed to spend approximately   ` 11,340, ` 10,109 and ` 863 respectively, under agreements to purchase/contruct property and equipment.
These  amounts are net of capital advances paid in respect of these purchases.
Contingent liabilities to the extent not provided for: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Disputed demands for excise duty, customs duty, sales tax  and other matters ` 2,585 ` 2,654 ` 2,560 Performance and ﬁnancial guarantees given by the banks  on behalf of the company 17,375 21,074 18,084 Guarantees given by the Company on behalf of subsidiaries 6,237 10,014 8,715  Contingencies and lawsuits:  The Company’s Indian operations have been established as units in Special Economic Zone and Software Technology  Park Unit under plans formulated by the Government of India.
As per the plan, the Company’s India operations have  export obligations to the extent of net positive foreign exchange (i.e.
foreign exchange inﬂow - foreign exchange  outﬂow should be positive) over a ﬁve year period.
The consequence of not meeting this commitment in the future  would be a retroactive levy of import duties on certain hardware previously imported duty free.
As at March 31,  2016, the Company believes that it has met all the commitments substantially required under the plan.
Tax demands:  The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims (including tax assessment orders/ penalty notices) which  have arisen in the ordinary course of its business.
Some of the claims involve complex issues and it is not possible  to make a reasonable estimate of the expected ﬁnancial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of  such proceedings.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material and adverse  effect on the results of operations or the ﬁnancial position of the Company.
The signiﬁcant of such matters are  discussed below.
In March 2004, the Company received a tax demand for year ended March 31, 2001 arising primarily on account of  denial of deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act) in respect of proﬁt earned by the Company’s  undertaking in Software Technology Park at Bangalore.
The same issue was repeated in the successive assessments  for the years ended March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2011 and the aggregate demand is ` 47,583 (including interest of  ` 13,832).
The appeals ﬁled against the said demand before the Appellate authorities have been allowed in favor of  the Company by the second appellate authority for the years up to March 31, 2008.
Further appeals have been ﬁled  by the Income tax authorities before the Hon’ble High Court.
The Hon’ble High Court has heard and disposed-off  majority of the issues in favor of the Company up to years ended March 31, 2004.
Department has ﬁled a Special  Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court of India for the year ended March 31, 2001 to March 31, 2004.
On similar issues for years up to March 31, 2000, the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka has upheld the claim of the  Company under section 10A of the Act.
For the year ended March 31, 2009, the appeals are pending before Income  Tax Appellate Tribunal (Tribunal).
For years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, the Dispute Resolution  Panel (DRP) allowed the claim of the Company under section 10A of the Act.
The Income tax authorities have ﬁled  an appeal before the Tribunal.
The Company received the draft assessment order for the year ended March 31, 2012 in March 2016 with a proposed  demand of ` 4,241 (including interest of ` 1,376).
Based on the DRP’s direction, allowing majority of the issues in  favor of the Company, the assessing ofﬁcer has passed the ﬁnal order with Nil demand.
However, on similar issue  for earlier years, the Income Tax authorities have appealed before the Tribunal.
For year ended March 31, 2013 the Company received the draft assessment order in December 2016 with a  proposed demand of ` 4,118 (including interest of ` 1,278), arising primarily on account of section 10AA issues  with respect to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has ﬁled an objection before the DRP within the  prescribed timelines.
Standalone Financial Statements under Ind AS 192 Annual Report 2016-17  Considering the facts and nature of disallowance and the order of the appellate authority / Hon’ble High Court of  Karnataka upholding the claims of the Company for earlier years, the Company believes that the ﬁnal outcome  of the above disputes should be in favor of the Company and there should not be any material adverse impact on  the ﬁnancial statements.
The contingent liability in respect of disputed demands for excise duty, custom duty, sales tax and other matters  amounts to ` 2,585, ` 2,654 and ` 2,560 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
However, the  resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material and adverse effect on the results of operations  or the ﬁnancial position of the Company.
35.
The Company has amounts due to suppliers under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act,  2006, [MSMED Act] as at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2017 and April 1, 2015.
The disclosure pursuant to the said  Act is as under: Particulars As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Principal amount due to suppliers under MSMED Act `     30 `     10 `     21 Interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the year to  suppliers under MSMED Act 7 1 1 Total interest paid on all delayed payments during the year under  MSMED Act  1 ^ -  ^Less than ` 1.
This information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identi/f_ied on the basis of information available  with the Company.
36.
Corporate Social Responsibility  a.
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year ` 1,764 (March 31, 2016: ` 1,560)  b.
Amount spent during the year on: S.  No.
Particulars For the year ended   March 31, 2017 For the year ended   March 31, 2016 In cash Yet to be  paid in cash Total In cash Yet to be  paid in cash Total (i) Construction/acquisition of any asset Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil (ii) On purpose other than (i) above `  1,634 `  229 `  1,863 `  1,134 `  464 `  1,598 37.
Segment information  The Company publishes this ﬁnancial statement along with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
In accordance  with Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment information in the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 193 Independent Auditor’s Report on  Consolidated Financial Statements To the Members of Wipro Limited Report on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Ind  AS ﬁnancial statements of Wipro Limited (‘the Holding  Company’), and its subsidiaries (collectively referred  to as “the Group”) which comprise the consolidated  Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2017, the Statement of  Proﬁt and Loss (including other comprehensive income),  the consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the  consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year  then ended and a summary of the signiﬁcant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (herein after  referred to as “consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Ind AS  Financial Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible  for the preparation of these consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements in terms of the requirements of the Companies  Act, 2013 that give a true and fair view of the consolidated  ﬁnancial position, consolidated ﬁnancial performance  including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash  ﬂows and consolidated changes in equity of the Group  in accordance with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards  (Ind AS) prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with  relevant rules issued thereunder.
The respective Board of Directors of the Companies  included in the Group are responsible for maintenance  of adequate accounting records in accordance with the  provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the  Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other  irregularities; selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgments and estimates  that are reasonable and prudent; and the design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls, that were operating effectively for  ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting  records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of  the consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements that give a  true and fair view and are free from material misstatement,  whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the  purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as  aforesaid.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements based on our  audit.
While conducting the audit, we have taken into  account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and  auditing standards and matters which are required to be  included in the audit report under the provisions of the  Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards  on Auditing speciﬁed under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical  requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated  Ind AS financial statements are free from material  misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the  consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the  assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal ﬁnancial control relevant to  the Holding Company’s preparation of the consolidated  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view  in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate  in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating  the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and  the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  the Holding Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the  overall presentation of the consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained by us  is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid  consolidated Ind AS financial statements give the  information required by the Act in the manner so required  and give a true and fair view in conformity with the  accounting principles generally accepted in India including  the Ind AS, of the consolidated ﬁnancial position of the  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 194 Annual Report 2016-17 Group as at March 31, 2017 and its consolidated ﬁnancial  performance including other comprehensive income, its  consolidated cash ﬂows and changes in equity for the  year then ended.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements: 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report,  to the extent applicable, that:  (a) We have sought and obtained all the information  and explanations which to the best of our  knowledge and belief were necessary for  the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid  consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements;  (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as  required by law relating to the preparation of  the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial  statements have been kept so far as it appears  from our examination of those books;  (c) The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated  statement of profit and loss including other  comprehensive income, the consolidated  statement of cash ﬂows and the statement of  changes in equity dealt with by this report are  in agreement with the relevant books of account  maintained for the purpose of the preparation of  the consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements;  (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements comply with the  Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section  133 of the Act, read with relevant rules issued  thereunder;  (e) On the basis of the written representations  received from the directors of the Holding  Company as on March 31, 2017 taken on record  by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company  and the reports of the statutory auditors of its  subsidiary companies incorporated in India,  none of the Directors of the Group companies  incorporated in India is disqualiﬁed as on March  31, 2017 from being appointed as a Director of  that company in terms of Section 164(2) of the  Act.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory  Requirements (continued)  (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal  financial controls over financial reporting of  the Group and the operating effectiveness of  such controls, refer to our separate report in  “Annexure A”; and   (g) With respect to the other matters to be included  in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with  Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)  Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our  information and according to the explanations  given to us:   i.
The consolidated Ind AS financial  statements disclose the impact of pending  litigations on the consolidated ﬁnancial  position of the Group – refer Note 18 and  36 to the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements;   ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements as required  under the applicable Law or accounting  standards for material foreseeable losses,  if any, on long-term contracts including  derivative contracts.
Refer Note 9 to the  consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial statements;   iii.
There has been no delay in transferring  amounts, required to be transferred, to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund by  the Holding Company and its subsidiary  companies incorporated in India; and   iv.
The requisite disclosures in the consolidated  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements, for holdings  as well as dealings in Specified Bank  Notes as deﬁned in the Notiﬁcation S.O.
3407(E) dated November 8, 2016 of the  Ministry of Finance, during the period  from November 8, 2016 to December 30  2016, have been provided with respect  to Holding Company and its subsidiary  companies incorporated in India.
Based  on audit procedures and reliance on the  management representation we report  that the disclosures are in accordance with  books of account maintained by the Holding  Company and its subsidiary companies  incorporated in India and as produced  to us by the Management of the Holding  Company Refer Note 14 to the consolidated  Ind AS ﬁnancial statements.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm registration number: 101248W/W-100022 Jamil Khatri Partner Membership Number: 102527 Bangalore June 2, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 195 Annexure – A to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even  date on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements of  Wipro Limited Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause  (i) of Sub-Section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS  ﬁnancial statements of the Company as of and for the  year ended March 31, 2017, we have audited the internal  ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial reporting of Wipro Limited  (“the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies  which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company  and its subsidiary companies, which are companies  incorporated in India are responsible for establishing  and maintaining internal ﬁnancial controls based on the  internal control over ﬁnancial reporting criteria established  by the Company considering the essential components of  internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of  Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal ﬁnancial controls  that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly  and efﬁcient conduct of its business, including adherence  to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,  the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and  the timely preparation of reliable ﬁnancial information, as  required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company’s internal financial controls over financial  reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in  accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance  Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI  and deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of  the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an  audit of internal ﬁnancial controls, both applicable to an  audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by  the ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require  that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether adequate internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial  reporting was established and maintained and if such  controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit  evidence about the adequacy of the internal ﬁnancial  controls system over financial reporting and their  operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal ﬁnancial  controls over ﬁnancial reporting included obtaining an  understanding of internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness  exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgment, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS ﬁnancial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained  is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  audit opinion on the Company’s internal ﬁnancial controls  system over ﬁnancial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial  reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting  and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external  purposes in accordance with generally accepted  accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial  control over ﬁnancial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of  records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly  reﬂect the transactions and dispositions of the assets  of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance  that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles, and that  receipts and expenditures of the company are being made  only in accordance with authorizations of management  and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable  assurance regarding prevention or timely detection  of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the  company’s assets that could have a material effect on the  ﬁnancial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over  Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal ﬁnancial  controls over ﬁnancial reporting, including the possibility  of collusion or improper management override of controls,  material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur  and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation  of the internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial reporting  to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal  ﬁnancial control over ﬁnancial reporting may become  inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the  degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may  deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Holding Company and its Subsidiary  Companies, which are Companies incorporated in India  have, in all material respects, an adequate internal  ﬁnancial controls system over ﬁnancial reporting and  such internal ﬁnancial controls over ﬁnancial reporting  were operating effectively as at March 31, 2017, based  on the internal control over ﬁnancial reporting criteria  established by the Company considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance  Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial  Reporting issued by the ICAI.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm registration number: 101248W/W-100022 Jamil Khatri Partner Membership Number: 102527 Bangalore June 2, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 196 Annual Report 2016-17 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 5  ` 60,667  ` 58,556  ` 48,495  Capital work in progress 5  7,377  3,806  3,951  Goodwill 6, 7  122,276  98,394  64,689  Other intangible assets 6  15,922  15,841  7,931  Financial assets  Investments 8  7,103  4,907  3,867   Derivative assets 9  106  260  736   Trade receivables 10  3,998  1,362  2,443   Other ﬁnancial assets 11  4,785  5,188  4,838  Deferred tax assets 28  3,098  4,288  3,367  Non-current tax assets  12,008  11,751  11,409  Other non-current assets 12  13,582  13,014  11,091  Total non-current assets  250,922  217,367  162,817  Current assets Inventories 13  3,915  5,390  4,849   Financial assets  Investments 8  292,030  204,244  93,827   Trade receivables 10  94,846  99,614  87,845   Cash and cash equivalents 14  52,710  99,049  158,940   Derivative assets 9  9,747  5,549  4,889   Unbilled revenues  45,095  48,273  42,338   Other ﬁnancial assets 11  8,629  9,874  14,261  Current tax assets  9,804  7,812  6,490  Other current assets 12  22,122  23,020  19,337  Total current assets  538,898  502,825  432,776  TOTAL ASSETS  ` 789,820  ` 720,192  ` 595,593  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 15  ` 4,861  ` 4,941  ` 4,937  Other equity  511,841  456,507  398,713  Equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company  516,702  461,448  403,650  Non-controlling interest  2,391  2,212  1,634  TOTAL EQUITY  519,093  463,660  405,284  Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities  Long - term loans and borrowings 16  19,611  17,361  12,707   Derivative liabilities 9  2  119  71   Other ﬁnancial liabilities 17  853  2,316  385  Provisions 18  4,241  4,632  3,067  Deferred tax liabilities 28  6,578  5,071  3,201  Non-current tax liability  9,547  8,231  6,695  Other non-current liabilities 19  410  291  211  Total non-current liabilities  41,242  38,021  26,337  Current liabilities Financial liabilities  Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts 16  116,741  102,648  64,441   Trade payables 20  48,673  49,021  39,999   Derivative liabilities 9  2,708  2,340  753   Other ﬁnancial liabilities 17  23,156  25,179  20,645  Unearned revenues  16,150  18,076  16,549  Provisions 18  7,543  7,111  6,694  Current tax liabilities  8,101  7,015  8,036  Other current liabilities 19  6,413  7,121  6,855  Total current liabilities  229,485  218,511  163,972  TOTAL LIABILITIES ` 270,727 ` 256,532 ` 190,309  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  ` 789,820  ` 720,192  ` 595,593  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 197 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Year ended  Notes March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 INCOME  Revenue from operations 21  ` 550,402  ` 512,440    Other operating income 22  4,082  -    Other income 23  25,467  27,522  Total Income  579,951  539,962  EXPENSES  Cost of materials consumed  -  2    Purchases of stock-in-trade  25,560  30,552     Changes in inventories of ﬁnished goods, work in progress and stock-in-trade 24  1,411  (605)   Employee beneﬁts expense 25  268,081  245,534    Finance costs 26  5,183  5,582    Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense  23,100  14,961    Other expenses 27  146,223  128,999    Total expenses  469,558  425,025  Proﬁt before tax  110,393  114,937  Tax expense   Current tax 28  26,501  25,757    Deferred tax 28  (1,287)  (391) Total tax expense  25,214  25,366  Proﬁt for the year  ` 85,179  ` 89,571  Other comprehensive income (OCI), net of taxes Items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to the statement of proﬁt or loss: Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains/ (losses) 25  212  (1,010) Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 9  (183)  24  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss 28  (28)  215  Items that will be reclassiﬁed subsequently to the statement of proﬁt or loss: Foreign currency translation differences 29  (2,992)  4,756  Net change in time value of option contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 9  9  -  Net change in intrinsic value of option contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 9  77  -  Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 9  4,872  (1,900) Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 9  1,788  396  Income tax relating to items that will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss 28  (1,571)  227  Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of taxes  2,184  2,708  Total comprehensive income for the year  ` 87,363  ` 92,279  Proﬁt for the year attributable to:  Equity holders of the Company  84,931  89,079  Non-controlling interest  248  492   85,179  89,571  Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the Company  87,184  91,701  Non-controlling interest  179  578   87,363  92,279  Earnings per equity share 30 (Equity shares of par value ` 2 each) Basic  ` 34.97  ` 36.26  Diluted  ` 34.87  ` 36.19  Number of shares Basic 2,428,540,505 2,456,559,400 Diluted 2,435,673,569 2,461,689,908 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 198 Annual Report 2016-17 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Balance as at April 1, 2016 Changes in equity share capital # Balance as at March 31, 2017  4,941  (80)  4,861  Balance as at April 1, 2015 Changes in equity share capital Balance as at March 31, 2016  4,937  4  4,941  OTHER EQUITY Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment Share  premium Capital  reserve Capital  redemption  reserve Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Special  economic  Zone re- investment  reserves Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash ﬂow  hedging  reserve Other com- prehensive  income Equity  attributable  to equity  holders  of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total other  equity Balance as at April 1, 2016 ^  ` 14,713  ` 1,139  ` 14  ` 421,217  ` 2,229  ` -  ` 15,069  ` 1,910  ` 216  ` 456,507  ` 2,212  ` 458,719  Proﬁt for the year  -     -     -     -     84,931  -     -     -     -     -     84,931  248  85,179  Other comprehensive income  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     (2,923)  3,996  1,180  2,253  (69)  2,184  Total comprehensive income  for the year  -     -     -     -     84,931  -     -     (2,923)  3,996  1,180  87,184  179  87,363  Buyback of equity shares#  -     (14,254)  -     80  (10,746)  -     -     -     -     -     (24,920)  -     (24,920) Dividend (including dividend tax thereon)  -     -     -     -     (8,734)  -     -     -     -     -     (8,734)  -     (8,734) Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of options  -     -     -     -     384  (384)  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     Issue of equity shares on exercise of options  -     81  -     -     -     (81)  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     Compensation cost related to employee share based payment  -     -     -     -     13  1,791  -     -     -     -     1,804  -     1,804  Transferred to Special  economic zone re-investment reserve  -     -     -     -     (13,521)  -     13,521  -     -     -     -     -     -     Transferred from Special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilization  -     -     -     -     13,521  -     (13,521)  -     -     -     -     -     -      -     (14,173)  -     80  65,848  1,326  -     (2,923)  3,996  1,180  55,334  179  55,513  Balance as at March 31, 2017  ^  ` 540  ` 1,139  ` 94  ` 487,065  ` 3,555  ` -  ` 12,146  ` 5,906  ` 1,396  ` 511,841  ` 2,391  ` 514,232  # Refer note 34.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 199 Particulars Share  application  money  pending  allotment Share  premium Capital  reserve Capital  redemption  reserve Retained  earnings Share  based  payment  reserve Special  economic  zone re- investment  reserves Foreign  currency  translation  reserve Cash ﬂow  hedging  reserve Other com- prehensive  income Equity  attributable  to equity  holders  of the  Company Non- controlling  interest Total other  equity Balance as at April 1, 2015                 ^  ` 14,102  ` 1,139  ` 14  ` 367,573  ` 1,312  ` -  ` 10,399  ` 3,550  ` 624  ` 398,713  ` 1,634  ` 400,347  Proﬁt for the year  -     -     -     -     89,079  -     -     -     -     -     89,079  492  89,571  Other comprehensive income  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     4,670  (1,640)  (408)  2,622  86  2,708  Total comprehensive income  for the year  -     -     -     -     89,079  -     -     4,670  (1,640)  (408)  91,701  578  92,279  Dividend (including dividend tax thereon)  -     -     -     -     (35,494)  -     -     -     -     -     (35,494)  -     (35,494) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options  -     611  -     -     -     (611)  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     Compensation cost related to employee share based payment  -     -     -     -     59  1,528  -     -     -     -     1,587  -     1,587  Transferred to Special  economic zone re-investment reserve  -     -     -     -     (1,342)  -     1,342  -     -     -     -     -     -     Transferred from Special economic zone re-investment reserve on utilization  -     -     -     -     1,342  -     (1,342)  -     -     -     -     -     -      -     611  -     -     53,644  917  -     4,670  (1,640)  (408)  57,794  578  58,372  Balance as at March 31, 2016                 ^  ` 14,713  ` 1,139  ` 14  ` 421,217  ` 2,229  ` -  ` 15,069  ` 1,910  ` 216  ` 456,507  ` 2,212  ` 458,719  ^ Value is less than `1 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer& Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 200 Annual Report 2016-17 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Proﬁt for the year  ` 85,179  ` 89,571  Adjustments:  (Gain) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net  117  (55)  Depreciation and amortization  23,100  14,961   Exchange loss, net  3,945  2,664   Gain on sale of investments, net  (3,486)  (2,646)  Share based compensation expense  1,742  1,534   Income tax expense  25,214  25,366   Dividend and interest (income)/expenses, net  (16,259)  (19,599)  Gain from sale of EcoEnergy division  (4,082)  -   Other non cash items  (1,732)  -  Changes in operating assets and liabilities; net of effects from acquisitions  Trade receivables  3,346  (5,317)  Unbilled revenue  3,813  (5,329)  Inventories  1,475  (541)  Other assets  4,054  (766)  Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions  (5,232)  4,683   Unearned revenue  (2,945)  1,282  Cash generated from operating activities before taxes  118,249  105,808   Income taxes paid, net  (25,476)  (26,935) Net cash generated from operating activities ` 92,773 ` 78,873  Cash ﬂows from investing activities:  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (20,853)  (13,951)  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  1,207  779   Proceeds from sale of EcoEnergy division, net of related expense  4,372  -   Purchase of investments  (813,439)  (934,958)  Proceeds from sale of investments  729,755  830,647   Impact of investment hedging activities, net  (226)  266   Payment for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (33,608)  (39,373)  Interest received  17,069  18,368   Dividend received  311  66   Income taxes paid on sale of EcoEnergy division  (871)  -  Net cash used in investing activities ` (116,283) ` (138,156) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities:  Proceeds from issuance of equity shares  ^  4   Repayment of loans and borrowings  (112,803)  (137,298)  Proceeds from loans and borrowings  125,922  172,549   Payment for contingent consideration in respect of business combination  (138)  -   Payment for buy back of shares  (25,000)  -   Interest paid on loans and borrowings  (1,999)  (1,348)  Payment of cash dividend (including dividend tax thereon)  (8,734)  (35,494) Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities ` (22,752) ` (1,587)   Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year  (46,262)  (60,870)   Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (1,412)  549    Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  98,392  158,713    Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note 14)  ` 50,718  ` 98,392  ^ Value is less than `1 Total taxes paid amounted to `26,347 and `26,935 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 201 ( ` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
The Company overview    Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or the “Parent Company”),  together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “the  Company” or the “Group”) is a global information  technology (IT), consulting and business process  services (BPS) company.
Wipro is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
The address of its registered  office is Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur  Road, Bangalore – 560 035, Karnataka, India.
Wipro has its primary listing with Bombay Stock  Exchange and National Stock Exchange in India.
The  Company’s American Depository Shares representing  equity shares are also listed on the New York Stock  Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements were  authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on  June/uni00A02, 2017.
2.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial  statements  (i)  Statement of compliance and basis of preparation    The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared  in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards  (“Ind AS”), the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Companies Act”), as applicable and guidelines  issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (“SEBI”).
The Ind AS are prescribed under Section 133  of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules,  2016.
Upto the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company  prepared its financial statements in accordance  with the requirements of the Indian GAAP (“Previous  GAAP”), which included Standards notiﬁed under the  Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006.
The  date of transition to Ind AS is April 1, 2015.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently to  all periods presented in these consolidated ﬁnancial  statements.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements correspond  to the classiﬁcation provisions contained in Ind  AS 1, “Presentation of Financial Statements” .
For clarity, various items are aggregated in the  statements of proﬁt and loss and balance sheet.
These items are disaggregated separately in the  notes to the consolidated financial statements,  where applicable.
All amounts included in the consolidated ﬁnancial  statements are reported in Indian rupees (in millions)  except share and per share data, unless otherwise  stated.
Due to rounding off, the numbers presented  throughout the document may not add up precisely to  the totals and percentages may not precisely reﬂect  the absolute ﬁgures.
(ii)  Basis of measurement    The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been  prepared on a historical cost convention and on an  accrual basis, except for the following material items  which have been measured at fair value as required  by relevant Ind AS:-   a.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments;   b.
Financial instruments classiﬁed as fair value  through other comprehensive income or fair  value through proﬁt or loss;  c.   The deﬁned beneﬁt asset/(liability) is recognized  as the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  less fair value of plan assets; and   d. Contingent consideration.
(iii)  Use of estimates and judgment    The preparation of the consolidated financial  statements in conformity with Ind AS requires  management to make judgments, estimates and  assumptions that affect the application of accounting  policies and the reported amounts of assets,  liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may  differ from those estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates  are recognized in the period in which the estimates  are revised and in any future periods affected.
In  particular, information about signiﬁcant areas of  estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in  applying accounting policies that have the most  signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognized in the  consolidated ﬁnancial statements are included in the  following notes:   a)  Revenue recognition:  The Company uses the  percentage of completion method using the  input (cost expended) method to measure  progress towards completion in respect of  ﬁxed price contracts.
Percentage of completion  method accounting relies on estimates of  total expected contract revenue and costs.
This method is followed when reasonably  dependable estimates of the revenues and costs  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 202 Annual Report 2016-17 applicable to various elements of the contract  can be made.
Key factors that are reviewed in  estimating the future costs to complete include  estimates of future labor costs and productivity  efﬁciencies.
Because the ﬁnancial reporting of  these contracts depends on estimates that are  assessed continually during the term of these  contracts, recognized revenue and proﬁt are  subject to revisions as the contract progresses  to completion.
When estimates indicate that a  loss will be incurred, the loss is provided for in  the period in which the loss becomes probable.
Volume discounts are recorded as a reduction  of revenue.
When the amount of discount varies  with the levels of revenue, volume discount is  recorded based on estimate of future revenue  from the customer.
b) Impairment testing:  Goodwill and intangible  assets recognized on business combination  are tested for impairment at least annually and  when events occur or changes in circumstances  indicate that the recoverable amount of the  asset or the cash generating unit to which  these pertain is less than the carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the asset or the cash  generating units is higher of value-in-use and  fair value less cost of disposal.
The calculation  of value in use of a cash generating unit involves  use of signiﬁcant estimates and assumptions  which includes turnover and earnings multiples,  growth rates and net margins used to calculate  projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted  discount rate, future economic and market  conditions.
c) Income taxes: The major tax jurisdictions for  the Company are India and the United States  of America.
Signiﬁcant judgments are involved  in determining the provision for income taxes  including judgment on whether tax positions are  probable of being sustained in tax assessments.
A tax assessment can involve complex issues,  which can only be resolved over extended time  periods.
d) Deferred taxes:  Deferred tax is recorded on  temporary differences between the tax bases  of assets and liabilities and their carrying  amounts, at the rates that have been enacted  or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets  is dependent upon the generation of future  taxable profits during the periods in which  those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company  considers the expected reversal of deferred tax  liabilities and projected future taxable income  in making this assessment.
The amount of  the deferred tax assets considered realizable,  however, could be reduced in the near term if  estimates of future taxable income during the  carry-forward period are reduced.
e) Business combination:  In accounting for  business combinations, judgment is required  in identifying whether an identiﬁable intangible  asset is to be recorded separately from goodwill.
Additionally, estimating the acquisition date  fair value of the identiﬁable assets (including  useful life estimates) and liability acquired,  and contingent consideration assumed involves  management judgment.
These measurements  are based on information available at the  acquisition date and are based on expectations  and assumptions that have been deemed  reasonable by management.
Changes in these  judgments, estimates, and assumptions can  materially affect the results of operations.
f) Defined benefit plans and compensated  absences:  The cost of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans,  compensated absences and the present value  of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are based  on actuarial valuation using the projected unit  credit method.
An actuarial valuation involves  making various assumptions that may differ  from actual developments in the future.
These  include the determination of the discount rate,  future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due  to the complexities involved in the valuation  and its long-term nature, a defined benefit  obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these  assumptions.
All assumptions are reviewed at  each reporting date.
g) Expected credit losses on financial assets:   On application of Ind AS 109, the impairment  provisions of financial assets are based on  assumptions about risk of default and expected  timing of collection.
The Company uses judgment  in making these assumptions and selecting the  inputs to the impairment calculation, based  on the Company’s past history of collections,  customer’s credit-worthiness, existing market  conditions as well as forward looking estimates  at the end of each reporting period.
h)  Measurement of fair value of non-marketable  equity investments:  These instruments are  initially recorded at cost and subsequently  measured at fair value.
Fair value of investments  is determined using the market and income  approaches.
The market approach includes the  use of ﬁnancial metrics and ratios of comparable  companies, such as revenue, earnings,   comparable performance multiples, recent  ﬁnancial rounds and the level of marketability  of the investments.
The selection of comparable  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 203 companies requires management judgment  and is based on a number of factors, including  comparable company sizes, growth rates, and  development stages.
The income approach  includes the use of discounted cash ﬂow model,  which requires signiﬁcant estimates regarding  the investees’ revenue, costs, and discount  rates based on the risk proﬁle of comparable  companies.
Estimates of revenue and costs  are developed using available historical and  forecast data.
i) Other estimates:  The share based compensation  expense is determined based on the Company’s  estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest./uni00A0Fair valuation of derivative  hedging instruments designated as cash ﬂow  hedges involves signiﬁcant estimates relating  to the occurrence of forecast transaction.
3.
Signiﬁcant accounting policies  (i)  Basis of consolidation   Subsidiaries    The Company determines the basis of control in line  with the requirements of Ind AS 110, Consolidated  Financial Statements.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to,  or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement  with the entity and has the ability to affect those  returns through its power over the entity.
The  ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in  the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the date  on which control commences until the date on which  control ceases.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and  expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest    Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding  goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identiﬁed  separately from the Company’s equity.
The interest  of non-controlling shareholders may be initially  measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling  interest’s proportionate share of the fair value of  the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets.
The choice  of measurement basis is made on an acquisition to  acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the  carrying amount of non-controlling interest is the  amount of those interests at initial recognition plus  the non-controlling interest’s share of subsequent  changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is  attributed to non-controlling interests even if it  results in the non-controlling interest having a deﬁcit  balance.
(ii)  Functional and presentation currency    Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each  of the Company’s entities are measured using the  currency of the primary economic environment in  which these entities operate (i.e.
the “functional  currency”).
These consolidated ﬁnancial statements  are presented in Indian rupees, the national currency  of India, which is the functional currency of the  Company.
(iii)  Foreign currency transactions and translation   a)  Transactions and balances    Transactions in foreign currency are translated  into the respective functional currencies using  the exchange rates prevailing at the date of  the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and  losses resulting from the settlement of such  transactions and from translation at the  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date  of monetary assets and liabilities denominated  in foreign currencies are recognized in the  statement of profit and loss and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net  within results of operating activities except  when deferred in other comprehensive income  as qualifying cash ﬂow hedges and qualifying  net investment hedges.
Gains/(losses) relating  to translation or settlement of borrowings  denominated in foreign currency are reported  within ﬁnance expense.
Non-monetary assets  and liabilities denominated in foreign currency  and measured at historical cost are translated  at the exchange rate prevalent at the date of  transaction.
Translation differences on non- monetary financial assets measured at fair  value at the reporting date, such as equities  classiﬁed as ﬁnancial instruments measured at  fair value through other comprehensive income  are included in other comprehensive income, net  of taxes.
b)  Foreign operations    For the purpose of presenting consolidated  ﬁnancial statements, the assets and liabilities  of the Company’s foreign operations that  have a functional currency other than Indian  rupees are translated into Indian rupees using  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at the  average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange  differences arising, if any, are recognized  in other comprehensive income and held in  foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR), a  component of equity, except to the extent that  the translation difference is allocated to non- controlling interest.
When a foreign operation  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 204 Annual Report 2016-17 is disposed off, the relevant amount recognized  in FCTR is transferred to the statement of proﬁt  and loss as part of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on  the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated  as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation  and translated at the exchange rate prevailing  at the reporting date.
c)  Others    Foreign currency differences arising on the  translation or settlement of a ﬁnancial liability  designated as a hedge of a net investment in  a foreign operation are recognized in other  comprehensive income and presented within  equity in the FCTR to the extent the hedge is  effective.
To the extent the hedge is ineffective,  such differences are recognized in the statement  of proﬁt and loss.
When the hedged part of a net investment is  disposed of, the relevant amount recognized  in FCTR is transferred to the statement of  proﬁt and loss as part of the proﬁt or loss on  disposal.
Foreign currency differences arising  from translation of intercompany receivables  or payables relating to foreign operations, the  settlement of which is neither planned nor likely  in the foreseeable future, are considered to form  part of net investment in foreign operation and  are recognized in FCTR.
(iv)  Financial instruments  a) Non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments:  Non derivative ﬁnancial instruments consist of:  	 •	 	financial	 assets, 	which	 include	 cash	 and	 cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, ﬁnance lease receivables, employee  and other advances, investments in equity and  debt securities and eligible current and non- current assets;  	 •	 	 financial	liabilities,	which	include	long	and	short- term loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts,  trade payables, eligible current and non-current  liabilities.
Non derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognized  initially at fair value.
Financial assets are derecognized  when substantial risks and rewards of ownership of  the ﬁnancial asset have been transferred.
In cases  where substantial risks and rewards of ownership  of the ﬁnancial assets are neither transferred nor  retained, financial assets are derecognized only  when the Company has not retained control over the  ﬁnancial asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative  ﬁnancial instruments are measured as described  below:  A.
Cash and cash equivalents     The Company’s cash and cash equivalents  consist of cash on hand and in banks and  demand deposits with banks, which can be  withdrawn at any time, without prior notice or  penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash ﬂow statement,  cash and cash equivalents include cash on  hand, in banks and demand deposits with banks,  net of outstanding bank overdrafts that are  repayable on demand and are considered part  of the Company’s cash management system.
In  the consolidated statement of balance sheet,  bank overdrafts are presented under borrowings  within current liabilities.
B.
Investments    Financial instruments measured at amortized cost:    Debt instruments that meet the following criteria  are measured at amortized cost (except for  debt instruments that are designated at fair  value through Proﬁt or Loss (FVTPL) on initial  recognition): 		• 	 	the	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	 whose objective is to hold assets in order  to collect contractual cash ﬂows; and  		• 	 	the	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that  are solely payment of principal and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income (FVOCI):    Debt instruments that meet the following  criteria are measured at fair value through  other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) (except  for debt instruments that are designated at fair  value through Proﬁt or Loss (FVTPL) on initial  recognition) 		• 	 	the	asset	is	held	within	a	business	model	 whose objective is achieved both by  collecting contractual cash flows and  selling ﬁnancial asset; and  		• 	 	the	contractual	terms	of	the	instrument	give	 rise on speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that  are solely payment of principal and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 205    Interest income is recognized in statement of  proﬁt and loss for FVTOCI debt instruments.
Other changes in fair value of FVTOCI ﬁnancial  assets are recognized in other comprehensive  income.
When the investment is disposed of, the  cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated  in reserves is transferred to statement of proﬁt  and loss.
Financial instruments measured at fair value  through proﬁt or loss (FVTPL):    Instruments that do not meet the amortized  cost or FVTOCI criteria are measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair  value at the end of each reporting period, with  any gains or losses arising on re-measurement  recognized in statement of profit and loss.
The gain or loss on disposal is recognized in  statement of proﬁt and loss.
Interest income is recognized in statement of  profit and loss for FVTPL debt instruments.
Dividend on financial assets at FVTPL is  recognized when the Group’s right to receive  dividend is established.
Investments in equity instruments designated to  be classiﬁed as FVTOCI:    The Company carries certain equity instruments  which are not held for trading.
The Company  has elected the FVTOCI irrevocable option for  these instruments.
Movements in fair value  of these investments are recognized in other  comprehensive income and the gain or loss is not  reclassiﬁed to statement of proﬁt and loss on  disposal of these investments.
Dividends from  these investments are recognized in statement  of proﬁt and loss when the Company’s right to  receive dividends is established.
C.  Other ﬁnancial assets:     Other financial assets are non-derivative  financial assets with fixed or determinable  payments that are not quoted in an active  market.
They are presented as current assets,  except for those maturing later than 12 months  after the reporting date which are presented  as non-current assets.
These are initially  recognized at fair value and subsequently  measured at amortized cost using the effective  interest method, less any impairment losses.
These comprise trade receivables, unbilled  revenues, cash and cash equivalents and other  assets.
D.  Trade and other payables     Trade and other payables are initially recognized  at fair value, and subsequently carried at  amortized cost using the effective interest  method.
For these ﬁnancial instruments, the  carrying amounts approximate fair value due to  the short term maturity of these instruments.
b) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments   The Company is exposed to foreign currency  ﬂuctuations on foreign currency assets, liabilities,  net investment in foreign operations and forecasted  cash ﬂows denominated in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange  rate fluctuations by following established risk  management policies including the use of derivatives.
The Company enters into derivative financial  instruments where the counterparty is primarily a  bank.
Derivatives are recognized and measured at fair  value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognized  in statement of proﬁt and loss as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative ﬁnancial  instruments are measured as described below:   A.
Cash ﬂow hedges     Changes in the fair value of the derivative  hedging instrument designated as a cash ﬂow  hedge are recognized in other comprehensive  income and held in cash ﬂow hedging reserve,  net of taxes, a component of equity, to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent  that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair  value are recognized in the statement of proﬁt  and loss and reported within foreign exchange  gains/(losses), net within results from operating  activities.
If the hedging instrument no longer  meets the criteria for hedge accounting, then  hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold,  terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain  or loss on the hedging instrument recognized  in cash flow hedging reserve till the period  the hedge was effective remains in cash ﬂow  hedging reserve until the forecasted transaction  occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss previously  recognized in the cash ﬂow hedging reserve is  transferred to the statement of proﬁt and loss  upon the occurrence of the related forecasted  transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is  no longer expected to occur, such cumulative  balance is immediately recognized in the  statement of proﬁt and loss.
B.  Hedges of net investment in foreign operations    Company has also designated a foreign currency  denominated borrowing as a hedge of net  investment in foreign operations.
Changes in the  fair value of the derivative hedging instruments  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 206 Annual Report 2016-17 and gains/losses on translation or settlement  of foreign currency denominated borrowings  designated as a hedge of net investment in  foreign operations are recognized in other  comprehensive income and presented within  equity in the FCTR to the extent that the hedge  is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is  ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized  in the statement of proﬁt and loss and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net  within results from operating activities.
C.  Others     Changes in fair value of foreign currency  derivative instruments not designated as cash  ﬂow hedges are recognized in the statement  of proﬁt and loss and reported within foreign  exchange gains, net within results from  operating activities.
Changes in fair value and  gains/(losses) on settlement of foreign currency  derivative instruments relating to borrowings,  which have not been designated as hedges are  recorded in ﬁnance expense.
c) Derecognition of ﬁnancial instruments   The Company derecognizes a ﬁnancial asset when the  contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial  asset expires or it transfers the ﬁnancial asset and  the transfer qualiﬁes for derecognition under Ind  AS 109.
If the Company retains substantially all the  risks and rewards of a transferred ﬁnancial asset, the  Company continues to recognize the ﬁnancial asset  and also recognizes a borrowing for the proceeds  received.
A ﬁnancial liability (or a part of a ﬁnancial  liability) is derecognized from the group’s balance  sheet when the obligation speciﬁed in the contract  is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(v)  Equity and share capital  a)  Share capital and share premium    The authorized share capital of the Company as of  March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 is  ` 6,100 divided into 2,917,500,000 equity shares of  ` 2 each, 25,000,000 preference shares of ` 10 each  and 150,000 10% optionally convertible cumulative  preference shares of ` 100 each.
Par value of the  equity shares is recorded as share capital and the  amount received in excess of par value is classiﬁed  as share premium.
Every holder of the equity shares, as reﬂected in  the records of the Company as of the date of the  shareholder meeting shall have one vote in respect  of each share held for all matters submitted to vote  in the shareholder meeting.
b)  Shares held by controlled trust (Treasury shares)    The Company’s equity shares held by the controlled  trust, which is consolidated as a part of the Group  are classiﬁed as Treasury shares.
The Company has  13,728,607, 14,829,824 and 14,829,824 treasury  shares as of March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April  1, 2015, respectively.
Treasury shares are recorded at  acquisition cost.
c)  Capital reserve   Capital reserve amounting to/uni00A0 ` 1,139 (March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015: ` 1,139, respectively) is not freely  available for distribution.
d)  Capital redemption reserve   Capital redemption reserve amounting to/uni00A0 ` 94 (March  31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: ` 14, respectively) is not  freely available for distribution.
e)  Retained earning   Retained earnings comprises of the Company’s  undistributed earnings after taxes.
f)  Share based payment reserve    The share based payment reserve is used to record  the value of equity-settled share based payment  transactions with employees.
The amounts recorded  in share based payment reserve are transferred to  share premium upon exercise of restricted stock unit  options by employees.
g)  Special economic zone re-investment reserves   The Special Economic Zone Re-Investment Reserve  has been created out of proﬁt of eligible SEZ units as  per provisions of section 10AA (1)(ii) of the Income– tax Act, 1961 for acquiring new plant and machinery  for the business of the company.
The reserve has  also been utilized for other business purposes of  SEZ units as per provisions of section 10AA of the  Income-tax Act, 1961 till the time the said reserve is  utilized completely for the purposes of purchasing  new plant and machinery.
h)  Foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR)   The exchange differences arising from the translation  of financial statements of foreign subsidiaries,  differences arising from translation of long-term  inter-company receivables or payables relating to  foreign operations settlement of which is neither  planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, changes  in fair value of the derivative hedging instruments and  gains/losses on translation or settlement of foreign  currency denominated borrowings designated as  hedge of net investment in foreign operations are  recognized in other comprehensive income, net of  taxes and presented within equity as FCTR.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 207 i)  Cash ﬂow hedging reserve   Changes in fair value of derivative hedging instruments  designated and effective as a cash ﬂow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income (net of  taxes), and presented within equity as cash ﬂow  hedging reserve.
j)  Other comprehensive income   Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income and actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned  beneﬁt plans are recognized in other comprehensive  income (net of taxes), and presented within equity as  other comprehensive income.
k)  Dividend    A ﬁnal dividend, including tax thereon, on equity  shares is recorded as a liability on the date of  approval by the shareholders.
An interim dividend,  including tax thereon, is recorded as a liability on the  date of declaration by the board of directors.
(vi)  Property, plant and equipment  a)  Recognition and measurement    Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment  losses, if any.
Cost includes expenditure directly  attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
General  and speciﬁc borrowing costs directly attributable to  the construction of a qualifying asset are capitalized  as part of the cost.
b)  Depreciation    The Company depreciates property, plant and  equipment over the estimated useful life on a  straight-line basis from the date the assets are  available for use.
Assets acquired under finance  lease and leasehold improvements are amortized  over the shorter of estimated useful life of the asset  or the related lease term.
Term licenses are amortized  over their respective contract term.
Freehold land is  not depreciated.
The estimated useful life of assets  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of assets are as  follows:  /uni00A0Category Useful life Buildings 28/uni00A0to/uni00A040/uni00A0years Plant and machinery 5 to 21 years Computer equipment and software 2 to 7 years Furniture, ﬁxtures and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles 4 to 5 years   When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment  have different useful lives, they are accounted for as  separate items (major components) of property, plant  and equipment.
Subsequent expenditure relating to  property, plant and equipment is capitalized only  when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts  associated with these will ﬂow to the Company and  the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The cost of property, plant and equipment not available  for use as at each reporting date is disclosed under  capital work- in-progress.
(vii)   Business combination, Goodwill and Intangible  assets  a)  Business combination    Business combinations are accounted for using  the purchase (acquisition) method.
The cost of an  acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets  transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity  instruments issued at the date of exchange by the  Company.
Identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities  and contingent liabilities assumed in a business  combination are measured initially at fair value at  the date of acquisition.
Transaction costs incurred in  connection with a business acquisition are expensed  as incurred.
The cost of an acquisition also includes the fair value  of any contingent consideration measured as at the  date of acquisition.
Any subsequent changes to the  fair value of contingent consideration classified  as liabilities, other than measurement period  adjustments, are recognized in the consolidated  statement of proﬁt and loss.
b)  Goodwill    The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the  Company’s share in the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent  liabilities is recognized as goodwill.
If the excess  is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognized  immediately in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
c)  Intangible assets    Intangible assets acquired separately are measured  at cost of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired in a  business combination are measured at fair value as  at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition,  intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated  amortization and impairment losses, if any.
The amortization of an intangible asset with a ﬁnite  useful life reﬂects the manner in which the economic  beneﬁt is expected to be generated and is included in  selling and marketing expenses in the consolidated  statements of income.
The estimated useful life of amortizable intangibles  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted,  annually.
The estimated useful lives of the amortizable  intangible assets for the current and comparative  periods are as follows:  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 208 Annual Report 2016-17 Category Useful life Customer-related intangibles 5/uni00A0to/uni00A010/uni00A0years Marketing related intangibles 3/uni00A0to/uni00A010/uni00A0years (viii) Leases    The determination of whether an arrangement is, or  contains, a lease is based on the substance of the  arrangement at the inception date.
The arrangement  is, or contains a lease if, fulﬁllment of the arrangement  is dependent on the use of a speciﬁc asset or assets  or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset  or assets, even if that right is not explicitly speciﬁed  in an arrangement.
a)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessee    Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the  Company assumes substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases.
Finance leases are capitalized at lower of the fair  value of the leased property and the present value  of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments  are apportioned between the ﬁnance charge and the  outstanding liability.
The ﬁnance charge is allocated  to periods during the lease term at a constant  periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of  the liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as  operating leases.
Payments made under operating  leases are recognized in the statement of proﬁt and  loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessor    In certain arrangements, the Company recognizes  revenue from the sale of products given under  finance leases.
The Company records gross  finance receivables, unearned income and the  estimated residual value of the leased equipment  on consummation of such leases.
Unearned income  represents the excess of the gross ﬁnance lease  receivable plus the estimated residual value over  the sales price of the equipment.
The Company  recognizes unearned income as ﬁnance income over  the lease term using the effective interest method.
(ix)  Inventories    Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net  realizable value, including necessary provision for  obsolescence.
Cost is determined using the weighted  average method.
(x)  Impairment  A)  Financial assets    The Company applies the expected credit loss model  for recognizing impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets  measured at amortized cost, debt instruments at  FVTOCI, lease receivables, trade receivables and  other ﬁnancial assets.
Expected credit loss is the  difference between the contractual cash ﬂows and  the cash ﬂows that the entity expects to receive,  discounted using the effective interest rate.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and lease  receivables are measured at an amount equal to  lifetime expected credit loss.
Lifetime expected credit  losses are the expected credit losses that result from  all possible default events over the expected life of a  ﬁnancial instrument.
Lifetime expected credit loss is  computed based on a provision matrix which takes in  to account risk proﬁling of customers and historical  credit loss experience adjusted for forward looking  information.
For other ﬁnancial assets, expected  credit loss is measured at the amount equal to  twelve months expected credit loss unless there has  been a signiﬁcant increase in credit risk from initial  recognition, in which case those are measured at  lifetime expected credit loss.
Refer note 2 (iii) (g) for  further information.
B)  Non-ﬁnancial assets    The Company assesses long-lived assets such as  property, plant, equipment and acquired intangible  assets for impairment whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of  an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the Company estimates  the recoverable amount of the asset or group of  assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset or  cash generating unit is the higher of its fair value  less cost of disposal (FVLCD) and its value-in-use  (VIU).
The VIU of long-lived assets is calculated  using projected future cash ﬂows.
FVLCD of a cash  generating unit is computed using turnover and  earnings multiples.
If the recoverable amount of  the asset or the recoverable amount of the cash  generating unit to which the asset belongs is less  than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is  reduced to its recoverable amount.
The reduction is  treated as an impairment loss and is recognized in  the statement of proﬁt and loss.
If at the reporting  date, there is an indication that a previously assessed  impairment loss no longer exists, the recoverable  amount is reassessed and the impairment losses  previously recognized are reversed such that the  asset is recognized at its recoverable amount but  not exceeding written down value which would have  been reported if the impairment losses had not been  recognized initially.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually at  the same time and when events occur or changes in  circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount  of the cash generating unit is less than its carrying  value.
The goodwill impairment test is performed at  the level of cash-generating unit or groups of cash  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 209 -generating units which represents the lowest level at  which goodwill is monitored for internal management  purposes.
An impairment in respect of goodwill is not  reversed.
(xi)  Employee beneﬁts  A)  Post-employment and pension plans    The Group participates in various employee beneﬁt  plans.
Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts  are classiﬁed as either deﬁned contribution plans or  deﬁned beneﬁt plans.
Under a deﬁned contribution  plan, the Company’s only obligation is to pay a  fixed amount with no obligation to pay further  contributions if the fund does not hold sufﬁcient  assets to pay all employee benefits.
The related  actuarial and investment risks are borne by the  employee.
The expenditure for deﬁned contribution  plans is recognized as an expense during the period  when the employee provides service.
Under a  deﬁned beneﬁt plan, it is the Company’s obligation  to provide agreed beneﬁts to the employees.
The  related actuarial and investment risks are borne by  the Company.
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt  obligations is calculated by an independent actuary  using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains or losses are immediately recognized  in other comprehensive income, net of taxes and  permanently excluded from proﬁt or loss.
Further,  the proﬁt or loss will no longer include an expected  return on plan assets.
Instead net interest recognized  in proﬁt or loss is calculated by applying the discount  rate used to measure the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  to the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability or asset.
The actual  return on the plan assets above or below the discount  rate is recognized as part of re-measurement of net  deﬁned liability or asset through other comprehensive  income, net of taxes.
The Company has the following employee beneﬁt  plans:   a.  Provident fund     Employees receive beneﬁts from a provident  fund, which is a defined benefit plan.
The  employer and employees each make periodic  contributions to the plan.
A portion of the  contribution is made to the approved provident  fund trust managed by the Company while  the remainder of the contribution is made to  the government administered pension fund.
The contributions to the trust managed by the  Company is accounted for as a deﬁned beneﬁt  plan as the Company is liable for any shortfall  in the fund assets based on the government  speciﬁed minimum rates of return.
b.  Superannuation     Superannuation plan, a deﬁned contribution  scheme is administered by third party funds.
The Company makes annual contributions  based on a speciﬁed percentage of each eligible  employee’s salary.
c.  Gratuity     In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity  Act, 1972, applicable for Indian companies, the  Company provides for a lump sum payment to  eligible employees, at retirement or termination  of employment based on the last drawn salary  and years of employment with the Company.
The  gratuity fund is managed by third party funds.
The Company’s obligation in respect of the  gratuity plan, which is a deﬁned beneﬁt plan, is  provided for based on actuarial valuation using  the projected unit credit method.
The Company  recognizes actuarial gains and losses in other  comprehensive income, net of taxes.
d.  Termination beneﬁts     Termination beneﬁts are expensed when the  Company can no longer withdraw the offer of  those beneﬁts.
e.  Short-term beneﬁts     Short-term employee beneﬁt obligations are  measured on an undiscounted basis and are  recorded as expense as the related service is  provided.
A liability is recognized for the amount  expected to be paid under short-term cash  bonus or proﬁt-sharing plans, if the Company  has a present legal or constructive obligation  to pay this amount as a result of past service  provided by the employee and the obligation can  be estimated reliably.
f.  Compensated absences     The employees of the Company are entitled  to compensated absences.
The employees  can carry forward a portion of the unutilized  accumulating compensated absences and  utilize it in future periods or receive cash at  retirement or termination of employment.
The  Company records an obligation for compensated  absences in the period in which the employee  renders the services that increases this  entitlement.
The Company measures the  expected cost of compensated absences as the  additional amount that the Company expects to  pay as a result of the unused entitlement that  has accumulated at the end of the reporting  period.
The Company recognizes accumulated  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 210 Annual Report 2016-17 compensated absences based on actuarial  valuation using the projected unit credit method.
Non-accumulating compensated absences are  recognized in the period in which the absences  occur.
(xii) Share based payment transactions    Selected employees of the Company receive  remuneration in the form of equity settled instruments,  for rendering services over a deﬁned vesting period.
Equity instruments granted are measured by  reference to the fair value of the instrument at the  date of grant.
In cases, where equity instruments  are granted at a nominal exercise price, the intrinsic  value on the date of grant approximates the fair value.
The expense is recognized in the statement of proﬁt  and loss with a corresponding increase to the share  based payment reserve, a component of equity.
The equity instruments generally vest in a graded  manner over the vesting period.
The fair value  determined at the grant date is expensed over the  vesting period of the respective tranches of such  grants (accelerated amortization).
The share based  compensation expense is determined based on the  Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will  eventually vest.
(xiii) Provisions    Provisions are recognized when the Company has  a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a  result of a past event, it is probable that an outﬂow  of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the  obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the  amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best  estimate of the consideration required to settle the  present obligation at the end of the reporting period,  taking into account the risks and uncertainties  surrounding the obligation.
When some or all of the economic beneﬁts required  to settle a provision are expected to be recovered  from a third party, the receivable is recognized as an  asset, if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will  be received and the amount of the receivable can be  measured reliably.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when  the expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Company  from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs  of meeting the future obligations under the contract.
Provisions for onerous contracts are measured at  the present value of lower of the expected net cost  of fulﬁlling the contract and the expected cost of  terminating the contract.
(xiv) Revenue    The Company derives revenue primarily from software  development, maintenance of software/hardware  and related services, business process services, sale  of IT and other products.
a)  Services    The Company recognizes revenue when the signiﬁcant  terms of the arrangement are enforceable, services  have been delivered and the collectability is  reasonably assured.
The method for recognizing  revenues and costs depends on the nature of the  services rendered:   A.
Time and materials contracts    Revenues and costs relating to time and  materials contracts are recognized as the  related services are rendered.
B.  Fixed-price contracts     Revenues from ﬁxed-price contracts, including  systems development and integration contracts  are recognized using the “percentage-of- completion” method.
Percentage of completion  is determined based on project costs incurred  to date as a percentage of total estimated  project costs required to complete the project.
The cost expended (or input) method has been  used to measure progress towards completion  as there is a direct relationship between input  and productivity.
If the Company does not have  a sufﬁcient basis to measure the progress of  completion or to estimate the total contract  revenues and costs, revenue is recognized  only to the extent of contract cost incurred for  which recoverability is probable.
When total cost  estimates exceed revenues in an arrangement,  the estimated losses are recognized in the  statement of proﬁt and loss in the period in  which such losses become probable based on  the current contract estimates.
‘Unbilled revenues’ represent cost and earnings  in excess of billings as at the end of the reporting  period.
‘Unearned revenues’ represent billing  in excess of revenue recognized.
Advance  payments received from customers for which  no services have been rendered are presented  as ‘Advance from customers’ .
C.  Maintenance contracts     Revenue from maintenance contracts is  recognized ratably over the period of the  contract using the percentage of completion  method.
When services are performed through  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 211 an indeﬁnite number of repetitive acts over a  speciﬁed period of time, revenue is recognized  on a straight-line basis over the speciﬁed period  unless some other method better represents the  stage of completion.
In certain projects, a ﬁxed quantum of service or  output units is agreed at a ﬁxed price for a ﬁxed  term.
In such contracts, revenue is recognized  with respect to the actual output achieved till  date as a percentage of total contractual output.
Any residual service unutilized by the customer  is recognized as revenue on completion of the  term.
b)  Products    Revenue from products are recognized when the  significant risks and rewards of ownership have  been transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial  involvement usually associated with ownership  and effective control have ceased, the amount of  revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that  economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction  will ﬂow to the Company and the costs incurred or  to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be  measured reliably.
c)  Multiple element arrangements    Revenue from contracts with multiple-element  arrangements are recognized using the guidance  in Ind AS 18, Revenue.
The Company allocates the  arrangement consideration to separately identiﬁable  components based on their relative fair values or  on the residual method.
Fair values are determined  based on sale prices for the components when it  is regularly sold separately, third-party prices for  similar components or cost plus an appropriate  business-specific profit margin related to the  relevant component.
d)  Others  	 •	 	 The	Company	accounts	for	volume	discounts	 and pricing incentives to customers by reducing  the amount of revenue recognized at the time of  sale.
•	 	 Revenues	are	shown	net	of	sales	tax,	value	added	 tax, service tax and applicable discounts and  allowances.
Revenue includes excise duty.
•	 	 The	Company	accrues	the	estimated	cost	of	 warranties at the time when the revenue is  recognized.
The accruals are based on the  Company’s historical experience of material  usage and service delivery costs.
•	 	 Costs	that	relate	directly	 to	a	contract	 and	 incurred in securing a contract are recognized as  an asset and amortized over the contract term  as reduction of revenue.
•	 	Contract	expenses	 are	recognized	as	expenses	 by reference to the stage of completion of  contract activity at the end of the reporting  period.
(xv) Finance costs   Finance costs comprise interest cost on borrowings,  gain or losses arising on re-measurement of ﬁnancial  assets at FVTPL, gains/ (losses) on translation  or settlement of foreign currency borrowings  and changes in fair value and gains/ (losses) on  settlement of related derivative instruments.
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to  a qualifying asset are recognized in the statement of  proﬁt and loss using the effective interest method.
(xvi) Other income    Other income comprises interest income on deposits,  dividend income and gains / (losses) on disposal of  investments.
Interest income is recognized using  the effective interest method.
Dividend income is  recognized when the right to receive payment is  established.
(xvii) Income tax    Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax expense is recognized in the statement  of proﬁt and loss except to the extent it relates to a  business combination, or items directly recognized  in equity or in other comprehensive income.
a)  Current income tax    Current income tax for the current and prior periods  are measured at the amount expected to be recovered  from or paid to the taxation authorities based on the  taxable income for the period.
The tax rates and tax  laws used to compute the current tax amounts are  those that are enacted or substantively enacted as at  the reporting date and applicable for the period.
The  Company offsets current tax assets and current tax  liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to  set off the recognized amounts and where it intends  either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset  and liability simultaneously.
b)  Deferred income tax    Deferred income tax is recognized using the balance  sheet approach.
Deferred income tax assets and  liabilities are recognized for deductible and taxable  temporary differences arising between the tax base  of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount  in ﬁnancial statements, except when the deferred  income tax arises from the initial recognition of  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 212 Annual Report 2016-17 goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that  is not a business combination and affects neither  accounting nor taxable proﬁts or loss at the time of  the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the  extent it is probable that taxable profit will be  available against which the deductible temporary  differences and the carry forward of unused tax  credits and unused tax losses can be utilized.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for  all taxable temporary differences except in respect  of taxable temporary differences associated  with investments in subsidiaries, associates and  foreign branches where the timing of the reversal  of the temporary difference can be controlled and  it is probable that the temporary difference will not  reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is  reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the  extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient  taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part of  the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are  measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply  in the period when the asset is realized or the liability  is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that  have been enacted or substantively enacted at the  reporting date.
The Company offsets deferred income tax assets  and liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable  right to offset current tax assets against current  tax liabilities, and they relate to taxes levied by the  same taxation authority on either the same taxable  entity, or on different taxable entities where there is  an intention to settle the current tax liabilities and  assets on a/uni00A0net basis or their tax assets and liabilities  will be realized simultaneously.
(xviii) Earnings per share      Basic earnings per share is computed using  the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the period adjusted for treasury  shares held.
Diluted earnings per share is computed  using the weighted-average number of equity and  dilutive equivalent shares outstanding during the  period, using the treasury stock method for options  and warrants, except where the results would be  anti-dilutive.
New accounting standards not yet adopted:    Certain amendments to accounting standards are  not yet effective for annual periods beginning after  1 April 2015, and have not been applied in preparing  these financial statements.
The amendments to  standards that could have potential impact on the  ﬁnancial statements of the Company are:  Amendment to Ind AS 7:   In March 2017, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs  issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  (Amendments) Rules, 2017, notifying amendments  to Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ .
These  amendments are in accordance with the amendments  made by International Accounting Standards Board  (IASB) to IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash ﬂows’ in January  2016, requiring the entities to provide disclosures  that enable users of ﬁnancial statements to evaluate  changes in liabilities arising from ﬁnancing activities,  including both changes arising from cash flows  and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion of a  reconciliation between the opening and closing  balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising  from financing activities, to meet the disclosure  requirement.
The amendments are applicable to the  Company for annual periods commencing on or after  from April 1, 2017.
The Company is assessing the  disclosure requirements of the amendment and the  effect on its ﬁnancial statements.
4.
Notes on transition to Ind AS   These financials statements are prepared in  accordance with Ind AS.
For years up to and including  the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company  prepared its ﬁnancial statements in accordance with  Indian GAAP (i.e., Previous GAAP).
Accordingly, the Company has prepared ﬁnancial  statements which comply with Ind AS for periods  ending on March 31, 2017, together with the  comparative period data as at and for the year  ended March 31, 2016.
In preparing these ﬁnancial  statements, the Company’s opening balance sheet  was prepared as at April 1, 2015, the Company’s date  of transition to Ind AS.
Exemptions from retrospective application:   In preparation of the Ind AS ﬁnancial statements, the  Company has:  1.
Elected to apply Ind AS 103, Business  Combinations, retrospectively to past business  combinations from April 1, 2008.
2.
Elected to adopt the Previous GAAP carrying  value of Property, Plant and Equipment as  deemed cost on date of transition.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 213 Reconciliations between Previous GAAP and Ind AS i.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on equity as at March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 As at  March 31, 2016 As at  April 1, 2015 Notes Equity under Previous GAAP attributable to :  Equity holders of the Company (1) 446,886 370,920  Non-controlling interest  2,224  1,646 Total equity under Previous GAAP ` 449,110 ` 372,566 Effect of transition to Ind AS   Impact of application of Ind AS 103 to past business combinations 9,930 11,253 A  Fair valuation of investments 2,135 1,338 B  Provisions for expected credit loss (1,404) (1,243) C  Dividend and tax on dividend 2,959 20,656 D  Incremental deferred tax recognized, net 543 454 I  Others  387  260 Equity under Ind AS attributable to : ` 463,660 ` 405,284  Equity holders of the Company (1) 461,448 403,650  Non-controlling interest 2,212 1,634  (1)   includes share capital of `4,941 and `4,937 as at March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
ii.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2016 Notes Net income under Previous GAAP attributable to : Equity holders of the Company ` 89,597 Non-controlling interest  492 Net income under Previous GAAP 90,089 Effect of transition to Ind AS Impact of retrospective application of Ind AS 103 (1,524) A Fair valuation of investments 347 B Expected credit loss provisions (160) C Employee beneﬁts 1,010 E Share based compensation expense 108 F Tax impact on above, net  (202) I Others  (97) Proﬁt for the year under Ind AS attributable to : `  89,571 Equity holders of the Company 89,079 Non-controlling interest  492 Ind AS adjustments in other comprehensive income, net of tax: Items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to the statement of proﬁt or loss: Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains/ (losses) (1,010) E Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 24 B Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt  and loss 215 I Items that will be reclassiﬁed subsequently to the statement of proﬁt or loss: Foreign currency translation differences 4,756 G Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash ﬂow Hedges (1,900) H Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments through OCI 396 B Income tax relating to items that will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss 227 I Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of taxes ` 2,708 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: ` 92,279 Equity holders of the Company 91,701 Non-controlling interest 578 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 214 Annual Report 2016-17  Notes to equity and total comprehensive income reconciliation:   A)  Impact of retrospective application of Ind AS 103:  Under the Previous GAAP , assets and liabilities arising  from a business combination were recognized at carrying value in the books of the acquired entity.
Further,  under the Previous GAAP , amalgamation of subsidiaries was recorded under the pooling of interest method  and the difference between the amount of investment and carrying value of assets and liabilities has been  adjusted in the reserves.
Under Ind AS, all the assets and liabilities arising from a business combination are  identiﬁed and recorded at fair value.
Accordingly, a portion of purchase price is allocated towards identiﬁed  intangibles in respect of business combinations.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on total comprehensive income  represents the amortization charge on such intangibles assets.
B)  Change in fair valuation of investments:  Under the Previous GAAP , current investments were measured at  lower of cost or fair value and long term investments were measured at cost less diminution in value which  is other than temporary.
Under Ind AS,investments are measured at fair value and the mark-to-market gains/  losses are recognized either through proﬁt or loss (FVTPL) or through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)  based on the business model test.
Effect of Ind AS adoption on total comprehensive income represents the  mark-to-market gains/ losses on investment.
C)  Expected credit loss: Under the Previous GAAP , loss provision for trade receivables was created based on  credit risk assessment.
Under Ind AS, these provisions are based on assessment of risk of default and timing  of collection.
D)   Proposed dividend:  Under the Previous GAAP , dividend payable including dividend distribution tax was  recorded as a liability in the period to which it relates.
Under Ind AS, dividend to holders of equity instruments  is recognized as a liability in the period in which the obligation to pay is established (post approval of  shareholders in the Annual General Meeting).
E)  Employee beneﬁts: Under the Previous GAAP , actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt obligations were  recognized in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
Under Ind AS, these are recognized in other comprehensive  income.
This difference has resulted in an increase in net income for the year ended March 31, 2016.
However,  the same does not result in difference in equity or total comprehensive income.
F)  Share based compensation expenses: Under the Previous GAAP , the share based compensation cost was  amortized over the vesting period on a straight line basis.
Under Ind AS, the share based compensation cost  is determined based on the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest and amortized  over the vesting period on an accelerated basis.
However, the same does not result in difference in equity.
G)  Foreign currency translation differences:  Under Ind AS, exchange differences on translation of foreign  operations are recorded through other comprehensive income.
H)  Change in fair value of forward contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges: Under Ind AS, changes in the fair  value of derivative hedging instruments designated and effective as a cash ﬂow hedge are recognized through  other comprehensive income.
I)  Tax impact (net):  Tax adjustments include deferred tax impact on account of differences between the Previous  GAAP and Ind AS.
5.
Property, plant and equipment Land Buildings Plant and  machinery * Furniture  fixtures Office  equipment Vehicle Total Gross carrying value: As at April/uni00A01, 2015 /uni00A0` 3,685 /uni00A0` 24,319 /uni00A0` 79,514 /uni00A0` 8,380 ` 4,221 /uni00A0` 830 ` 120,949 Translation adjustment 10 209 1,720 53 26 (1) 2,017 Additions/adjustments - 1,799 15,424 1,327 464 62 19,076 Acquisition through business  combinations - 105 4,462 121 41 34 4,763 Disposals / adjustments - (539) (1,620) (273) (342) (336) (3,110) As at March/uni00A031, 2016 /uni00A0` 3,695 /uni00A0` 25,893 /uni00A0` 99,500 /uni00A0` 9,608 ` 4,410 /uni00A0` 589 /uni00A0` 143,695 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 215 Land Buildings Plant and  machinery * Furniture  fixtures Office  equipment Vehicle Total Translation adjustment  (15)  (69)  (1,377)  (67) (66)  3  (1,591)  Additions/adjustments  -  1,133  16,572  1,214 1,028  23  19,970  Acquisition through business  combinations  134 446 835 1 76 -  1,492  Disposals / adjustments - (18) (6,643) (532) (21) (183) (7,397) As at March/uni00A031, 2017 /uni00A0` 3,814  /uni00A0` 27,385  /uni00A0` 108,887  /uni00A0` 10,224 ` 5,427  /uni00A0` 432 /uni00A0` 156,169 Accumulated depreciation/ impairment: /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 As at April/uni00A01, 2015 ` /uni00A0- /uni00A0` 4,508 /uni00A0` 56,594 /uni00A0` 7,159 ` 3,384 `/uni00A0809 /uni00A0` 72,454 Translation adjustment  -  73  1,113  51 29  -  1,266  Depreciation  -  861  11,379  800 292  19  13,351  Disposals / adjustments  -  (142 )  (974 ) (294) (198)  (324 )  (1,932) As at March/uni00A031, 2016  /uni00A0` -  /uni00A0` 5,300  /uni00A0` 68,112  /uni00A0` 7,716 3,507  /uni00A0` 504  /uni00A0` 85,139  Translation adjustment  -  (39)  (816)  (38) (37)  2  (928)  Depreciation  -  1,054  14,906  619 498  28  17,105  Disposals / adjustments  -  (3)  (5,250 )  (334) (58)  (169)  (5,814) As at March/uni00A031, 2017  /uni00A0` -  ` /uni00A06,312  /uni00A0` 76,952  /uni00A0` 7,963 ` 3,910  /uni00A0` 365  /uni00A0` 95,502  Net book value At April 1, 2015  ` 3,685  ` 19,811  ` 22,920  ` 1,221 ` 837  ` 21  ` 48,495  At March 31, 2016  ` 3,695  ` 20,593  ` 31,388  ` 1,892 ` 903  ` 85  ` 58,556 At March 31, 2017 /uni00A0` 3,814  /uni00A0` 21,073  /uni00A0` 31,935  /uni00A0` 2,261 ` 1,517  /uni00A0` 67  /uni00A0` 60,667  Capital work-in-progress At April 1, 2015  ` 3,951  At March 31, 2016  ` 3,806 At March 31, 2017  /uni00A0` 7,377   *   Includes net carrying value of computer equipment and software amounting to ` 19,200, ` 20,365 and `12,682  as at March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
Interest capitalized by the Company was ` 89 and ` 73 for the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017 and March 31, 2016  respectively.
The capitalization rate used to determine the amount of borrowing cost capitalized for the year  ended March/uni00A031, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are 2.41% and 4.80%, respectively.
6.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets  The movement in goodwill balance is given below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Balance at the beginning of the year ` 98,394 ` 64,689 Translation adjustment (4,242) 3,213 Acquisition through business combinations, net 28,124  30,492 ` 122,276 ` 98,394   Acquisition through business combinations for the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017, includes goodwill recognized on  the acquisition of Appirio.
Also refer note 7 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 216 Annual Report 2016-17 The Company is organized by two operating segments: IT Services and IT Products.
As at  March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 IT Services ` 122,276 ` 98,394 ` 64,689 ` 122,276 `98,394 ` 64,689  Goodwill recognized on business combinations is allocated to Cash Generating Units (CGUs), within the IT Services  operating segment, which are expected to beneﬁt from the synergies of the acquisitions.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company realigned its CGUs (also refer note 37).
Consequently, goodwill  has been allocated to the new CGUs as follows: /uni00A0 As at March 31, 2017 Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)  Healthcare and Life Sciences (HLS)  Consumer (CBU) Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU)  Manufacturing and Technology (MNT)  ` 19,912 48,144 17,442 16,393 19,480 Communication (COMM)  905 ` 122,276 Following table presents the allocation of goodwill to the CGUs for the year ended March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
As at March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)  Healthcare and Life Sciences (HLS)  Retail, Consumer, Transport and Government (RCTG) Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU)  Manufacturing and High-Tech (MFG)  ` 15,725 38,096 10,712 16,550 12,559 ` 14,101 14,080 9,426 15,768 8,169 Global Media and Telecom (GMT) 4,752 3,145 ` 98,394 ` 64,689 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within the Group at  which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and which is not higher than the Company’s operating  segment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the Company’s procedure for determining  the recoverable value of each CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the basis of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD).
The FVLCD  of the CGU is determined based on the market capitalization approach, using the turnover and earnings multiples  derived from observable market data.
The fair value measurement is categorized as a level 2 fair value based on the  inputs in the valuation techniques used.
Based on the above testing, no impairment was identiﬁed as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 as the recoverable value of  the CGUs exceeded the carrying value.
Further, none of the CGU’s tested for impairment as of March 31, 2016 and 2017  were at risk of impairment.
An analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a change in the key parameters (turnover and  earnings multiples), did not identify any probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable amount would fall below its  carrying amount.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 217 The movement in intangible assets is given below: Intangible assets Customer  related Marketing  related * Total Gross carrying value: As at April 1, 2015 ` 10,617 ` 905 ` 11,522 Translation adjustment 292 120 412 Disposal adjustment - 189 189 Acquisition through business combinations 7,451 1,373 8,824 As at March 31, 2016 18,360 2,587 20,947 Translation adjustment (546) (314) (860) Disposal adjustment - - - Acquisition through business combinations 2,714 4,006 6,720 As at March 31, 2017 20,528 6,279 26,807 Accumulated depreciation/ impairment: As at April 1, 2015 2,936 655 3,591 Translation adjustment - 70 70 Disposal adjustment - - - Amortization 1,228 217 1,445 As at March 31, 2016 4,164 942 5,106 Translation adjustment (7) (68) (75) Disposal adjustment - - - Amortization 5,107 747 5,854 As at March 31, 2017 ` 9,264 ` 1,621 ` 10,885 Net book value As at April 1, 2015 ` 7,681 ` 250 ` 7,931 As at March 31, 2016 ` 14,196 ` 1,645 ` 15,841 As at March 31, 2017 ` 11,264 ` 4,658 ` 15,922 *    Marketing related intangible assets include Technical Know-how, patents and trademarks and non-compete.
Acquisition through business combinations for the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017, includes intangible assets recognized  on the acquisitions of Appirio.
Also, refer note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
As of March/uni00A031, 2017, the estimated remaining amortization period for intangibles acquired on acquisitions are as follows:  Acquisition Estimated remaining  amortization period Global oil and gas information technology practice of the  Commercial Business Services Business Unit of Science  Applications International Corporation 3.25 – 4.25 years Promax Application Group 5.25 years Opus Capital Markets Consultants LLC 1.75 – 3.75 years ATCO I-Tek 7.50 years Designit AS 1.25 – 3.25 years Cellent AG 3.75 – 5.75 years HealthPlan Services 2 – 6 years Appirio Inc. 3.50 – 9.50 years Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 218 Annual Report 2016-17 7. Business combination  Summary of acquisitions during the year ended March/uni00A031, 2016 is given below:   Designit AS    On August 6, 2015, the Company obtained control of Designit AS (“Designit”) by acquiring 100% of its share capital.
Designit is a Denmark based global strategic design ﬁrm specializing in designing transformative product-service  experiences.
The acquisition strengthens the Company’s digital offerings, combining engineering and transformative  technology with human centered-design methods.
The acquisition was executed through a share purchase agreement for a consideration of ` 6,501 (EUR 93 million)  which includes a deferred earn-out component of ` 2,108 (EUR 30 million), which is linked to achievement of  revenues and earnings over a period of 3 years ending June 30, 2018.
The fair value of the earn-out liability was  estimated by applying the discounted cash ﬂow approach considering discount rate of 13% and probability  adjusted revenue and earnings estimates.
This earn-out liability was fair valued at ` 1,287 million and recorded  as part of purchase price allocation.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets ` 586 `  - ` 586 Customer related intangibles - 597 597 Brand - 638 638 Non-compete agreement - 103 103 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets  -  (290)  (290) Total ` 586 `  1,048 `  1,634 Goodwill  4,046 Total purchase price `  5,680  Net assets acquired include ` 359 of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 392.
The goodwill of ` 4,046 comprises value of acquired workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets acquired  and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as the amounts are  not material.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, an amount of ` 83 million was paid to the sellers representing earn-out  payments for the ﬁrst earn-out period.
Additionally, during the year ended March 31, 2017, as a result of changes in estimates of revenue and earnings  over the remaining earn-out period, the fair value of earn-out liability was revalued at ` 293 million.
The revision  of estimates has also resulted in reduction in the carrying value of intangibles recognized on acquisition and  an impairment charge has been recorded.
Accordingly, a net gain of ` 1,032 million has been recorded in the  consolidated statement of proﬁt of loss.
The pro-forma effects of this acquisition on the Company’s results were not material.
Cellent AG    On January 5, 2016, the Company obtained control of Cellent AG (“Cellent”) by acquiring 100% of its share capital.
Cellent is an IT consulting and software services company offering IT solutions and services to customers in  Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
This acquisition provides Wipro with scale and customer relationships, in the  Manufacturing and Automotive domains in Germany, Switzerland and Austria region.
The acquisition was executed through a share purchase agreement for a consideration of ` 5,686 (EUR 78.8 million),  net of ` 114 received during the year ended March 31, 2017 on conclusion of working capital adjustments which  has resulted in reduction of goodwill.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 219   The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets ` 846 ` - `846 Customer related intangibles - 1,001 1,001 Brand - 317 317 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets  -  (391)  (391) Total ` 846 ` 927   `  1,773 Goodwill  3,913 Total purchase price ` 5,686  Net assets acquired include ` 367 of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 1,437.
The goodwill of ` 3,913 comprises value of acquired workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets acquired  and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as the amounts are  not material.
The pro-forma effects of this acquisition on the Company’s results were not material.
HealthPlan Services    On February 29, 2016, the Company obtained full control of HPH Holdings Corp. (“Healthplan Services”).
HealthPlan  Services offers market-leading technology platforms and a fully integrated Business Process as a Service (BPaaS)  solution to Health Insurance companies (Payers) in the individual, group and ancillary markets.
HealthPlan Services  provides U.S. Payers with a diversiﬁed portfolio of health insurance products delivered through its proprietary  technology platform.
The acquisition was consummated for a consideration of ` 30,850 (USD 450.9 million), net of ` 219 concluded as  working capital adjustment during the year ended March 31, 2017.
The consideration includes a deferred earn-out  component of ` 1,115 (USD 16.3 million), which is linked to achievement of revenues and earnings over a period of  3 years ending March 31, 2019.
The fair value of the earn-out liability was estimated by applying the discounted  cash ﬂow approach considering discount rate of 14.1% and probability adjusted revenue and earnings estimates.
This earn-out liability was fair valued at ` 536 million (USD 7.8 million) and recorded as part of preliminary purchase  price allocation.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets acquired  and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as the amounts are  not material.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets ` 36 ` 1,604 ` 1,640 Technology platform 1,087 1,888 2,975 Customer related intangibles - 5,791 5,791 Non-compete agreement - 315 315 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets  -  (3,039)  (3,039) Total ` 1,123 ` 6,559  ` 7,682 Goodwill  22,590 Total purchase price ` 30,272 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 220 Annual Report 2016-17  Net assets acquired include ` 47 of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 2,472.
The goodwill of ` 22,590 comprises value of acquired workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, uncertainties around regulatory changes relating to the Affordable Care  Act have led to a signiﬁcant decline in the revenue and earnings estimates, resulting in revision of fair value of  earn-out liability to ` 65 million.
Further, this has resulted in reduction in the carrying value of certain intangible  assets recognized on acquisition and accordingly an impairment charge has been recorded.
Consequently, a net  loss of ` 1,351 million has been recorded in the consolidated statement of proﬁt and loss.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2015, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Company  would have been ` 526,671 and the proﬁt after taxes would have been ` 88,318 for twelve months ended March  31, 2016.
The pro-forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the  acquisition had occurred on date indicated or that may result in the future.
Summary of material acquisitions during the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017 is given below:   Viteos Group   Previously, the Company had announced on December 23, 2015, the signing of a deﬁnitive agreement to acquire  Viteos Group.
However, due to inordinate delays in completion of closing conditions that exceeded the target  closing date and expiration date under the terms of the agreement, both parties decided not to proceed with the  acquisition.
Appirio Inc.   On November 23, 2016, the Company obtained full control of Appirio Inc. (“Appirio”).
Appirio is a global services  company that helps customers create next-generation employee and customer experiences using latest cloud  technology services.
This acquisition will strengthen Wipro’s cloud application service offerings.
The acquisition  was consummated for a consideration of ` 32,414 (USD 475.7 million).
The following table presents the provisional allocation of purchase price:  Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets ` 526 (29) ` 497 Technology platform 436 (89) 347 Customer related intangibles - 2,323 2,323 Brand 180 2,968 3,148 Alliance relationship - 858 858 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets  -  (2,791)  (2,791) Total ` 1,142 ` 3,240 ` 4,382 Goodwill  28,032 Total purchase price ` 32,414  Net assets acquired include ` 85 of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables valued at ` 2,363.
The goodwill of ` 28,032 comprises value of acquired workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
The purchase consideration has been allocated on a provisional basis based on management’s estimates.
The  Company is in the process of making a ﬁnal determination of adjustments to purchase consideration on account of  working capital changes and other consequential movements in the fair value of assets and liabilities.
Finalization  of the purchase price allocation may result in certain adjustments to the above allocation.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2016, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Company  would have been ` 559,575 and the proﬁt after taxes would have been `85,460 for twelve months ended March  31, 2017.
The pro-forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the  acquisition had occurred on date indicated or that may result in the future.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 221 8.
Investments As at  March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Financial instruments at FVTPL Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds (1) ` 104,675 ` 10,578 `10,202  Others – Debentures 569 816 822 Financial instruments at FVTOCI Equity instruments (refer note 8.1) 5,303 4,907 3,867 Commercial paper, Certificate of deposits and bonds (refer note 8.2) 145,614 121,676 43,072 Financial instruments at amortized cost Inter corporate and term deposits (2) (3)  42,972  71,174  39,731  ` 299,133 ` 209,151 ` 97,694  Included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Non-current ` 7,103 `4,907 `3,867 Current ` 292,030 ` 204,244 ` 93,827 Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market  value thereof Current ` 104,675 `11,672 `12,248 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments Non-current ` 7,103 `4,907 `3,867 Current ` 144,383 ` 121,398 ` 41,848  (1)    Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds include investments amounting to/uni00A0 `/uni00A0117 (March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015:/uni00A0 ` 109 and ` Nil respectively) pledged as margin money deposits for entering into currency  future contracts.
(2)   These deposits earn a fixed rate of interest.
(3)    Term deposits include deposits in lien with banks amounting to/uni00A0 ` 308 (March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015:/uni00A0 ` 300  and ` 300 respectively).
Details of investments: 8.1  Details of investments in equity instruments – classified as FVTOCI Particulars Number of shares Carrying value As at As at March 31,  2017 March31,  2016 April 1,  2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Opera Solutions LLC 2,390,433 2,390,433 2,390,433 ` 3,232 ` 3,472 ` 3,434 Drivestream Inc. 94,527 94,527 94,527 304 293 293 Mycity Technology Limited 44,935 44,935 44,935 45 45 45 Wep Peripherals Limited 306,000 306,000 306,000 42 42 70 Wep Solutions Limited 1,836,000 1,836,000 1,836,000 97 40 25 Vectra Networks Inc. 1,395,034 1,395,034 - 454 478 - Talena Inc. 4,757,373 4,757,373 - 130 128 - Drivestream India Private Limited 267,600 267,600 - 19 19 - Altizon Systems Private Limited 16,018 16,018 - 98 98 - Emailage Corp. 317,027 317,027 - 65 68 - TLV Partners - - - 94 33 - Tradeshift Inc. 384,615 - - 324 - - Avaamo Inc. 687,616 - - 65 - - IntSights Cyber Intelligence Limited 1,716,512 - - 143 - - Investments in convertible notes  Vicarious FPC, Inc - - - 191 191 - Total ` 5,303 ` 4,907 ` 3,867 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 222 Annual Report 2016-17 8.2  Investmexnt in certificate of deposits/ bonds – classified as FVTOCI Particulars of issuer Balance as at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 National Highways Authority of India ` 18,361 ` 16,881 `          -  L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited 12,089 13,317 5,012  Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 11,955  9,988  4,068  IDFC Limited 11,570  1,587  -  HDB Financial Services Limited 11,479 2,940  - LIC Housing Finance Limited  9,812  13,683  5,266  Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited  9,061  10,600  1,072  Tata Capital Financial Services Limited  7,293  6,693  -  Aditya Birla Finance Limited  7,085  6,313  2,177  L&T Housing Finance Limited 7,065  1,293  204  Sundaram Finance Limited  6,832  6,335  4,030  Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited  6,724  6,839  2,850  Shriram Transport Finance Limited  6,545  -  -  Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited  6,358  2,495  993  Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  3,776  3,557  -  Bajaj Finance Limited  2,937  6,387  4,862  Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited  2,119  -  4,574  Gruh Finance Limited  1,024  -  -  Power Finance Corporation Limited  958  1,070  374  Canfin Homes Limited  753  -  -  L&T Floating Rate Bond  530  -  -  NABARD  440  416  -  NTPC Limited  425  404  -  Rural Electrification Corporation Limited  423  404  -  Indian Government Bonds  -  3,535  3,384  IL&FS Financial Services Limited  - 1,785  3,236  Allahabad Bank  -  999  -  Andhra Bank -  999  -  Axis Bank Limited  -  999  -  Syndicate Bank  -  999  -  IDBI Bank Limited  -  998  -  Tube Investments of India Limited  -  160  161  Bharat Aluminium Company Limited  -  -  267  Export Import Bank of India  -  -  268  Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited  -  -  274  Total ` 145,614 ` 121,676 ` 43,072 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 223 9.
Financial instruments  Offsetting ﬁnancial assets and liabilities  The following table contains information on ﬁnancial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Financial assets Trade receivables and unbilled revenue Gross amount recognized Trade receivables and unbilled  revenue ` 148,838 ` 152,759 ` 135,710 Gross amounts of recognized financial liabilities set off in  the consolidated balance sheet (4,899) (3,510) (3,084) Net amounts of Trade receivables and unbilled revenue  presented in the consolidated balance sheet ` 143,939 ` 149,249 ` 132,626 Financial liabilities Trade payables Gross amount recognized Trade payables ` 53,572 ` 52,531 ` 43,083 Gross amounts of recognized financial assets set off in the  consolidated balance sheet (4,899) (3,510) (3,084) Net amounts of Trade payables presented in the  consolidated balance sheet ` 48,673 ` 49,021 ` 39,999   For the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or similar arrangements, each agreement between the  Company and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant ﬁnancial assets and liabilities when both  elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, ﬁnancial assets and liabilities will be settled on  a gross basis and hence are not offset.
Fair value   The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues, borrowings, trade payables, other  current ﬁnancial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount largely due to the short-term nature of  these instruments.
The Company’s long-term debt has been contracted at market rates of interest.
Accordingly,  the carrying value of such long-term debt approximates fair value.
Further, ﬁnance lease receivables that are  overdue are periodically evaluated based on individual credit worthiness of customers.
Based on this evaluation,  the Company records allowance for estimated losses on these receivables.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015, the carrying value of such receivables, net of allowances approximates the fair value.
Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds, which are classiﬁed as FVTPL are measured using net asset  values at the reporting date multiplied by the quantity held.
Fair value of investments in certiﬁcate of deposits,  commercial papers classiﬁed as FVTOCI is determined based on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in  the market at the reporting date.
Fair value of investments in equity instruments classiﬁed as FVTOCI is determined  using market and income approaches.
The fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments is determined based on observable market inputs including  currency spot and forward rates, yield curves, currency volatility etc.
Fair value hierarchy   The table below analyses ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have  been deﬁned as follows:  Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 –  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  either directly (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
Level 3  – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 224 Annual Report 2016-17   The following table presents fair value of hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring  basis: As at March 31, 2017 Particulars Fair value measurements at reporting date using Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Derivative instruments: - Cash flow hedges ` 7,307 ` - ` 7,307 ` - - Others 2,546  - 2,120 426 Investments: - Investment in liquid and short-term mutual funds 104,675 104,675 - - - Other investments 569 - 569 - - Investment in equity instruments  5,303 - -  5,303 - Commercial paper, Certificate of deposits and bonds 145,614 -  145,614 - Liabilities Derivative instruments: - Cash flow hedges (55) - (55) - - Others (2,655) - (2,655) - Contingent consideration (339) - - (339) As at March 31, 2016 Particulars Fair value measurements at reporting date using Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Derivative instruments: - Cash flow hedges ` 3,072 ` - ` 3,072 ` - - Others 2,737 - 2,179 558 Investments: - Investment in liquid and short-term mutual funds 10,578 10,578 - - - Other investments 816 - 816 - - Investment in equity instruments 4,907 - - 4,907 - Commercial paper, Certificate of deposits and bonds 121,676 1,094 120,582 - Liabilities Derivative instruments: - Cash flow hedges (706) - (706) - - Others (1,753) - (1,753) - Contingent consideration (2,251) - - (2,251) As at April 1, 2015 Particulars Fair value measurements at reporting date using Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Derivative instruments  - Cash flow hedges ` 4,237 ` - ` 4,237 ` -  - Net investment hedges 140 - 140 -  - Others 1,248 - 724 524 Investments: - Investment in liquid and short-term mutual funds 10,202 10,202 - - - Other investments 822 - 822 - - Investment in equity instruments 3,867 - - 3,867 - Commercial paper, Certificate of deposits and bonds 43,072 2,046 41,026 - Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 225 As at April 1, 2015 Particulars Fair value measurements at reporting date using Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities Derivative instruments  - Cash flow hedges (80) - (80) -  - Net investment hedges (264) - (264) -  - Others (480) - (480) - Contingent consideration (110) - - (110)   The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the level 2 ﬁnancial instruments  included in the above table.
Derivative instruments (assets and liabilities): The Company enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments with  various counter-parties, primarily banks with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation  techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and  foreign exchange option contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing, swap  models and Black Scholes models (for option valuation), using present value calculations.
The models incorporate  various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate  curves and forward rate curves of the underlying.
As at March 31, 2017, the changes in counterparty credit risk  had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships  and other ﬁnancial instruments recognized at fair value.
Investment in commercial papers, certiﬁcate of deposits and bonds: Fair value of these instruments is derived  based on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in the market as at reporting date.
Details of assets and liabilities considered under Level 3 classiﬁcation: Particulars Investments  in equity  instruments Derivative  Assets –  Others Liabilities –  Contingent  consideration Opening balance as on April 1, 2015  ` 3,867 ` 524 ` (110) Additions/adjustments 1,016 - (1,908) Gain/loss recognized in statement of profit and loss - 34 - Gain/loss recognized in foreign currency translation reserve - - (95) Gain/loss recognized in other comprehensive income 24 - - Finance expense recognized in statement of profit and loss - - (138) Balance as on March 31, 2016 ` 4,907 ` 558 ` (2,251) Additions 620 - - Payouts - - 138 Gain/loss recognized in statement of profit and loss - (132) 1,546 Gain/loss recognized in foreign currency translation reserve (41) - 198 Gain/loss recognized in other comprehensive income (183) - - Finance expense recognized in statement of profit and loss - - 30 Closing balance as on March 31, 2017 ` 5,303 ` 426 ` (339) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 226 Annual Report 2016-17  Description of signiﬁcant unobservable inputs to valuation:  As at March 31, 2017 Item Valuation technique Significant  unobservable inputs Movement  by Increase (`) Decrease (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash flow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 55 (51) Discount rate 0.5% (93) 101 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 179 (186) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 31 (31) Time to liquidation event 1 year 60 (69) Contingent  consideration Probability weighted  method Estimated revenue  achievement 5% 56 (56) Estimated earnings  achievement 1% - -   As at March 31, 2016 Item Valuation technique Significant  unobservable inputs Movement  by Increase (`) Decrease (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash flow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 57 (53) Discount rate 0.5% (95) 103 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 182 (187) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 31 (32) Time to liquidation event 1 year 60 (69) Contingent  consideration Probability weighted  method Estimated revenue  achievement 1% 36 (36) Estimated earnings  achievement 1% 37 (37)  As at April 1, 2015 Item Valuation technique Significant  unobservable inputs Movement  by Increase (`) Decrease (`) Unquoted equity  investments Discounted cash flow  model Long term growth rate 0.5% 44 (40) Discount rate 0.5% (85) 91 Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x 148 (152) Derivative assets Option pricing model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% 32 (33) Time to liquidation event 1 year 63 (85)  Derivative assets and liabilities:   The Company is exposed to foreign currency ﬂuctuations on foreign currency assets / liabilities, forecasted cash  ﬂows denominated in foreign currency and net investment in foreign operations.
The Company follows established  risk management policies, including the use of derivatives to hedge foreign currency assets / liabilities, foreign  currency forecasted cash ﬂows and net investment in foreign operations.
The counter parties in these derivative  instruments are primarily banks and the Company considers the risks of non-performance by the counterparty  as non-material.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 227   The following table presents the aggregate contracted principal amounts of the Company’s derivative contracts  outstanding: As at March31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Designated derivative instruments Sell – Forward contracts $ 886 $ 897 $ 790 £ 280 £ 248 £ 198 € 228 € 271 € 220 AUD  129 AUD  139 AUD  83 SAR  - SAR  19 SAR  - AED - AED 7 AED -  Range Forward Option contracts $ 130 $ 25 $ 43 € - € 7 € - Par – Forward Contracts $ - $ - $ 3 Net investment hedge in foreign operations $ - $ - $ 145 Interest rate swaps $ - $ 150 $ 150 Non designated derivative instruments Sell – Forward contracts $ 889 $ 1,280 $ 1,304 £ 82 £ 55 £ 67 € 83 € 87 € 60 AUD  51 AUD  35 AUD  53 ¥ - ¥ 490 ¥ 490 SGD 3 SGD 3 SGD 13 ZAR 262 ZAR 110 ZAR 69 CAD4 1 CAD  11 CAD  30 CHF - CHF 10 CHF 10 SAR  49 SAR  58 SAR  - AED 69 PLN 31 AED 7 PLN - AED - PLN -   Range Forward Option contracts $ - $ 18 $ - Buy – Forward contracts $ 750 $ 822 $ 790   The following table summarizes activity in the cash ﬂow hedging reserve within equity related to all derivative  instruments classiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges: As at March 31, 2017 2016 Balance as at the beginning of the year `  2,367 `  4,268 Deferred cancellation gain/(loss), net 74 (3) Changes in fair value of effective portion of derivatives 12,391 1,079 Net (gain)/loss reclassified to statement of profit and loss on occurrence of  hedged transactions  (7,507) (2,977) Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedging derivatives, net `  4,958 `  (1,901)  Balance as at the end of the year `  7,325 `  2,367 Deferred tax thereon `  (1,419) `  (457) Balance as at the end of the year, net of deferred tax `  5,906 ` 1,910   The related hedge transactions for balance in cash ﬂow hedging reserves as of March 31, 2017 are expected to  occur and be reclassiﬁed to the statement of proﬁt and loss over a period of three years.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 228 Annual Report 2016-17   As at March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no signiﬁcant gains or losses on derivative transactions or portions  thereof that have become ineffective as hedges, or associated with an underlying exposure that did not occur.
Sale of ﬁnancial assets    From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company transfers accounts receivables, unbilled revenues,  net investment in ﬁnance lease receivables (ﬁnancials assets) to banks.
Under the terms of the arrangements,  the Company surrenders control over the ﬁnancial assets and transfer is without recourse.
Accordingly, such  transfers are recorded as sale of ﬁnancial assets.
Gains and losses on sale of ﬁnancial assets without recourse  are recorded at the time of sale based on the carrying value of the ﬁnancial assets and fair value of servicing  liability.
The incremental impact of such transactions on our cash ﬂow and liquidity for the year ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016 is not material.
In certain cases, transfer of ﬁnancial assets may be with recourse.
Under arrangements with recourse, the Company  is obligated to repurchase the uncollected ﬁnancial assets, subject to limits speciﬁed in the agreement with the  banks.
These are reﬂected as part of loans and borrowings in the statement of consolidated balance sheet.
Financial risk management   General    Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair values or to future cash ﬂows that may result from a change  in the price of a ﬁnancial instrument.
The value of a ﬁnancial instrument may change as a result of changes in  the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other market changes that affect market risk sensitive  instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive ﬁnancial instruments including investments,  foreign currency receivables, payables and loans and borrowings.
The Company’s exposure to market risk is a function of investment and borrowing activities and revenue generating  activities in foreign currency.
The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure of the  Company’s earnings and equity to losses.
Risk Management Procedures    The Company manages market risk through a corporate treasury department, which evaluates and exercises  independent control over the entire process of market risk management.
The corporate treasury department  recommends risk management objectives and policies, which are approved by senior management and Audit  Committee.
The activities of this department include management of cash resources, implementing hedging  strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing strategies, and ensuring compliance with market risk limits  and policies.
Foreign currency risk    The Company operates internationally and a major portion of its business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through receiving payment for sales and services  in the United States and elsewhere, and making purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted  cash ﬂows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
A signiﬁcant portion of the Company’s revenue  is in the U.S./uni00A0Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound/uni00A0Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar,  while a large portion of costs are in Indian rupees.
The exchange rate between the rupee and these currencies  has ﬂuctuated signiﬁcantly in recent years and may continue to ﬂuctuate in the future.
Appreciation of the rupee  against these currencies can adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from these transactions and enters into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
The Company follows established risk management policies,  including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange forward/option contracts to hedge forecasted cash ﬂows  denominated in foreign currency.
The Company has designated certain derivative instruments as cash ﬂow hedges to mitigate the foreign exchange  exposure of forecasted highly probable cash ﬂows.
The Company has also designated foreign currency borrowings  as hedge against respective net investments in foreign operations.
As of March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively, a ` 1 increase/decrease in the spot exchange  rate of the Indian rupee with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately `1,155, `1,398 and `1,495 respectively  decrease/increase in the fair value of foreign currency dollar denominated derivative instruments.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 229   The below table presents foreign currency risk from non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments as of March/uni00A031, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015:  As at March 31, 2017 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables ` 33,388 ` 4,663 ` 5,078 ` 2,547 ` 890 ` 4,218 ` 50,784 Unbilled revenues 15,839 2,801 4,454 2,024 577 2,926 28,621 Cash and cash  equivalents 15,752 1,178 571 335 2 675 18,513 Other assets 1,612 1,437 190 1,568 7 360 5,174 Loans, borrowings and  bank overdrafts (1) (58,785) (494) (604) (537) - (509) (60,929) Trade payables  and other financial  liabilities (22,339) (4,284) (4,605) (1,453) (443) (2,136) (35,260) Net assets / (liabilities) ` (14,533) ` 5,301 ` 5,084 ` 4,484 ` 1,033 ` 5,534 ` 6,903 As at March 31, 2016 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables ` 34,284 ` 3,836 ` 6,891 ` 1,754 ` 419 ` 3,023 ` 50,207 Unbilled revenues 19,578 4,330 4,458 1,780 258 1,398 31,802 Cash and cash  equivalents 46,426 2,361 47 362 43 1,403 50,642 Other assets 1,810 1,071 44 2,091 14 171 5,201 Loans, borrowings and  bank overdrafts (1) (65,180) (6,109) (221) (776) - - (72,286) Trade payables  and other financial  liabilities (18,869) (4,339) (4,788) (1,417) (149) (1,702) (31,264) Net assets / (liabilities) ` 18,049 ` 1,150 ` 6,431 ` 3,794 ` 585 ` 4,293 ` 34,302 As at April 1, 2015 US $ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies # Total Trade receivables `29,586 `4,648 `8,603 `1,376 `211 `3,005 `47,429 Unbilled revenues 16,430 2,855 5,099 915 196 1,292 26,787 Cash and cash  equivalents 40,465 1,098 842 255 26 2,100 44,786 Other assets 1,393 1,241 308 1,782 12 218 4,954 Loans, borrowings and  bank overdrafts (1) (58,750) - (360) (932) - (227) (60,269) Trade payables  and other financial  liabilities (22,296) (2,923) (4,149) (797) (119) (1,571) (31,855) Net assets / (liabilities) ` 6,828 ` 6,919 ` 10,343 ` 2,599 ` 326 ` 4,817 ` 31,832  #/uni00A0Other currencies reﬂect currencies such as Singapore Dollars, Saudi Arabian Riyals etc.
(1)   Includes current obligation under borrowings, term loan and ﬁnancial leases classiﬁed under “Other current  ﬁnancial liabilities” .
As at March 31, 2017 and March/uni00A031, 2016, respectively, every 1% increase/decrease of the respective foreign  currencies compared to functional currency of the Company would impact results by approximately ` 69 and   ` 343 respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 230 Annual Report 2016-17  Interest rate risk    Interest rate risk primarily arises from ﬂoating rate borrowing, including various revolving and other lines of  credit.
The Company’s investments are primarily in short-term investments, which do not expose it to signiﬁcant  interest rate risk.
The Company manages its net exposure to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it to exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rates.
Certain borrowings are also transacted at ﬁxed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March/uni00A031, 2017, additional net annual interest expense on ﬂoating  rate borrowing would amount to approximately ` 1,226.  Credit risk    Credit risk arises from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
To manage  this, the Company periodically assesses the ﬁnancial reliability of customers, taking into account the ﬁnancial  condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts receivable.
Individual  risk limits are set accordingly.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable as of  March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively and revenues for the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017  andMarch 31, 2016, respectively.
There is no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk.
Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired    Cash and cash equivalents, unbilled revenues, investment in certiﬁcates of deposits and interest bearing deposits with  corporates are neither past due nor impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents with banks and interest-bearing deposits are  placed with corporate, which have high credit-ratings assigned by international and domestic credit-rating agencies.
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets substantially include investment in liquid mutual fund units.
Certiﬁcates of deposit  represent funds deposited with banks or other ﬁnancial institutions for a speciﬁed time period.
Financial assets that are past due but not impaired    There is no other class of ﬁnancial assets that is past due but not impaired except for receivables of ` 9,108,   ` 8,709 and ` 5,510 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
Of the total receivables,  ` 68,571, ` 73,787 and ` 67,429 as of March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively, were neither  past due nor impaired.
The Company’s credit period generally ranges from 45-60 days from invoicing date.
The  aging analysis of the receivables has been considered from the date the invoice falls due.
The age wise break up  of receivables, net of allowances that are past due, is given below:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired ` 68,571 `73,787 `67,429 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired  Past due 0-30 days ` 8,259 `7,924 `7,343  Past due 31-60 days 3,929 3,959 3,936  Past due 61-90 days 3,410 2,980 2,876  Past due over 90 days 19,203 17,324 15,064 Total past due but not impaired ` 34,801 `32,187 `29,219 Total ` 103,372 ` 105,974 ` 96,648  Counterparty risk    Counterparty risk encompasses issuer risk on marketable securities, settlement risk on derivative and money  market contracts and credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimized by only buying securities which  are at least AA rated in India based on Indian rating agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the policy  of entering into transactions with counterparties that are usually banks or ﬁnancial institutions with acceptable  credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are closely monitored and maintained within predetermined parameters.
There are limits on credit exposure to any ﬁnancial institution.
The limits are regularly assessed and determined  based upon credit analysis including ﬁnancial statements and capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 231  Liquidity risk    Liquidity risk is deﬁned as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or  at a reasonable price.
The Company’s corporate treasury department is responsible for liquidity and funding as  well as settlement management.
In addition, processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior  management.
Management monitors the Company’s net liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis  of expected cash ﬂows.
As of March/uni00A031, 2017, cash and cash equivalents are held with major banks and ﬁnancial  institutions.
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of signiﬁcant ﬁnancial liabilities  at the reporting date.
The amounts include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting  agreements, if any.
As at March 31, 2017 Contractual cash flows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank  overdrafts (1) ` 142,412 124,243 14,132 5,526 341 ` 144,242 Trade payables ` 48,673 48,673 - - - ` 48,673 Derivatives liabilities ` 2,710 2,708 2 - - ` 2,710 Other financial liabilities (1) ` 17,949 17,095 810 - 77 ` 17,982 /uni00A0As at March 31, 2016 Contractual cash flows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank  overdrafts (1) `125,221 108,775 4,416 13,194 315 ` 126,700 Trade payables `49,021 49,021 - - - `49,021 Derivatives liabilities `2,459 2,340 82 37 - `2,459 Other financial liabilities (1) ` 22,283 20,393 828 1,831 54 ` 23,106 As at April 1, 2015 Contractual cash flows Carrying  value Less than  1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank  overdrafts (1) ` 78,913 66,526 1,827 11,609 116 ` 80,078 Trade payables ` 39,999 39,999 - - - ` 39,999 Derivatives liabilities ` 824 753 39 22 10 ` 824 Other financial liabilities (1) ` 19,266 639 75 288 70 ` 1,072   The balanced view of liquidity and ﬁnancial indebtedness is stated in the table below.
This calculation of the net  cash position is used by the management for external communication with investors, analysts and rating agencies:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Cash and cash equivalents ` 52,710 `99,049 `158,940 Investments 292,030 204,244 93,827 Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts (1) (142,412) (125,221) (78,913) Net Cash position ` 202,328 `178,072 `173,854  (1)   Includes current obligation under borrowings, term loan and ﬁnancial leases classiﬁed under “Other current  ﬁnancial liabilities” .
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 232 Annual Report 2016-17 10.
Trade receivables As at  March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Unsecured Considered good `  98,844 `  100,976 `  90,288 Considered doubtful 9,108  8,709 5,510 107,952 109,685 95,798 Less: Provision for doubtful receivables (9,108)  (8,709)  (5,510) `  98,844 `  100,976 `  90,288 Included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Non-current `  3,998 ` 1,362 `  2,443 Current `  94,846 `  99,614 `  87,845  The activity in the allowance for doubtful receivables is given below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Balance at the beginning of the year ` 8,709 ` 5,510 Additions during the year, net 2,427 3,247 Uncollectable receivables charged against allowance  (2,099)  (115) Translation adjustments 71 67 Balance at the end of the year ` 9,108 ` 8,709 11.
Other ﬁnancial assets As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Security deposits ` 1,636 `1,659 `1,472 Other deposits 449 548 460 Finance lease receivables (secured by underlying assets given on lease).
(Refer note 32) 2,674 2,964 2,899 Interest receivables 26 17 7 ` 4,785 ` 5,188 ` 4,838 Current Security Deposits ` 514 `239 `2,054 Other deposits 148 442 254 Due from officers and employees 936 1,824 977 Finance lease receivables  (secured by underlying assets given on lease).
(Refer note 32) 1,854 2,034 3,461 Interest receivable 2,177 2,488 3,760 Others 3,000 2,847 3,755 Considered doubtful 492 798 880 9,121 10,672 15,141 Less : Provision for doubtful loans and advances (492) (798) (880) ` 8,629 ` 9,874 ` 14,261 Total ` 13,414 ` 15,062 ` 19,099 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 233 12.
Other assets As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Prepaid expenses including rentals for lease land and  deposits ` 8,833 ` 6,810 ` 5,135 Deferred contract costs 3,175 3,807 4,445 Capital advances 1,574 2,397 1,511 ` 13,582 ` 13,014 ` 11,091 Current Prepaid expenses ` 12,824 ` 14,012 ` 9,118 Due from officers and employees 1,413 1,956 2,511 Deferred contract costs 4,270 3,720 3,610 Balance with excise, customs and other authorities 2,153 1,814 1,786 Advances to suppliers 1,451 1,315 2,312 Others 11 203 - ` 22,122 ` 23,020 ` 19,337 Total ` 35,704 ` 36,034 ` 30,428 13.
Inventories As at  March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Raw materials ` - ` - ` 3 Work in progress - - 2 Finished goods [including goods in transit - ` 2 (` 2 and ` 7  for March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively)] 7 7 24 Traded goods 3,101 4,512 3,888 Stores and spares 807 871 932 ` 3,915 ` 5,390 ` 4,849 14.
Cash and cash equivalents As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Balances with banks Current accounts ` 27,163 ` 62,836 `46,074 Unclaimed dividend 50 53 25 Demand deposits (1)(2) 24,902 35,531 111,742 Cheques, drafts on hand 593 628 1,070 Cash in hand 2 1 29 ` 52,710 ` 99,049 ` 158,940   (1)    These deposits can be withdrawn by the Company at any time without prior notice and without any penalty on  the principal.
(2)   Demand deposits with banks include deposits in lien with banks amounting to ` Nil (March 31, 2016 and April  1, 2015: ` 3 and ` Nil respectively).
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 234 Annual Report 2016-17  Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following for the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents ` 52,710 ` 99,049 Bank overdrafts  (1,992)  (657)  ` 50,718 ` 98,392   Speciﬁed bank notes -    As per the Notiﬁcation G.S.R 308(E) dated March 31, 2017 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Company  needs to provide the details of Speciﬁed Bank Notes (SBN) held and transacted during the period from November  8, 2016 to December 30, 2016.
The term ‘Speciﬁed Bank Notes’ shall have the same meaning as provided in the  notiﬁcation of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs number S.O.
3407(E), dated the November 8, 2016.
The details is provided in the table below: SBNs (1) Other  denomination  notes (1) Total (1) Closing cash in hand as on November 8, 2016 (+) Permitted receipts (-) Permitted payments (-) Amount deposited in Banks 12,500 - - (12,500) 1,013 120,000 (117,813) - 13,513 120,000 (117,813) (12,500) Closing cash in hand as on December 30, 2016 - 3,200 3,200  (1)   Amounts in `, not rounded to million.
15.
Share capital As at  March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Authorised capital 2,917,500,000 (March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015:  2,917,500,000) equity shares [Par value of ` 2 per share] ` 5,835 ` 5,835 ` 5,835 25,000,000 (March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015:  25,000,000) 10.25 % redeemable cumulative preference  shares [Par value of ` 10 per share]  250 250 250 1,50,000 (2016 and 2015:1,50,000) 10% Optionally  convertible cumulative prefence shares  15  15  15  [Par value of ` 100 per share] ` 6,100 ` 6,100 ` 6,100 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up capital 2,430,900,565 (March 31, 2016: 2,470,713,290 and April 1,  2015 : 2,469,043,038) equity shares of ` 2 each  4,861  4,941  4,937 ` 4,861 ` 4,941 ` 4,937  Terms / Rights attached to equity shares    The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2 per share.
Each shareholder of equity  shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees.
The dividend  proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to shareholders approval in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Following is the summary of per share dividends recognized as distributions to equity shareholders: For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Interim dividend ` 2 ` 5 Final dividend ` - ` 1 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 235   In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive the remaining assets  of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any, in proportion to the number of equity shares  held by the shareholders.
i. Reconciliation of number of shares As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 No.
of Shares ` Million No.
of Shares ` Million No.
of Shares ` Million Opening number of  equity shares / American  Depository Receipts  (ADRs) outstanding 2,470,713,290 4,941 2,469,043,038 4,937 2,466,317,273 4,932 Equity shares issued  pursuance to Employee  Stock Option Plan  (1) 187,275 ^ 1,670,252 4 2,725,765 5 Buy back of equity shares  (refer note 34) (40,000,000) (80) - - - - Closing number of equity  shares / ADRs outstanding 2,430,900,565 4,861 2,470,713,290 4,941 2,469,043,038 4,937  (1)    1,101,217 shares have been issued by the Controlled trust on exercise of options during the year ended March  31, 2017.
^  Value is less than ` 1 million ii.
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company Name of the Shareholder As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 No.
of Shares % held No.
of Shares % held No.
of Shares % held Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner representing  Hasham Traders 370,956,000 15.26 370,956,000 15.01 370,956,000 15.02 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner representing  Prazim Traders 452,906,791 18.63 452,906,791 18.33 452,906,791 18.34 Mr. Azim Hasham Premji Partner representing Zash  Traders 451,619,790 18.58 451,619,790 18.28 451,619,790 18.29 Azim Premji Trust 399,065,641 16.42 429,714,120 17.39 429,714,120 17.40 iii.
Other details of equity shares for a period of ﬁve years immediately preceding March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Aggregate number of share allotted as fully paid up  pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received in  cash - 195,717 841,585  (Allotted to the Wipro Inc. Trust, the sole beneficiary of  which is Wipro Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the  Company, in consideration of acquisition of inter-company  investments) Aggregate number of shares allotted as fully paid bonus  shares - - 979,119,256 Aggregate number of shares bought back (Refer note 34) 40,000,000 - - Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 236 Annual Report 2016-17 iv.
Shares reserved for issue under option  For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock option plan of the Company, refer note 31.
16.
Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Secured Obligations under finance leases (1) ` 4,657 ` 5,831 ` 3,218 4,657 5,831 3,218 Unsecured Term loans: External commercial borrowing 9,728 9,938 9,375 Others (2) 5,226 1,592 114 14,954 11,530 9,489 Total Non-current ` 19,611 ` 17,361 ` 12,707 Current Secured  Cash Credit ` - ` - ` 3,675  Loans repayable on demand - - 141 - - 3,816 Unsecured  Cash Credit 1,992 657 227  Loans repayable on demand (3) 114,749 101,991 60,398 116,741 102,648 60,625 Total Current ` 116,741 ` 102,648 `  64,441 Total Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts ` 136,352 ` 120,009 ` 77,148 (1)    Current obligations under ﬁnancial leases amounting to ` 3,623 (March 31, 2016:/uni00A0 ` 3,132 and April 1, 2015  `/uni00A01,660 respectively) is classiﬁed under “Other current ﬁnancial liabilities” .
(2)    Current maturities of term loans amounting to ` 391 (March 31, 2016: ` 334 and April 1, 2015: ` 104 respectively)  is classiﬁed under “Other current ﬁnancial liabilities” .
(3)    Current obligations under borrowings from banks amounting to ` 2,046 (March 31, 2016:/uni00A0 `1,746 and April 1,  2015: ` Nil) is classiﬁed under “Other current ﬁnancial liabilities” .
Short-term loans and borrowings   The Company had short-term borrowings including bank overdrafts amounting to ` 116,742, ` 102,667 and ` 64,443  as at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively.
The principal source of Short-term borrowings  from banks as of March 31, 2017 primarily consists of lines of credit of approximately ` 204, U.S. Dollar (U.S.$) 2,495  million, Canadian Dollar (CAD) 44 million, Australian Dollar (AUD) 13 million, EURO 1 million and United Kingdom  Pound sterling (GBP) 23 million from bankers for working capital requirements and other short term needs.
As of  March 31, 2017, the Company has unutilized lines of credit aggregating U.S.$ 744 million, EURO 1 million, AUD 13  million, GBP 5 million and CAD 14 million.
To utilize these unused lines of credit, the Company requires consent of  the lender and compliance with certain ﬁnancial covenants.
Signiﬁcant portion of these lines of credit are revolving  credit facilities and ﬂoating rate foreign currency loans, renewable on a periodic basis.
Signiﬁcant portion of these  facilities bear ﬂoating rates of interest, referenced to LIBOR and a spread, determined based on market conditions.
The Company has non-fund based revolving credit facilities in various currencies equivalent to ` 51,739, ` 41,740  and ` 39,511 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively, towards operational requirements  that can be used for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016  and April 1, 2015, an amount of ` 29,716, ` 15,519, ` 18,277 respectively, was unutilized out of these non-fund  based facilities.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 237  Long-term loans and borrowings  A summary of long- term loans and borrowings is as follows:  Currency As at March/uni00A031, 2017 As at March/uni00A031, 2016 As at April 1, 2015 Foreign  currency  in  millions Indian  Rupee Foreign  currency  in  millions Indian Rupee Foreign  currency  in  millions Indian  Rupee Foreign  currency  in  millions Indian  Rupee Unsecured external  commercial borrowing /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 U.S./uni00A0Dollar 150 ` 9,728  1.81% June/uni00A02018 150 ` 9,938 150 ` 9,375 Unsecured term loan /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Indian Rupee NA 714 8.3/uni00A0–/uni00A010.3% May/uni00A02021 NA 666 NA 218 Saudi Arabian Riyal (SAR) 71 1,229 SIBOR+1.50% April/uni00A02018 169 2,987 - - Australian Dollar (AUD) 2 116 4.65% January 2022 - - - - Canadian Dollar (CAD) 85 4,131 CDOR+1.25% October 2021 - - - - EURO 19 1,282 EONIA+1% December 2020 - - - - Great British pound (GBP) 1 73 3.4% May 2022 - - - - USD 2 118 3.27%-3.81% June 2021 - - - - ` 17,391 ` 13,591 ` 9,593 Obligations under  finance leases 8,280 8,963 4,878 ` 25,671 ` 22,554 ` 14,471   The contracts governing the Company’s unsecured external commercial borrowing contain certain covenants that  limit future borrowings.
The terms of the other secured and unsecured loans and borrowings also contain certain  restrictive covenants primarily requiring the Company to maintain certain ﬁnancial ratios.
As of March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 the Company has met all the covenants under these arrangements.
Interest expense was `1,916 and `1,410 for the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Also, refer note 33.
17.
Other ﬁnancial liabilities As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Others ` 853 ` 2,316 ` 385 ` 853 ` 2,316 ` 385 Current Employee benefit obligations ` 16,813 ` 19,166 ` 18,341 Current maturities of long term borrowings (1) 2,437 2,079 104 Current maturities of obligation under finance lease (1) 3,623 3,133 1,660 Interest accrued but not due on borrowing 229 227 458 Unclaimed dividends 50 53 25 Others 4 521 57 ` 23,156 ` 25,179 ` 20,645 Total ` 24,009 ` 27,495 ` 21,030  (1)   For rate of interest and other term and conditions, refer to note 16.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 238 Annual Report 2016-17 18.
Provisions As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Employee benefits obligations ` 4,235 ` 4,618 ` 3,062 Provision for warranty 4 14 5 Others 2 - - ` 4,241 ` 4,632 ` 3,067 Current Provision for employee benefits ` 5,912 ` 5,494 ` 4,802 Provision for warranty 436 388 306 Others 1,195 1,229 1,586 ` 7,543 ` 7,111 ` 6,694 Total ` 12,184 ` 11,743 ` 9,761   Provision for warranty represents cost associated with providing sales support services which are accrued at  the time of recognition of revenues and are expected to be utilized over a period of 1 to 2 years.
Other provisions  primarily include provisions for indirect tax related contingencies and litigations.
The timing of cash outﬂows in  respect of such provision cannot be reasonably determined.
Particular Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2016 Provision for  warranty Others Provision for  warranty Others Provision at the beginning of the year ` 402 ` 1,229 `  311 `  1,586 Additions during the year, net 631 180 451 82 Utilized/ reversed during the year (593) (212) (360) (439) Provision at the end of the year ` 440 ` 1,197 `  402 `  1,229 Included in the consolidated balance  sheet as follows: Non-current portion `      4 `          2 `    14 `          - Current portion ` 436 ` 1,195 ` 388 ` 1,229 19.
Other liabilities As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current Others ` 410 ` 291 ` 211 ` 410 ` 291 ` 211 Current Statutory and other liabilities ` 3,353 ` 3,811 ` 3,528 Advance from customers 2,394 2,380 2,200 Others 666 930 1,127 ` 6,413 ` 7,121 ` 6,855 Total ` 6,823 ` 7,412 ` 7,066 20.
Trade payables As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Trade payables ` 48,673 ` 49,021 ` 39,999 ` 48,673 ` 49,021 ` 39,999 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 239  Trade payables include due to suppliers under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006,  [MSMED Act] as at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2017 and April 1, 2015.
The disclosure pursuant to the said Act is  as under: Particulars As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Principal amount due to suppliers under MSMED Act `     31 `     10 `     21 Interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the year  to suppliers under MSMED Act 7 1 1 Total interest paid on all delayed payments during the year  under MSMED Act  1 ^ -  ^Less than ` 1.
This information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identiﬁed on the basis of information  available with the Company.
21.
Revenue from operations Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Sale of Services ` 522,061 ` 481,369 Sale of Products 28,341  31,071 ` 550,402 ` 512,440  22.
Other operating income   During the year March 31, 2017, the Company has concluded the sale of EcoEnergy division for a consideration of  ` 4,670.
Net gain from the sale, amounting to ` 4,082 has been recorded as Other operating income.
23.
Other income Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Interest income ` 17,307 ` 20,568 Dividend Income 311 66 Gain on sale of investments 3,486 2,646 Unrealized gains/losses on financial instruments measured at fair value  through profit or loss 556 375 Other exchange differences, net 3,807  3,867 ` 25,467 ` 27,552  24.
Changes in inventories of ﬁnished goods, work in progress and stock-in-trade Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Opening stock Work in progress `  - `  2 Traded goods 4,512 3,888 Finished products 7 24 4,519 3,914 Less: Work in progress - - Traded goods 3,101 4,512 Finished products 7 7 3,108 4,519 `   1,411 `  (605) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 240 Annual Report 2016-17 25.
Employee beneﬁts expense (a) Employee costs include: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Salaries and wages ` 259,270 ` 237,949 Employee benefits plans Gratuity and other defined benefit plans 1,095 885 Contribution to provident and other funds 5,974 5,166 Share based compensation 1,742 1,534  ` 268,081 ` 245,534  Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains/ (losses) recognized in other comprehensive income include: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Re-measurement of net defined benefit liability / (asset) Return on plan assets excluding interest income ` (189) `        30 Actuarial loss / (gain) arising from financial assumptions 363 180 Actuarial loss / (gain) arising from demographic assumptions (73) 2 Actuarial loss / (gain) arising from experience adjustments (313) 798 ` (212) ` 1,010 (b) Deﬁned beneﬁts plans  Amount recognized in the statement of proﬁt and loss in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt plans is as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Current service cost ` 1,130 `  915 Net Interest on net defined benefits liability / (assets) (35) (30) Net gratuity cost / (benefit) ` 1,095 `  885 Actual return on plan assets `     692 `  351  Change in present value of deﬁned obligation is summarized below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year ` 6,656 ` 4,941 Acquisitions 751 - Current Service cost 1,130 915 Interest on obligation 464 350 Benefits paid (708) (530) Remeasurement loss /(gains)  Actuarial loss /(gain) arising from financial assumptions 363 180  Actuarial loss /(gain) arising from demographic assumptions (73) 2  Actuarial loss /(gain) arising from experience assumptions (313) 798 Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year ` 8,270 ` 6,656 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 241  Change in plan assets is summarized below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year ` 6,488 ` 4,781 Acquisitions 561 - Expected return on plan assets 499 380 Employer contributions 186 1,887 Benefits paid (4) (530) Remeasurement loss /(gain) Return on plan assets excluding interest income 189 (30) Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year ` 7,919 ` 6,488 Present value of unfunded obligation (351) (168) Recognized asset /(liability) (351) (168)   As at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, plan assets were primarily invested in insurer managed  funds.
The Company has established an income tax approved irrecoverable trust fund to which it regularly contributes  to ﬁnance the liabilities of the plan.
The fund’s investments are managed by certain insurance companies as per  the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation is within the permissible limit prescribed  in the insurance regulations.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of actuarial valuation of these deﬁned beneﬁt plans are as follows: As at Assumptions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Discount rate 5.91 %  7.02 % Rate of increase in compensation levels 5.91 % 7.02 % Rate of return on plan assets 6.90 % 7.31 %   The expected return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long-term rate of return expected on  investments of the fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The discount rate is primarily based on the prevailing market yields of government securities for the estimated  term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary increase considered takes into account the inﬂations,  seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
Attrition rate considered is the management’s estimate, based  on previous years’ employee turnover of the Company.
The expected future contribution and estimated future beneﬁt payments from the fund are as follows: Expected contribution to the fund during the year ending March 31, 2018 : ` 1,284 Estimated benefit payments from the fund of the year ending March 31, 2018 ` 1,171 March 31, 2019 1,062 March 31, 2020 977 March 31, 2021 870 March 31, 2022 756 Thereafter 5,378 Total ` 10,214   The expected beneﬁts are based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company’s beneﬁt obligations  as at March 31, 2017.
Sensitivity for signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions is computed to show the movement in deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  by 0.5 percentage.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 242 Annual Report 2016-17   As of March 31, 2017, every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in discount rate will result in (decrease)/  increase of gratuity beneﬁt obligation by approximately ` (187) and `207 respectively.
As of March 31, 2017, every 0.5 percentage point increase/ (decrease) in expected rate of salary will result in  increase/ (decrease) of gratuity beneﬁt obligation by approximately `176 and `(169) respectively.
(c)  Provident fund (PF):  The details of fund and plan assets are given below: As at Change in the benefit obligation March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Fair value of plan assets ` 40,059 ` 36,019 ` 28,455 Present value of defined benefit obligation 40,059 36,019 28,455 Net (shortfall)/ excess   -   -  -  The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of interest guarantee under the  deterministic approach are as follows: As at Assumptions March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Discount rate 6.90 %  7.75 %  7.95 % Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio 6 years 6 years 6 years Guaranteed rate of return 8.65 % 8.75 % 8.75 %  Also, refer note 31 for details to employee stock options.
26.
Finance costs Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Interest ` 1,916 ` 1,410 Exchange fluctuations on foreign currency borrowings, net 3,267 4,172 (to the extent regarded as borrowing cost) ` 5,183 ` 5,582 27.
Other expenses Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Sub-contracting / technical fees / third party application `  82,747  `  67,769 Travel Facility expenses Communication Rates, taxes and insurance Marketing and brand building Provision for doubtful debt Legal and professional charges Auditors’ remuneration Audit fees 20,147 19,297 5,370 2,261 2,936 2,427 4,957 38 23,507 16,480 4,825 2,526 2,292 2,004 4,214 40 For certification including tax audit Out of pocket expenses Miscellaneous expenses 1 3 6,039 1 3 5,338 ` 146,223 ` 128,999 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 243 28.
Income tax  Income tax expense has been allocated as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Income tax expense as per the statement of profit and loss ` 25,214 ` 25,366 Income tax included in Other comprehensive income on:  Unrealized gains/ (losses) on investment securities 594 42 Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging derivatives 962 (260) Defined benefit plan actuarial gains/(losses) 43 (224) Total income taxes ` 26,813 ` 24,924  Income tax expense consists of the following:  Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Current taxes Domestic ` 21,089 ` 20,221 Foreign 5,412 5,536 ` 26,501 ` 25,757 Deferred taxes Domestic `       (62) `     (506) Foreign (1,225) 115 ` (1,287) `     (391) Total income taxes ` 25,214 ` 25,366 Income tax expenses are net of reversal of provisions pertaining to earlier periods, amounting to `593 and `1,337  for the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively.
The reconciliation between the provision of income tax and amounts computed by applying the Indian statutory  income tax rate to proﬁt before taxes is as follows:  Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Profit before taxes ` 110,393  ` 114,937 Enacted income tax rate in India 34.61% 34.61% Computed expected tax expense `  38,207 `  39,779 Effect off: Income exempt from tax (10,368) (10,750) Basis differences that will reverse during a tax holiday per period (199) (475) Income taxed at higher/ (lower) rates (3,530) (3,305) Income taxes related to prior years (593) (1,337) Changes in unrecognized deferred tax assets 40 87 Expenses disallowed for tax purpose 1,834 1,729 Others, net (177) (362) Total income taxes expenses ` 25,214 ` 25,366 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 244 Annual Report 2016-17  /uni00A0The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:  As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Carry-forward business losses (1) `  5,513 `  5,250 `    2,863 Other liabilities 3,151 3,270 2,546 Allowances for doubtful accounts receivable 2,955 3,039 2,289 Minimum alternate tax 1,520 1,457 1,844 Others - 328 345 `  13,139 ` 13,344 `     9,887 Property, plant and equipment ` (4,117) `(4,223) `  (3,416) Amortizable goodwill (4,057) (3,963) (3,347) Other intangible assets (4,511) (4,665) (1,239) Interest on bonds and fair value movement of investments (2,245) (814) (448) Cash flow hedges (1,419) (458) (719) Deferred revenue (183) (4) (552) Others (87) - - ` (16,619) ` (14,127) `  (9,721) Net deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) `    (3480) `       (783) `        166 Amounts presented in statement of consolidated balance  sheet Deferred tax assets `    3,098 `     4,288 `    3,367 Deferred tax liabilities ` (6,578) `  (5,071) ` (3,201)  (1)  Includes deferred tax asset recognized on carry forward losses pertaining to business combinations.
Deferred taxes on unrealized foreign exchange gain / loss relating to cash ﬂow hedges, fair value movements in  investments and actuarial gains/losses on deﬁned beneﬁt plans are recognized in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax liability on the intangible assets identiﬁed and carry forward losses on acquisitions is recorded by  an adjustment to goodwill.
Other than these, the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities is primarily recorded  in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers the extent to which it is probable  that the deferred tax asset will be realized.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the  generation of future taxable proﬁts during the periods in which those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company considers the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected  future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment.
Based on this, the Company believes  that it is probable that the Company will realize the beneﬁts of these deductible differences.
The amount of  deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the estimates of future  taxable income during the carry-forward period are reduced.
Deferred tax asset amounting to `1,714, `1,782 and `1,858 as at March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015,  respectively in respect of unused tax losses have not been recognized by the Company.
The tax loss carry-forwards  of `6,763, `6679 and `6,509 as at March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively, relates to certain  subsidiaries on which deferred tax asset has not been recognized by the Company, because there is a lack of  reasonable certainty that these subsidiaries may generate future taxable proﬁts.
Approximately, `5,371, `6,117  and `4,971 as at March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April/uni00A01, 2015, respectively, of these tax loss carry-forwards  is not currently subject to expiration dates.
The remaining tax loss carry-forwards of approximately, `1,391, `562  and `1,538 as at March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April/uni00A01, 2015, respectively, expires in various years through  ﬁscal 2037.
The Company has recognized deferred tax assets of ` 5,513, ` 5,250 and ` 2,863 in respect of carry forward losses  of its various subsidiaries as at March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
Management’s projections  of future taxable income and tax planning strategies support the assumption that it is probable that sufﬁcient  taxable income will be available to utilize these deferred tax assets.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 245   Pursuant to the changes in the Indian income tax laws, Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) has been extended to income in  respect of which deduction is claimed under Section/uni00A010A, 10B and 10AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961; consequently,  the Company has calculated its tax liability for current domestic taxes after considering MAT.
The excess tax paid  under MAT provisions over and above normal tax liability can be carried forward and set-off against future tax  liabilities computed under normal tax provisions.
The Company was required to pay MAT and accordingly, a deferred  tax asset of `1,520, `1,457 and `1,844 has been recognized in the statement of consolidated balance sheet as  of March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 respectively, which can be carried forward for a period of ten  years from the year of recognition.
A substantial portion of the proﬁts of the Company’s India operations are exempt from Indian income taxes being  proﬁts attributable to export operations and proﬁts from units established under the Special Economic Zone Act,  2005 scheme.
Units designated in special economic zones providing service on or after April/uni00A01, 2005 will be eligible  for a deduction of 100 percent of proﬁts or gains derived from the export of services for the ﬁrst ﬁve years from  commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of such proﬁts and gains for a further ﬁve years.
Certain tax  beneﬁts are also available for a further ﬁve years subject to the unit meeting deﬁned conditions.
Proﬁts from certain  other undertakings are also eligible for preferential tax treatment.
The tax holiday period being currently available  to the Company expires in various years through ﬁscal 2030-31.
The expiration period of tax holiday for each unit  within a SEZ is determined based on the number of years that have lapsed following year of commencement of  production by that unit.
The impact of tax holidays has resulted in a decrease of current tax expense of ` 9,140  and ` 10,212 for the years ended March/uni00A031, 2017 and March 31, 2016 respectively, compared to the effective tax  amounts that we estimate we would have been required to pay if these incentives had not been available.
The per  share effect of these tax incentives for the years ended March/uni00A031, 2017 and March 31, 2016 was `3.76 and `4.16  respectively.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary  difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable  future.
Accordingly, deferred income tax liabilities on cumulative earnings of subsidiaries amounting to `46,905  and `33,920 as of March/uni00A031, 2017 and 2016, respectively has not been recognized.
Further, it is not practicable to  estimate the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for these undistributed earnings.
29.
Foreign currency translation reserve   The movement in foreign currency translation reserve attributable to equity holders of the Company is summarized  below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Balance at the beginning of the year ` 15,069 ` 10,399 Translation difference related to foreign operations, net (3,199) 5,483 Change in effective portion of hedges of net investment in foreign operations  276 (813) Total change during the year (2,923) 4,670 Balance at the end of the year ` 12,146 ` 15,069 30.
Earnings per equity share   A reconciliation of proﬁt for the year and equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share is set out below:   Basic: Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the  Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year, excluding equity shares  purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Equity shares held by controlled Wipro Equity Reward  Trust (“WERT”) and Wipro Inc. Beneﬁt Trust (“WIBT”) have been reduced from the equity shares outstanding for  computing basic and diluted earnings per share.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, WIBT sold 1.8 million  shares of Wipro Limited Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 246 Annual Report 2016-17 Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company ` 84,931 ` 89,079 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,428,540,505 2,456,559,400 Basic earnings per share ` 34.97 ` 36.26  Diluted: Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the year for assumed conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Employee share options  are dilutive potential equity shares for the Company.
The calculation is performed in respect of share options to determine the number of shares that could have been  acquired at fair value (determined as the average market price of the Company’s shares during the year).The number  of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the  exercise of the share options.
Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company ` 84,931 ` 89,079 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,428,540,505 2,456,559,400 Effect of dilutive equivalent share options 7,133,064 5,130,508 Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted earnings per share 2,435,673,569 2,461,689,908 Diluted earnings per share ` 34.87 ` 36.19 31.
Employee stock option   Employees covered under Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Option Plans (collectively “stock  option plans”) are granted an option to purchase shares of the Company at the respective exercise prices, subject  to requirements of vesting conditions.
These options generally vest in tranches over a period of three to ﬁve years  from the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the employees can acquire one equity share for every option.
The maximum  contractual term for aforementioned stock option plans is generally ten years.
The stock compensation cost is computed under the intrinsic value method and amortized on accelerated vesting  period.
The intrinsic value on the date of grant approximates the fair value.
For the year ended March 31, 2017,  the Company has recorded stock compensation expense of ` 1,742 (March 31, 2016 : ` 1,534).
The compensation committee of the board evaluates the performance and other criteria of employees and approves  the grant of options.
These options vest with employees over a speciﬁed period subject to fulﬁllment of certain  conditions.
Upon vesting, employees are eligible to apply and secure allotment of Company’s shares at a price  determined on the date of grant of options.
The particulars of options granted under various plans are tabulated  below.
(The numbers of shares in the table below are adjusted for any stock splits and bonus shares issues).
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”)   In 1984, the Company established a controlled trust called the Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”).
In the earlier  years, WERT purchased shares of the Company out of funds borrowed from the Company.
The Company’s Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee recommends to WERT certain ofﬁcers and key employees,  to whom WERT grants shares from its holdings at nominal price.
Such shares are then held by the employees subject  to vesting conditions.
The Company’s equity shares held by the controlled trust, which is consolidated as a part  of the Group are classiﬁed as Treasury shares.
The Company has 13,728,607, 14,829,824 and 14,829,824 treasury  shares as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
Treasury shares are recorded at  acquisition cost.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock Unit Option Plans    A summary of the general terms of grants under stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plans are as  follows:  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 247 Name of Plan Authorized  Shares Range of  Exercise Prices Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 1999 (1999 Plan) 50,000,000 ` 171 –/uni00A0490 Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 2000 (2000 Plan) 280,303,030 ` 171/uni00A0–/uni00A0490 Stock Option Plan (2000 ADS Plan) 15,000,000 US$ 3 – 7 Wipro Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WRSUP 2004 plan) 22,424,242  ` 2 Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan) 22,424,242 US$ 0.03 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2005 (WSRUP 2005 plan) 22,424,242  ` 2 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) 18,686,869  ` 2 Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2013 14,829,824  ` 2  The activity in these stock option plans is summarized below:  Stock option plans Range of  Exercise  prices Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2016 Number Weight  Average  exercise  price Number Weight  Average  exercise  price Outstanding at the beginning of  the year ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 7,254,326 3,747,430 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 6,332,219 2,576,644 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 Granted ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 - 2,398,000 2,379,500 ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 - 2,870,400 1,697,700 ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 Exercised ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (1,113,775) (174,717) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (1,329,376) (340,876) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 Forfeited and lapsed ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (586,468) (663,430) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 - (618,917) (186,038) ` - ` 2 US $ 0.03 Outstanding at the end of the year ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 7,952,083 5,288,783 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 7,254,326 3,747,430 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 Exercisable at the end of the year ` 480 – 489 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 698,320 141,342 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03 20,181 1,204,405 256,753 ` 480.20 ` 2 US $ 0.03  The following table summarizes information about outstanding stock options:  Range of exercise price 2017 2016 Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  Life  (Months) Weight  Average  Exercise  Price Numbers Weighted  Average  Remaining  Life  (Months) Weight  Average  Exercise  Price ` 480 - 489 20,181 - ` 480.20 20,181 - ` 480.20 ` 2 7,952,083 19 ` 2 7,254,326 23 ` 2 US $ 0.03 5,288,783 24 US $ 0.03 3,747,430 24 US $ 0.03   The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31,  2016 and April 1, 2015 was ` 569.52, ` 699.96 and `/uni00A0658.12 for each option, respectively.
The weighted average  share price of options exercised during the year ended March/uni00A031, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 was/uni00A0  ` 536.80, ` 608.62 and ` 603.58 for each option, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 248 Annual Report 2016-17 32.
Finance lease receivables   Finance lease receivables consist of assets that are leased to customers for a contract term ranging from 1 to 7  years, with lease payments due in monthly or quarterly installments.
Details of ﬁnance lease receivables are given  below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Gross investment in lease  Not later than one year ` 2,060 ` 2,222 ` 3,685  Later than one year and not later than five years 2,725 3,127 3,108  Later than five years - - 73  Unguaranteed residual values 62 62 63 4,847 5,411 6,929 Unearned finance income (319) (413) (569) Net investment in finance receivables ` 4,528 ` 4,998 ` 6,360  Present value of minimum lease receivables are as follows: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Present value of investment in lease Payments receivables ` 4,528 ` 4,998 ` 6,360 Not later than one year 1,854 2,034 3,419 Later than one year and not later than five years 2,616 2,906 2,826 Later than five years - - 57 Unguaranteed residual values 58 58 58  Included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Non-current ` 1,854 ` 2,034 ` 3,461 Current ` 2,674 ` 2,964 ` 2,899 33.
Assets taken on lease   Finance leases: The following is a schedule of present value of minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases,  together with the value of the future minimum lease payments as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1,  2015.
As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Present value of minimum lease payments  Not later than one year ` 3,623 ` 3,133 ` 1,660  Later than one year and not later than five years 4,657 5,830 3,218 Total present value of minimum lease payments 8,280 8,963 4,878 Add: Amount representing interest 437 578 345 Total value of minimum lease payments ` 8,717 ` 9,541 ` 5,223   Operating leases: The Company has taken ofﬁce, vehicle and IT equipment under cancellable and non-cancelable  operating lease agreements that are renewable on a periodic basis at the option of both the lessor and the lessee.
The operating lease agreements extend up a maximum of ﬁfteen years from their respective dates of inception  and some of these lease agreements have price escalation clause.
Rental payments under such leases were   ` 5,953, ` 5,184 and ` 4,727 during the years ended March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 249  Details of contractual payments under non-cancelable leases are given below: As at March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Not later than one year ` 5,040 ` 4,246 ` 3,351 Later than one year and not later than five years 12,976 9,900 6,385 Later than five years 2,760 2,713 2,206 Total ` 20,776 ` 16,859 ` 11,942 34.
Dividends and buy back of equity shares   The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees.
According to the Companies Act, 2013 any dividend  should be declared out of accumulated distributable proﬁts.
A Company may, before the declaration of any dividend,  transfer a percentage of its proﬁts for that ﬁnancial year as it may consider appropriate to the reserves.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has concluded the buyback of 40 million equity shares as  approved by the Board of Directors on April 20, 2016.
This has resulted in a total cash outﬂow of ` 25,000.
In line  with the requirement of the Companies Act 2013, an amount of ` 14,254 and ` 10,666 has been utilized from  the share premium account and retained earnings respectively.
Further, a capital redemption reserves of ` 80  (representing the nominal value of the shares bought back) has been created as an apportionment from retained  earnings.
Consequent to such buy back, share capital has been reduced by ` 80.
The cash dividends paid per equity share were ` 3, ` 12 and ` 10 during the years ended March 31, 2017, March  31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively, including an interim dividend of ` 2, ` 5 and ` 5 for the years ended March  31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on April 25, 2017 approved issue of bonus shares in India, in the  proportion of 1:1, i.e.
1 (One) equity share of ` 2 each for every 1 (one) fully paid-up equity share held (including  ADS holders) as on the record date, subject to approval by the Members of the Company through postal ballot/e- voting.
The bonus issue, if approved, will not affect the ratio of ADSs to equity shares, such that each ADS after  the bonus issue will continue to represent one equity share of par value of ` 2 per share.
35.
Additional capital disclosures   The key objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with  the focus on total equity to uphold investor, creditor, and customer conﬁdence and to ensure future development  of its business.
The Company focused on keeping strong total equity base to ensure independence, security, as well  as a high ﬁnancial ﬂexibility for potential future borrowings, if required without impacting the risk proﬁle of the  Company.
The Company’s goal is to continue to be able to return excess liquidity to shareholders by continuing to distribute  annual dividends in future periods.
The amount of future dividends/ buy back of equity shares will be balanced with efforts to continue to maintain  an adequate liquidity status.
The capital structure as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 was as follows: As at % Change  2017-16 % Change  2016-15March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 April 1, 2015 Equity attributable to the equity  holders of the Company (A) ` 516,702 ` 461,448 ` 403,650 11.97% 14.32% As percentage of total capital 78 % 79 % 84 % Current loans, borrowings and  bank overdrafts (1) 122,801 107,860 66,206 Non-current loans, borrowings  and bank overdrafts  19,611  17,361  12,707 Total Loans, borrowings and bank  overdrafts (B) ` 142,412 ` 125,221 ` 78,913 13.73% 58.68% As percentage of total capital 22 % 21 % 16 % Total capital (A+B) ` 659,114 ` 586,669 ` 482,563 12.35% 21.57%  (1)    Includes current obligation under borrowings, term loan and ﬁnancial leases classiﬁed under “Other current  ﬁnancial liabilities” .
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 250 Annual Report 2016-17   Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts represents 22%, 21% and 16% of total capital as of March 31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, respectively.
The Company is not subjected to any externally imposed capital  requirements.
36.
Commitments and contingencies   Capital commitments:  As at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 the Company had committed to spend  approximately ` 12,238, ` 10,734 and ` 1,262 respectively, under agreements to purchase/ construct property and  equipment.
These amounts are net of capital advances paid in respect of these purchases.
Guarantees:  As at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015, performance and ﬁnancial guarantees provided  by banks on behalf of the Company to the Indian Government, customers and certain other agencies amount to  approximately ` 22,023, ` 25,218 and ` 21,235 respectively, as part of the bank line of credit.
Contingencies and lawsuits: The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims (including tax assessment  orders/ penalty notices) which have arisen in the ordinary course of its business.
Some of the claims involve  complex issues and it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected ﬁnancial effect, if any, that  will result from ultimate resolution of such proceedings.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings is  not likely to have a material and adverse effect on the results of operations or the ﬁnancial balance sheet of the  Company.
The signiﬁcant of such matters are discussed below.
In March 2004, the Company received a tax demand for year ended March 31, 2001 arising primarily on account of  denial of deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act) in respect of proﬁt earned by the Company’s  undertaking in Software Technology Park at Bangalore.
The same issue was repeated in the successive assessments  for the years ended March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2011 and the aggregate demand is ` 47,583 (including interest of  ` 13,832).
The appeals ﬁled against the said demand before the Appellate authorities have been allowed in favor of  the Company by the second appellate authority for the years up to March 31, 2008.
Further appeals have been ﬁled  by the Income tax authorities before the Hon’ble High Court.
The Hon’ble High Court has heard and disposed-off  majority of the issues in favor of the Company up to years ended March 31, 2004.
Department has ﬁled a Special  Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court of India for the year ended March 31, 2001 to March 31, 2004.
On similar issues for years up to March 31, 2000, the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka has upheld the claim of the  Company under section 10A of the Act.
For the year ended March 31, 2009, the appeals are pending before Income  Tax Appellate Tribunal (Tribunal).
For years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, the Dispute Resolution  Panel (DRP) allowed the claim of the Company under section 10A of the Act.
The Income tax authorities have ﬁled  an appeal before the Tribunal.
The Company received the draft assessment order for the year ended March 31, 2012 in March 2016 with a proposed  demand of ` 4,241 (including interest of ` 1,376).
Based on the DRP’s direction, allowing majority of the issues in  favor of the Company, the assessing ofﬁcer has passed the ﬁnal order with Nil demand.
However, on similar issue  for earlier years, the Income Tax authorities have appealed before the Tribunal.
For year ended March 31, 2013 the Company received the draft assessment order in December 2016 with a proposed  demand of ` 4,118 (including interest of ` 1,278), arising primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect  to exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has ﬁled an objection before the DRP within the prescribed time  lines.
Considering the facts and nature of disallowance and the order of the appellate authority / Hon’ble High Court of  Karnataka upholding the claims of the Company for earlier years, the Company believes that the ﬁnal outcome  of the above disputes should be in favor of the Company and there should not be any material adverse impact on  the ﬁnancial statements.
The contingent liability in respect of disputed demands for excise duty, custom duty, sales tax and other matters  amounts to ` 2,585, ` 2,654 and ` 2,560 as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015.
However, the  resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have a material and adverse effect on the results of operations  or the statement of balance sheet of the Company.
37.
Segment information  The Company is organized by the following operating segments; IT Services and IT Products.
IT Services: The IT Services segment primarily consists of IT Service offerings to customers organized by industry  verticals.
Effective April 1, 2016, The Company realigned its industry verticals.
The Communication Service  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 251 Provider business unit was regrouped from the former Global Media and Telecom (GMT) industry vertical into a  new industry vertical named “Communications” .
The Media business unit from the former GMT industry vertical  has been realigned with the former Retail, Consumer, Transport and Government (RCTG) industry vertical which has  been renamed as “Consumer Business Unit” industry vertical.
Further, the Network Equipment Provider business  unit of the former GMT industry vertical has been realigned with the Manufacturing industry vertical to form the  “Manufacturing and Technology” industry vertical.
The revised industry verticals are as follows: Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Healthcare and  Lifesciences (HLS), Consumer Business unit (CBU), Energy, Natural Resources & Utilities (ENU), Manufacturing  & Technology (MNT) and Communications (COMM).
IT Services segment also includes Others which comprises  dividend income relating to strategic investments, which are presented within “Other Income” in the statement of  proﬁt and loss.
Key service offerings to customers includes software application development and maintenance,  research and development services for hardware and software design, business application services, analytics,  consulting, infrastructure outsourcing services and business process services.
Comparative information has been restated to give effect to the above changes.
IT Products: The Company is a value added reseller of desktops, servers, notebooks, storage products, networking  solutions and packaged software for leading international brands.
In certain total outsourcing contracts of the  IT Services segment, the Company delivers hardware, software products and other related deliverables.
Revenue  relating to the above items is reported as revenue from the sale of IT Products.
The Chairman and Managing Director of the Company has been identiﬁed as the Chief Operating Decision Maker  (CODM) as deﬁned by Ind AS 108, “Operating Segments.” The Chairman of the Company evaluates the segments  based on their revenue growth and operating income.
Assets and liabilities used in the Company’s business are not identiﬁed to any of the operating segments, as these  are used interchangeably between segments.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable to provide  segment disclosures relating to total assets and liabilities since a meaningful segregation of the available data  is onerous.
Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows: IT Services IT Products Reconciling  Items Company  totalBFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Others Total Revenue (1) 135,967 82,242 83,417 68,883 119,175 38,756 - 528,440 25,922 (153) ` 554,209 Other operating income - - - - - - - 4,082 - - 4,082 Segment Result 24,939 9,479 14,493 14,421 23,453 6,149 - 92,934 (1,680) (469) 90,785 Unallocated (951) - - (951) Segment Result Total 96,065 (1,680) (469) 93,916 Finance cost (5,183) Other income 21,660 Profit before tax 110,393 Income tax expense (25,214) Profit for the Year ` 85,179 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment 23,100 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 252 Annual Report 2016-17  Information on reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2016 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products Reconciling  Items Company  totalBFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Others Total Revenue (1) 128,147 58,358 79,514 70,866 113,422 37,009 - 487,316 29,722 (731) `516,307 Segment Result 27,902 12,009 13,590 13,475 24,223 5,990 - 97,189 (1,007) (382) 95,800 Unallocated 1,064 - - 1,064 Segment Result Total 98,253 (1,007) (382) 96,864 Finance cost /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 (5,582) Other income /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 23,655 Profit before tax /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 114,937 Income tax expense /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 (25,366) Profit for the year /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 ` 89,571 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment 14,961   The Company has four geographic segments: India, Americas, Europe and Rest of the world.
Revenues from the  geographic segments based on domicile of the customer are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 India ` 46,585 ` 51,371 Americas 290,719 258,615 Europe 133,909 126,417 Rest of the world  82,996  79,904 Total ` 554,209 ` 516,307   No client individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues during the three and year ended March 31,  2017 and 2016.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable to provide disclosure of geographical location wise assets,  since the meaningful segregation of the available information is onerous.
(1)    For the purpose of segment reporting, the Company has included the impact of “foreign exchange gains / (losses),  net” in revenues amounting to ` 3,807 for year ended March 31, 2017 and ` 3,867 for year ended March 31, 2016,  which is reported as a part of “Other income” in the statement of proﬁt and loss.
Notes:  a)  Effective April 1, 2016, CODM’s review of the segment results is measured after including the amortization  charge for acquired intangibles to the respective segments.
Such costs were classiﬁed under reconciling  items till the year ended March 31, 2016 under the Previous GAAP .
b)  “Reconciling items” includes dividend income/ gains/ losses relating to strategic investments, elimination  of inter-segment transactions and other corporate activities.
c) Revenue from sale of traded cloud based licenses is reported as part of IT Services revenues.
d)  For evaluating performance of the individual operating segments, share based compensation expense is  allocated on the basis of straight line amortization.
The differential impact of accelerated amortization of  stock compensation expense over share based compensation expense allocated to the individual operating  segments is reported in reconciling items.
e)  The Company generally offers multi-year payment terms in certain total outsourcing contracts.
These payment  terms primarily relate to IT hardware, software and certain transformation services in outsourcing contracts.
The ﬁnance income on deferred consideration earned under these contracts is included in the revenue of the  respective segment and is eliminated under reconciling items.
f)  Segment result of HLS industry vertical for the year ended March 31, 2017 is after considering the impact of  impairment charge recorded on certain intangible assets recognized on acquisitions.
Also refer note 7.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 253  g)  Net gain from sale of EcoEnergy division is included as part of IT Services segment result for the year ended  March 31, 2017.   h)  Operating income of segments is after recognition of stock compensation expense arising from the grant of  options: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 IT Services ` 1,550 ` 1,424 IT Products 4 2 Reconciling items 188 108 Total ` 1,742 `1,534 38.
Related party relationship and transactions  List of subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017 is provided in the table below: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro LLC USA Wipro Gallagher Solutions,  Inc. USA Opus Capital Markets Consultants  LLC USA Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions  LLC USA Infocrossing, Inc. USA Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc.  Wipro IT Services, Inc. USA USA USA HPH Holdings Corp. (A) USA Appirio, Inc.  (A) USA Wipro Overseas IT Services Pvt.
Ltd. India Wipro Japan KK Japan Wipro Shanghai Limited China Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited India Wipro Travel Services Limited India Wipro Holdings (Mauritius)  Limited Mauritius Wipro Holdings UK Limited U.K. Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH (A) Wipro Digital Aps (A) Austria Denmark Wipro Europe Limited U.K. Wipro Financial Services UK Limited  (formerly Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions (Europe) Limited) U.K. Wipro Cyprus Private Limited Cyprus Wipro Doha LLC# Qatar Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V Mexico Wipro BPO Philippines LTD. Inc Philippines Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 254 Annual Report 2016-17 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Holdings Investment  Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary Wipro Technologies SA Argentina Wipro Information Technology  Egypt SAE Egypt Wipro Arabia Co. Limited Saudi Arabia Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o Poland Wipro IT Services Poland  Sp.z o. o Poland Wipro Technologies Australia  Pty Ltd. Australia Wipro Corporate Technologies  Ghana Limited Ghana Wipro Technologies South  Africa (Proprietary) Limited South Africa Wipro IT Services Ukraine LLC Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited Nigeria Ukraine Wipro Information Technology  Netherlands BV.
Netherlands Wipro Portugal S.A.(A) Portugal Wipro Technologies Limited, Russia Russia Wipro Technology Chile SPA Chile Wipro Solutions Canada Limited Canada Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad Anonima Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland)  Limited Wipro Technologies Norway AS Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
Costa Rica Ireland Norway Venezuela Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C Peru Wipro Technologies SRL Romania  PT WT Indonesia Indonesia Wipro Australia Pty Limited Australia Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited Thailand Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL Bahrain Wipro Gulf LLC Sultanate of  Oman Rainbow Software LLC Iraq Cellent GmbH Cellent Mittelstandsberatung GmbH Cellent Gmbh (A) Germany Germany Austria Wipro Networks Pte Limited  Wipro (Dalian) Limited Singapore China Wipro Technologies SDN BHD Malaysia Wipro Chengdu Limited China Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited* India Appirio India Cloud Solutions  Private Limited India Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 255  *   All the above direct subsidiaries are 100% held by the Company except that the Company holds 66.67% of the  equity securities of Wipro Arabia Limited Co and 74% of the equity securities of Wipro Airport IT Services Limited  #   51% of equity securities of Wipro Doha LLC are held by a local shareholder.
However, the beneﬁcial interest  in these holdings is with the Company.
The Company controls ‘The Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme Trust’ and ‘Wipro SA Broad Based  Ownership Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD incorporated in South Africa.
(A)    Step Subsidiary details of Wipro Information Technology Austria GmbH, Wipro Europe Limited, Wipro Portugal  S.A, Wipro Digital Aps, CellentGmbh, HPH Holdings Corp. and Appirio, Inc. are as follows: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Information  Technology Austria GmbH Austria Wipro Technologies  Austria GmbH Austria New Logic Technologies  SARL France Wipro Europe Limited U.K. Wipro UK Limited U.K. Wipro Portugal S.A. Portugal Wipro Retail UK Limited U.K. Wipro do Brasil  Technologia Ltda Brazil Wipro Technologies Gmbh Germany Wipro Do Brasil  Sistemetas De  Informatica Ltd Brazil Wipro Digital Aps Designit A/S Designit Denmark A/S Designit MunchenGmbH Designit Oslo A/S Designit Sweden AB Designit T.L.V Ltd. Designit Tokyo Ltd. Denextep Spain Digital,  S.L Denmark Denmark Denmark Germany Norway Sweden Israel Japan Spain Designit Colombia  S A S Colombia Designit Peru S.A.C.
Peru Cellent GmbH Frontworx Informations  technologie Gmbh Austria Austria HPH Holdings Corp. Healthplan Services  Insurance Agency, Inc. Healthplan Services, Inc. USA USA USA Appirio, Inc. Appirio K.K.
Topcoder, Inc. Appirio Ltd Appirio Pvt Ltd KI Management Inc. Appirio GmbH Appirio Ltd (UK) Saaspoint, Inc. USA Japan USA Ireland Germany UK USA Singapore USA Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 256 Annual Report 2016-17  The list of controlled trusts are: Name of entity Country of incorporation Wipro Equity Reward Trust India  Wipro Inc.
Benefit Trust India   The other related parties are: Name of the related parties Nature Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Foundation for Development Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji education trust Entity controlled by Director Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Director Prazim Traders Entity controlled by Director Zash Traders Entity controlled by Director Hasham Investment and Trading Co. Pvt.
Ltd.
Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Pvt.
Ltd.
Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Trust Entity controlled by Director Wipro Enterprises (P)/uni00A0Limited Entity controlled by Director Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Entity controlled by Director Key management personnel Azim H. Premji Chairman and Managing Director T K Kurien Executive Vice Chairman (7) Abidali Z. Neemuchwala Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director (5) Rishad Azim Premji Chief Strategy Officer and Executive Director (1) Dr./uni00A0Ashok Ganguly Non-Executive Director Narayanan Vaghul Non-Executive Director Dr./uni00A0Jagdish N Sheth Non-Executive Director (8) William Arthur Owens Non-Executive Director M.K.
Sharma Non-Executive Director Vyomesh Joshi Non-Executive Director (3) Ireena Vittal Non-Executive Director (4) Dr. Patrick J. Ennis Non-Executive Director (6) Patrick Dupuis Non-Executive Director (6) Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Chief Financial Officer (2) M Sanaulla Khan Company Secretary (9)  (1) /uni00A0Effective May/uni00A01, 2015   (2) /uni00A0Effective April/uni00A01, 2015   (3) /uni00A0Up to July 19, 2016.
(4) /uni00A0Effective October/uni00A01, 2013   (5) /uni00A0Effective February 1, 2016   (6) /uni00A0Effective April 1, 2016   (7)  Up to January 31, 2017.
(8)  Up to July 18, 2016.
(9)  Effective June 3, 2015.
Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 257  Relative of key management personnel:  - Yasmeen H. Premji  - Tariq Azim Premji  The Company has the following related party transactions:  Transaction / Balances Entities controlled by Directors Key Management Personnel For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Sales of goods and services ` 114 ` 240 ` - ` - Assets purchased 106 231 - - Interest Expense - - - - Interest Income - - - - Dividend 5,087 20,599 287 1,147 Royalty Income - - - - Rental Income 43 36 - - Rent Paid 8 22 6 6 Others 93 43 - - Key management personnel (1) Remuneration and short-term benefits - - 242 279 Other benefits - - 157 137 Remuneration to relative of key  management personnel - - - -  The Company has the following balances outstanding as of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015: Transaction / Balances Entities controlled by Directors Key Management Personnel March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 March 31,  2015 March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 March 31,  2015 Balances as at the year end Receivables ` 76 ` 137 ` 193 `    - `    - `    - Payables ` 22 ` 225 ` 340 ` 27 ` 37 ` 66   (1)   Post employment beneﬁt comprising compensated absencesis not disclosed as these are determined for the  Company as a whole.
Beneﬁts includes the prorated value of Restricted Stock Units(“RSU’s”) granted to the  personnel, which vest over a period of time.
The following are the signiﬁcant related party transactions during the year ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Sale of services Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 67 184 Purchase of services Azim Premji Foundation 3 2 Asset purchased/ capitalized Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 106 231 Dividend paid Hasham Traders 1,113 4,451 Prazim Traders 1,359 5,435 Zash Traders 1,355 5,419 Azim Premji Trust 1,228 5,157 Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 258 Annual Report 2016-17 Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 Rent paid Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited - 15 Yasmeen Premji 6 6 Rental income Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited 38 36 Remuneration paid to key management personnel Azim Premji 8 22 T K Kurien * 97 137 Abidali Z. Neemuchwala 136 120 Rishad Azim Premji 17 22 JatinPravinchandra Dalal 45 38 M Sanaulla Khan 12 9  *   T K Kurien, who was Executive Vice Chairman of the Company retired from the services of the Company and the  Board effective January 31, 2017.
Compensation disclosed above is for the period from April 1, 2016 to January  31, 2017.
39.
Corporate Social Responsibility a.
Gross amount required to be spend by the Wipro during the year ` 1,764 (March 31, 2016: ` 1,560).
b.
Amount spent during the year on: For the year ended March 31, 2017 In Cash Yet to be paid  in cash Total (i)   Construction/ acquisition of any asset ` Nil ` Nil ` Nil (ii)  On purpose other than above (i) above ` 1,634 ` 229 ` 1,863 For the year ended March 31, 2016 In Cash Yet to be paid  in cash Total (i)   Construction/ acquisition of any asset ` Nil ` Nil ` Nil (ii)  On purpose other than above (i) above ` 1,134 ` 464 ` 1,598 40.
Additional information pursuant to para 2 of general instructions for the preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial  statements Name of the Subsidiary Net   Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  Comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount   in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Parent /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Wipro Limited 79.4% 467,056 123.4%  81,617 67.9%  5,154 117.7%  86,771  Indian Subsidiaries /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Wipro Trademarks Holding Limited 0.0%  40 0.0%  2 0.0%  - 0.0%  2  Wipro Overseas IT Services Pvt.
Ltd. 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  -  Wipro Travel Services Limited 0.0%  115 0.0%  3 0.0%  - 0.0%  3  Wipro Airport IT Services Limited 0.0%  133 0.1%  38 0.0%  - 0.1%  38  Appirio India Cloud Solutions Private  Limited 0.0%  269 0.1%  62 0.0%  (2) 0.1%  60  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 259 Name of the Subsidiary Net   Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  Comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount   in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Foreign Subsidiaries /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Wipro LLC 0.4% 2,369 -7.4%  (4,885) 29.8%  2,260 -3.6%  (2,625) Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc. 0.2%  1,439 -0.2%  (115) 2.0%  152 0.1%  37  Opus Capital Markets Consultants LLC 0.1%  770 0.1%  56 -0.2%  (17) 0.1%  39  Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions LLC 0.0%  (162) -0.1%  (81) 0.1%  4 -0.1%  (77) Infocrossing, Inc. -1.6%  (9,200) 1.4%  916 -1.2%  (88) 1.1%  828  Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC 0.0%  104 0.1%  43 0.0%  (3) 0.1%  40  Wipro Data Centre and Cloud Services,  Inc.  2.1%  12,560 0.0%  7 -9.0%  (685) -0.9%  (678) Wipro IT Services, Inc. -2.1% (12,455) -23.1% (15,296) 23.9%  1,814 -18.3% (13,482) HPH Holdings Corp. 1.5%  8,883 0.0%  (1) -1.0%  (79) -0.1%  (80) Appirio, Inc. 0.5%  3,096 -0.1%  (43) -0.8%  (59) -0.1%  (102) Wipro Japan KK 0.1%  772 0.3%  211 -0.3%  (23) 0.3%  188  Wipro Shanghai Limited 0.1%  319 0.1%  99 -0.3%  (26) 0.1%  73  Wipro Holdings (Mauritius) Limited 0.5%  3,189 -0.6%  (426) 0.9%  68 -0.5%  (358) Wipro Holdings UK Limited 0.5%  3,120 -0.7%  (443) -12.3%  (932) -1.9%  (1,375) Wipro Information Technology Austria  GmbH 0.0%  34 0.0%  20 0.0%  (1) 0.0%  19  Wipro Digital Aps 0.1%  352 -2.0%  (1,325) 5.8%  439 -1.2%  (886) Wipro Europe Limited 0.1%  591 0.3%  192 0.0%  - 0.3%  192  Wipro Financial Services UK Limited 0.0%  (35) 0.0%  (2) 0.1%  6 0.0%  4  Wipro Cyprus Private Limited 4.9%  28,850 -0.5%  (300) 1.1%  80 -0.3%  (220) Wipro Doha LLC 0.0%  67 0.0%  13 0.0%  (1) 0.0%  12  Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V -0.1%  (422) -0.7%  (458) 0.0%  2 -0.6%  (456) Wipro BPO Philippines LTD. Inc 0.5%  3,033 2.4%  1,608 -3.8%  (291) 1.8%  1,317  Wipro Holdings Hungary  KorlátoltFelelősségűTársaság 5.9%  34,658 -0.3%  (175) 0.0%  - -0.2%  (175) Wipro Holdings Investment  KorlátoltFelelősségűTársaság 3.7%  21,870 -0.3%  (172) 0.0%  - -0.2%  (172) Wipro Technologies SA 0.0%  96 0.1%  61 -0.1%  (6) 0.1%  55  Wipro Information Technology Egypt  SAE 0.0%  (108) -0.1%  (90) 1.3%  98 0.0%  8  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited 1.3%  7,502 1.1%  731 -3.2%  (241) 0.7%  490  Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o 0.0%  264 0.2%  120 -0.2%  (17) 0.1%  103  Wipro IT Services Poland Sp.
z o. o 0.1%  371 0.3%  166 -0.3%  (21) 0.2%  145  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd. -0.1%  (386) 0.2%  119 0.5%  37 0.2%  156  Wipro Corporate Technologies Ghana  Limited 0.0%  31 0.0%  (3) 0.0%  2 0.0%  (1) Wipro Technologies South Africa  (Proprietary) Limited 0.1%  327 0.4%  259 0.2%  13 0.4%  272  Wipro Technologies Nigeria Limited 0.0%  54 0.1%  37 -0.3%  (19) 0.0%  18  Wipro IT Services Ukraine LLC 0.0%  (2) 0.0%  (2) 0.0%  - 0.0%  (2) Wipro Information Technology  Netherlands BV.
0.5%  2,665 0.0%  3 0.4%  34 0.1%  37  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 260 Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the Subsidiary Net   Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  Comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount   in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Wipro Portugal S.A. 0.6%  3,799 0.3%  224 -3.6%  (276) -0.1%  (52) Wipro Technologies Limited, Russia 0.0%  177 -0.1%  (56) 0.4%  29 0.0%  (27) Wipro Technology Chile SPA 0.0%  12 0.1%  49 0.0%  (2) 0.1%  47  Wipro Solutions Canada Limited -0.8%  (4,806) 1.0%  691 3.7%  277 1.3%  968  Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP 0.0%  (43) 0.0%  (13) 0.0%  (2) 0.0%  (15) Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad  Anonima 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  -  Wipro Outsourcing Services (Ireland)   Limited 0.1%  302 -0.1%  (70) -0.4%  (28) -0.1%  (98) Wipro Technologies Norway AS 0.0%  8 0.0%  (10) 0.0%  - 0.0%  (10) Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  -  Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C 0.0%  66 0.0%  28 0.0%  - 0.0%  28  Wipro Technologies SRL 0.1%  694 0.6%  428 -0.9%  (67) 0.5%  361  PT WT Indonesia 0.1%  342 0.1%  91 -0.1%  (11) 0.1%  80  Wipro Australia Pty Limited 0.0%  (1) 0.2%  105 0.0%  1 0.1%  106  Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited 0.1%  333 0.1%  71 0.0%  - 0.1%  71  Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL 0.1%  404 0.3%  173 -0.1%  (11) 0.2%  162  Wipro Gulf LLC 0.1%  410 0.3%  222 -0.1%  (7) 0.3%  215  Rainbow Software LLC 0.0%  (1) 0.0%  (1) 0.0%  - 0.0%  (1) CellentGmbh, Germany 0.3%  1,495 0.2%  100 -0.5%  (39) 0.1%  61  CellentMittelstandsberatung GmbH 0.0%  214 0.1%  41 -0.2%  (18) 0.0%  23  CellentGmbh, Austria 0.1%  372 0.0%  5 -0.2%  (18) 0.0%  (13) Wipro Networks Pte Limited 0.3%  1,874 0.1%  92 -0.8%  (57) 0.0%  35  Wipro (Dalian) Limited 0.0%  156 -0.1%  (98) -0.2%  (12) -0.1%  (110) Wipro Technologies SDN BHD 0.0%  2 0.0%  2 0.0%  - 0.0%  2  Wipro Chengdu Limited 0.0%  (46) 0.0%  28 0.1%  5 0.0%  33  Wipro Technologies Austria GmbH 0.0%  (131) 0.1%  80 -0.1%  (6) 0.1%  74  New Logic Technologies SARL 0.0%  54 0.0%  14 -0.1%  (4) 0.0%  10  Wipro UK Limited 0.2%  1,303 2.8%  1,869 -0.1%  (8) 2.5%  1,861  Wipro Retail UK Limited 0.0%  174 0.1%  49 -0.4%  (27) 0.0%  22  Wipro do BrasilTechnologiaLtda 0.2%  1,048 0.3%  195 1.2%  91 0.4%  286  Wipro Technologies Gmbh -0.1%  (638) -0.3%  (193) 0.7%  52 -0.2%  (141) Wipro Do BrasilSistemetas De  Informatica Ltd. 0.0%  33 0.0%  - 0.1%  4 0.0%  4  Designit A/S 0.0%  274 -0.1%  (61) -0.3%  (23) -0.1%  (84) Designit Denmark A/S 0.0%  (188) -0.4%  (297) 0.1%  4 -0.4%  (293) Designit Munchen GmbH 0.0%  (87) 0.0%  25 0.1%  8 0.0%  33  Designit Oslo A/S 0.0%  64 0.1%  57 -0.1%  (4) 0.1%  53  Designit Sweden AB 0.0%  (24) 0.0%  (16) 0.0%  2 0.0%  (14) Designit T.L.V Ltd. 0.0%  87 0.0%  30 0.0%  1 0.0%  31  Designit Tokyo Ltd. 0.0%  (60) -0.1%  (34) 0.0%  3 0.0%  (31) Denextep Spain Digital, S.L 0.0%  95 0.0%  (2) -0.1%  (10) 0.0%  (12) Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 261 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board of Directors for  B S R & Co. LLP Azim H Premji N Vaghul Abidali Neemuchwala Chartered Accountants Chairman  & Managing Director Director Chief Excecutive Ofﬁcer & Excecutive DirectorFirm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- 100022 Jamil Khatri Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Partner Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Company Secretary Membership No.
102527 Bengaluru Bengaluru June 02, 2017 June 02, 2017 Name of the Subsidiary Net   Asset Share in Profit or  Loss Share in Other  comprehensive  income Share in total  Comprehensive  income As % of  total Amount   in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` As % of  total Amount  in ` Designit Colobia S A S 0.0%  15 0.0%  23 0.0%  - 0.0%  23  Designit Peru S.A.C 0.0%  (10) 0.0%  (12) 0.0%  - 0.0%  (12) Front worx Informations technologie  Gmbh 0.0%  86 0.0%  13 -0.1%  (7) 0.0%  6  Healthplan Services Insurance Agency,  Inc. 0.2%  1,355 0.1%  99 -0.3%  (26) 0.1%  73  Healthplan Services, Inc. -0.7%  (4,062) -0.6%  (428) 0.9%  69 -0.5%  (359) Appirio K.K.
0.0%  (260) -0.1%  (86) 0.2%  16 -0.1%  (70) Topcoder, Inc. 0.0%  (35) 0.0%  - 0.0%  2 0.0%  2  Appirio Ltd. 0.0%  5 0.0%  (20) 0.8%  57 0.1%  37  Appirio GmbH 0.0%  2 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  -  Appirio Ltd (UK) -0.1%  (553) 0.1%  47 0.3%  24 0.1%  71  Saaspoint, Inc. 0.0%  3 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  -  Appirio Pvt Ltd 0.0%  (27) 0.0%  (4) 0.0%  1 0.0%  (3) KI Management Inc. 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  - 0.0%  -  Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD 0.1%  777 0.0%  19 0.0%  - 0.0%  19  Trust /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0 Wipro Equity Reward Trust 0.2%  1,073 0.1%  97 0.0%  - 0.1%  97  Wipro Inc.
Benefit Trust 0.0%  - 0.0%  6 0.0%  - 0.0%  6  Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme Trust 0.0%  124 0.0%  17 -0.6%  (49) 0.0%  (32) Total 100.0% 588,489 100.0%  66,155 100.0%  7,586 100.0%  73,741  Non-controlling interest /uni00A0  (2,391) /uni00A0  (248) /uni00A0  69 /uni00A0  (179) Adjustment arising out of  consolidation /uni00A0 (69,396) /uni00A0  19,024 /uni00A0  (5,402) /uni00A0  13,622  Grand Total /uni00A0 516,702 /uni00A0  84,931 /uni00A0  2,253 /uni00A0  87,184  Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 262 Annual Report 2016-17 Sr.   No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2017/ Dec  31, 2016   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (b)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (i)  Profit  before  taxation  (i) Provision  for  taxation  (i)  Profit  after  taxation  (i)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax)  (i)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 1 Wipro LLC 7-Jul-98 31-Mar-17 USD 65  23,137  (19,050)  41,924  37,837  1,662 100% 31,821  (5,231)  (346)  (4,885)  -     2 Healthplan Services,  Inc. (e ) 29-Feb-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  (4,063)  6,242  10,305  -    100% 16,311  (638)  (209)  (429)  -     3 Wipro Data Center and  Cloud Services Inc. (f) 29-Mar-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  12,560  17,372  4,812  -    100% 14,501  7  -     7  -     4 Wipro Arabia Company  Limited 19-Jun-07 31-Dec-16 SAR 18  543  7,186  14,769  7,040  -    66.67% 13,933  1,161  -     1,161  -     5 Wipro Solutions Canada  Limited 16-Aug-14 31-Mar-17 CAD 49  1,778  (6,584)  5,313  10,119  -    100% 9,042  1,175  483  692  -     6 Infocrossing, Inc. (f) 20-Sep-07 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  (3,115)  1,855  4,970  -    100% 6,174  1,526  611  916  -     7 Wipro BPO Philippines  Ltd Inc 16-Oct-07 31-Mar-17 PHP 1.29  244  2,780  3,763  739  -    100% 5,437  1,637  57  1,580  -     8 Cellent Gmbh, Germany 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  389  1,106  2,357  862  -    100% 4,904  119  18  100  -     9 Appirio, Inc. (e ) 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  1,157  4,926  3,769  63 100% 4,712  (68)  (25)  (43)  -     10 Wipro do Brasil  Technologia Ltda 29-May-01 31-Mar-17 BRL 21  712  336  2,361  1,313  -    100% 3,980  295  100  195  -     11 Wipro Technologies  South Africa  (Proprietary) Limited 2-Nov-10 31-Mar-17 ZAR 5  *  326  1,727  1,401  -    100% 3,832  239  52  187  56  12 Wipro Technologies  Gmbh 30-Jun-06 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  2  (345)  5,072  5,415  -    100% 3,702  (172)  15  (187)  -     13 Opus Capital Market  Consultant LLC 14-Jan-14 31-Mar-17 USD 65  66  705  1,599  829  -    100% 3,621  266  259  8  -     14 Wipro Networks Pte  Limited 15-Dec-99 31-Mar-17 USD 65  1,451  65  2,373  857  -    100% 3,167  (14)  (28)  14  -     15 Wipro Holdings UK  Limited 9-Dec-02 31-Mar-17 GBP 81  6,430  (3,525)  7,389  4,484  -    100% 2,597  (508)  105  (613)  -     16 Wipro IT Services Poland  Sp.
z o. o 6-Apr-12 31-Mar-17 PLN 16  *  371  1,897  1,526  -    100% 2,509  248  82  166  -     17 Wipro Technologies SRL 17-Aug-06 31-Dec-16 RON 16  170  590  1,179  418  -    97.28% 2,222  364  62  302  -     18 WIPRO UK LIMITED 1-Jun-11 31-Mar-17 GBP 81  57  1,263  1,536  216  -    100% 2,190  1,979  (5)  1,983  -     19 Wipro Gallagher Solutions  , Inc. 1-Jul-08 31-Mar-17 USD 65  1,904  (303)  4,612  3,011  264 100% 1,901  (263)  (148)  (115)  -     20 Wipro Technologies S.A  DE C.V 13-Jun-07 31-Mar-17 MXN 3  41  (463)  1,234  1,656  -    100% 1,891  (458)  -     (458)  -     21 WIPRO GULF LLC 1-Jun-11 31-Mar-17 OMR 168  17  393  873  463  -    100% 1,728  254  32  222  -     22 Wipro Technologies  Australia Pty Ltd. 30-Apr-12 31-Mar-17 AUD 50  *  (411)  1,241  1,652  -    100% 1,514  119  -     119  -     23 Wipro Portugal S.A. 30-Jun-06 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  3  3,428  4,246  816  -    100% 1,446  279  47  232  -     24 Cellent Gmbh, Austria 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  5  367  652  280  -    100% 1,248  24  18  5  -     25 Wipro Information Technology Austria GmbH 29-Dec-05 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  1,927  (1,893)  596  562  -    100% 1,127  21  1  20  -     Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules,2014 - AOC-1, the Company is presenting summarised financial information about individual subsidiaries as at March 31, 2017/ December 31, 2016.
Information relating to Subsidiaries as at March 31, 2017/ December 31, 2017 PART -A - Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 263 Sr.   No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2017/ Dec  31, 2016   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (b)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (i)  Profit  before  taxation  (i) Provision  for  taxation  (i)  Profit  after  taxation  (i)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax)  (i)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 26 Wipro Holdings Hungary  Korlátolt Felelősségű  Társaság  17-Sep-07 31-Dec-16 USD 68  1,868  34,367  36,254  19  191 100% 1,120  1,108  31  1,077  -     27 Wipro Shanghai Limited 27-Apr-04 31-Dec-16 RMB 10  105  188  778  485  -    100% 995  47  -     47  -     28 Wipro Europe Limited 1-Jun-11 31-Mar-17 GBP 81  8  806  814  -     -    100% 988  988  -     988  -     29 PT WT Indonesia 24-Jul-09 31-Mar-17 IDR 0.005  11  326  866  529  -    100% 810  122  39  83  -     30 Wipro Information  Technology Netherlands BV.
30-Jun-06 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  1,653  1,012  4,455  1,790  -    100% 795  (5)  (8)  3  -     31 Cellent  Mittelstandsberatung GmbH 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  2  212  330  116  -    100% 702  59  18  41  -     32 Appirio India Cloud  Solutions Private Limited 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 INR 1  8  261  411  142  -    100% 701  103  (5)  108  -     33 Wipro Doha LLC 26-Feb-14 31-Mar-17 QAR 18  4  64  558  490  -    49% 638  24  3  22  -     34 Wipro Outsourcing  Services (Ireland) Limited 14-May-12 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  *  316  453  136  -    100% 584  (70)  (5)  (65)  -     35 Designit Oslo A/S 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 NOK 8  1  64  229  164  -    100% 581  75  18  57  -     36 Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited 22-Oct-09 31-Mar-17 INR 1  50  83  1,043  910  -    74% 562  59  21  38  -     37 Healthplan Services  Insurance Agency, Inc. 29-Feb-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  1,355  1,391  36  -    100% 553  132  33  99  -     38 Wipro Retail UK Limited 30-Jun-06 31-Mar-17 GBP 81  *  211  296  85  -    100% 549  103  21  82  -     39 Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o 1-Jul-08 31-Mar-17 PLN 16  1  264  338  73  -    100% 548  150  30  120  -     40 Wipro Bahrain Limited  WLL 28-Oct-09 31-Mar-17 BHD 172  9  394  516  114  -    100% 545  173  -     173  -     41 Denextep Spain Digital,  S.L 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  *  103  272  168  -    100% 542  28  19  9  -     42 Wipro Chengdu Limited 13-Oct-08 31-Dec-16 RMB 10  141  (232)  388  478  -    100% 529  (26)  -     (26)  -     43 Wipro IT Services, Inc. 6-Apr-15 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  (12,455)  48,633  61,088  -    100% 488  (15,517)  (235)  (15,282)  -     44 Wipro Cyprus Private L imited 27-Apr-06 31-Mar-17 INR 1  13  28,850  36,542  7,679  -    100% 470  104  181  (77)  -     45 Wipro Japan KK 1-May-98 31-Mar-17 JPY 0.58  263  509  941  169  -    100% 458  261  50  211  -     46 Wipro Technologies SA 22-Apr-08 31-Mar-17 ARS 4  175  (79)  353  257  -    100% 413  93  33  61  -     47 Wipro Technologies  Nigeria Limited 15-Aug-12 31-Mar-17 NGN 0.21  3  51  416  362  -    100% 412  69  33  37  -     48 Wipro Technologies  Austria GmbH 29-Dec-05 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  1,845  (1,971)  147  272  -    100% 394  80  -     80  -     49 Designit Munchen GmbH 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  2  (89)  117  204  -    100% 394  25  -     25  -     50 Appirio Ltd (UK) 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 GBP 81  *  (553)  177  730  -    100% 373  47  -     47  -     51 Wipro Technology Chile  SPA 19-Dec-11 31-Mar-17 CLP 0.10  100  (88)  264  252  -    100% 352  49  -     49  -     52 Wipro (Dalian) Limited 25-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 RMB 10  258  (25)  500  267  -    100% 302  (26)  -     (26)  -     53 Wipro (Thailand) Co  Limited 30-Jul-07 31-Mar-17 THB 2  194  108  331  29  -    100% 278  108  38  70  -     54 Designit T.L.V Ltd. 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 ILS 18  *  75  150  75  -    100% 267  34  11  23  -     55 Designit Colobia S A S 21-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 COP 0.02  5  9  71  58  -    100% 208  14  5  9  -     Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS 264 Annual Report 2016-17 Sr.   No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2017/ Dec  31, 2016   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (b)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (i)  Profit  before  taxation  (i) Provision  for  taxation  (i)  Profit  after  taxation  (i)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax)  (i)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 56 Frontworx Informations  technologie Gmbh 15-Jan-16 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  87  (1)  113  27  -    100% 188  16  3  13  -     57 Designit Sweden AB 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 SEK 7  1  2  72  70  -    100% 175  (14)  -     (14)  -     58 Wipro Technologies Peru  S.A.C 15-Aug-12 31-Mar-17 PEN 20  24  42  166  100  -    100% 157  40  12  28  -     59 Appirio Ltd 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  68  (64)  593  588  -    100% 151  (21)  *  (20)  -     60 Wipro Australia Pty  Limited 19-Dec-11 31-Mar-17 AUD 50  *  (1)  261  262  -    100% 121  105  *  105  -     61 Wipro Information  Technology Kazakhstan  LLP 27-Sep-06 31-Mar-17 KZT 0.21  9  (52)  99  142  -    100% 106  (13)  -     (13)  -     62 Designit Tokyo Ltd. 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 JPY 0.58  9  (69)  63  123  -    100% 105  (34)  1  (34)  -     63 Wipro Insurance solution  LLC 30-Nov-12 31-Mar-17 USD 65  26  78  113  9  -    100% 94  43  -     43  -     64 Appirio K.K.
23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 JPY 0.58  7  (267)  176  436  -    100% 76  (86)  -     (86)  -     65 Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions LLC 30-Apr-12 31-Mar-17 USD 65  2  (164)  165  327  -    100% 63  (139)  (59)  (81)  -     66 Wipro Travel Services  Limited 10-Jun-96 31-Mar-17 INR 1  1  113  312  198  -    100% 59  3  1  2  -     67 Designit Peru S.A.C 1-Sep-16 31-Mar-17 PEN 20  2  (12)  25  35  -    100% 45  (12)  -     (12)  -     68 Wipro Technologies SDN  BHD 16-Nov-06 31-Mar-17 MYR 15  *  2  16  14  -    100% 28  3  1  2  -     69 Wipro Do Brasil  Sistemetas De Informatica Ltd 22-Aug-14 31-Mar-17 BRL 21  33  *  70  37  -    100% 28  *  *  *  -     70 Wipro Technologies  Limited, Russia 8-Feb-08 31-Mar-17 RUB 1.15  *  177  293  116  -    100% 23  (56)  -     (56)  -     71  New Logic Technologies SARL 29-Dec-05 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  46  8  60  5  -    100% 21  11  (4)  14  -     72 Wipro SA Broad Based  Ownership Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD 17-Jan-14 31-Mar-17 ZAR 5  669  3  687  15  -    100% 17  17  -     17  13  73 Wipro Trademarks  Holding Limited 30-Oct-82 31-Mar-17 INR 1  1  39  40  -     -    100% 3  3  1  2    -     74 Appirio Pvt Ltd 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 SGD 46  *  (27)  -     27  -    100% *  (4)  -     (4)  -     75 Saaspoint, Inc. 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  3  4  1  -    100% *  *  -     *  -     76 Wipro Technologies VZ,  C.A.
13-Jun-13 31-Mar-17 VEF 5  -     *  1  1  -    100% *  *  -     *  -     77 Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad Anonima (a) 15-Oct-10 31-Dec-16 CRC 0.12  -     -     -     -     -    100% *  -     -     -     -     78 Topcoder, Inc. 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  1,193  (1,228)  231  266  -    100% *  -     -     -     -     79 Appirio GmbH 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 EUR 69  2  *  2  *  -    100% *  -     -     -     -     80 KI Management Inc. (a) 23-Nov-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  -     -     -     -     -    100% *  -     -     -     -     81 Wipro Overseas IT  Services Pvt.
Ltd 12-May-15 31-Mar-17 INR 1  1  *  1  *  -    100% *  *  -     *  -     82 HPH Holdings Corp.(e ) 29-Feb-16 31-Mar-17 USD 65  *  8,889  8,889  -     -    100% *  (2)  *  (1)  -     83 Rainbow Software LLC 10-Jan-16 31-Dec-16 IQD 0.055  *  (1)  *  1  -    100% *  (1)  -     (1)  -     Consolidated Financial Statements under Ind AS Wipro Limited 265 Note: (a) Wipro Technologies W.T.
Sociedad Anonima and KI Management Inc.  are yet to commence operations(b)/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 Investments exclude investments in subsidiaries(c) Wipro Promax IP Pty Limited and Wipro Promax Holdings Limited were deregistered effective May 7, 2016, hence financial information has not been included in the above list.
(d) 3D networks UK Limited has been liquidated effective July 14, 2016, hence the financial information has not been included in the above list.
(e) Further, effective March 31, 2017 - Knowledge Infusion LLC was merged with and into Appirio Inc., Harrington Health Services, Inc. was merged with and into HealthPlan Services, Inc.  and HealthPlan Holdings, Inc. was merged with and into HPH Holdings Corp.
Hence the financial information of Appirio Inc., HealthPlan Services, Inc. and HPH Holdings Corp includes the data of their respective merged entities.
(f) Data Centre business operations of Info crossing Inc have been transferred to Wipro Data Center and Cloud Services, Inc. effective April 1, 2016.
(g) Wipro Promax Analytics Solutions (Europe) Limited was renamed as Wipro Financial services UK Limited.
(h) Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as of the respective reporting period end  dates.
(i) Converted at yearly average exchange rate * Value is less than one million rupees Azim H Premji N Vaghul Chairman & Managing Director Director Abidali Z Neemuchwala Jatin P Dalal M Sanaulla Khan Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Sr.   No.
Name of the Subsidiary Date of  becoming the  subsidiary/  acquisition Reporting  period Reporting  Currency  Exchange  rate as on   March, 31  2017/ Dec  31, 2016   Share  capital  Reserves  &  Surplus   Total  Assets   Total Li- abilities  exclud- ing (6) &  (7)   Invest- ments  (b)   % of  Holding  Turnover   (i)  Profit  before  taxation  (i) Provision  for  taxation  (i)  Profit  after  taxation  (i)  Proposed  Dividend  (incl.
dividend  tax)  (i)  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) 84 Wipro IT Services Ukraine  LLC 6-Oct-14 31-Mar-17 UAH 2  *  (2)  *  2  -    100% *  (2)  -     (2)  -     85 Wipro Corporate  Technology Ghana  Limited 9-Jul-14 31-Mar-17 GHS 15  35  (4)  33  1  -    100% *  (3)  -     (3)  -     86 Wipro Financial Services  UK Limited (g) 30-Apr-12 31-Mar-17 GBP 81  *  (36)  9  45  -    100% *  (2)  2  (4)  -     87 Wipro Technologies  Norway AS 31-Dec-12 31-Mar-17 NOK 8  38  (30)  9  1  -    100% *  (7)  -     (7)  -     88 Wipro Information  Technology Egypt SAE 22-May-08 31-Mar-17 EGP 4  22  (130)  26  134  -    100% *  (90)  -     (90)  -     89 Wipro Holdings  Investment Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság 23-Mar-17 31-Mar-17 INR 1  1  21,869  21,870  *  -    100% *  (172)  -     (172)  -     90 Designit Denmark A/S 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 DKK 9  11  9  460  440  -    100% *  (425)  (46)  (379)  -     91 Designit A/S 9-Jul-15 31-Mar-17 DKK 9  93  104  791  594  -    100% *  (444)  (19)  (425)  -     92 Wipro Holdings  (Mauritius) Limited 19-Dec-02 31-Mar-17 USD 65  6,351  (3,161)  3,191  2  -    100% *  (426)  -     (426)  -     93 Wipro Digital Aps 29-Jun-15 31-Mar-17 DKK 9  *  (182)  3,102  3,283  -    100% *  (1,549)  (1)  (1,548)  -     Part-B - List of Associates  Name of associates/Joint Ventures Latest  audited  Balance  Sheet Date Date on which  the Associate  was associated  or Acquired No.
of Shares held  by the Company  in  Associate on  the year end Amount of  Investment  in  Associates Extend of  Holding (In  percentage) Description  of how there  is signiﬁcant  inﬂuence  Reason why  the associate  is not  consolidated Net worth attributable  to shareholding as per  latest audited Balance  Sheet Proﬁt/Loss for the year Considered in  Consolidation Not  Considered in  Consolidation NIL Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 266 Annual Report 2016-17 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   The Board of Directors and Equity holders Wipro Limited: We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of ﬁnancial position of Wipro Limited and its subsidiaries  (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive  income, changes in equity, and cash ﬂows for each of the years in the three year period ended March 31, 2017.
These  consolidated ﬁnancial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express  an opinion on these consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting  principles used and signiﬁcant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall ﬁnancial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the  ﬁnancial position of the Company as of March 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash  ﬂows for each of the years in the three year period ended March 31, 2017, in conformity with International Financial  Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standard Board.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States), Wipro Limited’s internal control over ﬁnancial reporting as of March 31, 2017, based on criteria established in  Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission (COSO), and our report dated June 02, 2017 expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion on the effectiveness of the  Company’s internal control over ﬁnancial reporting.
KPMG Bangalore, India June 02, 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 267 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)    As at March 31,    Notes  2016  2017  2017         Convenience  translation  into U.S.$ in  millions  (Unaudited)  Refer note 2(iii)   ASSETS       Goodwill  ...............................................................  5  101,991  125,796  1,940   Intangible assets  .................................................  5  15,841  15,922  246   Property, plant and equipment  .............................  4  64,952  69,794  1,076   Derivative assets  .................................................  15  260  106  2   Investments  .........................................................  7  4,907  7,103  110   Trade receivables  .................................................  8  1,362  3,998  62   Deferred tax assets  ..............................................  17  4,286  3,098  48   Non-current tax assets  ........................................   11,751  12,008  185   Other non-current assets  .....................................  11  15,828  16,793  259    Total non-current assets  ..............................   221,178  254,618  3,928   Inventories  ...........................................................  9  5,390  3,915  60   Trade receivables  .................................................  8  99,614  94,846  1,463   Other current assets  ............................................  11  32,894  30,751  474   Unbilled revenues  ................................................   48,273  45,095  695   Investments  .........................................................  7  204,244  292,030  4,503   Current tax assets ................................................   7,812  9,804  151   Derivative assets  .................................................  15  5,549  9,747  150   Cash and cash equivalents  ..................................  10  99,049  52,710  813    Total current assets  .....................................   502,825  538,898  8,309  TOTAL ASSETS   724,003  793,516  12,237  EQUITY       Share capital  .......................................................   4,941  4,861  75   Share premium  ....................................................   14,642  469  7   Retained earnings  ................................................   425,118  490,930  7,570   Share based payment reserve  ..............................   2,229  3,555  55   Other components of equity  .................................   18,242  20,489  316    Equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company     465,172  520,304  8,023   Non-controlling interest  ......................................   2,212  2,391  37    Total equity  ..................................................   467,384  522,695  8,060  LIABILITIES       Long-term loans and borrowings ..........................  12  17,361  19,611  302   Derivative liabilities  .............................................  15  119  2  —      Deferred tax liabilities  .........................................  17  5,108  6,614  102   Non-current tax liabilities  ....................................   8,231  9,547  147   Other non-current liabilities  ................................  14  7,225  5,500  85   Provisions  ............................................................  14  14  4  —       Total non-current liabilities  ..........................   38,058  41,278  636   Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts  ................  12  107,860  122,801  1,894   Trade payables and accrued expenses  .................  13  68,187  65,486  1,010   Unearned revenues  ..............................................   18,076  16,150  249   Current tax liabilities  ...........................................   7,015  8,101  125   Derivative liabilities  .............................................  15  2,340  2,708  42   Other current liabilities  ........................................  14  13,821  13,027  201   Provisions  ............................................................  14  1,262  1,270  20    Total current liabilities  .................................   218,561  229,543  3,541  TOTAL LIABILITIES   256,619  270,821  4,177  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES   724,003  793,516  12,237  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 268 Annual Report 2016-17 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)   Year ended March 31,    Notes  2015  2016  2017  2017         Convenience  translation  into U.S.$ in  millions  (Unaudited)  Refer note  2(iii)    Revenues .............................................. 20 469,545 512,440 550,402 8,487  Cost of revenues ................................... 21 (321,284) (356,724) (391,544) (6,038) Gross proﬁt  148,261 155,716 158,858 2,449  Selling and marketing expenses ........... 21 (30,625) (34,097) (40,817) (629)  General and administrative expenses ... 21 (25,850) (28,626) (32,021) (493)  Foreign exchange gains, net ..................  3,637 3,867 3,777 58  Other operating income ........................ 22 —   —   4,082 63 Results from operating activities  95,423 96,860 93,879 1,448  Finance expenses ................................. 23 (3,599) (5,582) (5,183) (80)  Finance and other income .................... 24 19,859 23,655 21,660 334 Proﬁt before tax  111,683 114,933 110,356 1,702  Income tax expense .............................. 17 (24,624) (25,366) (25,213) (389) Proﬁt for the year  87,059 89,567 85,143 1,313 Proﬁt attributable to:        Equity holders of the Company .............  86,528 89,075 84,895 1,309  Non-controlling interest .......................  531 492 248 4 Proﬁt for the year  87,059 89,567 85,143 1,313 Earnings per equity share: 25      Attributable to equity holders of the Company        Basic ....................................................  35.25 36.26 34.96 0.54  Diluted ..................................................  35.13 36.18 34.85 0.54 Weighted-average number of equity shares  used in computing earnings per equity share:        Basic ....................................................  2,454,681,650 2,456,559,400 2,428,540,505 2,428,540,505  Diluted ..................................................  2,462,579,161 2,461,689,908 2,435,673,569 2,435,673,569 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 269 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( ` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)   Year ended March 31,    Notes  2015  2016  2017  2017         Convenience  translation  into U.S.$ in  millions  (Unaudited)  Refer note  2(iii)   Proﬁt for the year ......................................................  87,059 89,567 85,143 1,313 Other comprehensive income       Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss:       Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial (losses)/gains ............  (64) (788) 169 3  Net change in fair value of financial instruments  through OCI ...............................................................  —   17 (168) (3)   (64) (771) 1 —    Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt  or loss:       Foreign currency translation differences ...................
Translation difference relating to foreign operations 16 799 5,766 (3,354) (52)   Net change in fair value of hedges of net investment  in foreign operations .......................................... 16 390 (813) 276 5  Net change in time value of option contracts designated  as cash ﬂow hedges .................................................. 15,17 —   —   9 —     Net change in intrinsic value of option contracts  designated as cash ﬂow hedges ................................ 15,17 —   —   77 1  Net change in fair value of forward contracts designated  as cash ﬂow hedges .................................................. 15,17 3,051 (1,640) 3,910 60  Net change in fair value of financial instruments  through OCI ............................................................... 7,17 856 363 1,179 18   5,096 3,676 2,097 32 Total other comprehensive income, net of taxes ........  5,032 2,905 2,098 32 Total comprehensive income for the year  92,091 92,472 87,241 1,345 Attributable to:        Equity holders of the Company ..........................  91,510 91,894 87,062 1,342  Non-controlling interest ....................................  581 578 179 3   92,091 92,472 87,241 1,345 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 270 Annual Report 2016-17 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  ( ` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)       Other components of equity       No.
of shares*  Share  capital  Share  premium  Retained  earnings  Share  based  payment  reserve  Foreign  currency  translation  reserve  Cash  ﬂow   hedging  reserve  Other  reserves  Shares  held by  controlled  Trust  Equity  attributable  to the equity  holders of  the Company  Non-  controlling  interest  Total  equity  As at April 1, 2014 .................................................. 2,466,317,273 4,932 12,664 314,952 1,021 10,060 499 (87) (542) 343,499 1,387 344,886 Total comprehensive income for the year              Proﬁt for the year ................................................... —   —   —   86,528 —   —   —   —   —   86,528 531 87,059 Other comprehensive income ................................. —   —   —   —   —   1,189 3,051 742 —   4,982 50 5,032 Total comprehensive income for the year —   —   —   86,528 —   1,189 3,051 742 —   91,510 581 92,091 Transaction with owners of the Company, recognized  directly in equity              Contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company              Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon) ................................................................. —   —   —   (29,168) —   —   —   —   —   (29,168) (322) (29,490) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options ......... 2,725,765 5 909 —   (909) —   —   —   —   5 —   5 Compensation cost related to employee share based payment ................................................................. —   —   —   (64) 1,200 —   —   —   —   1,136 —   1,136 Sale of treasury shares, gain .................................. —   —   458 —   —   —   —   —   542 1,000 —   1,000 Total transactions with owners of the Company 2,725,765 5 1,367 (29,232) 291 —   —   —   542 (27,027) (322) (27,349) As at March 31, 2015 .............................................. 2,469,043,038 4,937 14,031 372,248 1,312 11,249 3,550 655 —   407,982 1,646 409,628 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 271 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  ( ` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)       Other components of equity     No.
of shares*  Share  capital  Share  premium  Retained  earnings  Share  based  payment  reserve  Foreign  currency  translation  reserve  Cash  ﬂow   hedging  reserve  Other  reserves  Equity  attributable  to the equity  holders of  the Company  Non-  controlling  interest  Total  equity  As at April 1, 2015 ................................................... 2,469,043,038 4,937 14,031 372,248 1,312 11,249 3,550 655 407,982 1,646 409,628 Adjustment on adoption of IFRS 9 (net of tax) ......... —   —   —   (770) —   —   —   (31) (801) (12) (813) Adjusted balances as at April 1, 2015 ...................... 2,469,043,038 4,937 14,031 371,478 1,312 11,249 3,550 624 407,181 1,634 408,815 Total comprehensive income for the year             Proﬁt for the year .................................................... —   —   —   89,075 —   —   —   —   89,075 492 89,567 Other comprehensive income .................................. —   —   —   —   —   4,867 (1,640) (408) 2,819 86 2,905 Total comprehensive income for the year —   —   —   89,075 —   4,867 (1,640) (408) 91,894 578 92,472 Transaction with owners of the Company, recognized  directly in equity             Contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company             Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon) —   —   —   (35,494) —   —   —   —   (35,494) —   (35,494) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options .......... 1,670,252 4 611 —   (611) —   —   —   4 —   4 Compensation cost related to employee share based payment .................................................................. —   —   —   59 1,528 —   —   —   1,587 —   1,587 Total transactions with owners of the Company ...... 1,670,252 4 611 (35,435) 917 —   —   —   (33,903) —   (33,903) As at March 31, 2016 ............................................... 2,470,713,290 4,941 14,642 425,118 2,229 16,116 1,910 216 465,172 2,212 467,384 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 272 Annual Report 2016-17 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  ( ` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)       Other components of equity     No.
of shares*  Share  capital  Share  premium  Retained  earnings  Share  based  payment  reserve  Foreign  currency  translation  reserve  Cash  ﬂow   hedging  reserve  Other  reserves  Equity  attributable  to the equity  holders of  the Company  Non-  controlling  interest  Total  equity  As at April 1, 2016 .............................................. 2,470,713,290 4,941 14,642 425,735 2,229 16,116 1,910 505 466,078 2,224 468,302 Adjustment on adoption of IFRS 9 (net of tax) .... —   —   —   (617) —   —   —   (289) (906) (12) (918) Adjusted balance as at April 1, 2016 ................... 2,470,713,290 4,941 14,642 425,118 2,229 16,116 1,910 216 465,172 2,212 467,384Total comprehensive income for the year             Proﬁt for the year ............................................... —   —   —   84,895 —   —   —   —   84,895 248 85,143 Other comprehensive income ............................. —   —   —   —   —   (3,009) 3,996 1,180 2,167 (69) 2,098 Total comprehensive income for the year .......... —   —   —   84,895 —   (3,009) 3,996 1,180 87,062 179 87,241 Transaction with owners of the Company,  recognized directly in equity             Contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company             Cash dividend paid (including dividend tax thereon) ............................................................. —   —   —   (8,734) —   —   —   —   (8,734) —   (8,734) Issue of equity shares on exercise of options ..... 187,275 ^ 81 —   (81) —   —   —   —   —   —    Issue of shares by controlled trust on exercise of options* ............................................................. —   —   —   384 (384) —   —   —   —   —   —    Buyback of equity shares # ................................ (40,000,000) (80) (14,254) (10,746) —   —   —   80 (25,000) —   (25,000) Compensation cost related to employee share based payment .................................................. —   —   —   13 1,791 —   —   —   1,804 —   1,804 Total transactions with owners of the Company (39,812,725) (80) (14,173) (19,083) 1,326 —   —   80 (31,930) —   (31,930) As at March 31, 2017 .......................................... 2,430,900,565 4,861 469 490,930 3,555 13,107 5,906 1,476 520,304 2,391 522,695 Convenience translation into U.S.$ in million (Unaudited) Refer note 2 (iii) ..............................  75 7 7,570 55 202 91 23 8,023 37 8,060 *  Includes 14,829,824, 14,829,824 and 13,728,607 treasury shares held as of March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively by a controlled trust.
1,101,217 shares have been transferred by the  controlled trust to eligible employees on exercise of options during the year ended March 31, 2017  # refer note 18  ^ Value is less than `1  The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements    Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 273  Year ended March 31,    2015  2016  2017  2017        Convenience  translation into  U.S.$ in millions  (Unaudited)  Refer note 2(iii)   Cash ﬂows from operating activities:       Proﬁt for the year ........................................................................... 87,059 89,567 85,143 1,313   Adjustments to reconcile proﬁt for the year to net cash generated  from operating activities:         (Gain)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and  intangible assets, net ............................................................. 6 (55) 117 2   Depreciation, amortization and impairment ........................... 12,823 14,965 23,107 356   Unrealized exchange loss, net ................................................ 3,946 2,664 3,945 61   Gain on sale of investments, net ............................................. (3,948) (2,646) (3,486) (54)   Share based compensation expense ...................................... 1,138 1,534 1,742 27   Income tax expense ................................................................ 24,624 25,366 25,213 389   Dividend and interest income, net .......................................... (15,143) (19,599) (16,259) (251)   Gain from sale of EcoEnergy division ...................................... —   —   (4,082) (63)   Other non-cash items ............................................................. —   —   (1,732) (27)   Changes in operating assets and liabilities; net of effects from  acquisition: ......................................................................................        Trade receivables (5,929) (5,317) 3,346 52   Unbilled revenues................................................................... (3,004) (5,329) 3,813 59   Inventories ............................................................................. (2,556) (541) 1,475 23   Other assets ........................................................................... (3,742) (766) 4,054 63    Trade payables, accrued expenses, other liabilities and  provisions ............................................................................... 3,469 4,683 (5,202) (80)   Unearned revenues ................................................................ 3,784 1,282 (2,945) (45) Cash generated from operating activities before taxes ........................... 102,527 105,808 118,249 1,825  Income taxes paid, net ................................................................... (24,265) (26,935) (25,476) (393)  Net cash generated from operating activities ................................ 78,262 78,873 92,773 1,432 Cash ﬂows from investing activities:        Purchase of property, plant and equipment ............................ (12,661) (13,951) (20,853) (322)   Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment............. 1,389 779 1,207 19    Proceeds from sale of EcoEnergy division, net of related expenses ...  —   4,372 67   Purchase of investments ........................................................ (590,482) (934,958) (813,439) (12,544)   Proceeds from sale of investments ........................................ 575,082 830,647 729,755 11,254   Impact of investment hedging activities, net .......................... —   266 (226) (3)    Payment for business acquisitions including deposit in escrow,  net of cash acquired ............................................................... (11,331) (39,373) (33,608) (518)   Interest received .................................................................... 12,206 18,368 17,069 263   Dividend received ................................................................... 224 66 311 5   Income taxes paid on sale of EcoEnergy division .................... —   —   (871) (13)  Net cash (used) in investing activities ............................................ (25,573) (138,156) (116,283) (1,792) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities:        Proceeds from issuance of equity shares ............................... 5 4 ^ ^   Repayment of loans and borrowings ....................................... (98,419) (137,298) (112,803) (1,740)   Proceeds from loans and borrowings ...................................... 119,300 172,549 125,922 1,942    Payments for deferred/contingent consideration in respect of  business combinations .......................................................... (243) —   (138) (2)   Payment for buy back of shares .............................................. —   —   (25,000) (386)   Proceeds from sale of treasury shares ................................... 1,000 —   —   —      Interest paid on loans and borrowings .................................... (919) (1,348) (1,999) (31)   Payment of cash dividend (including dividend tax thereon) .... (29,490) (35,494) (8,734) (135)  Net cash (used) in ﬁnancing activities ........................................... (8,766) (1,587) (22,752) (352) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 43,923 (60,870) (46,262) (712) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents ............. 589 549 (1,412) (22) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year ......................... 114,201 158,713 98,392 1,517 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note 10) 158,713 98,392 50,718 783 Total taxes paid amounted to `24,265, `26,935 and `26,347 for the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively.
^ value is less than one million.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements  WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 274 Annual Report 2016-17 WIPRO LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (` in millions, except share and per share data, unless otherwise stated)  1.
The Company overview  Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or the “Parent Company”), together  with its subsidiaries (collectively, “the Company” or the  “Group”) is a global information technology (IT), consulting  and business process services (BPS) company.
Wipro is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
The address of its registered ofﬁce is  Wipro Limited, Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore  – 560 035, Karnataka, India.
Wipro has its primary  listing with Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock  Exchange in India.
The Company’s American Depository  Shares representing equity shares are also listed on the  New York Stock Exchange.
These consolidated ﬁnancial  statements were authorized for issue by the Audit  Committee on June 2, 2017.
2.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial  statements  (i)  Statement of compliance and basis of preparation  The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared  in accordance with International Financial Reporting  Standards and its interpretations (“IFRS”), as issued by  the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
The Company has elected to early adopt IFRS 9, Financial  Instruments effective April 1, 2016 with retrospective  application from April 1, 2015.
All other accounting policies  have been applied consistently to all periods presented in  these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The consolidated financial statements correspond to  the classiﬁcation provisions contained in IAS 1(revised),  “Presentation of Financial Statements” .
For clarity,  various items are aggregated in the statements of income  and statements of ﬁnancial position.
These items are  disaggregated separately in the notes to the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements, where applicable.
All amounts included in the consolidated financial  statements are reported in millions of Indian rupees  (` in millions) except share and per share data, unless  otherwise stated.
Due to rounding off, the numbers  presented throughout the document may not add up  precisely to the totals and percentages may not precisely  reﬂect the absolute ﬁgures.
(ii) Basis of measurement  The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared  on a historical cost convention and on an accrual basis,  except for the following material items which have been  measured at fair value as required by relevant IFRS:-  a.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments;  b.
Financial instruments classiﬁed as fair value through  other comprehensive income or fair value through  proﬁt or loss;  c.  The deﬁned beneﬁt asset/(liability) is recognised as  the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation less  fair value of plan assets; and  d. Contingent consideration.
(iii) Convenience translation (unaudited)  The accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements  have been prepared and reported in Indian rupees, the  national currency of India.
Solely for the convenience of the  readers, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as of and  for the year ended March 31, 2017, have been translated  into United States dollars at the certiﬁed foreign exchange  rate of US$1 = `64.85 as published by Federal Reserve  Board of Governors on March 31, 2017.
No representation  is made that the Indian rupee amounts have been, could  have been or could be converted into United States dollars  at such a rate or any other rate.
Due to rounding off, the  translated numbers presented throughout the document  may not add up precisely to the totals.
(iv) Use of estimates and judgment  The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements  in conformity with IFRS requires management to make  judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the  application of accounting policies and the reported  amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual  results may differ from those estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates  are recognized in the period in which the estimates are  revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular,  information about significant areas of estimation,  uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting  policies that have the most significant effect on the  amounts recognized in the consolidated financial  statements are included in the following notes:  a) Revenue recognition:  The Company uses the  percentage of completion method using the input  (cost expended) method to measure progress towards  completion in respect of ﬁxed price contracts.
Percentage  of completion method accounting relies on estimates of  total expected contract revenue and costs.
This method  is followed when reasonably dependable estimates of the  revenues and costs applicable to various elements of the  contract can be made.
Key factors that are reviewed in  estimating the future costs to complete include estimates  of future labor costs and productivity efﬁciencies.
Because  the ﬁnancial reporting of these contracts depends on  estimates that are assessed continually during the term of  these contracts, recognized revenue and proﬁt are subject  to revisions as the contract progresses to completion.
When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred, the  loss is provided for in the period in which the loss becomes  probable.
Volume discounts are recorded as a reduction  of revenue.
When the amount of discount varies with the  levels of revenue, volume discount is recorded based on  estimate of future revenue from the customer.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 275 b) Impairment testing: Goodwill and intangible assets  recognised on business combination are tested for  impairment at least annually and when events occur or  changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable  amount of the asset or the cash generating unit to  which these pertain is less than the carrying value.
The  recoverable amount of the asset or the cash generating  units is higher of value-in-use and fair value less cost  of disposal.
The calculation of value in use of a cash  generating unit involves use of significant estimates  and assumptions which includes turnover and earnings  multiples, growth rates and net margins used to calculate  projected future cash ﬂows, risk-adjusted discount rate,  future economic and market conditions.
c) Income taxes:  The major tax jurisdictions for the  Company are India and the United States of America.
Significant judgments are involved in determining  the provision for income taxes including judgment on  whether tax positions are probable of being sustained in  tax assessments.
A tax assessment can involve complex  issues, which can only be resolved over extended time  periods.
d) Deferred taxes:  Deferred tax is recorded on temporary  differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities  and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been  enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting  date.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is  dependent upon the generation of future taxable proﬁts  during the periods in which those temporary differences  and tax loss carry-forwards become deductible.
The  Company considers the expected reversal of deferred tax  liabilities and projected future taxable income in making  this assessment.
The amount of the deferred tax assets  considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the  near term if estimates of future taxable income during  the carry-forward period are reduced.
e) Business combination:  In accounting for business  combinations, judgment is required in identifying whether  an identiﬁable intangible asset is to be recorded separately  from goodwill.
Additionally, estimating the acquisition  date fair value of the identiﬁable assets (including useful  life estimates) and liability acquired, and contingent  consideration assumed involves management judgment.
These measurements are based on information available  at the acquisition date and are based on expectations  and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by  management.
Changes in these judgments, estimates,  and assumptions can materially affect the results of  operations.
f) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans and compensated absences:   The cost of the defined benefit plans, compensated  absences and the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt  obligations are based on actuarial valuation using the  projected unit credit method.
An actuarial valuation  involves making various assumptions that may differ  from actual developments in the future.
These include  the determination of the discount rate, future salary  increases and mortality rates.
Due to the complexities  involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a  deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is highly sensitive to changes  in these assumptions.
All assumptions are reviewed at  each reporting date.
g) Expected credit losses on financial assets:  On  application of IFRS 9, the impairment provisions of  ﬁnancial assets are based on assumptions about risk of  default and expected timing of collection.
The Company  uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting  the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the  Company’s past history of collections, customer’s credit- worthiness, existing market conditions as well as forward  looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
h) Measurement of fair value of non-marketable equity  investments:  These instruments are initially recorded  at cost and subsequently measured at fair value.
Fair  value of investments is determined using the market  and income approaches.
The market approach includes  the use of ﬁnancial metrics and ratios of comparable  companies, such as revenue, earnings, comparable  performance multiples, recent ﬁnancial rounds and the  level of marketability of the investments.
The selection of  comparable companies requires management judgment  and is based on a number of factors, including comparable  company sizes, growth rates, and development stages.
The  income approach includes the use of discounted cash ﬂow  model, which requires signiﬁcant estimates regarding the  investees’ revenue, costs, and discount rates based on  the risk proﬁle of comparable companies.
Estimates of  revenue and costs are developed using available historical  and forecast data.
i) Other estimates:  The share based compensation  expense is determined based on the Company’s estimate  of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
Fair  valuation of derivative hedging instruments designated as  cash ﬂow hedges involves signiﬁcant estimates relating  to the occurrence of forecast transaction.
3.
Signiﬁcant accounting policies  (i)  Basis of consolidation  Subsidiaries  The Company determines the basis of control in line with  the requirements of IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial  Statements.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The  Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights  to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and  has the ability to affect those returns through its power  over the entity.
The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries  are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from  the date on which control commences until the date on  which control ceases.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and  expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest  Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding  goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identified  separately from the Company’s equity.
The interest of  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 276 Annual Report 2016-17 non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured  either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s  proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement  basis is made on an acquisition to acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non- controlling interest is the amount of those interests at  initial recognition plus the non-controlling interest’s share  of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive  income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if  it results in the non-controlling interest having a deﬁcit  balance.
(ii)  Functional and presentation currency  Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each of the  Company’s entities are measured using the currency of  the primary economic environment in which these entities  operate (i.e.
the “functional currency”).
These consolidated  ﬁnancial statements are presented in Indian rupees, the  national currency of India, which is the functional currency  of the Company.
(iii)  Foreign currency transactions and translation  a)  Transactions and balances  Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the  respective functional currencies using the exchange  rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign  exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement  of such transactions and from translation at the exchange  rates prevailing at the reporting date of monetary assets  and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are  recognized in the statement of income and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net within results  of operating activities except when deferred in other  comprehensive income as qualifying cash ﬂow hedges and  qualifying net investment hedges.
Gains/(losses) relating  to translation or settlement of borrowings denominated in  foreign currency are reported within ﬁnance expense.
Non- monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  currency and measured at historical cost are translated  at the exchange rate prevalent at the date of transaction.
Translation differences on non-monetary ﬁnancial assets  measured at fair value at the reporting date, such as  equities classiﬁed as ﬁnancial instruments measured  at fair value through other comprehensive income are  included in other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
b) Foreign operations  For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial  statements, the assets and liabilities of the Company’s  foreign operations that have a functional currency other  than Indian rupees are translated into Indian rupees using  exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Income  and expense items are translated at the average exchange  rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any,  are recognized in other comprehensive income and held in  foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR), a component  of equity, except to the extent that the translation  difference is allocated to non-controlling interest.
When  a foreign operation is disposed off, the relevant amount  recognized in FCTR is transferred to the statement of  income as part of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Goodwill  and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a  foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of  the foreign operation and translated at the exchange rate  prevailing at the reporting date.
c) Others  Foreign currency differences arising on the translation or  settlement of a ﬁnancial liability designated as a hedge  of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognized  in other comprehensive income and presented within  equity in the FCTR to the extent the hedge is effective.
To  the extent the hedge is ineffective, such differences are  recognized in the statement of income.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of,  the relevant amount recognized in FCTR is transferred  to the statement of income as part of the proﬁt or loss  on disposal.
Foreign currency differences arising from  translation of intercompany receivables or payables  relating to foreign operations, the settlement of which  is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future,  are considered to form part of net investment in foreign  operation and are recognized in FCTR.
(iv)  Financial instruments  Accounting policies applied prior to April 1, 2015  A) Non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments  Non derivative ﬁnancial instruments consist of:  •	 financial	assets,	which	 include	 cash	 and	cash	 equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues,  finance lease receivables, employee and other  advances, investments in equity and debt securities  and eligible current and non-current assets;  •	 financial	 liabilities,	which	include	long	and	short- term loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, trade  payables, eligible current and non-current liabilities.
Non derivative financial instruments are recognized  initially at fair value.
Financial assets are derecognized  when substantial risks and rewards of ownership of the  ﬁnancial asset have been transferred.
In cases where  substantial risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial  assets are neither transferred nor retained, financial  assets are derecognized only when the Company has not  retained control over the ﬁnancial asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative ﬁnancial  instruments are measured as described below:  a.
Cash and cash equivalents  The Company’s cash and cash equivalents consist of cash  on hand and in banks and demand deposits with banks,  which can be withdrawn at any time, without prior notice  or penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash  and cash equivalents include cash on hand, in banks  and demand deposits with banks, net of outstanding  bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and are  considered part of the Company’s cash management  system.
In the consolidated statement of financial  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 277 position, bank overdrafts are presented under borrowings  within current liabilities.
b.  Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets  The Company has classiﬁed investments in liquid mutual  funds, equity securities and certain debt securities  (primarily certiﬁcate of deposits with banks) as available- for-sale ﬁnancial assets.
These investments are measured  at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment  losses, are recognized in other comprehensive income  and presented within equity, net of taxes.
The impairment  losses, if any, are reclassiﬁed from equity into statement  of income.
When an available for sale financial asset  is derecognized, the related cumulative gain or loss  recognised in equity is transferred to the statement of  income.
c.  Loans and receivables  Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets  with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted  in an active market.
They are presented as current assets,  except for those maturing later than 12 months after  the reporting date which are presented as non-current  assets.
Loans and receivables are initially recognized at  fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost  using the effective interest method, less any impairment  losses.
Loans and receivables comprise trade receivables,  unbilled revenues, cash and cash equivalents and other  assets.
d. Trade and other payables  Trade and other payables are initially recognized at  fair value, and subsequently carried at amortized cost  using the effective interest method.
For these ﬁnancial  instruments, the carrying amounts approximate fair value  due to the short term maturity of these instruments.
B) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments  The Company is exposed to foreign currency ﬂuctuations  on foreign currency assets, liabilities, net investment in  foreign operations and forecasted cash ﬂows denominated  in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange rate  ﬂuctuations by following established risk management  policies including the use of derivatives.
The Company  enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments where the  counterparty is primarily a bank.
Derivatives are recognized and measured at fair value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognized in statement  of income as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial  instruments are measured as described below:  a.
Cash ﬂow hedges  Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging  instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income and held in  cash ﬂow hedging reserve, net of taxes, a component of  equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the  extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value  are recognized in the statement of income and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net within results  from operating activities.
If the hedging instrument no  longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge  accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised,  the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument  recognized in cash ﬂow hedging reserve till the period the  hedge was effective remains in cash ﬂow hedging reserve  until the forecasted transaction occurs.
The cumulative  gain or loss previously recognized in the cash ﬂow hedging  reserve is transferred to the statement of income upon  the occurrence of the related forecasted transaction.
If  the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur,  such cumulative balance is immediately recognized in the  statement of income.
b.  Hedges of net investment in foreign operations  The Company designates derivative ﬁnancial instruments  as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Company has also designated a foreign currency  denominated borrowings as a hedge of net investment  in foreign operations.
Changes in the fair value of the  derivative hedging instruments and gains/losses on  translation or settlement of foreign currency denominated  borrowings designated as a hedge of net investment in  foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive  income and presented within equity in the FCTR to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the  hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized  in the statement of income and reported within foreign  exchange gains/(losses), net within results from operating  activities.
c.  Others  Changes in fair value of foreign currency derivative  instruments neither designated as cash flow hedges  nor hedges of net investment in foreign operations are  recognized in the statement of income and reported within  foreign exchange gains, net within results from operating  activities.
Changes in fair value and gains/(losses) on  settlement of foreign currency derivative instruments  relating to borrowings, which have not been designated  as hedges are recorded in ﬁnance expense.
Accounting policies applied from April 1, 2015  The Company has elected to early adopt IFRS 9, Financial  Instruments effective April 1, 2016 with retrospective  application from April 1, 2015.
Below are the accounting policies for ﬁnancial instruments  consequent to adoption of IFRS 9:  A) Non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments:  Non derivative ﬁnancial instruments consist of:  •	 financial	assets,	which	 include	 cash	 and	cash	 equivalents, trade receivables, unbilled revenues,  finance lease receivables, employee and other  advances, investments in equity and debt securities  and eligible current and non-current assets;  •	 financial	 liabilities,	which	include	long	and	short- Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 278 Annual Report 2016-17 term loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, trade  payables, eligible current and non-current liabilities.
Non derivative financial instruments are recognized  initially at fair value.
Financial assets are derecognized  when substantial risks and rewards of ownership of the  ﬁnancial asset have been transferred.
In cases where  substantial risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial  assets are neither transferred nor retained, financial  assets are derecognized only when the Company has not  retained control over the ﬁnancial asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative ﬁnancial  instruments are measured as described below:  a.
Cash and cash equivalents  The Company’s cash and cash equivalents consist of cash  on hand and in banks and demand deposits with banks,  which can be withdrawn at any time, without prior notice  or penalty on the principal.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash  and cash equivalents include cash on hand, in banks  and demand deposits with banks, net of outstanding  bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and are  considered part of the Company’s cash management  system.
In the consolidated statement of financial  position, bank overdrafts are presented under borrowings  within current liabilities.
b.
Investments  Financial instruments measured at amortised cost:  Debt instruments that meet the following criteria are  measured at amortized cost (except for debt instruments  that are designated at fair value through Proﬁt or Loss  (FVTPL) on initial recognition):  •	 the	 asset	is	held	within	a	 business	model	whose	 objective is to hold assets in order to collect  contractual cash ﬂows; and  •	 the	contractual	terms	 of	the	instrument	give	rise	on	 speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that are solely payment  of principal and interest on the principal amount  outstanding.
Financial instruments measured at fair value through other  comprehensive income (FVTOCI):  Debt instruments that meet the following criteria are  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income (FVTOCI) (except for debt instruments that are  designated at fair value through Proﬁt or Loss (FVTPL) on  initial recognition):  •	 the	 asset	is	held	within	a	 business	model	whose	 objective is achieved both by collecting contractual  cash ﬂows and selling the ﬁnancial asset; and  •	 the	contractual	terms	 of	the	instrument	give	rise	on	 speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that are solely payment  of principal and interest on the principal amount  outstanding.
Interest income is recognized in the statement of income  for FVTOCI debt instruments.
Other changes in fair  value of FVTOCI ﬁnancial assets are recognized in other  comprehensive income.
When the investment is disposed  of, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in  reserves is transferred to the consolidated statement of  income.
Financial instruments measured at fair value through proﬁt  or loss (FVTPL):  Instruments that do not meet the amortised cost or  FVTOCI criteria are measured at FVTPL.
Financial assets  at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the end of each  reporting period, with any gains or losses arising on re- measurement recognized in statement of income.
The  gain or loss on disposal is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income.
Interest income is recognized in the consolidated  statement of income for FVTPL debt instruments.
Dividend  on financial assets at FVTPL is recognized when the  Group’s right to receive dividend is established.
Investments in equity instruments designated to be  classiﬁed as FVTOCI:  The Company carries certain equity instruments which are  not held for trading.
The Company has elected the FVTOCI  irrevocable option for these instruments.
Movements  in fair value of these investments are recognized in  other comprehensive income and the gain or loss is not  transferred to statement of income on disposal of these  investments.
Dividends from these investments are  recognized in the consolidated statement of income when  the Company’s right to receive dividends is established.
c.  Other ﬁnancial assets:  Other ﬁnancial assets are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets  with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted  in an active market.
They are presented as current assets,  except for those maturing later than 12 months after  the reporting date which are presented as non-current  assets.
These are initially recognized at fair value and  subsequently measured at amortized cost using the  effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
These comprise trade receivables, unbilled revenues and  other assets.
d.  Trade and other payables  Trade and other payables are initially recognized at  fair value, and subsequently carried at amortized cost  using the effective interest method.
For these ﬁnancial  instruments, the carrying amounts approximate fair value  due to the short term maturity of these instruments.
B) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments  The Company is exposed to foreign currency ﬂuctuations  on foreign currency assets, liabilities, net investment in  foreign operations and forecasted cash ﬂows denominated  in foreign currency.
The Company limits the effect of foreign exchange rate  ﬂuctuations by following established risk management  policies including the use of derivatives.
The Company  enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments where the  counterparty is primarily a bank.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 279 Derivatives are recognized and measured at fair value.
Attributable transaction costs are recognized in statement  of income as cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial  instruments are measured as described below:  a.
Cash ﬂow hedges  Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging  instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income and held in  cash ﬂow hedging reserve, net of taxes, a component of  equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the  extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value  are recognized in the statement of income and reported  within foreign exchange gains/(losses), net within results  from operating activities.
If the hedging instrument no  longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge  accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised,  the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument  recognized in cash ﬂow hedging reserve till the period the  hedge was effective remains in cash ﬂow hedging reserve  until the forecasted transaction occurs.
The cumulative  gain or loss previously recognized in the cash ﬂow hedging  reserve is transferred to the statement of income upon  the occurrence of the related forecasted transaction.
If  the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur,  such cumulative balance is immediately recognized in the  statement of income.
b.  Hedges of net investment in foreign operations  The Company designates derivative ﬁnancial instruments  as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Company has also designated a foreign currency  denominated borrowing as a hedge of net investment  in foreign operations.
Changes in the fair value of the  derivative hedging instruments and gains/losses on  translation or settlement of foreign currency denominated  borrowings designated as a hedge of net investment in  foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive  income and presented within equity in the FCTR to the  extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the  hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized  in the statement of income and reported within foreign  exchange gains/(losses), net within results from operating  activities.
c.  Others  Changes in fair value of foreign currency derivative  instruments neither designated as cash flow hedges  nor hedges of net investment in foreign operations are  recognized in the statement of income and reported within  foreign exchange gains, net within results from operating  activities.
Changes in fair value and gains/(losses) on  settlement of foreign currency derivative instruments  relating to borrowings, which have not been designated  as hedges are recorded in ﬁnance expense.
C) Derecognition of ﬁnancial instruments  The Company derecognizes a ﬁnancial asset when the  contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial  asset expire or it transfers the ﬁnancial asset and the  transfer qualiﬁes for derecognition under IFRS 9.
If the  Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards  of a transferred ﬁnancial asset, the Company continues  to recognise the ﬁnancial asset and also recognizes a  borrowing for the proceeds received.
A ﬁnancial liability  (or a part of a ﬁnancial liability) is derecognized from the  group’s balance sheet when the obligation speciﬁed in the  contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(v) Equity and share capital  a) Share capital and share premium  The authorized share capital of the Company as of March  31, 2016 and 2017 is `6,100 divided into 2,917,500,000  equity shares of `2 each, 25,000,000 preference shares  of `10 each and 150,000 10% optionally convertible  cumulative preference shares of `100 each.
Par value of  the equity shares is recorded as share capital and the  amount received in excess of par value is classiﬁed as  share premium.
Every holder of the equity shares, as reflected in the  records of the Company as of the date of the shareholder  meeting shall have one vote in respect of each share  held for all matters submitted to vote in the shareholder  meeting.
b) Shares held by controlled trust (Treasury shares)  The Company’s equity shares held by the controlled trust,  which is consolidated as a part of the Group are classiﬁed  as Treasury shares.
The Company has 14,829,824,  14,829,824 and 13,728,607 treasury shares as of March  31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
Treasury shares are  recorded at acquisition cost.
c) Retained earnings  Retained earnings comprises of the Company’s  undistributed earnings after taxes.
A portion of these  earnings amounting to `1,139 is not freely available for  distribution.
d) Share based payment reserve  The share based payment reserve is used to record the  value of equity-settled share based payment transactions  with employees.
The amounts recorded in share based  payment reserve are transferred to share premium upon  exercise of stock options and restricted stock unit options  by employees.
e) Foreign currency translation reserve  The exchange differences arising from the translation of  ﬁnancial statements of foreign subsidiaries, differences  arising from translation of long-term inter-company  receivables or payables relating to foreign operations  settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the  foreseeable future, changes in fair value of the derivative  hedging instruments and gains/losses on translation or  settlement of foreign currency denominated borrowings  designated as hedge of net investment in foreign  operations are recognized in other comprehensive income,  net of taxes and presented within equity in the FCTR.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 280 Annual Report 2016-17 f) Cash ﬂow hedging reserve  Changes in fair value of derivative hedging instruments  designated and effective as a cash flow hedge are  recognized in other comprehensive income (net of taxes),  and presented within equity as cash ﬂow hedging reserve.
g)  Other reserves  Changes in the fair value of financial instruments  measured at fair value through other comprehensive  income and actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt  plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (net  of taxes), and presented within equity in other reserves.
Other reserves also includes Capital redemption reserve  amounting to `80 which is not freely available for  distribution.
h) Dividend  A ﬁnal dividend, including tax thereon, on common stock  is recorded as a liability on the date of approval by the  shareholders.
An interim dividend, including tax thereon,  is recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by the  board of directors.
(vi) Property, plant and equipment  a) Recognition and measurement  Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost  less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses,  if any.
Cost includes expenditures directly attributable  to the acquisition of the asset.
General and specific  borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction  of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost.
b)  Depreciation  The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment  over the estimated useful life on a straight-line basis  from the date the assets are available for use.
Assets  acquired under ﬁnance lease and leasehold improvements  are amortized over the shorter of estimated useful life  of the asset or the related lease term.
Term licenses are  amortized over their respective contract term.
Freehold  land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful life of assets  are reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted, annually.
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:  Category Useful life   Buildings 28 to 40 years Plant and machinery 5 to 21 years Computer equipment and software 2 to 7 years Furniture, ﬁxtures and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles 4 to 5 years When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment  have different useful lives, they are accounted for as  separate items (major components) of property, plant and  equipment.
Subsequent expenditure relating to property,  plant and equipment is capitalized only when it is probable  that future economic benefits associated with these  will ﬂow to the Company and the cost of the item can be  measured reliably.
Deposits and advances paid towards the acquisition  of property, plant and equipment outstanding as of  each reporting date and the cost of property, plant and  equipment not available for use before such date are  disclosed under capital work- in-progress.
(vii)  Business combination, Goodwill and Intangible  assets  a) Business combination  Business combinations are accounted for using the  purchase (acquisition) method.
The cost of an acquisition  is measured as the fair value of the assets transferred,  liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments  issued at the date of exchange by the Company.
Identiﬁable  assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities  assumed in a business combination are measured initially  at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Transaction costs  incurred in connection with a business acquisition are  expensed as incurred.
The cost of an acquisition also includes the fair value of  any contingent consideration measured as at the date of  acquisition.
Any subsequent changes to the fair value of  contingent consideration classiﬁed as liabilities, other  than measurement period adjustments, are recognized  in the consolidated statement of income.
b) Goodwill  The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Company’s  share in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable  assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognized  as goodwill.
If the excess is negative, a bargain purchase  gain is recognized immediately in the statement of income.
c) Intangible assets  Intangible assets acquired separately are measured  at cost of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired in a  business combination are measured at fair value as at the  date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible  assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization  and impairment losses, if any.
The amortization of an intangible asset with a ﬁnite useful  life reﬂects the manner in which the economic beneﬁt is  expected to be generated and is included in selling and  marketing expenses in the consolidated statements of  income.
The estimated useful life of amortizable intangibles are  reviewed and where appropriate are adjusted, annually.
The estimated useful lives of the amortizable intangible  assets for the current and comparative periods are as  follows:  Category Useful life   Customer-related intangibles 5 to 10 years Marketing related intangibles 3 to 10 years (viii) Leases  The determination of whether an arrangement is, or  contains, a lease is based on the substance of the  arrangement at the inception date.
The arrangement  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 281 is, or contains a lease if, fulﬁllment of the arrangement  is dependent on the use of a speciﬁc asset or assets  or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or  assets, even if that right is not explicitly speciﬁed in an  arrangement.
a)  Arrangements where the Company is the lessee  Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the  Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards  of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases.
Finance  leases are capitalized at lower of the fair value of the  leased property and the present value of the minimum  lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned  between the ﬁnance charge and the outstanding liability.
The ﬁnance charge is allocated to periods during the  lease term at a constant periodic rate of interest on the  remaining balance of the liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks  and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as operating  leases.
Payments made under operating leases are  recognized in the statement of income on a straight-line  basis over the lease term.
b) Arrangements where the Company is the lessor  In certain arrangements, the Company recognizes revenue  from the sale of products given under ﬁnance leases.
The  Company records gross ﬁnance receivables, unearned  income and the estimated residual value of the leased  equipment on consummation of such leases.
Unearned  income represents the excess of the gross ﬁnance lease  receivable plus the estimated residual value over the sales  price of the equipment.
The Company recognizes unearned  income as ﬁnance income over the lease term using the  effective interest method.
(ix) Inventories  Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realizable  value, including necessary provision for obsolescence.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
(x) Impairment  A) Financial assets  The Company applies the expected credit loss model  for recognizing impairment loss on financial assets  measured at amortised cost, debt instruments at FVTOCI,  lease receivables, trade receivables and other ﬁnancial  assets.
Expected credit loss is the difference between  the contractual cash ﬂows and the cash ﬂows that the  entity expects to receive, discounted using the effective  interest rate.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and lease receivables  are measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected  credit loss.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the  expected credit losses that result from all possible default  events over the expected life of a ﬁnancial instrument.
Lifetime expected credit loss is computed based on a  provision matrix which takes in to account risk proﬁling of  customers and historical credit loss experience adjusted  for forward looking information.
For other ﬁnancial assets,  expected credit loss is measured at the amount equal to  twelve months expected credit loss unless there has been  a signiﬁcant increase in credit risk from initial recognition,  in which case those are measured at lifetime expected  credit loss.
Refer note 2 (iv) (g) for further information.
B) Non-ﬁnancial assets  The Company assesses long-lived assets such as property,  plant, equipment and acquired intangible assets for  impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances  indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group  of assets may not be recoverable.
If any such indication  exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount  of the asset or group of assets.
The recoverable amount  of an asset or cash generating unit is the higher of its  fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) and its value- in-use (VIU).
The VIU of long-lived assets is calculated  using projected future cash flows.
FVLCD of a cash  generating unit is computed using turnover and earnings  multiples.
If the recoverable amount of the asset or the  recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which  the asset belongs is less than its carrying amount, the  carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount.
The reduction is treated as an impairment loss and is  recognized in the statement of income.
If at the reporting  date, there is an indication that a previously assessed  impairment loss no longer exists, the recoverable amount  is reassessed and the impairment losses previously  recognized are reversed such that the asset is recognized  at its recoverable amount but not exceeding written down  value which would have been reported if the impairment  losses had not been recognized initially.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually at  the same time and when events occur or changes in  circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount of  the cash generating unit is less than its carrying value.
The  goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of cash- generating unit or groups of cash -generating units which  represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored  for internal management purposes.
An impairment in  respect of goodwill is not reversed.
(xi) Employee beneﬁts  A) Post-employment and pension plans  The Group participates in various employee benefit  plans.
Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts are  classiﬁed as either deﬁned contribution plans or deﬁned  benefit plans.
Under a defined contribution plan, the  Company’s only obligation is to pay a ﬁxed amount with  no obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does  not hold sufﬁcient assets to pay all employee beneﬁts.
The  related actuarial and investment risks are borne by the  employee.
The expenditure for deﬁned contribution plans  is recognized as an expense during the period when the  employee provides service.
Under a deﬁned beneﬁt plan,  it is the Company’s obligation to provide agreed beneﬁts to  the employees.
The related actuarial and investment risks  are borne by the Company.
The present value of the deﬁned  benefit obligations is calculated by an independent  actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains or losses are immediately recognized  in other comprehensive income, net of taxes and  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 282 Annual Report 2016-17 permanently excluded from proﬁt or loss.
Further, the  proﬁt or loss will no longer include an expected return on  plan assets.
Instead net interest recognized in proﬁt or  loss is calculated by applying the discount rate used to  measure the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to the net deﬁned  beneﬁt liability or asset.
The actual return on the plan  assets above or below the discount rate is recognized as  part of re-measurement of net deﬁned liability or asset  through other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
The Company has the following employee beneﬁt plans:  a. Provident fund  Employees receive beneﬁts from a provident fund, which  is a deﬁned beneﬁt plan.
The employer and employees  each make periodic contributions to the plan.
A portion of  the contribution is made to the approved provident fund  trust managed by the Company while the remainder of  the contribution is made to the government administered  pension fund.
The contributions to the trust managed by  the Company is accounted for as a deﬁned beneﬁt plan as  the Company is liable for any shortfall in the fund assets  based on the government speciﬁed minimum rates of  return.
b.  Superannuation  Superannuation plan, a deﬁned contribution scheme is  administered by third party fund managers.
The Company  makes annual contributions based on a specified  percentage of each eligible employee’s salary.
c.  Gratuity  In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972,  applicable for Indian companies, the Company provides for  a lump sum payment to eligible employees, at retirement  or termination of employment based on the last drawn  salary and years of employment with the Company.
The  gratuity fund is managed by third party fund managers.
The Company’s obligation in respect of the gratuity plan,  which is a deﬁned beneﬁt plan, is provided for based on  actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method.
The Company recognizes actuarial gains and losses in  other comprehensive income, net of taxes.
d.  Termination beneﬁts  Termination beneﬁts are expensed when the Company can  no longer withdraw the offer of those beneﬁts.
e.  Short-term beneﬁts  Short-term employee beneﬁt obligations are measured on  an undiscounted basis and are recorded as expense as the  related service is provided.
A liability is recognized for the  amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus  or proﬁt-sharing plans, if the Company has a present legal  or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of  past service provided by the employee and the obligation  can be estimated reliably.
f.  Compensated absences  The employees of the Company are entitled to compensated  absences.
The employees can carry forward a portion of  the unutilized accumulating compensated absences and  utilize it in future periods or receive cash at retirement  or termination of employment.
The Company records an  obligation for compensated absences in the period in  which the employee renders the services that increases  this entitlement.
The Company measures the expected  cost of compensated absences as the additional amount  that the Company expects to pay as a result of the unused  entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the  reporting period.
The Company recognizes accumulated  compensated absences based on actuarial valuation  using the projected unit credit method.
Non-accumulating  compensated absences are recognized in the period in  which the absences occur.
(xii)  Share based payment transactions  Selected employees of the Company receive remuneration  in the form of equity settled instruments, for rendering  services over a deﬁned vesting period.
Equity instruments  granted are measured by reference to the fair value of the  instrument at the date of grant.
In cases, where equity  instruments are granted at a nominal exercise price, the  intrinsic value on the date of grant approximates the  fair value.
The expense is recognized in the statement of  income with a corresponding increase to the share based  payment reserve, a component of equity.
The equity instruments generally vest in a graded manner  over the vesting period.
The fair value determined at  the grant date is expensed over the vesting period of  the respective tranches of such grants (accelerated  amortization).
The stock compensation expense is  determined based on the Company’s estimate of equity  instruments that will eventually vest.
(xiii)  Provisions  Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present  obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event,  it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be  required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate  can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate  of the consideration required to settle the present  obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into  account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the  obligation.
When some or all of the economic beneﬁts required to  settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a  third party, the receivable is recognized as an asset, if it is  virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and  the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when the  expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Company from a  contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting  the future obligations under the contract.
Provisions for  onerous contracts are measured at the present value of  lower of the expected net cost of fulﬁlling the contract and  the expected cost of terminating the contract.
(xiv)  Revenue  The Company derives revenue primarily from software  development, maintenance of software/hardware and  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 283 related services, business process services, sale of IT and  other products.
a)  Services  The Company recognizes revenue when the signiﬁcant  terms of the arrangement are enforceable, services  have been delivered and the collectability is reasonably  assured.
The method for recognizing revenues and costs  depends on the nature of the services rendered:  A.
Time and materials contracts  Revenues and costs relating to time and materials  contracts are recognized as the related services are  rendered.
B.  Fixed-price contracts  Revenues from ﬁxed-price contracts, including systems  development and integration contracts are recognized  using the “percentage-of-completion” method.
Percentage  of completion is determined based on project costs  incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated project  costs required to complete the project.
The cost expended  (or input) method has been used to measure progress  towards completion as there is a direct relationship  between input and productivity.
If the Company does  not have a sufﬁcient basis to measure the progress of  completion or to estimate the total contract revenues and  costs, revenue is recognized only to the extent of contract  cost incurred for which recoverability is probable.
When  total cost estimates exceed revenues in an arrangement,  the estimated losses are recognized in the statement  of income in the period in which such losses become  probable based on the current contract estimates.
‘Unbilled revenues’ represent cost and earnings in  excess of billings as at the end of the reporting period.
‘Unearned revenues’ represent billing in excess of revenue  recognized.
Advance payments received from customers  for which no services have been rendered are presented  as ‘Advance from customers’ .
C.  Maintenance contracts  Revenue from maintenance contracts is recognized ratably  over the period of the contract using the percentage of  completion method.
When services are performed through  an indeﬁnite number of repetitive acts over a speciﬁed  period of time, revenue is recognized on a straight-line  basis over the speciﬁed period unless some other method  better represents the stage of completion.
In certain projects, a ﬁxed quantum of service or output  units is agreed at a ﬁxed price for a ﬁxed term.
In such  contracts, revenue is recognized with respect to the  actual output achieved till date as a percentage of total  contractual output.
Any residual service unutilized by  the customer is recognized as revenue on completion of  the term.
b) Products  Revenue from products are recognized when the signiﬁcant  risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to  the buyer, continuing managerial involvement usually  associated with ownership and effective control have  ceased, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably,  it is probable that economic beneﬁts associated with  the transaction will ﬂow to the Company and the costs  incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction  can be measured reliably.
c) Multiple element arrangements  Revenue from contracts with multiple-element  arrangements are recognized using the guidance in IAS  18, Revenue.
The Company allocates the arrangement  consideration to separately identifiable components  based on their relative fair values or on the residual  method.
Fair values are determined based on sale prices  for the components when it is regularly sold separately,  third-party prices for similar components or cost plus an  appropriate business-speciﬁc proﬁt margin related to the  relevant component.
d) Others  •	 The	 Company	accounts	for	volume	discounts	and	 pricing incentives to customers by reducing the  amount of revenue recognized at the time of sale.
•	 Revenues	 are	shown	net	of	sales	tax,	value	added	tax,	 service tax and applicable discounts and allowances.
Revenue includes excise duty.
•	 The	 Company	 accrues	 the	 estimated	 cost	 of	 warranties at the time when the revenue is recognized.
The accruals are based on the Company’s historical  experience of material usage and service delivery  costs.
•	 Costs	that	 relate	directly	to	a	contract	and	incurred	 in securing a contract are recognized as an asset  and amortized over the contract term as reduction  of revenue.
•	 Contract	 expenses	are	recognised	as	expenses	by	 reference to the stage of completion of contract  activity at the end of the reporting period.
(xv) Finance expenses  Finance expenses comprise interest cost on borrowings,  gains or losses arising on re-measurement of ﬁnancial  assets measured at FVTPL, gains/ (losses) on translation  or settlement of foreign currency borrowings and changes  in fair value and gains/ (losses) on settlement of related  derivative instruments.
Borrowing costs that are not  directly attributable to a qualifying asset are recognized  in the statement of income using the effective interest  method.
(xvi) Finance and other income  Finance and other income comprises interest income on  deposits, dividend income and gains / (losses) on disposal  of investments.
Interest income is recognized using the  effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognized  when the right to receive payment is established.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 284 Annual Report 2016-17 (xvii) Income tax  Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax  expense is recognized in the statement of income except  to the extent it relates to a business combination, or items  directly recognized in equity or in other comprehensive  income.
a) Current income tax  Current income tax for the current and prior periods are  measured at the amount expected to be recovered from  or paid to the taxation authorities based on the taxable  income for the period.
The tax rates and tax laws used  to compute the current tax amounts are those that are  enacted or substantively enacted as at the reporting date  and applicable for the period.
The Company offsets current  tax assets and current tax liabilities, where it has a legally  enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts and  where it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize  the asset and liability simultaneously.
b) Deferred income tax  Deferred income tax is recognized using the balance  sheet approach.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities  are recognized for deductible and taxable temporary  differences arising between the tax base of assets  and liabilities and their carrying amount in financial  statements, except when the deferred income tax arises  from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or  liability in a transaction that is not a business combination  and affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁts or loss  at the time of the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent  it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against  which the deductible temporary differences and the carry  forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can  be utilized.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all  taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with investments in  subsidiaries, associates and foreign branches where the  timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be  controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference  will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is  reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent  that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt  will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income  tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured  at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period  when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based  on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or  substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The Company offsets deferred income tax assets and  liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right to offset  current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and they  relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on  either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable  entities where there is an intention to settle the current  tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets  and liabilities will be realized simultaneously.
(xviii) Earnings per share  Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted  average number of equity shares outstanding during the  period adjusted for treasury shares held.
Diluted earnings  per share is computed using the weighted-average number  of equity and dilutive equivalent shares outstanding  during the period, using the treasury stock method for  options and warrants, except where the results would be  anti-dilutive.
(xix) Discontinued operations  A discontinued operation is a component of the Company’s  business that represents a separate line of business that  has been disposed off or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary  acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classiﬁcation  as a discontinued operation occurs upon the earlier of  disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be  classiﬁed as held for sale.
New Accounting standards adopted by the Company:  IFRS 9 – Financial instruments  The Company has elected to early adopt IFRS 9, Financial  Instruments effective April 1, 2016 with retrospective  application from April 1, 2015.
IFRS 9 introduces a single approach for the classiﬁcation  and measurement of ﬁnancial assets according to their  cash ﬂow characteristics and the business model they  are managed in, and provides a new impairment model  based on expected credit losses.
IFRS 9 also includes new  guidance regarding the application of hedge accounting  to better reﬂect an entity’s risk management activities  especially with regard to managing non-ﬁnancial risks.
Application of the new measurement and presentation  requirements of IFRS 9 did not have a signiﬁcant impact  on equity.
The Company continues to measure at fair value  all ﬁnancial assets earlier measured at fair value.
All  existing hedge relationships that were earlier designated  as effective hedging relationships continue to qualify  for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
As IFRS 9 does not  change the general principles of how an entity accounts for  effective hedges, there is no signiﬁcant impact as a result  of applying IFRS 9.
The effect of change in measurement  of ﬁnancial instruments on Company’s comprehensive  income, ﬁnancial position and earning per share the has  been applied retrospectively.
The retrospective application  did not have a signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial position  as at March 31, 2015 and 2016.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 285 The total impact on the Company’s retained earnings and  other reserves due to classiﬁcation and measurement of  ﬁnancial instruments is as follows:   Retained  Earnings   Other  Reserves   Reported opening balance as at  April 1, 2015 `372,248 `655 Impact on adoption of IFRS 9    Reclassification of investments  from available for sale investments  (AFS) to FVTPL (refer note a) 55 (55) Expected credit losses on ﬁnancial  assets (refer note d) (1,231) —    Deferred tax impact on the above 406 24 Total impact on adoption of IFRS 9 (770) (31) Adjusted balance as at April 1, 2015 `371,478 `624 Reported balance as at March 31,  2016 425,735 505 Impact of adoption of IFRS 9 for the  year ended March 31, 2016    Reclassification of investments  from AFS to FVTPL (refer note a) 375 (375) Expected credit losses on ﬁnancial  assets (refer note d) (161) —    Deferred tax impact on the above (61) 117 Adjustment on adoption of IFRS 9  for the year ended March 31, 2016 153 (258) Cumulative impact on adoption of  IFRS 9 as at March 31, 2016 (617) (289) Adjusted balance as at March 31,  2016 `425,118 `216 (a) Reclassiﬁcation of investments from AFS to FVTPL  Certain investments in liquid and short-term mutual  funds and equity linked debentures were reclassiﬁed  from available for sale to ﬁnancial assets measured at  FVTPL.
Related fair value gain of `55 were transferred  from other comprehensive income to retained earnings  on April 1, 2015.
During the year ended March 31, 2016,  fair value gains related to these investments amounting  to `258 was recognized in statement of income, net of  related deferred tax expense of `117.
This reclassiﬁcation  did not have any impact on the carrying value of the said  assets as at April 1, 2015.
(b)    Reclassiﬁcation of investments from AFS to FVTOCI  The Company on initial application of IFRS 9 has made an  irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive  income, the subsequent changes in fair value of equity  investments not held for trading.
Such investments and  investment in certiﬁcate of deposits were reclassiﬁed  from available for sale to ﬁnancial assets measured at  FVTOCI.
This reclassiﬁcation did not have any impact on  the carrying value of the said assets as at April 1, 2015.
(c)    Reclassiﬁcation of loans and deposits to ﬁnancial  instruments at amortised cost  Certain inter corporate and term deposits along with  related interest accruals were reclassiﬁed from loans and  receivables reported as part of other assets to ﬁnancial  assets measured at amortised cost.
This reclassiﬁcation  did not have any impact on the carrying value of the said  assets as at April 1, 2015.
(d)    Impairment of ﬁnancial assets  The Company has applied the simplified approach to  providing for expected credit losses on trade receivables  as described by IFRS 9, which requires the use of lifetime  expected credit loss provision for all trade receivables.
These provisions are based on assessment of risk of  default and expected timing of collection.
A cumulative  impairment provision of `918 (net of deferred tax) has  been recorded as an adjustment to total equity as at April  1, 2015.
The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis the  expected credit losses associated with its assets carried  at amortised cost.
The impairment methodology applied  depends on whether there has been a signiﬁcant increase  in credit risk.
New accounting standards not yet adopted:  Certain new standards, amendments to standards and  interpretations are not yet effective for annual periods  beginning after 1 April 2016, and have not been applied in  preparing these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
New  standards, amendments to standards and interpretations  that could have potential impact on the consolidated  ﬁnancial statements of the Company are:  IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS 15 supersedes all existing revenue requirements in  IFRS (IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and  related interpretations).
According to the new standard,  revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of promised  goods or services to a customer in an amount that reﬂects  the consideration to which the entity expects to be  entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
IFRS 15  establishes a ﬁve step model that will apply to revenue  earned from a contract with a customer (with limited  exceptions), regardless of the type of revenue transaction  or the industry.
Extensive disclosures will be required,  including disaggregation of total revenue; information  about performance obligation; changes in contract asset  and liability account balances between periods and key  judgments and estimates.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 286 Annual Report 2016-17 The standard allows for two methods of adoption: the  full retrospective adoption, which requires the standard  to be applied to each prior period presented, or the  modified retrospective adoption, which requires the  cumulative effect of adoption to be recognized as an  adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of  adoption.
The standard is effective for periods beginning  on or after January 1, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company will adopt this standard using the full  retrospective method effective April 1, 2018.
The Company  is currently assessing the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on  its consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
IFRS 16 – Leases  On January 13, 2016, the International Accounting  Standards Board issued the final version of IFRS 16,  Leases.
IFRS 16 will replace the existing leases Standard,  IAS 17 Leases, and related interpretations.
The standard  sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement,  presentation and disclosure of leases.
IFRS 16 introduces  a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to  recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term  of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset  is of low value.
The Standard also contains enhanced  disclosure requirements for lessees.
The effective date  for adoption of IFRS 16 is annual periods beginning on or  after January 1, 2019, though early adoption is permitted  for companies applying IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts  with Customers.
The Company is currently assessing the  impact of adopting IFRS 16 on the Company’s consolidated  ﬁnancial statements.
IFRIC 22 – Foreign currency transactions and Advance  consideration  On December 8, 2016, the IFRS interpretations committee  of the International Accounting Standards Board issued  IFRIC 22, Foreign currency transactions and Advance  consideration which clarifies that the date of the  transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange  rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset,  expense or income is the date on which an entity initially  recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-monetary  liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance  consideration in a foreign currency.
The effective date for  adoption of IFRIC 22 is annual reporting periods beginning  on or after January 1, 2018, though early adoption is  permitted.
The Company is currently assessing the impact  of IFRIC 22 on its consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Amendments to IAS 7- Statement of cash ﬂows  In January 2016, the International Accounting Standards  Board issued the amendments to IAS 7, requiring the  entities to provide disclosures that enable users of ﬁnancial  statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from  ﬁnancing activities, including both changes arising from  cash ﬂows and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion  of a reconciliation between the opening and closing  balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from  ﬁnancing activities, to meet the disclosure requirement.
The effective date for adoption of the amendments to IAS 7  is annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1,  2017, though early adoption is permitted.
The Company is  assessing the disclosure requirements of the amendment  and the effect on its consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 287 4.
Property, plant and equipment   Land  Buildings  Plant and  machinery (1)    Furniture  ﬁxtures  and  equipment   Vehicles  Total   Gross carrying value:        As at April 1, 2015 `3,685 `24,515 `79,594 `12,698 `830 `121,322 Translation adjustment 10 209 1,720 79 (1) 2,017 Additions/adjustments —   1,799 15,424 1,791 62 19,076 Additions through business combinations —   105 4,462 162 34 4,763 Disposals/adjustments —   (539) (1,620) (615) (336) (3,110) As at March 31, 2016 `3,695 `26,089 `99,580 `14,115 `589 `144,068 Accumulated depreciation/impairment:        As at April 1, 2015 `—   `4,513 `56,629 `10,636 `809 `72,587 Translation adjustment —   73 1,113 80 —   1,266 Depreciation —   861 11,381 1,094 19 13,355 Disposals/adjustments —   (103) (962) (492) (324) (1,881) As at March 31, 2016 `—   `5,344 `68,161 `11,318 `504 `85,327 Capital work-in-progress      6,211   Net carrying value including Capital  work-in-progress as at March 31, 2016       `64,952 Gross carrying value:        As at April 1, 2016 `3,695 `26,089 `99,580 `14,115 `589 `144,068 Translation adjustment (15) (69) (1,377) (133) 3 (1,591) Additions/adjustments —   1,133 16,572 2,242 23 19,970 Additions through business combinations 134 446 835 77 —   1,492 Disposals/adjustments —   (18) (6,643) (553) (183) (7,397) As at March 31, 2017 `3,814 `27,581 `108,967 `15,748 `432 `156,542 Accumulated depreciation/impairment:        As at April 1, 2016 `—   `5,344 `68,161 `11,318 `504 `85,327 Translation adjustment —   (39) (816) (75) 2 (928) Depreciation —   1,059 14,910 1,117 28 17,114 Disposals/adjustments —   (3) (5,250) (392) (169) (5,814) As at March 31, 2017 `—   `6,361 `77,005 `11,968 `365 `95,699 Capital work-in-progress      8,951   Net carrying value including Capital  work-in-progress as at March 31, 2017      `69,794 (1)    Including net carrying value of computer equipment and software amounting to `20,365 and `19,200 as at March  31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
Interest capitalized by the Company was `73 and `89 for the year ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
The  capitalization rate used to determine the amount of borrowing cost capitalized for the year ended March 31, 2016 and  2017 are 4.8% and 2.4%, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 288 Annual Report 2016-17 5.
Goodwill and Intangible assets The movement in goodwill balance is given below:     Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 Balance at the beginning of the  year `68,078 `101,991 Translation adjustment 3,421 (4,319) Acquisition through business  combinations, net 30,492 28,124 Balance at the end of the year `101,991 `125,796 Acquisition through business combinations for the  year ended March 31, 2017 primarily includes goodwill  recognized on the acquisition of Appirio Inc. Also refer note  6 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Company is organized by two operating segments: IT  Services and IT Products.
Goodwill as at March 31, 2016  and 2017 has been allocated to the IT Services operating  segment.
Goodwill recognised on business combinations is  allocated to Cash Generating Units (CGUs), within the IT  Services operating segment, which are expected to beneﬁt  from the synergies of the acquisitions.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  realigned its CGUs (also refer note 30).
Consequently,  goodwill has been allocated to the new CGUs as at March  31, 2017 as follows: CGUs As at  March 31, 2017 Banking, Financial Services and  Insurance (BFSI) `19,826 Healthcare and Lifesciences (HLS) 48,144 Consumer Business Unit (CBU) 17,442 Energy, Natural Resources and  Utilities (ENU) 16,393 Manufacturing and Technology (MNT) 23,086 Communications (COMM) 905 Total `125,796 Following table presents the allocation of goodwill to the  CGUs for the year ended March 31, 2016: CGUs As at  March 31, 2016 Banking Financial Services and  Insurance (BFSI) `15,639 Healthcare and Lifesciences (HLS) 38,096 Retail, Consumer, Transport and  Government (RCTG) 10,712 Energy, Natural Resources and  Utilities (ENU) 16,550 Manufacturing and High-Tech (MFG) 16,242 Global Media and Telecom (GMT) 4,752 Total `101,991 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is  allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within  the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal  management purposes, and which is not higher than  the Company’s operating segment.
Goodwill is tested  for impairment at least annually in accordance with the  Company’s procedure for determining the recoverable  value of each CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the  basis of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD).
The  FVLCD of the CGU is determined based on the market  capitalization approach, using the turnover and earnings  multiples derived from observable market data.
The fair  value measurement is categorized as a level 2 fair value  based on the inputs in the valuation techniques used.
Based on the above testing, no impairment was identiﬁed  as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 as the recoverable value  of the CGUs exceeded the carrying value.
Further, none  of the CGU’s tested for impairment as of March 31, 2016  and 2017 were at risk of impairment.
An analysis of the  calculation’s sensitivity to a change in the key parameters  (turnover and earnings multiples), did not identify any  probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable amount  would fall below its carrying amount.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 289 The movement in intangible assets is given below:   Intangible assets Customer related Marketing related Total Gross carrying value:     As at April 1, 2015 `10,617 `905 `11,522 Translation adjustment 292 120 412 Additions —   189 189 Additions through business combinations 7,451 1,373 8,824 As at March 31, 2016 `18,360 `2,587 `20,947 Accumulated amortization and impairment:     As at April 1, 2015 `2,936 `655 `3,591 Translation adjustment —   70 70 Amortization and impairment 1,228 217 1,445 As at March 31, 2016 `4,164 `942 `5,106 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2016 `14,196 `1,645 `15,841 Gross carrying value:     As at April 1, 2016 `18,360 `2,587 `20,947 Translation adjustment (546) (314) (860) Additions through business combinations 2,714 4,006 6,720 As at March 31, 2017 `20,528 `6,279 `26,807 Accumulated amortization and impairment:     As at April 1, 2016 `4,164 `942 `5,106 Translation adjustment (7) (68) (75) Amortization and impairment 5,107 747 5,854 As at March 31, 2017 `9,264 `1,621 `10,885 Net carrying value as at March 31, 2017 `11,264 `4,658 `15,922 Amortization and impairment expense on intangible  assets is included in selling and marketing expenses in  the consolidated statements of income.
Acquisition through business combinations for the year  ended March 31, 2017 primarily includes intangible assets  recognized on the acquisition of Appirio Inc. Also refer note  6 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
As of March 31, 2017, the estimated remaining amortization  period for intangible assets acquired on acquisition are as  follows: Acquisition Estimated remaining  amortization period Global oil and gas information  technology practice of the  Commercial Business Services  Business Unit of Science  Applications International  Corporation 3.25 – 4.25  years Promax Applications Group 5.25 years Opus Capital Markets  Consultants LLC 1.75 – 3.75 years ATCO I-Tek 7.50 years Designit AS 1.25 – 3.25 years Cellent AG 3.75 – 5.75 years HealthPlan Services 2 – 6 years Appirio Inc. 3.50 – 9.50 years 6.  Business combination Summary of acquisition during the year ended March 31,  2015 is given below: ATCO I-Tek Inc. On August 15, 2014, the Company obtained control of  ATCO I-Tek Inc, a Canadian entity, by acquiring 100% of its  share capital and certain assets of IT services business  of ATCO I-Tek Australia (hereafter the acquisitions are  collectively referred to as ‘acquisition of ATCO I-Tek’) for  an all-cash consideration of `11,071 (Canadian Dollars  198 million) post conclusion of closing conditions and fair  value adjustments.
ATCO I-Tek provides IT services to ATCO  Group.
The acquisition will strengthen Wipro’s IT services  delivery model in North America and Australia.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 290 Annual Report 2016-17 The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets `1,330 `(278) `1,052 Customer related intangibles —   8,228 8,228 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —   (2,017) (2,017) Total `1,330 `5,933 7,263 Goodwill   3,808 Total purchase price   `11,071 The goodwill of `3,808 comprises value of expected  synergies arising from the acquisition.
Goodwill is not  deductible for income tax purposes.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2014,  management estimates that consolidated revenue and  proﬁt after taxes for the year ended March 31, 2015 would  have been `472,142 and `87,503 respectively.
The pro- forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results  that would have occurred if the acquisition had occurred  on date indicated or that may result in the future.
Summary of acquisitions during the year ended March 31,  2016 is given below: Designit AS On August 6, 2015, the Company obtained control of  Designit AS (“Designit”) by acquiring 100% of its share  capital.
Designit is a Denmark based global strategic  design firm specializing in designing transformative  product-service experiences.
The acquisition strengthens  the Company’s digital offerings, combining engineering  and transformative technology with human centered- design methods.
The acquisition was executed through a share purchase  agreement for a consideration of `6,501 (EUR 93 million)  which includes a deferred earn-out component of `2,108  (EUR 30 million), which is linked to achievement of  revenues and earnings over a period of 3 years ending  June 30, 2018.
The fair value of the earn-out liability was  estimated by applying the discounted cash ﬂow approach  considering discount rate of 13% and probability adjusted  revenue and earnings estimates.
This earn-out liability  was fair valued at `1,287 million and recorded as part of  purchase price allocation.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net  assets ` 586 ` —   ` 586 Customer related intangibles —   597 597 Brand —   638 638 Non-compete agreement —   103 103 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —   (290) (290) Total ` 586 ` 1,048 1,634 Goodwill   4,046 Total purchase price   ` 5,680  Net assets acquired include `359 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at `392.
The goodwill of `4,046 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as  the amounts are not material.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, an amount of `83  million was paid to the sellers representing earn-out  payments for the ﬁrst earn-out period.
Additionally, during the year ended March 31, 2017, as a  result of changes in estimates of revenue and earnings  over the remaining earn-out period, the fair value of earn- out liability was revalued at `293 million.
The revision of  estimates has also resulted in reduction in the carrying  value of intangibles recognised on acquisition and an  impairment charge has been recorded.
Accordingly,  a net gain of `1,032 million has been recorded in the  consolidated statement of income.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 291 The pro-forma effects of this acquisition on the Company’s  results were not material.
Cellent AG On January 5, 2016, the Company obtained control of  Cellent AG (“Cellent”) by acquiring 100% of its share  capital.
Cellent is an IT consulting and software services  company offering IT solutions and services to customers  in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
This acquisition  provides Wipro with scale and customer relationships, in  the Manufacturing and Automotive domains in Germany,  Switzerland and Austria region.
The acquisition was executed through a share purchase  agreement for a consideration of `5,686 (EUR 78.8 million),  net of `114 received during the year ended March 31, 2017  on conclusion of working capital adjustments which has  resulted in reduction of goodwill.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets ` 846 ` —   ` 846 Customer related intangibles —   1,001 1,001 Brand —   317 317 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —   (391) (391) Total ` 846 `  927 1,773 Goodwill   3,913 Total purchase price   ` 5,686  Net assets acquired include `367 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at `1,437.
The goodwill of `3,913 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as  the amounts are not material.
The pro-forma effects of this acquisition on the Company’s  results were not material.
HealthPlan Services On February 29, 2016, the Company obtained full control  of HPH Holdings Corp. (“Healthplan Services”).
HealthPlan  Services offers market-leading technology platforms and  a fully integrated Business Process as a Service (BPaaS)  solution to Health Insurance companies (Payers) in the  individual, group and ancillary markets.
HealthPlan  Services provides U.S. Payers with a diversiﬁed portfolio  of health insurance products delivered through its  proprietary technology platform.
The acquisition was consummated for a consideration  of `30,850 (USD 450.9 million), net of `219 concluded as  working capital adjustment during the year ended March  31, 2017.
The consideration includes a deferred earn-out  component of `1,115 (USD 16.3 million), which is linked  to achievement of revenues and earnings over a period of  3 years ending March 31, 2019.
The fair value of the earn- out liability was estimated by applying the discounted  cash ﬂow approach considering discount rate of 14.1%  and probability adjusted revenue and earnings estimates.
This earn-out liability was fair valued at `536 million (USD  7.8 million) and recorded as part of preliminary purchase  price allocation.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  concluded the fair value adjustments of the assets  acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition.
Comparatives have not been retrospectively revised as  the amounts are not material.
The following table presents the allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net  assets `36 `1,604 `1,640 Technology  platform 1,087 1,888 2,975 Customer related intangibles —   5,791 5,791 Non-compete agreement —   315 315 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —   (3,039) (3,039) Total `1,123 ` 6,559 7,682 Goodwill   22,590 Total purchase price   `30,272 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 292 Annual Report 2016-17 Net assets acquired include `47 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at `2,472.
The goodwill of `22,590 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, uncertainties  around regulatory changes relating to the Affordable Care  Act have led to a signiﬁcant decline in the revenue and  earnings estimates, resulting in revision of fair value of  earn-out liability to `65 million.
Further, this has resulted  in reduction in the carrying value of certain intangible  assets recognised on acquisition and accordingly an  impairment charge has been recorded.
Consequently,  a net loss of `1,351 million has been recorded in the  consolidated statement of income.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2015,  management estimates that consolidated revenue for  the Company would have been `526,671 and the proﬁt  after taxes would have been `88,314 for twelve months  ended March 31, 2016.
The pro-forma amounts are not  necessarily indicative of the results that would have  occurred if the acquisition had occurred on date indicated  or that may result in the future.
Summary of material acquisitions during the year ended  March 31, 2017 is given below: Viteos Group Previously, the Company had announced, on December  23, 2015, the signing of a deﬁnitive agreement to acquire  Viteos Group.
However, due to inordinate delays in  completion of closing conditions that exceeded the target  closing date and expiration date under the terms of the  agreement, both parties decided not to proceed with the  acquisition.
Appirio Inc. On November 23, 2016, the Company obtained full control  of Appirio Inc (“Appirio”).
Appirio is a global services  company that helps customers create next-generation  employee and customer experiences using latest cloud  technology services.
This acquisition will strengthen  Wipro’s cloud application service offerings.
The acquisition  was consummated for a consideration of `32,414   (USD 475.7 million).
The following table presents the provisional allocation of purchase price: Description Pre-acquisition  carrying amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase price  allocated Net assets `526 (29) `497 Technology platform 436 (89) 347 Customer related intangibles —   2,323 2,323 Brand 180 2,968 3,148 Alliance relationship.
—   858 858 Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets —   (2,791) (2,791) Total `1,142 `3,240 4,382 Goodwill   28,032 Total purchase price   `32,414  Net assets acquired include `85 of cash and cash  equivalents and trade receivables valued at `2,363.
The goodwill of `28,032 comprises value of acquired  workforce and expected synergies arising from the  acquisition.
Goodwill is not deductible for income tax  purposes.
The purchase consideration has been allocated on a  provisional basis based on management’s estimates.
The  Company is in the process of making a ﬁnal determination  of adjustments to purchase consideration on account  of working capital changes and other consequential  movements in the fair value of assets and liabilities.
Finalization of the purchase price allocation may result  in certain adjustments to the above allocation.
If the acquisition had occurred on April 1, 2016,  management estimates that consolidated revenue for  the Company would have been `559,575 and the proﬁt  after taxes would have been `85,424 for twelve months  ended March 31, 2017.
The pro-forma amounts are not  necessarily indicative of the results that would have  occurred if the acquisition had occurred on date indicated  or that may result in the future.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 293 7.
Investments Investments consist of the following:   As at March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Financial instruments at FVTPL     Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds (1) `10,578 `104,675  Others 816 569 Financial instruments at FVTOCI     Equity instruments 4,907 5,303  Commercial paper, Certiﬁcate of deposits and bonds 121,676 145,614 Financial instruments at amortised cost     Inter corporate and term deposits (2) (3) 71,174 42,972  `209,151 `299,133 Current 204,244 292,030 Non-current 4,907 7,103 (1)   Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds include investments amounting to `117 (March 31, 2016: `109)  pledged as margin money deposits for entering into currency future contracts.
(2)  These deposits earn a ﬁxed rate of interest.
(3)  Term deposits include deposits in lien with banks amounting to `308 (March 31, 2016: `300).
8.
Trade receivables   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Trade receivables `109,685 `107,952 Allowance for expected credit loss (8,709) (9,108)  `100,976 `98,844 Current 99,614 94,846 Non-current 1,362 3,998 The activity in the allowance for expected credit loss is  given below: Year ended March 31, 2016 2017 Balance at the beginning of  the year `5,510 `8,709 Adjustment on adoption of  IFRS 9 1,243 —    Restated balance at the  beginning of the year 6,753 8,709 Additions during the year, net 2,004 2,427 Uncollectable receivables  charged against allowance (115) (2,099) Translation adjustment 67 71 Balance at the end of the year `8,709 `9,108 9.
Inventories Inventories consist of the following: As at March 31, 2016 2017 Stores and spare parts `871 `808 Raw materials and components 2 1 Finished goods and traded goods 4,517 3,106  `5,390 `3,915 10.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2015, 2016 and  2017 consist of cash and balances on deposit with banks.
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:   As at March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Cash and bank balances `47,198 `63,518 `27,808 Demand deposits with  banks (1) 111,742 35,531 24,902  `158,940 `99,049 `52,710 (1)  These deposits can be withdrawn by the Company at  any time without prior notice and without any penalty on  the principal.
Demand deposits with banks include deposits in lien with  banks amounting to ` Nil (March 31, 2016: `3).
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following for the  purpose of the cash ﬂow statement:   As at March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Cash and cash  equivalents (as above) `158,940 `99,049 `52,710 Bank overdrafts (227) (657) (1,992)  `158,713 `98,392 `50,718 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 294 Annual Report 2016-17 11.
Other assets As at March 31, 2016 2017 Current    Prepaid expenses and deposits 14,518 13,486 Due from ofﬁcers and employees 3,780 2,349 Finance lease receivables 2,034 1,854 Advance to suppliers 1,507 1,448 Deferred contract costs 3,720 4,270 Interest receivable 2,488 2,177 Balance with excise, customs and other authorities 1,814 2,153 Others (1) 3,033 3,014  `32,894 `30,751 Non-current    Prepaid expenses including rentals for leasehold land and deposits `8,534 `10,516 Finance lease receivables 2,964 2,674 Deferred contract costs 3,807 3,175 Others 523 428  `15,828 `16,793 Total `48,722 `47,544 (1)  Others include ` Nil (March 31, 2016: `418) representing assets held for sale.
Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables consist of assets that are leased to customers for a contract term ranging from 1 to 7 years,  with lease payments due in monthly or quarterly installments.
Details of ﬁnance lease receivables are given below:       Minimum lease   payments Present value of minimum  lease payments As at March 31, As at March 31, 2016 2017 2016 2017 Not later than one year `2,222 `2,060 `2,034 `1,854 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 3,127 2,725 2,906 2,616 Later than ﬁve years —   —   —   —    Unguaranteed residual values 62 62 58 58 Gross investment in lease 5,411 4,847 4,998 4,528 Less: Unearned ﬁnance income (413) (319) —   —    Present value of minimum lease payment receivable `4,998 `4,528 `4,998 `4,528 Included in the ﬁnancial statements as follows:      Current ﬁnance lease receivables   `2,034 `1,854 Non-current ﬁnance lease receivables   2,964 2,674 12.
Loans and borrowings Short-term loans and borrowings The Company had short-term borrowings including bank  overdrafts amounting to `102,667 and `116,742 as at  March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
The principal source  of Short-term borrowings from banks as of March 31, 2017  primarily consists of lines of credit of approximately  `204, U.S. Dollar (U.S.$) 2,495 million, Canadian Dollar  (CAD) 44 million, Australian Dollar (AUD) 13 million, EURO  1 million and United Kingdom Pound sterling (GBP) 23  million from bankers for working capital requirements  and other short term needs.
As of March 31, 2017, the  Company has unutilized lines of credit aggregating U.S.$  744 million, EURO 1 million, AUD 13 million, GBP 5 million  and CAD 14 million.
To utilize these unutilized lines of  credit, the Company requires consent of the lender and  compliance with certain ﬁnancial covenants.
Signiﬁcant  portion of these lines of credit are revolving credit facilities  and ﬂoating rate foreign currency loans, renewable on  a periodic basis.
Signiﬁcant portion of these facilities  bear ﬂoating rates of interest, referenced to LIBOR and a  spread, determined based on market conditions.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 295 The Company has non-fund based revolving credit facilities in various currencies equivalent to `41,740 and `51,739,  as of March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively, towards operational requirements that can be used for the issuance of  letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of March 31,2016 and 2017, an amount of `15,519 and `29,716 respectively,  was unutilized out of these non-fund based facilities.
Long-term loans and borrowings A summary of long- term loans and borrowings is as follows:   Currency As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2017 Foreign  currency  in  millions Indian  Rupee Foreign  currency  in millions Indian  Rupee Interest rate Final   maturity Unsecured external commercial borrowing        U.S.  Dollar 150 `9,938 150 ` 9,728 1.81% June 2018 Unsecured term loan        Indian Rupee NA 666 NA 714 8.3%-10.3% May 2021 Saudi Arabian Riyal (SAR) 169 2,987 71 1,229 SIBOR+1.50% April 2018 Australian Dollar (AUD) —   —   2 116 4.65% January 2022 Canadian Dollar (CAD) —   —   85 4,131 CDOR+1.25% October 2021 EURO —   —   19 1,282 EONIA+1% December 2020 Great British pound (GBP) —   —   1 73 3.4% May 2022 USD —   —   2 118 3.27%-3.81% June 2021   `13,591  `17,391    Obligations under ﬁnance leases  8,963  8,280      `22,554  `25,671    Current portion of long term loans and  borrowings  `5,193  `6,060    Non-current portion of long term loans  and borrowings  17,361  19,611    The contracts governing the Company’s unsecured  external commercial borrowing contain certain covenants  that limit future borrowings.
The terms of the loans and  borrowings also contain certain restrictive covenants  primarily requiring the Company to maintain certain  ﬁnancial ratios.
As of March 31, 2017, the Company has  met all the covenants under these arrangements.
Obligations under ﬁnance leases amounting to `8,963  and `8,280 as at March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively,  are secured by underlying property, plant and equipment.
Interest expense was `1,410 and `1,916 for the year ended  March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases, together with the present value  of minimum lease payments as of March 31, 2016 and 2017:       Minimum lease   payments Present value of minimum  lease payments As at March 31, As at March 31, 2016 2017 2016 2017 Not later than one year `3,429 `3,876 `3,133 `3,623 Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 6,112 4,841 5,830 4,657 Later than ﬁve years —   —   —   —    Total minimum lease payments 9,541 8,717 8,963 8,280 Less: Amounts representing interest (578) (437) —   —    Present value of minimum lease payments `8,963 `8,280 `8,963 `8,280 Included in the ﬁnancial statements as follows:      Current ﬁnance lease payables   `3,133 `3,623 Non-current ﬁnance lease payables   5,830 4,657 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 296 Annual Report 2016-17 13.
Trade payables and accrued expenses Trade payables and accrued expenses consist of the  following:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Trade payables `23,447 `23,452 Accrued expenses 44,740 42,034  `68,187 `65,486 14.
Other liabilities and provisions   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Other liabilities:    Current:    Statutory and other liabilities `3,871 `3,353 Employee beneﬁt obligations 5,494 5,912 Advance from customers 2,283 2,394 Others 2,173 1,368  `13,821 `13,027 Non-current:    Employee beneﬁt obligations `4,618 `4,235 Others 2,607 1,265  `7,225 `5,500 Total `21,046 `18,527   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Provisions:    Current:    Provision for warranty `388 `436 Others 874 834  `1,262 `1,270 Non-current:    Provision for warranty `14 `4 Total `1,276 `1,274 Provision for warranty represents cost associated with  providing sales support services which are accrued at  the time of recognition of revenues and are expected to  be utilized over a period of 1 to 2 years.
Other provisions  primarily include provisions for indirect tax related  contingencies and litigations.
The timing of cash outﬂows  in respect of such provision cannot be reasonably  determined.
A summary of activity for provision for warranty and other provisions is as follows:     Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 Provision  for   warranty Others Total Provision  for   warranty Others Total Balance at the beginning of the year `311 `1,211 `1,522 `402 `874 `1,276 Additional provision during the year 451 82 533 631 169 800 Provision used during the year (360) (419) (779) (593) (209) (802) Balance at the end of the year `402 `874 `1,276 `440 `834 `1,274 15.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities (carrying value/fair value):   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Assets:    Cash and cash equivalents `99,049 `52,710 Investments    Financial instruments at FVTPL 11,394 105,244 Financial instruments at FVTOCI 126,583 150,917 Financial instruments at  amortised cost 71,174 42,972 Other ﬁnancial assets    Trade receivables 100,976 98,844 Unbilled revenues 48,273 45,095 Other assets 15,071 13,414 Derivative assets 5,809 9,853 Total `478,329 `519,049   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Liabilities:    Trade and other payables        Trade payables and accrued  expenses `66,810 `65,486    Other liabilities 3,460 1,195 Loans, borrowings and bank  overdrafts 125,221 142,412 Derivative liabilities 2,459 2,710 Total `197,950 `211,803 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 297 Offsetting ﬁnancial assets and liabilities The following table contains information on financial  assets and liabilities subject to offsetting: Financial assets Other ﬁnancial assets Gross  amounts of  recognized  ﬁnancial  assets Gross amounts  of recognized  ﬁnancial  liabilities  set off in the  balance sheet Net amounts  of ﬁnancial  assets  presented in  the balance  sheet As at March 31, 2016 167,830 (3,510) 164,320 As at March 31, 2017 162,252 (4,899) 157,353 Financial liabilities Trade and other  payables Gross  amounts of  recognized  ﬁnancial  assets Gross amounts  of recognized  ﬁnancial  liabilities  set off in the  balance sheet Net amounts  of ﬁnancial  assets  presented in  the balance  sheet As at March 31, 2016 73,780 (3,510 70,270 As at March 31, 2017 71,580 (4,899 66,681 For the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting  or similar arrangements, each agreement between the  Company and the counterparty allows for net settlement  of the relevant ﬁnancial assets and liabilities when both  elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an  election, ﬁnancial assets and liabilities will be settled on  a gross basis and hence are not offset.
Fair value The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade  receivables, unbilled revenues, borrowings, trade payables,  current ﬁnancial assets and liabilities.
approximate their  carrying amount largely due to the short-term nature of  these instruments.
The Company’s long-term debt has  been contracted at market rates of interest.
Accordingly,  the carrying value of such long-term debt approximates  fair value.
Further, finance lease receivables that are  overdue are periodically evaluated based on individual  credit worthiness of customers.
Based on this evaluation,  the Company records allowance for estimated losses on  these receivables.
As of March 31, 2016 and 2017, the  carrying value of such receivables, net of allowances  approximates the fair value.
Investments in liquid and short-term mutual funds, which  are classiﬁed as FVTPL are measured using net asset  values at the reporting date multiplied by the quantity  held.
Fair value of investments in certiﬁcate of deposits,  commercial papers classiﬁed as FVTOCI is determined  based on the indicative quotes of price and yields  prevailing in the market at the reporting date.
Fair value of  investments in equity instruments classiﬁed as FVTOCI is  determined using market and income approaches.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is  determined based on observable market inputs including  currency spot and forward rates, yield curves, currency  volatility etc.
Fair value hierarchy Level 1  – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for  identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2  – Inputs other than quoted prices included within  Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either  directly (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from  prices).
Level 3  – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not  based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: Particulars  As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2017  Total Fair value measurements  at reporting date using  Total Fair value measurements  at reporting date using   Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Assets           Derivative instruments            - Cash ﬂow hedges ` 3,072 ` —    ` 3,072 ` —    ` 7,307 ` —    ` 7,307 ` —       - Others  2,737  —     2,179  558  2,546  —     2,120  426   Investments            -  Investment in liquid and short- term mutual funds   10,578  10,578  —     —       104,675    104,675  —     —       - Other Investments  816  —     816  —     569  —     569  —       - Investments in equity instruments  4,907  —     —     4,907  5,303  —     —     5,303    -  Commercial paper, certiﬁcate of  deposits and bonds    121,676  1,094    120,582  —       145,614  —       145,614  —     Liabilities           Derivative instruments            - Cash ﬂow hedges  (706)  —     (706)  —     (55)  —     (55)  —       - Others  (1,753)  —     (1,753)  —     (2,655)  —     (2,655)  —      Contingent consideration  (2,251)  —     —     (2,251)  (339)  —     —     (339) Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 298 Annual Report 2016-17 The following methods and assumptions were used to  estimate the fair value of the level 2 ﬁnancial instruments  included in the above table: Derivative instruments (assets and liabilities):  The  Company enters into derivative financial instruments  with various counter-parties, primarily banks with  investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using  valuation techniques with market observable inputs are  mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward  contracts and foreign exchange option contracts.
The  most frequently applied valuation techniques include  forward pricing, swap models and Black Scholes models  (for option valuation), using present value calculations.
The models incorporate various inputs including the  credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot  and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward  rate curves of the underlying.
As at March 31, 2017, the  changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect  on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives  designated in hedge relationships and other ﬁnancial  instruments recognized at fair value.
Investment in Commercial paper, certiﬁcate of deposits  and bonds: Fair valuation is derived based on the indicative  quotes of price and yields prevailing in the market as on  the reporting date.
Details of assets and liabilities considered under Level 3 classiﬁcation   Investments  in equity  instruments  Derivative  Assets –  Others  Liabilities-  Contingent  consideration  Balance as at April 1, 2015 ` 3,867 ` 524 ` (110) Additions  1,016  —     (1,908) Gain/loss recognised in statement of income  —     34  —     Gain/loss recognized in foreign currency translation reserve  —     —     (95) Gain/loss recognised in other comprehensive income  24  —     —     Finance expense recognised in statement of income  —     —     (138) Balance as at March 31, 2016 ` 4,907 ` 558 ` (2,251) Balance as at April 1, 2016 ` 4,907 ` 558 ` (2,251) Additions  620  —     —     Payouts  —     —     138  Gain/loss recognised in statement of income  —     (132)  1,546  Gain/loss recognized in foreign currency translation reserve  (41)  —     198  Gain/loss recognised in other comprehensive income  (183)  —     —     Finance expense recognised in statement of income  —     —     30  Balance as at March 31, 2017 ` 5,303 ` 426 ` (339) Description of signiﬁcant unobservable inputs to valuation: As at March 31, 2016  Valuation technique Signiﬁcant unobservable  input Movement  by Increase Decrease Unquoted equity investments Discounted cash  ﬂow model  Long term growth rate 0.5% `57 `(53)  Discount rate 0.5% `(95) `103  Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x `182 `(187) Derivative assets Option pricing  model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% `31 `(32)   Time to liquidation event 1 year `60 `(69) Contingent consideration Probability  weighted method Estimated revenue  achievement 1% `36 `(36)   Estimated earnings  achievement 1% `37 `(37) Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 299  Valuation technique Signiﬁcant unobservable  input Movement  by Increase Decrease As at March 31, 2017       Unquoted equity investments Discounted cash  ﬂow model  Long term growth rate 0.5% `55 `(51)  Discount rate 0.5% `(93) `101  Market multiple  approach Revenue multiple 0.5x `179 `(186) Derivative assets Option pricing  model Volatility of comparable  companies 2.5% `31 `(31)   Time to liquidation event 1 year `60 `(69) Contingent consideration Probability  weighted method Estimated revenue  achievement 5% `56 `(56)   Estimated earnings  achievement 1% `—   `—    Derivatives assets and liabilities: The Company is exposed to foreign currency ﬂuctuations  on foreign currency assets / liabilities, forecasted cash  ﬂows denominated in foreign currency and net investment  in foreign operations.
The Company follows established  risk management policies, including the use of derivatives  to hedge foreign currency assets / liabilities, foreign  currency forecasted cash ﬂows and net investment in  foreign operations.
The counter party in these derivative  instruments is a bank and the Company considers the risks  of non-performance by the counterparty as not material.
The following table presents the aggregate contracted  principal amounts of the Company’s derivative contracts  outstanding: As at March 31, 2016 2017 Designated derivative  instruments    Sell: Forward contracts US$ 897 US$ 886  € 271 € 228   £ 248 £ 280   AUD  139 AUD  129  SAR  19 SAR  —     AED  7 AED  —    Range forward option  contracts US$ 25 US$ 130  € 7 € —     Interest rate swaps US$ 150 US$ —    Non-designated derivative  instruments    Sell: Forward contracts US$ 1,280 US$ 889  £ 55 £ 82   € 87 € 83  AUD  35 AUD  51  ¥ 490 ¥ —     As at March 31, 2016 2017  SGD  3 SGD  3  ZAR  110 ZAR  262  CAD  11 CAD  41  CHF  10 CHF  —     SAR  58 SAR  49  AED  7 AED  69  PLN —   PLN 31 Range forward option  contracts US$ 18 US$ —    Buy: Forward contracts US$ 822 US$ 750 The following table summarizes activity in the cash ﬂow  hedging reserve within equity related to all derivative  instruments classiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Balance as at the beginning  of the year ` 4,268 ` 2,367 Deferred cancellation  (loss)/gain (3) 74 Changes in fair value  of effective portion of  derivatives 1,079 12,391 Net gain reclassiﬁed to  statement of income on  occurrence of hedged  transactions (2,977) (7,507) (Loss)/gain on cash ﬂow  hedging derivatives, net ` (1,901) ` 4,958 Balance as at the end of the  year ` 2,367 ` 7,325 Deferred tax thereon ` (457) ` (1,419) Balance as at the end of the  year, net of deferred tax ` 1,910 ` 5,906 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 300 Annual Report 2016-17 The related hedge transactions for balance in cash ﬂow  hedging reserve as of March 31, 2017 are expected to  occur and be reclassiﬁed to the statement of income over  a period of 3 years.
As at March 31, 2016 and 2017, there were no signiﬁcant  gains or losses on derivative transactions or portions  thereof that have become ineffective as hedges, or  associated with an underlying exposure that did not occur.
Sale of ﬁnancial assets From time to time, in the normal course of business,  the Company transfers accounts receivables, unbilled  revenues, net investment in ﬁnance lease receivables  (financials assets) to banks.
Under the terms of the  arrangements, the Company surrenders control over  the ﬁnancial assets and transfer is without recourse.
Accordingly, such transfers are recorded as sale of  ﬁnancial assets.
Gains and losses on sale of ﬁnancial  assets without recourse are recorded at the time of sale  based on the carrying value of the ﬁnancial assets and fair  value of servicing liability.
The incremental impact of such  transactions on our cash ﬂow and liquidity for the years  ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 is not material.
In certain cases, transfer of ﬁnancial assets may be with  recourse.
Under arrangements with recourse, the Company  is obligated to repurchase the uncollected financial  assets, subject to limits specified in the agreement  with the banks.
These are reﬂected as part of loans and  borrowings in the statement of ﬁnancial position.
Financial risk management General Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair  values or to future cash ﬂows that may result from a  change in the price of a ﬁnancial instrument.
The value of  a ﬁnancial instrument may change as a result of changes  in the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and  other market changes that affect market risk sensitive  instruments.
Market risk is attributable to all market risk  sensitive ﬁnancial instruments including investments,  foreign currency receivables, payables and loans and  borrowings.
The Company’s exposure to market risk is a function  of investment and borrowing activities and revenue  generating activities in foreign currency.
The objective of  market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure  of the Company’s earnings and equity to losses.
Risk Management Procedures The Company manages market risk through a corporate  treasury department, which evaluates and exercises  independent control over the entire process of market  risk management.
The corporate treasury department  recommends risk management objectives and policies,  which are approved by senior management and Audit  Committee.
The activities of this department include  management of cash resources, implementing hedging  strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing  strategies, and ensuring compliance with market risk  limits and policies.
Foreign currency risk The Company operates internationally and a major  portion of its business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange  risk through receiving payment for sales and services in  the United States and elsewhere, and making purchases  from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The  exchange rate risk primarily arises from foreign exchange  revenue, receivables, cash balances, forecasted cash  ﬂows, payables and foreign currency loans and borrowings.
A signiﬁcant portion of the Company’s revenue is in the  U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro,  the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar, while a large  portion of costs are in Indian rupees.
The exchange rate  between the rupee and these currencies has ﬂuctuated  signiﬁcantly in recent years and may continue to ﬂuctuate  in the future.
Appreciation of the rupee against these  currencies can adversely affect the Company’s results  of operations.
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising  from these transactions and enters into foreign currency  derivative instruments to mitigate such exposure.
The  Company follows established risk management policies,  including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange  forward/option contracts to hedge forecasted cash ﬂows  denominated in foreign currency.
The Company has designated certain derivative  instruments as cash ﬂow hedges to mitigate the foreign  exchange exposure of forecasted highly probable cash  ﬂows.
The Company has also designated foreign currency  borrowings as hedge against respective net investments  in foreign operations.
As of March 31, 2016, and 2017 respectively, a `1 increase/ decrease in the spot exchange rate of the Indian rupee  with the U.S. dollar would result in approximately `1,398  and `1,155 decrease/increase in the fair value of foreign  currency dollar denominated derivative instruments.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 301 The below table presents foreign currency risk from non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments as of March 31, 2016 and 2017:     As at March 31, 2016 US$ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies# Total Trade receivables `34,284 `3,836 `6,891 `1,754 `419 `3,023 `50,207 Unbilled revenues 19,578 4,330 4,458 1,780 258 1,398 31,802 Cash and cash equivalents 46,426 2,361 47 362 43 1,403 50,642 Other assets 1,810 1,071 44 2,091 14 171 5,201 Loans and borrowings `(65,180) `(6,109) `(221) `(776) `—   `—   `(72,286) Trade payables, accrued expenses  and other liabilities (18,869) (4,339) (4,788) (1,417) (149) (1,702) (31,264) Net assets / (liabilities) `18,049 `1,150 `6,431 `3,794 `585 `4,293 `34,302     As at March 31, 2017 US$ Euro Pound  Sterling Australian  Dollar Canadian  Dollar Other  currencies# Total Trade receivables `33,388 `4,663 `5,078 `2,547 `890 `4,218 `50,784 Unbilled revenues 15,839 2,801 4,454 2,024 577 2,926 28,621 Cash and cash equivalents 15,752 1,178 571 335 2 675 18,513 Other assets 1,612 1,437 190 1,568 7 360 5,174 Loans and borrowings `(58,785) `(494) `(604) `(537) `—   `(509) `(60,929) Trade payables, accrued expenses  and other liabilities (22,339) (4,284) (4,605) (1,453) (443) (2,136) (35,260) Net assets / (liabilities) `(14,533) `5,301 `5,084 `4,484 `1,033 `5,534 `6,903 #  Other currencies reﬂect currencies such as Singapore Dollars, Saudi Arabian Riyals etc.
As at March 31, 2016 and 2017 respectively, every 1%  increase/decrease of the respective foreign currencies  compared to functional currency of the Company would  impact results by approximately `343 and `69 respectively.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk primarily arises from floating rate  borrowing, including various revolving and other lines of  credit.
The Company’s investments are primarily in short- term investments, which do not expose it to signiﬁcant  interest rate risk.
The Company manages its net exposure  to interest rate risk relating to borrowings by entering  into interest rate swap agreements, which allows it to  exchange periodic payments based on a notional amount  and agreed upon ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rates.
Certain  borrowings are also transacted at ﬁxed interest rates.
If  interest rates were to increase by 100 bps from March 31,  2017, additional net annual interest expense on ﬂoating  rate borrowing would amount to approximately `1,226. Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that customers  may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed.
To manage this, the Company periodically assesses the  ﬁnancial reliability of customers, taking into account the  ﬁnancial condition, current economic trends, analysis of  historical bad debts and ageing of accounts receivable.
Individual risk limits are set accordingly.
No single  customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts  receivable as of March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively  and revenues for the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and  2017, respectively.
There is no signiﬁcant concentration  of credit risk.
Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired Cash and cash equivalents, unbilled revenues, investment  in certiﬁcates of deposits and interest bearing deposits  with corporates are neither past due nor impaired.
Cash  and cash equivalents with banks and interest-bearing  deposits are placed with corporates, which have high  credit-ratings assigned by international and domestic  credit-rating agencies.
Investments substantially include  investment in liquid mutual fund units.
Certiﬁcates of  deposit represent funds deposited with banks or other  ﬁnancial institutions for a speciﬁed time period.
Financial assets that are past due but not impaired There is no other class of ﬁnancial assets that is past  due but not impaired except for receivables of `8,709  and `9,108 as of March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
Of the total receivables, `73,787 and `68,571 as of March  31, 2016 and 2017, respectively, were neither past due nor  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 302 Annual Report 2016-17 impaired.
The Company’s credit period generally ranges  from 45-60 days from invoicing date.
The aging analysis  of the receivables has been considered from the date the  invoice falls due.
The age wise break up of receivables, net  of allowances that are past due, is given below:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Financial assets that are neither  past due nor impaired `73,787 `68,571 Financial assets that are past due  but not impaired     Past due 0 – 30 days 7,924 8,259  Past due 31 – 60 days 3,959 3,929  Past due 61 – 90 days 2,980 3,410  Past due over 90 days 17,324 19,203 Total past due but not impaired `32,187 `34,801 Counterparty risk Counterparty risk encompasses issuer risk on marketable  securities, settlement risk on derivative and money market  contracts and credit risk on cash and time deposits.
Issuer risk is minimized by only buying securities which  are at least AA rated in India based on Indian rating  agencies.
Settlement and credit risk is reduced by the  policy of entering into transactions with counterparties  that are usually banks or financial institutions with  acceptable credit ratings.
Exposure to these risks are  closely monitored and maintained within predetermined  parameters.
There are limits on credit exposure to any  ﬁnancial institution.
The limits are regularly assessed and  determined based upon credit analysis including ﬁnancial  statements and capital adequacy ratio reviews.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is deﬁned as the risk that the Company will  not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at  a reasonable price.
The Company’s corporate treasury  department is responsible for liquidity and funding as  well as settlement management.
In addition, processes  and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior  management.
Management monitors the Company’s net  liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis  of expected cash ﬂows.
As of March 31, 2017, cash and  cash equivalents are held with major banks and ﬁnancial  institutions.
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of signiﬁcant ﬁnancial liabilities at the  reporting date.
The amounts include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements, if any.
As at March 31, 2016 Contractual cash ﬂows Carrying  value Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts `125,221 `108,775 `4,416 `13,194 `315 `126,700 Trade payables and accrued expenses 66,810 66,810 —   —   —   66,810 Derivative liabilities 2,459 2,340 82 37 —   2,459 Other liabilities 3,460 1,570 828 1,831 54 4,283       As at March 31, 2017 Contractual cash ﬂows Carrying  value Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total Loans, borrowings and bank overdrafts `142,412 `124,243 `14,132 `5,526 `341 `144,242 Trade payables and accrued expenses 65,486 65,486 —   —   —   65,486 Derivative liabilities 2,710 2,708 2 —   —   2,710 Other liabilities 1,195 341 810 —   77 1,228 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 303 The balanced view of liquidity and ﬁnancial indebtedness  is stated in the table below.
This calculation of the net  cash position is used by the management for external  communication with investors, analysts and rating  agencies:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Cash and cash equivalents `99,049 `52,710 Investments 204,244 292,030 Loans and borrowings (125,221) (142,412) Net cash position `178,072 `202,328 16.
Foreign currency translation reserve The movement in foreign currency translation reserve  attributable to equity holders of the Company is  summarized below:   As at March 31, 2016 2017 Balance at the beginning of the  year `11,249 `16,116 Translation difference related to  foreign operations 5,680 (3,285) Change in effective portion of  hedges of net investment in  foreign operations (813) 276 Total change during the year `4,867 `(3,009) Balance at the end of the year `16,116 `13,107 17.
Income taxes Income tax expense has been allocated as follows:   Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Income tax expense as per  the statement of income `24,624 `25,366 `25,213 Income tax included in  other comprehensive  income on:     Unrealized gains/(losses)  on investment securities 335 42 594 Unrealized gains/(losses)  on cash flow hedging  derivatives 650 (260) 962 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan  actuarial gains/(losses) (19) (224) 43 Total income taxes `25,590 `24,924 `26,812 Income tax expense consists of the following:   Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Current taxes      Domestic `19,163 `20,221 `21,089  Foreign 5,913 5,536 5,412  `25,076 `25,757 `26,501 Deferred taxes      Domestic `(247) `(506) `(63)  Foreign (205) 115 (1,225)  `(452) `(391) `(1,288) Total income tax expense `24,624 `25,366 `25,213 Income tax expenses are net of reversal of provisions  pertaining to earlier periods, amounting to `891, `1,337  and `593 for the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and  2017, respectively.
The reconciliation between the provision of income tax  and amounts computed by applying the Indian statutory  income tax rate to proﬁt before taxes is as follows:   Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Proﬁt before taxes `111,683 `114,933 `110,356 Enacted income tax rate  in India 33.99% 34.61% 34.61% Computed expected tax  expense 37,961 39,778 38,194 Effect of:     Income exempt from tax (11,698) (10,750) (10,368) Basis differences that  will reverse during a tax  holiday period (327) (475) (199) Income taxed at higher/  (lower) rates (1,910) (3,305) (3,530) Income taxes relating  to prior years (891) (1,337) (593) Changes in unrecognized  deferred tax assets 343 87 40 Expenses disallowed  for tax purposes 1,225 1,729 1,834 Others, net (79) (361) (165) Total income tax expense `24,624 `25,366 `25,213 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 304 Annual Report 2016-17 The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are  as follows:     As at March 31, 2016 2017 Carry-forward business losses (1) ` 5,250 `5,513 Accrued expenses and liabilities 3,270 3,151 Allowances for doubtful  accounts receivable 3,039 2,955 Minimum alternate tax 1,457 1,520 Others 328 —     13,344 13,139 Property, plant and equipment 4,262) (4,153) Amortizable goodwill (3,963) (4,057) Intangible assets (4,665) (4,511) Interest on bonds and fair value  movement of investments (814) (2,245) Cash ﬂow hedges (458) (1,419) Deferred revenue (4) (183) Others —   (87)  (14,166) (16,655) Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (822) (3,516) Amounts presented in statement  of ﬁnancial position:    Deferred tax assets 4,286 3,098 Deferred tax liabilities (5,108) (6,614) (1)    Includes deferred tax asset recognised on carry forward  losses pertaining to business combinations.
Deferred taxes on unrealized foreign exchange gain / loss  relating to cash ﬂow hedges, fair value movements in  investments and actuarial gains/losses on deﬁned beneﬁt  plans are recognized in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax liability on the intangible assets identiﬁed  and carry forward losses on acquisitions is recorded by  an adjustment to goodwill.
Other than these, the change  in deferred tax assets and liabilities is primarily recorded  in the statement of income.
In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the  Company considers the extent to which it is probable  that the deferred tax asset will be realized.
The ultimate  realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the  generation of future taxable proﬁts during the periods in  which those temporary differences and tax loss carry- forwards become deductible.
The Company considers  the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected  future taxable income and tax planning strategies in  making this assessment.
Based on this, the Company  believes that it is probable that the Company will realize  the beneﬁts of these deductible differences.
The amount  of deferred tax asset considered realizable, however,  could be reduced in the near term if the estimates of  future taxable income during the carry-forward period  are reduced.
Deferred tax asset amounting to `1,782 and `1,714 as at  March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively in respect of unused  tax losses have not been recognized by the Company.
The  tax loss carry-forwards of `6,679 and `6,763 as at March  31, 2016 and March 31, 2017, respectively, relates to  certain subsidiaries on which deferred tax asset has not  been recognized by the Company, because there is a lack of  reasonable certainty that these subsidiaries may generate  future taxable proﬁts.
Approximately, `6,117 and `5,371  as at March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017, respectively, of  these tax loss carry-forwards is not currently subject to  expiration dates.
The remaining tax loss carry-forwards  of approximately `562 and `1,391 as at March 31, 2016  and March 31, 2017, respectively, expires in various years  through ﬁscal 2037.
The Company has recognized deferred tax assets of  `5,250 and `5,513 in respect of carry forward losses of  its various subsidiaries as at March 31, 2016 and 2017.
Management’s projections of future taxable income and  tax planning strategies support the assumption that it is  probable that sufﬁcient taxable income will be available  to utilize these deferred tax assets.
Pursuant to the changes in the Indian income tax laws,  Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) has been extended to  income in respect of which deduction is claimed under  Section 10A, 10B and 10AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961;  consequently, the Company has calculated its tax liability  for current domestic taxes after considering MAT.
The  excess tax paid under MAT provisions over and above  normal tax liability can be carried forward and set-off  against future tax liabilities computed under normal tax  provisions.
The Company was required to pay MAT and  accordingly, a deferred tax asset of `1,457 and `1,520 has  been recognized in the statement of ﬁnancial position as  of March 31, 2016 and 2017 respectively, which can be  carried forward for a period of ﬁfteen years from the year  of recognition.
A substantial portion of the proﬁts of the Company’s India  operations are exempt from Indian income taxes being  proﬁts attributable to export operations and proﬁts from  units established under the Special Economic Zone Act,  2005 scheme.
Units designated in special economic zones  providing service on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible  for a deduction of 100 percent of proﬁts or gains derived  from the export of services for the ﬁrst ﬁve years from  commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of  such proﬁts and gains for a further ﬁve years.
Certain tax  beneﬁts are also available for a further ﬁve years subject  to the unit meeting deﬁned conditions.
Proﬁts from certain  other undertakings are also eligible for preferential tax  treatment.
The tax holiday period being currently available  to the Company expires in various years through ﬁscal  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 305 2030-31.
The expiration period of tax holiday for each  unit within a SEZ is determined based on the number of  years that have lapsed following year of commencement  of production by that unit.
The impact of tax holidays has  resulted in a decrease of current tax expense of `11,412,  `10,212 and `9,140 for the years ended March 31, 2015,  2016 and 2017 respectively, compared to the effective tax  amounts that we estimate we would have been required  to pay if these incentives had not been available.
The per  share effect of these tax incentives for the years ended  March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017 was `4.65, `4.16 and `3.76  respectively.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all  taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable  temporary differences associated with investments  in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of  the temporary difference can be controlled and it is  probable that the temporary difference will not reverse  in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, deferred income  tax liabilities on cumulative earnings of subsidiaries  amounting to `33,920 and `46,905 as of March 31, 2016  and 2017, respectively and branch proﬁt tax @15% of the  US branch proﬁt have not been recognized.
Further, it is not  practicable to estimate the amount of the unrecognized  deferred tax liabilities for these undistributed earnings.
18.
Dividends and Buy Back of equity shares The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees.
According to the Companies Act, 2013 any dividend should  be declared out of accumulated distributable proﬁts.
A  company may, before the declaration of any dividend,  transfer a percentage of its proﬁts for that ﬁnancial year  as it may consider appropriate to the reserves.
The cash dividends paid per equity share were `10, `12  and `3 during the years ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and  2017, respectively, including an interim dividend of `5, `5  and `2 for the years ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has  concluded the buyback of 40 million equity shares as  approved by the Board of Directors on April 20, 2016.
This  has resulted in a total cash outﬂow of `25,000.
In line with  the requirement of the Companies Act 2013, an amount  of `14,254 and `10,666 has been utilized from the share  premium account and retained earnings respectively.
Further, a capital redemption reserves of `80 (representing  the nominal value of the shares bought back) has been  created as an apportionment from retained earnings.
Consequent to such buy back, share capital has been  reduced by `80.
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on April 25,  2017 approved issue of stock dividend, commonly known  as issue of bonus shares in India, in the proportion of 1:1,  i.e.
1 (One) equity share of `2 each for every 1 (one) fully  paid-up equity share held (including ADS holders) as on  the record date, subject to approval by the Members of  the Company through Postal Ballot/e-voting.
The stock  dividend, if approved, will not affect the ratio of ADSs to  equity shares, such that each ADS after the bonus issue  will continue to represent one equity share of par value  of `2 per share.
19.
Additional capital disclosures The key objective of the Company’s capital management is  to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with  the focus on total equity to uphold investor, creditor, and  customer conﬁdence and to ensure future development of  its business.
The Company focused on keeping strong total  equity base to ensure independence, security, as well as a  high ﬁnancial ﬂexibility for potential future borrowings, if  required without impacting the risk proﬁle of the Company.
The Company’s goal is to continue to be able to return  excess liquidity to shareholders by continuing to distribute  annual dividends in future periods.
The amount of future dividends/buy back of equity shares  will be balanced with efforts to continue to maintain an  adequate liquidity status.
The capital structure as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 was  as follows:     As at March 31, 2016 2017 % Change Total equity  attributable to the  equity shareholders of  the Company `465,172 520,304 11.85% As percentage of total  capital 79% 79%   Current loans and  borrowings 107,860 122,801   Non-current loans and  borrowings 17,361 19,611   Total loans and  borrowings 125,221 142,412 13.73% As percentage of total  capital 21% 21%   Total capital (loans and  borrowings and equity) `590,393 662,716 12.25% Loans and borrowings represented 21% and 21% of total  capital as of March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
The  Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital  requirements.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 306 Annual Report 2016-17 20.
Revenues     Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Rendering of services `435,507 `481,369 `522,061 Sale of products 34,038 31,071 28,341 Total revenues `469,545 `512,440 `550,402 21.
Expenses by nature  Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Employee  compensation `224,838 `245,534 `268,081 Sub-contracting/ technical fees 52,303 67,769 82,747 Cost of hardware and  software 32,210 30,096 27,216 Travel 21,684 23,507 20,147 Facility expenses 15,167 16,480 19,297 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment (1) 12,823 14,965 23,107 Communication 5,204 4,825 5,370 Legal and  professional fees 3,682 4,214 4,957 Rates, taxes and  insurance 2,240 2,526 2,261 Marketing and brand  building 1,598 2,292 2,936 Provision for doubtful  debts 922 2,004 2,427 Miscellaneous  expenses 5,088 5,235 5,836 Total cost of revenues,  selling and marketing  expenses and general  and administrative  expenses `377,759 `419,447 `464,382 (1)    Includes impairment charge on certain intangible assets  recognised on acquisitions, amounting to `134, ` Nil  and `3,056 for the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016  and 2017 respectively.
22.
Other operating income During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company  has concluded the sale of the EcoEnergy division for a  consideration of `4,670.
Net gain from the sale, amounting  to `4,082 has been recorded as other operating income.
23.
Finance expense     Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Interest expense `768 `1,410 `1,916 Exchange ﬂuctuation  on foreign currency  borrowings, net 2,831 4,172 3,267 Total `3,599 `5,582 `5,183 24.
Finance and other income     Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Interest income `15,687 `20,568 `17,307 Dividend income 224 66 311 Unrealized gains/ losses on ﬁnancial  instruments  measured at fair  value through proﬁt  or loss —   375 556 Gain on sale of  investments 3,948 2,646 3,486 Total `19,859 `23,655 `21,660 25.
Earnings per equity share A reconciliation of proﬁt for the year and equity shares  used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share is set out below: Basic: Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the  proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by  the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding  during the period, excluding equity shares purchased by  the Company and held as treasury shares.
Equity shares  held by controlled Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”) and  Wipro Inc Beneﬁt Trust (“WIBT”) have been reduced from the  equity shares outstanding for computing basic and diluted  earnings per share.
During the year ended March 31, 2015,  WIBT sold 1.8 million shares of Wipro Limited.
Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company `86,528 `89,075 `84,895 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,454,681,650 2,456,559,400 2,428,540,505 Basic earnings per share `35.25 `36.26 `34.96 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 307 Diluted: Diluted earnings per share is calculated by  adjusting the weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the period for assumed conversion of  all dilutive potential equity shares.
Employee share options  are dilutive potential equity shares for the Company.
The calculation is performed in respect of share options  to determine the number of shares that could have  been acquired at fair value (determined as the average  market price of the Company’s shares during the period).
The number of shares calculated as above is compared  with the number of shares that would have been issued  assuming the exercise of the share options.
Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company `86,528 `89,075 `84,895 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,454,681,650 2,456,559,400 2,428,540,505 Effect of dilutive equivalent share options 7,897,511 5,130,508 7,133,064 Weighted average number of equity shares for diluted earnings  per share 2,462,579,161 2,461,689,908 2,435,673,569 Diluted earnings per share `35.13 `36.18 `34.85 26.
Employee stock incentive plans The stock compensation expense recognized for employee  services received during the year ended March 31, 2015,  2016 and 2017 were `1,138, `1,534 and `1,742 respectively.
Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”) In 1984, the Company established a controlled trust called  the Wipro Equity Reward Trust (“WERT”).
In the earlier  years, WERT purchased shares of the Company out of  funds borrowed from the Company.
The Company’s Board  Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee  recommends to WERT certain ofﬁcers and key employees,  to whom WERT issues shares from its holdings at nominal  price subject to vesting conditions.
WERT held 14,829,824,  14,829,824 and 13,728,607 shares as at March 31, 2015,  2016 and 2017 respectively.
Wipro Employee Stock Option Plans and Restricted Stock  Unit Option Plans A summary of the general terms of grants under stock  option plans and restricted stock unit option plans are  as follows: Name of Plan Authorized  Shares Range of  Exercise Prices Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 1999 (1999 Plan) 50,000,000 `171 – 490 Wipro Employee Stock Option Plan 2000 (2000 Plan) 280,303,030 `171 – 490 Stock Option Plan (2000 ADS Plan) 15,000,000 US$3 – 7 Wipro Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WRSUP 2004 plan) 22,424,242 `2 Wipro ADS Restricted Stock Unit Plan (WARSUP 2004 plan) 22,424,242 US$0.03 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2005 (WSRUP 2005 plan) 22,424,242 `2 Wipro Employee Restricted Stock Unit Plan 2007 (WSRUP 2007 plan) 18,686,869 `2 Wipro Equity Reward Trust Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2013 14,829,824 `2 Employees covered under the stock option plans and restricted stock unit option plans (collectively “stock option plans”)  are granted an option to purchase shares of the Company at the respective exercise prices, subject to requirement  of vesting conditions (generally service conditions).
These options generally vests in tranches over a period of 3 to 5  years from the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the employees can acquire one equity share for every option.
The maximum  contractual term for these stock option plans is ten years.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 308 Annual Report 2016-17 The activity in these stock option plans is summarized below: Range of  Exercise  Prices Year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 Number Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Number Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Number Weighted  Average  Exercise  Price Outstanding at the  beginning of the year `480–489 33,636 `480.20 20,181 `480.20 20,181 `480.20 `2 8,007,354 `2 6,332,219 `2 7,254,326 `2 US$0.03 2,096,492 US$0.03 2,576,644 US$0.03 3,747,430 US$0.03 Granted `480–489 — `— — `— — `— `2 2,480,000 `2 2,870,400 `2 2,398,000 `2.00 US$0.03 1,689,500 US$0.03 1,697,700 US$0.03 2,379,500 US$0.03 Exercised `480–489 (13,455) `— — `— — `— `2 (1,968,609) `2 (1,329,376) `2 (1,113,775) `2.00 US$0.03 (743,701) US$0.03 (340,876) US$0.03 (174,717) US$0.03 Forfeited and expired `480–489 — `— — `— — `— `2 (2,186,526) `2 (618,917) `2 (586,468) `2.00 US$0.03 (465,647) US$0.03 (186,038) US$0.03 (663,430) US$0.03 Outstanding at the end  of the year `480–489 20,181 `480.20 20,181 `480.20 20,181 `480.20 `2 6,332,219 `2 7,254,326 `2 7,952,083 `2.00 US$0.03 2,576,644 US$0.03 3,747,430 US$0.03 5,288,783 US$0.03 Exercisable at the end  of the year `480–489 — `480.20 20,181 `480.20 20,181 `480.20 `2 1,389,772 `2 1,204,405 `2 698,320 `2 US$0.03 180,683 US$0.03 256,753 US$0.03 141,342 US$0.03 The following table summarizes information about outstanding stock options:  As at March 31,  2015 2016 2017  Range of  Exercise  price  Numbers Weighted  Average   Remaining  Life   (Months)  Weighted  Average   Exercise  Price  Numbers Weighted  Average   Remaining  Life   (Months)  Weighted  Average   Exercise  Price  Numbers Weighted  Average   Remaining  Life   (Months)  Weighted  Average   Exercise  Price  `480 – 489  20,181 24 `480.20 20,181 — `480.20 20,181 — `480.20 `2 6,332,219 25 `2 7,254,326 23 `2.00 7,952,083 19 `2.00 US$0.03 2,576,644 31 US$0.03 3,747,430 24 US$0.03 5,288,783 24 US$0.03 The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017  was `658.12, `699.96 and `569.52 for each option, respectively.
The weighted average share price of options exercised  during the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017 was `603.58, `608.62 and `536.80 for each option, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 309 27.
Employee beneﬁts a)  Employee costs include:   Year ended March 31,  2015 2016 2017  Salaries and bonus `218,985 `237,949 `259,270 Employee beneﬁt  plans     Gratuity and other  deﬁned beneﬁt plans 688 885 1,095 Contribution to  provident and other  funds 4,027 5,166 5,974 Share based  compensation 1,138 1,534 1,742  `224,838 `245,534 `268,081 The employee beneﬁt cost is recognized in the following  line items in the statement of income:   Year ended March 31,  2015 2016 2017  Cost of revenues `189,959 `207,747 `226,595 Selling and marketing  expenses 21,851 23,663 26,051 General and  administrative  expenses 13,028 14,124 15,435  `224,838 `245,534 `268,081 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial (gains)/ losses recognized  in other comprehensive income include:   Year ended March 31,  2016 2017  Re-measurement of net  deﬁned beneﬁt liability/ (asset)    Return on plan assets  excluding interest income 30 (189) Actuarial loss/ (gain) arising  from ﬁnancial assumptions 180 363 Actuarial loss/ (gain)  arising from demographic  assumptions 2 (73) Actuarial loss/ (gain)  arising from experience  adjustments 798 (313)  1,010 (212) b) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans Defined benefit plans include gratuity for employees  drawing a salary in Indian rupees and certain beneﬁt plans  in foreign jurisdictions.
Amount recognized in the statement of income in respect  of deﬁned beneﬁt plans is as follows:   Year ended March 31,  2015 2016 2017  Current service cost `665 `915 `1,130 Net interest on net  deﬁned beneﬁt  liability/(asset) 23 (30) (35) Net gratuity cost/ (beneﬁt) `688 `885 `1,095 Actual return on plan  assets `365 `351 `692 Change in present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is  summarized below:   As at March 31,  2016 2017  Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the  beginning of the year `4,941 `6,656 Acquisitions —   751 Current service cost 915 1,130 Interest on obligation 350 464 Beneﬁts paid (530) (708) Remeasurement loss/(gains)    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from  ﬁnancial assumptions 180 363 Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from  demographic assumptions 2 (73) Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from  experience adjustments 798 (313) Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the  end of the year `6,656 `8,270 Change in plan assets is summarized below:   As at March 31,  2016 2017  Fair value of plan assets at the  beginning of the year `4,781 `6,488 Acquisitions —   561 Expected return on plan assets 380 499 Employer contributions 1,887 186 Beneﬁts paid (530) (4) Remeasurement loss/(gains)    Return on plan assets excluding  interest income (30) 189 Fair value of plan assets at the  end of the year `6,488 `7,919 Present value of unfunded  obligation `(168) `(351) Recognized asset/(liability) `(168) `(351) Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 310 Annual Report 2016-17 As at March 31, 2016 and 2017, plan assets were primarily  invested in insurer managed funds.
The Company has established an income tax approved  irrevocable trust fund to which it regularly contributes  to ﬁnance the liabilities of the gratuity plan.
The fund’s  investments are managed by certain insurance companies  as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees  and the asset allocation is within the permissible limits  prescribed in the insurance regulations.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of  actuarial valuation of these deﬁned beneﬁt plans are as  follows: As at March 31,  2016 2017  Discount rate 7.02% 5.91% Expected return on plan assets 7.02% 5.91% Expected rate of salary increase 7.31% 6.90% The expected return on plan assets is based on expectation  of the average long term rate of return expected on  investments of the fund during the estimated term of the  obligations.
The discount rate is primarily based on the prevailing  market yields of government securities for the estimated  term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary  increases considered takes into account the inﬂation,  seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
Attrition  rate considered is the management’s estimate, based on  previous years’ employee turnover of the Company.
The expected future contribution and estimated future  beneﬁt payments from the fund are as follows: Expected contribution to the fund during the  year ending March 31, 2018 `1,284 Estimated beneﬁt payments from the fund  for the year ending March 31:    2018 `1,171  2019 1,062  2020 977  2021 870  2022 756 Thereafter 5,378 Total `10,214 The expected beneﬁts are based on the same assumptions  used to measure the Company’s beneﬁt obligations as of  March 31, 2017.
Sensitivity for significant actuarial assumptions is  computed to show the movement in defined benefit  obligation by 0.5 percentage.
As of March 31, 2017, every 0.5 percentage point increase/  (decrease) in discount rate will result in (decrease)/ increase of gratuity beneﬁt obligation by approximately  `(187) and `207 respectively.
As of March 31, 2017 every 0.5 percentage point increase/  (decrease) in expected rate of salary will result in increase/  (decrease) of gratuity beneﬁt obligation by approximately  `176 and `(169) respectively.
c) Provident fund: The details of fund and plan assets are given below:   As at March 31,  2016 2017  Fair value of plan assets `36,019 `40,059 Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt  obligation 36,019 40,059 Net (shortfall)/excess `—   `—    The plan assets have been primarily invested in government  securities and corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the  present value obligation of interest guarantee under the  deterministic approach are as follows: As at March 31,  2016 2017  Discount rate for the term of the  obligation 7.75% 6.90% Average remaining tenure of  investment portfolio 6 years 6 years Guaranteed rate of return 8.75% 8.65% Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 311 28.
Related party relationships and transactions List of subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017 are provided in the table below.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of Incorporation Wipro LLC   USA  Wipro Gallagher Solutions, Inc.  USA   Opus Capital Markets  Consultants LLC USA   Wipro Promax Analytics  Solutions LLC USA  Infocrossing, Inc.  USA  Wipro Insurance Solutions LLC Wipro Data Centre and Cloud  Services, Inc. Wipro IT Services, Inc.  USA USA USA   HPH Holdings Corp. (A) USA   Appirio, Inc. (A) USA Wipro Overseas IT Services  Pvt.
Ltd   India Wipro Japan KK   Japan Wipro Shanghai Limited   China Wipro Trademarks Holding  Limited   India Wipro Travel Services Limited   India Wipro Holdings (Mauritius)  Limited   Mauritius  Wipro Holdings UK Limited  U.K.   Wipro Information Technology  Austria GmbH (A) Wipro Digital Aps (A) Austria Denmark   Wipro Europe Limited U.K.   Wipro Financial Services  UK Limited (formerly Wipro  Promax Analytics Solutions  (Europe) Limited) U.K. Wipro Cyprus Private Limited   Cyprus  Wipro Doha LLC #  Qatar  Wipro Technologies S.A DE C.V  Mexico  Wipro BPO Philippines LTD. Inc  Philippines  Wipro Holdings Hungary Korlátolt  Felelősségű Társaság  Hungary   Wipro Holdings Investment Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság Hungary  Wipro Technologies SA  Argentina  Wipro Information Technology Egypt  SAE  Egypt  Wipro Arabia Co. Limited  Saudi Arabia  Wipro Poland Sp.
Z.o.o  Poland  Wipro IT Services Poland Sp.
z o. o  Poland  Wipro Technologies Australia Pty Ltd.  Australia  Wipro Corporate Technologies Ghana  Limited  Ghana Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 312 Annual Report 2016-17 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of Incorporation  Wipro Technologies South Africa  (Proprietary) Limited  South Africa   Wipro Technologies Nigeria  Limited Nigeria Ukraine  Wipro IT Services Ukraine LLC     Wipro Information Technology  Netherlands BV.
Netherlands   Wipro Portugal S.A. (A) Portugal   Wipro Technologies Limited,  Russia Russia   Wipro Technology Chile SPA Chile   Wipro Solutions Canada  Limited Canada   Wipro Information Technology  Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan   Wipro Technologies W.T.
Costa Rica   Sociedad Anonima     Wipro Outsourcing Services  (Ireland) Limited Ireland   Wipro Technologies Norway AS Norway   Wipro Technologies VZ, C.A.
Venezuela   Wipro Technologies Peru S.A.C Peru  Wipro Technologies SRL  Romania  PT WT Indonesia  Indonesia  Wipro Australia Pty Limited  Australia  Wipro (Thailand) Co Limited  Thailand  Wipro Bahrain Limited WLL  Bahrain  Wipro Gulf LLC  Sultanate of  Oman  Rainbow Software LLC  Iraq  Cellent GmbH  Germany   Cellent Mittelstandsberatung  GmbH Cellent Gmbh (A) Germany Austria Wipro Networks Pte Limited   Singapore China     Wipro (Dalian) Limited  Malaysia  Wipro Technologies SDN BHD    Wipro Chengdu Limited   China Wipro Airport IT Services  Limited*   India Appirio India Cloud Solutions  Private Limited   India *   All the above direct subsidiaries are 100% held by the Company except that the Company holds 66.67% of the equity  securities of Wipro Arabia Limited Co and 74% of the equity securities of Wipro Airport IT Services Limited #   51% of equity securities of Wipro Doha LLC are held by a local share holder.
However, the beneﬁcial interest in these  holdings is with the Company.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 313 The Company controls ‘The Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership Scheme Trust’ and ‘Wipro SA Broad Based Ownership  Scheme SPV (RF) (PTY) LTD incorporated in South Africa.
(A)    Step Subsidiary details of Wipro Information Technology Austria GmbH, Wipro Europe Limited, Wipro Portugal S.A,  Wipro Digital Aps, Cellent Gmbh, HPH Holdings Corp. and Appirio, Inc. are as follows: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country of  Incorporation Wipro Information  Technology Austria  GmbH    Austria  Wipro Technologies  Austria GmbH   Austria  New Logic Technologies  SARL   France Wipro Europe Limited    U.K.  Wipro UK Limited   U.K. Wipro Portugal S.A.    Portugal  Wipro Retail UK Limited   U.K.  Wipro do Brasil  Technologia Ltda   Brazil  Wipro Technologies  Gmbh   Germany  Wipro Do Brasil  Sistemetas De  Informatica Ltd   Brazil Wipro Digital Aps       Designit A/S Designit Denmark A/S Designit  MunchenGmbH Designit Oslo A/S Designit Sweden AB Designit T.L.V Ltd. Designit Tokyo Ltd. Denextep Spain Digital,  S.L   Denmark Denmark Denmark Germany Norway Sweden Israel Japan Spain    Designit Colombia S A S Colombia    Designit Peru S.A.C.
Peru Cellent GmbH    Austria  Frontworx  Informationstechnologie  Gmbh    Austria HPH Holdings Corp.    USA  Healthplan Services  Insurance Agency, Inc. Healthplan Services,  Inc.    USA USA Appirio, Inc.     USA  Appirio K.K.
Topcoder, Inc. Appirio Ltd Appirio Pvt Ltd KI Management Inc. Appirio GmbH Appirio Ltd (UK) Saaspoint, Inc.  Japan USA Ireland Germany UK USA Singapore USA Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 314 Annual Report 2016-17 The list of controlled trusts are: Name of entity Nature Country ofIncorporation  Wipro Equity Reward Trust Trust India Wipro Inc Beneﬁt Trust* Trust India *  Pursuant to the announcement issued as part of the press release on October 22, 2014, Wipro Inc. Beneﬁt Trust sold  1.8 million shares of Wipro Limited and the same is reﬂected in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year  ended March 31, 2015.
The other related parties are: Name of other related parties Nature  Azim Premji Foundation Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Foundation for Development Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji education trust Entity controlled by Director Hasham Traders Entity controlled by Director Prazim Traders Entity controlled by Director Zash Traders Entity controlled by Director Hasham Investment and Trading Co. Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives Pvt.
Ltd Entity controlled by Director Azim Premji Trust Entity controlled by Director Wipro Enterprises (P) Limited Entity controlled by Director Wipro GE Healthcare Private Limited Entity controlled by Director Key management personnel   - Azim H. Premji Chairman and Managing Director - Suresh C. Senapaty Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and Executive Director (1) - T K Kurien Executive Vice Chairman (10) - Abidali Z. Neemuchwala Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Director (8) - Dr. Ashok Ganguly Non-Executive Director - Narayanan Vaghul Non-Executive Director - Dr. Jagdish N Sheth Non-Executive Director (11) - B. C. Prabhakar Non-Executive Director (2) - William Arthur Owens Non-Executive Director - Dr. Henning Kagermann Non-Executive Director (3) - Shyam Saran Non-Executive Director (2) - M.K.
Sharma Non-Executive Director - Vyomesh Joshi Non-Executive Director (6) - Ireena Vittal Non-Executive Director (7) - Rishad Azim Premji Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer and Executive Director (4) - Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (5) - Dr. Patrick J. Ennis Non-Executive Director (9) - Patrick Dupuis Non-Executive Director (9) (1)   Up to March 31, 2015.
(2)   Up to July 23, 2014.
(3)   Up to June 30, 2014.
(4)  Effective May 1, 2015.
(5)   Effective April 1, 2015.
(6)  Up to July19, 2016.
(7)   Effective October 1, 2013.
(8)   Effective February 1, 2016.
(9)   Effective April 1, 2016.
(10)   Up to January 31, 2017.
(11)   Up to July 18, 2016.
Relative of key management personnel - Yasmeen H. Premji - Tariq Azim Premji Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 315 The Company has the following related party transactions: Transaction / Balances Entities controlled by Directors Key Management Personnel  2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017  Sales of goods and services `154 `240 `114 —   —   —    Assets purchased 207 231 106 —   —   —    Interest Expense —   —   —   —   —   —    Interest Income —   —   —   —   —   —    Dividend 17,166 20,599 5,087 958 1,147 287 Royalty Income —   —   —   —   —   —    Rental Income 55 36 43 —   —   —    Rent Paid 63 22 8 4 6 6 Others 2 43 93 3 —   —    Key management personnel #        Remuneration and short-term beneﬁts —   —   —   174 273 231 Other beneﬁts —   —   —   56 135 156 Remuneration to relative of key management  personnel —   —   —   17 —   —    Balances as at the year end        Receivables 193 137 76 —   —   —    Payables 340 225 22 66 37 27 #    Post employment beneﬁt comprising of compensated absences is not disclosed as this is determined for the Company  as a whole.
Beneﬁts include the prorated value of RSUs granted to the personnel, which vest over a period of time.
29.
Commitments and contingencies Operating leases: The Company has taken ofﬁce, vehicles  and IT equipment under cancellable and non-cancellable  operating lease agreements that are renewable on a  periodic basis at the option of both the lessor and the  lessee.
The operating lease agreements extend up to a  maximum of ﬁfteen years from their respective dates of  inception and some of these lease agreements have price  escalation clause.
Rental payments under such leases  were `4,727, `5,184 and `5,953 for the year ended March  31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
Details of contractual payments under non-cancelable  leases are given below:   As at March 31,  2016 2017  Not later than one year `4,246 `5,040 Later than one year but not later  than ﬁve years 9,900 12,976 Later than ﬁve years 2,713 2,760  `16,859 `20,776 Capital commitments: As at March 31, 2016 and 2017, the  Company had committed to spend approximately `10,734  and `12,238 respectively, under agreements to purchase/ construct property and equipment.
These amounts are net  of capital advances paid in respect of these purchases.
Guarantees: As at March 31, 2016 and 2017, performance  and ﬁnancial guarantees provided by banks on behalf of  the Company to the Indian Government, customers and  certain other agencies amount to approximately `25,218  and `22,023 respectively, as part of the bank line of credit.
Contingencies and lawsuits:  The Company is subject to  legal proceedings and claims (including tax assessment  orders/ penalty notices) which have arisen in the ordinary  course of its business.
Some of the claims involve complex  issues and it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate  of the expected ﬁnancial effect, if any, that will result from  ultimate resolution of such proceedings.
However, the  resolution of these legal proceedings is not likely to have  a material and adverse effect on the results of operations  or the ﬁnancial position of the Company.
The signiﬁcant  of such matters are discussed below.
In March 2004, the Company received a tax demand for  year ended March 31, 2001 arising primarily on account of  denial of deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax  Act, 1961 (Act) in respect of proﬁt earned by the Company’s  undertaking in Software Technology Park at Bangalore.
The  same issue was repeated in the successive assessments  for the years ended March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2011 and  the aggregate demand is `47,583 (including interest of  `13,832).
The appeals ﬁled against the said demand before  the Appellate authorities have been allowed in favor of the  Company by the second appellate authority for the years  up to March 31, 2008.
Further appeals have been ﬁled  by the Income tax authorities before the Honorable High  Court.
The Hon’ble High Court has heard and disposed-off  majority of the issues in favor of the Company up to years  ended March 31, 2004.
Department has ﬁled a Special  Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 316 Annual Report 2016-17 Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court of India for  the year ended March 31, 2001 to March 31, 2004.
On similar issues for years up to March 31, 2000, the  Honorable High Court of Karnataka has upheld the claim  of the Company under section 10A of the Act.
For the  year ended March 31, 2009, the appeals are pending  before Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (Tribunal).
For years  ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, the Dispute  Resolution Panel (DRP) allowed the claim of the Company  under section 10A of the Act.
The Income tax authorities  have ﬁled an appeal before the Tribunal.
The Company received the draft assessment order for the  year ended March 31, 2012 in March 2016 with a proposed  demand of `4,241 (including interest of `1,376).
Based  on the DRP’s direction, allowing majority of the issues in  favor of the Company, the assessing ofﬁcer has passed the  ﬁnal order with Nil demand.
However, on similar issue for  earlier years, the Income Tax authorities have appealed  before the Tribunal.
For year ended March 31, 2013 the Company received the  draft assessment order in December 2016 with a proposed  demand of `4,118 (including interest of `1,278), arising  primarily on account of section 10AA issues with respect to  exclusion from Export Turnover.
The Company has ﬁled an  objection before the DRP within the prescribed timelines.
Considering the facts and nature of disallowance and the  order of the appellate authority / Honorable High Court of  Karnataka upholding the claims of the Company for earlier  years, the Company believes that the ﬁnal outcome of the  above disputes should be in favor of the Company and  there should not be any material adverse impact on the  ﬁnancial statements.
The contingent liability in respect of disputed demands  for excise duty, custom duty, sales tax and other matters  amounts to `2,585 and `2,654 as of March 31, 2017 and  2016.
However, the resolution of these legal proceedings  is not likely to have a material and adverse effect on  the results of operations or the ﬁnancial position of the  Company.
30.
Segment Information The Company is organized by the following operating  segments: IT Services and IT Products.
IT Services: The IT Services segment primarily consists of  IT Service offerings to customers organized by industry  verticals.
Effective April 1, 2016, The Company realigned  its industry verticals.
The Communication Service Provider  business unit was regrouped from the former Global Media  and Telecom (GMT) industry vertical into a new industry  vertical named “Communications” .
The Media business  unit from the former GMT industry vertical has been  realigned with the former Retail, Consumer, Transport  and Government (RCTG) industry vertical which has been  renamed as “Consumer Business Unit” industry vertical.
Further, the Network Equipment Provider business unit  of the former GMT industry vertical has been realigned  with the Manufacturing industry vertical to form the  “Manufacturing and Technology” industry vertical.
The revised industry verticals are as follows: Banking,  Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Healthcare and  Lifesciences (HLS), Consumer Business Unit (CBU), Energy,  Natural Resources and Utilities (ENU), Manufacturing  and Technology (MNT) and Communications (COMM).
IT  Services segment also includes Others which comprises  dividend income relating to strategic investments,  which are presented within “Finance and other Income”  in the statement of Income.
Key service offerings to  customers includes software application development  and maintenance, research and development services  for hardware and software design, business application  services, analytics, consulting, infrastructure outsourcing  services and business process services.
Comparative information has been restated to give effect  to the above changes.
IT Products:  The Company is a value added reseller  of desktops, servers, notebooks, storage products,  networking solutions and packaged software for leading  international brands.
In certain total outsourcing contracts  of the IT Services segment, the Company delivers hardware,  software products and other related deliverables.
Revenue  relating to the above items is reported as revenue from the  sale of IT Products.
The Chairman and Managing Director of the Company has  been identiﬁed as the Chief Operating Decision Maker  (CODM) as deﬁned by IFRS 8, “Operating Segments.” The  Chairman of the Company evaluates the segments based  on their revenue growth and operating income.
Assets and liabilities used in the Company’s business  are not identiﬁed to any of the operating segments, as  these are used interchangeably between segments.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable  to provide segment disclosures relating to total assets and  liabilities since a meaningful segregation of the available  data is onerous.
Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS Wipro Limited 317 Information on reportable segments for the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows:  IT Services IT  Products  Reconciling  Items  Entity  total  BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Others Total     Revenue 135,967 82,242 83,417 68,883 119,175 38,756 —   528,440 25,922 (183) 554,179 Other operating  income        4,082   4,082 Segment Result 24,939 9,479 14,493 14,421 23,453 6,149 —   92,934 (1,680) (506) 90,748 Unallocated        (951) —   —   (951) Segment Result  Total        96,065 (1,680) (506) 93,879 Finance expense           (5,183) Finance and other  income           21,660 Proﬁt before tax           110,356 Income tax expense           (25,213) Proﬁt for the period           85,143 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment           23,107 Information on reportable segments for the year ended March 31, 2016 is as follows: IT Services IT  Products  Reconciling  Items  Entity  total  BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Others Total     Revenue 128,147 58,358 79,514 70,866 113,422 37,009 —   487,316 29,722 (731) 516,307 Segment Result 27,902 12,009 13,590 13,475 24,223 5,990 —   97,189 (1,007) (386) 95,796 Unallocated        1,064 —   —   1,064 Segment Result  Total         98,253 (1007) (386) 96,860 Finance expense           (5,582) Finance and other  income            23,655 Proﬁt before tax           114,933 Income tax expense           (25,366) Proﬁt for the period           89,567 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment            14,965 Information on reportable segments for the year ended March 31, 2015 is as follows:   IT Services IT  Products  Reconciling  Items  Entity  total BFSI HLS CBU ENU MNT COMM Others Total  Revenue 115,505 49,884 66,866 71,228 102,537 34,160 —   440,180 34,006 (1,004) 473,182 Segment Result 26,801 10,565 13,635 16,934 23,831 6,414 583 98,763 374 (1,385) 97,752 Unallocated        (2,329) —   —   (2,329) Segment Result  Total         96,434 374 (1,385) 95,423 Finance expense           (3,599) Finance and other  income           19,859 Proﬁt before tax           111,683 Income tax expense           (24,624) Proﬁt for the period           87,059 Depreciation,  amortization and  impairment           12,823 Consolidated Financial Statements Under IFRS 318 Annual Report 2016-17 The Company has four geographic segments: India,  Americas, Europe and Rest of the world.
The Americas  refer to North and South America.
Revenues from the  geographic segments based on domicile of the customer  are as follows:   Year ended March 31,  2015 2016 2017  India 45,814 51,371 46,555 Americas 227,328 258,615 290,719 Europe 124,523 126,417 133,909 Rest of the world 75,517 79,904 82,996  `473,182 `516,307 `554,179 No client individually accounted for more than 10% of the  revenues during the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 or  2017.
Management believes that it is currently not practicable  to provide disclosure of assets by geographical location,  as meaningful segregation of the available information  is onerous.
Notes: a) Effective April 1, 2016, CODM’s review of the segment  results is measured after including the amortization  and impairment charge for acquired intangibles to  the respective segments.
Such costs were classiﬁed  under reconciling items till the year ended March 31,  2016.
Comparative information has been restated to  give effect to the same.
b) “Reconciling items” includes elimination of inter- segment transactions, dividend income/ gains/  losses relating to strategic investments and other  corporate activities.
c) Segment result represents operating proﬁts of the  segments and dividend income and gains or losses  (net) relating to strategic investments, which are  presented within “Finance and other income” in the  statement of Income.
d) Revenues include excise duty of `2, ` Nil and ` Nil  for the year ended March 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017,  respectively.
For the purpose of segment reporting,  the segment revenues are net of excise duty.
Excise  duty is reported in reconciling items.
e) Revenue from sale of traded cloud based licenses is  reported as part of IT Services revenues.
f) For the purpose of segment reporting, the Company  has included the impact of “foreign exchange gains /  (losses), net” in revenues (which is reported as a part  of operating proﬁt in the statement of income).
g) For evaluating performance of the individual  operating segments, stock compensation expense is  allocated on the basis of straight line amortization.
The differential impact of accelerated amortization  of stock compensation expense over stock  compensation expense allocated to the individual  operating segments is reported in reconciling items.
h) The Company generally offers multi-year payment  terms in certain total outsourcing contracts.
These  payment terms primarily relate to IT hardware,  software and certain transformation services in  outsourcing contracts.
The finance income on  deferred consideration earned under these contracts  is included in the revenue of the respective segment  and is eliminated under reconciling items.
i) Segment result of HLS industry vertical for the year  ended March 31, 2017 is after considering the impact  of impairment charge recorded on certain intangible  assets recognised on acquisitions.
j) Net gain from sale of EcoEnergy division amounting  to `4,082 is included as part of IT Services segment  result for the year ended March 31, 2017. k) Operating income of segments is after recognition of  stock compensation expense arising from the grant  of options: Segments Year ended March 31,  2015 2016 2017  IT Services `1,247 `1,424 `1,550 IT Products (10) 2 4 Reconciling items (99) 108 188 Total `1,138 `1,534 `1,742 Wipro Limited 319 Section A: General Information about the Company 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company   L32102KA1945PLC020800.
2.
Name of the Company   Wipro Limited 3.
Registered address   Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road  Bangalore - 560 035  Karnataka, India 4.
Website   www.wipro.com 5.
E-mail id   sustain.report@wipro.com 6.
Financial Year reported   April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 (FY 2016-17) 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial  activity code-wise)   IT Software, Services and related activities  NIC Code-620 8.
List three key products/services that the Company  manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet)   Please refer page nos.
30 to 35 of this Annual Report 9.
Total number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company   i.
Number of International Locations (Provide  details of major 5)   162 locations (including data centers)    Please refer complete list of locations available  on the Company’s website at www.wipro.com  ii.
Number of National Locations    55 locations   Please refer complete list of locations available  on the Company’s website at www.wipro.com 10.
Markets served by the Company – Local/State/ National/International/   Please refer to “Geography Wise Performance” on page   no.
43 of this Annual Report.
Section B: Financial Details of the Company 1.
Paid up Capital   As at March 31, 2017 the paid up equity share capital  of the Company stood at ` 4,86,18,01,130 consisting  of 2,43,09,00,565 equity shares of ` 2 each.
2.
Total Turnover   For the ﬁnancial year 2016-17, the total turnover of  the Company on a consolidated basis was ` 550,402  million.
3.
Total proﬁt after taxes   For the ﬁnancial year 2016-17  the net proﬁt of the  Company on a consolidated basis was ` 85,179  million.
4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) as percentage of proﬁt after tax   Please refer to Corporate Social Responsibility Report  for the year on Page 88-94 of the 2016-17 Annual  Report.
5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has  been incurred:-   Please refer to Corporate Social Responsibility Report  for the year on Page 88-94 of the 2016-17 Annual  Report.
Business Responsibility Report 320 Annual Report 2016-17 Section C: Other Details 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/  Companies?
The Company has 91 subsidiaries as on March 31,  2017.Please refer the complete list on page nos.
185-187 of this Annual Report 2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate  in the BR Initiatives of the parent company?
If  yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary  company(s).
As the BR Initiatives of the Company are run at global  level, all subsidiaries participate in BR Initiatives.
3.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers,  distributors etc.)
that the Company does business  with, participate in the BR initiatives of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/ entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]    Section D: BR Information 1.
Details of Director responsible for BR   a)  Details of the Director responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/policies    The “Board Governance and Nomination  Committee” is responsible for the implementation  of the CSR policy.
Please refer to Page 118-119  of the 2016-17 Annual Report.
b)  Details of the BR head DIN (if applicable) Not applicable Name Anurag Behar Designation Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer  Telephone No.
080 66144900 Email id anurag.behar@wipro.com 2.
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies  (Reply in Y/N)   a) Do you have a policy /policies for: 	 	 •	 Principle	 1:	Yes.
Wipro	has	a	 policy	 on	 Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.
Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) is  applicable to our customers, suppliers,  partners, competitors, employees and other  stakeholders and is available at http:// www.wipro.com/documents/investors/ pdf-files/code-of-business-conduct-and- ethics.pdf.
•	 Principle	 2:	Yes.
Our	Policy	on	Ecological	 Sustainability is available at http://www.
wipro.com/documents/Ecological_ Sustainability_Policy.pdf.
•	 Principle	 3:	Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	and	policy	on	 Health	and	Safety	is	available	at	http://www.
wipro.com/documents/Health_and_Safety_ Policy.pdf.
•	 Principle	 4:	Yes.
Policy	 on	Corporate	 Social	 Responsibility	is	available	at	http://www.wipro.
com/documents/investors/pdf-files/policy-on- corporate-social-responsibility-2015.pdf.
•	 Principle	 5:	 Yes	Wipro’s	 COBC	 addresses 	 principles	of	Human	Rights	as	per	the	principles	 of	the	U.	N.	Global	Compact	and	is	available	at	 http://www.wipro.com/documents/Human- Rights-Policy.pdf.
•	 Principle	 6:	Yes.
Our	Policy	on	Ecological	 Sustainability.
•	 Principle	 7:	There	is	no	distinct	 policy	 on public advocacy.
However, refer  Sustainability Report 15-16 for details of  our advocacy and outreach engagements.
http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15- 16/?q=advocacy-and-public-policy.
•	 Principle	 8:	Wipro	does	not	have	a	separate	policy.
However	these	aspects	are	covered	in	the	COBC,	 the	Ecological	Sustainability	Commitment	and	 policy	on	Corporate	Social	Responsibility.
Also,	 refer	http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/ wipros-strategic-perspective 	 	 •	 Principle	9:	 Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	covers	this.
b) Has the policy being formulated in consultation  with the relevant stakeholders?
Yes, for all principles.
c) Does the policy conform to any national/ international standards?
If yes, specify?
(50  words)  	 	 •	 Principle	1:	 Yes.
Wipro’s	COBC	subscribes	 to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of  USA.
Our financial reporting, Internal  Controls and Procedures and Disclosure  are in compliance with Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)  and International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS).
•	 Principle	2:	 Yes.
Wipro	has	been	following	 the ISO 14001 Standard and Guidelines for  our Environmental Management System.
For designing of our Green Buildings,  we have adhered to the international  Leadership in Energy and Environmental   Design (LEED) standard.
•	 Principle	 3:	Yes.
We	are	certified	against	 OHSAS 18001 standard across our key  lo cations.
Our comprehensive sustainability  reports, independently assured for last 8  Less than 30% Wipro Limited 321 years, cover this principle.
•	 Principle	 4:	Yes.
Our	 comprehensive 	 sustainability reports, independently  assured for last 8 years, cover this principle.
•	 Principle	 5:	Yes.
We	subscribe	to	the	UN	 Global Compact principles.
•	 Principle	 6:	Yes.
Our	 Environmental 	 Management System is based on the ISO  14001 Standard and the Green Buildings  complies with the international LEED  standard.
•	 Principle	7:	Not 	Applicable 	 	 •	 Principle	 8:	Yes.
We	subscribe	 to	the	 UN Global Compact principles.
We also  disclose details of our programs and key  outcomes as part of Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) based sustainability reports  and UNGC Communication in Progress.
•	 Principle	 9:	Yes.
We	subscribe	to	the	UN	 Global Compact principles with respect to  this principle.
d) Has the policy being approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/ appropriate Board Director?
•	 Principle	1:	 Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by our  Chairman.
•	 Principle	 2:	Yes.
The	Policy	on	Ecological	 Sustainability is approved by the Board  of Directors and signed by Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and  Executive Director.
•	 Principle	 3:	Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	the	 Board.
The Policy on Health and Safety has  been signed by Mr. Saurabh Govil, President  - Human Resources 	 	 •	 Principle	4:	 Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by our  Chairman.
•	 Principle	5:	 Yes.
The	COBC	is	approved	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by our  Chairman.
•	 Principle	 6:	The	COBC	 is	approved 	by	 our Board of Directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
The Policy on Ecological  Sustainability is signed by Mr. Abidali Z  Neemuchwala, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and  Executive Director.
•	 Principle	7:	Not 	Applicable 	 	 •	 Principle	8:	The	Policy	on	Corporate	Social	 Responsibility is approved by the board.
•	 Principle	 9:	The	COBC	 is	approved 	by	 our Board of directors and endorsed by  our Chairman.
The Policy on Ecological  Sustainability is approved by the board and  signed by Mr. Abidali Z Neemuchwala, Chief  Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Director.
e) Does the company have a speciﬁed committee  of the Board/ Director/Ofﬁcial to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
The “Board Governance, Nomination and  Compensation Committee” oversees the  implementation of policies and initiatives  related to CSR.
http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf- files/policy-on-corporate-social-responsibility-2015.
pdf  f)  Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed  online.
COBC-  	 	 http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/ pdf-files/code-of-business-conduct-and- ethics.pdf   Policy on Health and Safety-  	 	 http://www.wipro.com/documents/Health_and_ Safety_Policy.pdf   Policy on Ecological Sustainability- 	 	 http://www.wipro.com/documents/Ecological_ Sustainability_Policy.pdf   Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility- 	 	 http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/ pdf-files/policy-on-corporate-social- responsibility-2015.pdf   Policy on Human Rights- 	 	 http://www.wipro.com/documents/Human- Rights-Policy.pdf   GRI Report 2015-16- 	 	 http://www.wiprosustainabilityreport.com/  g) Has the policy been formally communicated to  all relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes, the policies have been formally  communicated to internal and external  stakeholders.
They are available online for all  stakeholders to refer to in the above mentioned  links.
h) Does the company have in-house structure to  implement the policy/policies?
Yes, for all principles, although Wipro does not  have a policy on public policy and advocacy, the  sustainability organisation oversees the public  policy initiatives.
322 Annual Report 2016-17  i) Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy/policies?
Yes, for all principles.
A 24x7 multi-lingual  online and hotline ombuds process is in place  to address grievances from stakeholders across  the organization.
Analyst and Investors provide regular feedback  through media, interviews and ratings.
Employees have multiple channels for grievance  redressal.
Suppliers can provide feedback either through  the ombuds process, helpline, helpdesk or  forums like the Annual Supplier Meet.
Customers have multiple channels for raising  grievances – account managers, client  engagement managers, the customer advocacy  group and through independently administered  satisfaction surveys.
There are ongoing,  project based and annual feedbacks from our  Customers.
j) Has the company carried out independent audit/ evaluation of the working of this policy by an  internal or external agency   Our Sustainability Report of 2015-16, covering the  9 NVG principles has been independently audited.
Please refer to http://wiprosustainabilityreport.
com/15-16/?q=assurance-statement for more  details.
This Business Responsibility Report is also  veriﬁed by independent assurance provider DNV  GL.
Refer to page no.
325 to 326 of this Annual  Report for the Assurance Statement.
Internal	 Audit	 Function:	The	internal	 audit	 function carries an audit of processes and  practices across functions of the organization  using the Code of Conduct as the guideline.
3.
Governance related to BR   Indicate the frequency with which the Board of  Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess  the BR performance of the Company.
Within 3  months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year.
Quarterly  Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability  Report?
What is the hyperlink for viewing this report?
How frequently it is published?
Wipro’s Annual Report includes an articulation on  the nine NVG principles.
We also publish an annual   Sustainability Report.
http://www.wipro.com/about-wipro/sustainability/ sustainability-disclosures.aspx Section E: Principle-wise performance  Principle 1  1.1 Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption cover only the company?
COBC extends  to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs /Others?
Yes, COBC extends to all 1.2  How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
If so, provide the details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
Please refer page no.
37 of this Annual Report.
Principle 2  2.1  List up to 3 of your products or services whose design  has incorporated social or environmental concerns,  risks and/or opportunities.
Our work in the space of IT services and consulting  includes cloud based services, managed services,  Internet of things, infrastructure services and  digital offerings, all of which fundamentally are  premised on improving resource efficiency and  reducing environmental footprint.
We work in the  domains of health care and life sciences, government  services, banking, transportation, energy and natural  resources help in enhancing provisioning of services  across all sections of the society.
2.2  For each such product, provide the following details  in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material  etc.)
per unit of product (optional):  Reduction during  sourcing/ production/distribution achieved since the  previous year throughout the value chain, Reduction  during usage by consumers (energy, water) that has  been achieved since the previous year?
1)  Wipro EcoEnergy, the clean tech business unit  of Wipro Limited offers Enterprise wide Energy  Management Services to help customers  reduce their energy consumption, reduce CO2  emissions, and improve the efﬁciency in energy  operations.
The value proposition of EcoEnergy  is to help its customers achieve 6% – 18%  of effective cost savings through reduced  consumption, optimized operations, monitoring  and maintenance over a multi-year engagement.
2)  Wipro offers environment centric solutions to  energy, utilities and natural resources industries  with focus on environment, health and safety.
These integrated solutions are designed to  help customers meet legal and regulatory  requirements; reduce carbon footprints and  Wipro Limited 323 hazardous emissions; efﬁciently manage water  and waste; improve occupational Health Safety,  process and asset safety; and reduce risks  to employees, proximate communities and  environment.
3)  Wipro offers a unique suite of Sustainability  and Energy Management applications to  manufacturing industry clients which helps  them track real-time consumption, perform  higher asset utilization and predict energy  consumption patterns.
2.3  Does the company have procedures in place for  sustainable sourcing (including transportation)?
If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced  sustainably?
Also, provide the details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
Green Procurement program for ICT Hardware and  Electronic End of Life as part of which we sourced  more than 12,000 EPEAT registered electronic  products in 2016.
Please refer page no.
55 of this Annual Report.
2.4  Has the company taken any steps to procure goods  and services from local & small producers, including  communities surrounding their place of work?
If yes,  what steps have been taken to improve their capacity  and capability of local and small vendors?
Local	Procurement:	Wipro	encourages	sourcing	from	 the local economy.
Local sourcing reduces costs,  provides local employment beneﬁts and reduced  environmental footprint in sourcing.
45 % of suppliers  spend is from suppliers based in India.
Please refer page no.
55 of this Annual Report.
2.5 Does the company have a mechanism to recycle  products and waste?
If yes what is the percentage of  recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%,  5-10%, >10%).
Also, provide the details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
Please refer page no.
62 of this Annual Report.
Principle 3  3.1  Please indicate the Total number of employees.
Please refer page no.
52 of this Annual Report.
3.2  Please indicate the Total number of employees hired  on temporary/contractual/casual basis.
Please refer page no.
52 of this Annual Report.
3.3  Please indicate the Number of permanent women  employees.
Please refer page no.
52 of this Annual Report.
3.4  Please indicate the Number of permanent employees  with disabilities   Please refer page no.
52 of this Annual Report.
3.5  Do you have an employee association that is  recognized by management?
Please refer page no.
50 of this Annual Report.
3.6  What percentage of your permanent employees are  members of this recognized employee association?
Refer to Freedom of Association section of MD&A.
3.7  Please indicate the Number of complaints relating  to child labor, forced labor, involuntary labor, sexual  harassment, in the last ﬁnancial year, and those that  are pending, as on the end of the ﬁnancial year.
Please refer page no.
37 of this Annual Report.
3.8  What percentage of your under mentioned employees  were given safety & skill up-gradation training in the  last year?
1.
Permanent Employees   2.
Permanent Women Employees  	 3.
Casual/Temporary/Contractual	Employees	  4.
Employees with Disabilities   Safety training is provided to 100% of the employees.
For information on skill up-gradation training, please  refer page no.
52 of this Annual Report.
Principle 4 4.1  Has the company mapped its internal and external  stakeholders?
Yes 4.2  Out of the above, has the company identified  the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized  stakeholders?
Refer to Sustainability Report 2015-16. http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15- 16/?q=partnering-social-change 4.3  Are there any special initiatives undertaken by  the company to engage with the disadvantaged,    vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
If so,  provide the details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Please refer page no.
58 of this Annual Report.
Principle 5 5.1  Does the policy of the company on human rights  cover only the company or extend to the Group/Joint  Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?
Human	Rights	policy	extends	to	the	Group/Joint	 Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs	etc.
5.2  How many stakeholder complaints have been  received in the past financial year, and what  percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  management?
None 324 Annual Report 2016-17 Principle 6  6.1  Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the  company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/  Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.
Yes 6.2  Does the company have strategies/initiatives to  address global environmental issues such as, climate  change, global warming, etc?
Yes/No.
If yes, please  give hyperlink for the webpage, etc.
Yes.
Refer	to	Sustainablity	Report	2015-16.	http:// wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15-16/?q=ecological- sustainability 6.3  Does the company identify and assess potential  environmental risks?
Yes 6.4 Does the company have any project related to Clean  Development Mechanism?
If so, provide the details  thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Also, if yes, whether  any environmental compliance report has been ﬁled?
No 6.5  Has the company undertaken any other initiatives  on – clean technology, energy efﬁciency, renewable  energy, etc?
Yes/No.
If yes, please give hyperlink for  the web page, etc.
Yes.
Refer	to	Sustainability	Report	2015-16.	http:// wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15-16/?q=ecological- sustainability 6.6 Are the emissions/waste generated by the company  within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for  the ﬁnancial year being reported?
Yes 6.7 Number of show cause/legal notices received from  CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e., not resolved to  satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year.
None Principle 7 7.1  Is your company a member of any trade and chamber  or association?
If yes, name only those major ones  that your business deals with.
Please	 refer	to	http://wiprosustainabilityreport.
com/15-16/?q=advocacy-and-public-policy 7.2  Have you advocated/lobbied through the above  associations for the advancement or improvement  of public good?
Yes/No.
If yes, specify the broad  areas (Governance and Administration, Economic  Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy  Security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business  Principles, Others).
Please	 refer	to	http://wiprosustainabilityreport.
com/15-16/?q=advocacy-and-public-policy Principle 8 8.1 Does the company have specified programs/  initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related  to Principle 8?
If yes, provide the details thereof.
Please refer to page no.
56-58 of this Annual Report.
8.2  Are the programs/projects undertaken through  an in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/  government structures/any other organization?
Wipro partners with non governmental organizations  working on the areas of our focus.
8.3  Have you done any impact assessment of your  initiative?
Yes 8.4  What is your company’s direct contribution to  community development projects- Amount in INR  and the details of the projects undertaken.
Please refer to page nos.
9, 56 to 58 of this Annual  Report.
8.5  Have you taken steps to ensure that this community  development initiative is successfully adopted by the  community?
Please explain in 50 words or so.
The nature of the programs supported by Wipro  ensures successful adoption by communities.
Also  Wipro works with organizations which has a good  connect and presence in the local communities.
For more details, please refer page no.
56-58 of this  Annual Report.
Principle 9  9.1  What percentage of customer complaints/consumer  cases are pending as on the end of ﬁnancial year?
None 9.2  Does the company display product information on  the product label, over and above what is mandated  as per local laws?
Yes/No/N.A./Remarks (additional  information).
Not Applicable 9.3  Is there any case ﬁled by any stakeholder against  the company regarding unfair trade practices,  irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive  behavior during the last ﬁve years and pending as  on end of ﬁnancial year?
If so, provide the details  thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Not Applicable 9.4  Did your company carry out any consumer survey/  consumer satisfaction trends?
Please refer page no.
54 of this Annual Report.
Wipro Limited 325 Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement on Business Responsibility Report Scope and Approach DNV	GL	Business	Assurance	India	 Private	Limited	has	been	commissioned	 by	the	management	of	Wipro	Limited	(‘Wipro’	or	‘the	 Company’)	to	carry	out	an	independent	assurance	engagement	based	on	desk	review	for	the	non-financial	-	 qualitative	and	 quantitative	-	disclosures	in	its	Business	Responsibility	(BR)	Report	(hereafter	referred	as	“the	Report’	to	be	included	in	Wipro’s	Annual	 Report	2016-17	(‘the	Report’)	in	its	printed	format	for	the	financial	year	ending	31st	March	2017.
The	non-financial	disclosures	in	the	 Report	are	prepared	by	Wipro	and	aligned	with	the	principles	of	National	voluntary	guidelines	and	Securities	and	Exchange	Board	 of	India	(SEBI)	requirements	with	respect	to	BRR	vide	circular	No.
CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2012	dated	August	13,	2012.
We	performed	our	work	using	DNV	GL’s	assurance	methodology	VeriSustainTM1	,	which	is	based	on	our	professional	experience,	 international	assurance	best	practice	including	International	Standard	on	Assurance	Engagements	3000	(ISAE	3000)	Revised*.
Our	 engagement	was	planned	and	carried	out	in	May	–	June	2017	and	did	not	involve	any	site	visits.
The	assurance	engagement	was	 of	Moderate	level.
The	intended	user	of	this	assurance	statement	is	the	Management	of	Wipro	(‘the	Management’).
DNV	GL	expressly	disclaims	disclaim	 any	liability	or	responsibility	to	a	third	party	for	decisions,	whether	investment	or	otherwise,	based	on	this	assurance	statement.
We	planned 	and	performed	our	work	to	obtain	the	sample	evidence	we	considered	necessary	to	provide	a	basis	for	our	assurance	 opinion	and	the	process	did	not	involve	engagement	with	external	stakeholders.
Responsibilities of the Management of Wipro and of the Assurance Providers The	Management	of	Wipro	have	the	sole	responsibility	for	the	preparation	of	the	Report	as	well	as	the	processes	 for	collecting,	 analysing	and	reporting	the	information	presented	in	the	Report.
In	performing	our	assurance	work,	our	responsibility	is	to	the	 Management;	however,	our	statement	represents	our	independent	opinion	and	is	intended	to	inform	the	outcome	of	our	assurance	 to	the	stakeholders	of	the	Company.
DNV	GL’s	assurance	engagements	are	based	on	the	assumption	that	the	data	and	information	provided	by	the	Company	to	us	as	 part	of	our	review	have	been	provided	in	good	faith.
We	were	not	involved	in	the	preparation	of	any	statements	or	data	included	 in	the	Report	except	for	this	Assurance	Statement Basis of our Opinion The	engagement	was	carried	out	at	Wipro’s	Head	Office	at	Bengaluru,	we	did	not	carry	out	any	site	visits	to	validate	the	qualitative	 and	quantitative	disclosures	in	this	Report	as	per	agreed	upon	procedure.
We	undertook	the	following	activities:	 	 •	 Review	of 	Wipro’s	approach	towards	 disclosures	against	Section	a	to	e	of	BR	Reporting.
•	 Limited	interviews	with	selected	senior	managers	responsible	 for	management	of	sustainability	issues	and	 review of selected evidence to support issues discussed.
We were free to choose interviewees and interviewed  those with overall responsibility to deliver the Company’s sustainability objectives; 1	The	VeriSustain	protocol	is	available	on	www.dnvgl.com *	Assurance	Engagements	other	than	Audits	or	Reviews	of	Historical	Financial	Information.
326 Annual Report 2016-17 	 •	 Review 	of	supporting	evidence	for	key	sustainability	related	statements,	claims	and	data	in	the	Report	against	 the nine principles; 	 •	 Review	 of	the	processes	for	gathering	and	consolidating	the	specified	performance	data	and,	for	a	sample,	 checking the data consolidation.
During	the	assurance	process,	we	did	not	come	across	limitations	to	the	scope	of	the	agreed	assurance	engagement.
The	reported	 data	on	economic	performance,	expenditure	towards	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	(CSR)	and	other	financial	data	are	based	on	 audited	financial	statements	issued	by	the	Company’s	statutory	auditors	and	was	excluded	from	our	scope	of	work.
Opinion and Opportunities for Improvement On	the	basis	of	the	moderate	level	verification	undertaken,	nothing	came	 to	our	attention	to	suggest	that	the	Report	does	not	 properly	describe	Wipro’s	disclosure	requirements	as	set	out	 by	SEBI,	including	the	referenced	information	 to	its	Sustainability	 Report;	however,	we	recommend	that	the	disclosures	in	this	report	could	be		further	detailed	 to	explicitly	bring	out	the	required	 information	especially	in	section	a	and	b	of	the	report.
For	DNV	GL Kiran	Radhakrishnan	 Vadakepatth	Nandkumar Team	Leader	 Assurance	Reviewer Assessor	-	Sustainability	Services	 Regional	Manager	-	Regional	Sustainability	Operations	 DNV	GL	Business	Assurance	India	Private	Limited,	India.
Region	India	and	Middle	East 			 DNV	GL	Business	Assurance	India	Private	Limited,	India.
17th June 2017, Bengaluru, India.
Wipro Limited 327 Glossary Abbreviations for Annual Report FY16-17 Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 1 <IR> 	Integrated	Report 2 A&D Aerospace	&	Defence 3 AAS As	A	Service 4 ADM Application	Development	&	Maintenance 5 ADR American	Depository	Receipt 6 ADS 	American	Depositary	shares 7 AI Artificial	Intelligence 8 APAC Asia	Pacific 9 ASEAN Association	of	Southeast	Asian	Nations 10 BBBEE Broad-Based	Black	Economic	Empowerment 11 BCMS Business	Continuity	Management	System 12 BCMS Business	Continuity	Management	System 13 BCSD Business	Council	for	Sustainable	Development 14 BFSI Banking,	Financial	Services	&	Insurance 15 BI Business	Intelligence 16 BPaaS Business	Process	as	a	Service 17 BPO Business	Process	Outsourcing 18 BPS Business	Process	Services 19 bps Basis	Point 20 BSE Bombay	Stock	Exchange 21 C(S)PCB Central(State)	Pollution	Control	Board 22 CAG Customer	Advocacy	Group 23 CAGR Compounded	Annual	Growth	Rate 24 CBU Consumer	Business	Unit 25 CDLI Carbon	Disclosure	Leadership	Index 26 CEM Client	Engagement	Manager 27 CEO Chief	Executive	Officer 28 CEP Continuous	Engagement	Program 29 CFO Chief	Financial	Officer 30 CGU Cash	Generating	Units 31 CII Confederation	of	Indian	Industry 32 CIN Corporate	Identification	Number 33 CMSP Communication	&	Service	Provider 34 COBC Code	of	Business	Conduct 35 COSO Company	of	Sponsoring	Trade	way	Organization 36 CRM 	Customer	Relationship	Management Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 37 CSAT Customer	Satisfaction 38 CSPs Communication	Service	Providers 39 CSR Corporate	Social	Responsibility 40 CTI Computer	Telephony	Interface 41 CTO Chief	Technology	Officer 42 CXO Chief	Executive’s	Office 43 D&I Diversity	&	Inclusion 44 DDP 	Data	Discovery	Platform 45 DIN Director	Identification	Number 46 DJSI Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Index 47 DOEC 	Diversity	and	Equal	Opportunity	Centre 48 E-City Electronic	City 49 ENU Energy,	Natural	Resources	and	Utilities 50 EPI Energy	Performance	Indicator 51 EPS Earning	Per	Share 52 ESD Enterprise	and	Supplier	Development 53 ESG Environmental,	Social	and	Governance 54 ESOP Employee	Stock	Options 55 ETRM Energy	Trading	and	Risk	Management 56 FAR Floor	Area 57 FAST Framework	 for 	 Application	 Services 	 Transformation 58 FCTR Foreign	Currency	Translation	Reserve 59 FICCI Federation	of	Indian	Chambers	of	Commerce	 and	Industry 60 FII Financial	Institutional	Investor 61 FPP Fixed	Price	Projects 62 FY 	Financial	Year 63 GAAP Generally	Accepted	Accounting	Principles 64 GHG Green	House	Gases 65 GIS Global	Infrastructure	Services 66 GMT Global	Media	and	Telecom 67 GRI Global	Reporting	Initiative 68 GTM Go-To-Market 69 HCM 	Human	Capital	Management 70 HLS Healthcare	and	Life	Sciences 71 HoDs Heads	of	the	Departments 328 Annual Report 2016-17 Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 72 Holmes 	Wipro	Holmes	Artificial	Intelligence	Platform	TM 73 HPS Health	Plan	Services 74 HR 	Human	Resource 75 HSSE Health,	Safety	Security	and	Environment 76 HUF Hindu	Undivided	Family 77 IAAS Infrastructure	as	a	Service 78 IAS International	Accounting	Standard 79 IASB International	Accounting	Standards	Board 80 IBBI Biodiversity	Initiative 81 ICM International	Care	Ministries 82 IFRIC IFRS	Interpretations	Committee 83 IFRS International	Financial	Reporting	Standards 84 IIM Indian	Institute	of	Management 85 IIRC International	Integrated	Reporting	Council 86 ILO 	International	Labour	Organization 87 IoE Internet	of	Everything 88 IoT Internet	of	Things 89 IP Intellectual	Property 90 ISSG Integrated	Services	and	Solutions	Group 91 IT Information	Technology 92 IT-BPM Information	 Technology-	 Business	 Process	 Management 93 ITES Information	Technology	Enabled	Services 94 IUCN International	Union	of	Conservation	Networks 95 JAC Joint	Audit	Consortium 96 KL 	Kilolitres 97 KMP Key	Managerial	Personnel 98 KSWN Karnataka	State	Water	Network 99 LAN Local	Area	Network 100 LATAM Latin	America 101 LED Light	Emitting	Diode 102 LEED Leadership	 in	 Energy	 and	 Environmental 	 Designs 103 LIBOR London	Inter	Bank	Offered	Rate 104 LLC 	Limited	liability	company 105 LT M 	Last	twelve	months 106 LT V Life	time	value 107 M2M Machine	to	Machine 108 MCA Ministry	of	Corporate	Affairs 109 MD&A 	Management	discussion	and	Analysis 110 ME 	Middle	East 111 MFG Manufacturing	and	Technology 112 MRE Median	Remuneration	of	Employees 113 MSW Mixed	Solid	Waste 114 MTLCs Mission10X	Technology	Learning	centers 115 NASSCOM National	Association	of	Software	and	Services	 Companies 116 NBFC Non	Banking	Financial	Company 117 NCC Natural	Capital	Coalition 118 NGCE Next	Gen	Customer	Experience 119 NHRD 	National	HRD	Network 120 NIPP NASSC OM	Industry	Partner	Program 121 NRI Non-resident	Indian Sl.
No Abbreviation Expansion 122 NSE National	Stock	Exchange 123 NUI Natural	User	Interface 124 NVGs National	Voluntary	Guidelines 125 NYSE New	York	Stock	Exchange 126 OCP Operational	Control	Procedures 127 OEM Original	Equipment	Manufacturer 128 OWC Organic	Waste	Converters 129 PaaS Platform	as	a	Service 130 PEET Partner	Employee	Engagement	team 131 PES Product	Engineering	Services	Group 132 PGWM Participatory	Ground	Water	Mapping	Program 133 POC Proof	of	Concepts 134 PRO Partner	Relation	Office 135 PSCI Pharmaceutical	Supply	Chain	Initiative 136 PwD Persons	with	Disability 137 RBAG Red	Bison	Advisory	Group 138 RCTG Retail,	Consumer,	Transport	and	Government 139 REC Renewable	Energy	Certificate 140 RMA Revolution	in	Military	Affairs 141 RPA Robotic	process	automation 142 RPD 	Rights	of	Persons	with	Disabilities 143 RPT Related	Party	Transactions 144 RSU Restricted	Stock	Unit 145 SaaS Software	as	a	Service 146 SAIC Science	Applications	International	Corporation 147 SD Skills	Development 148 SDX Software	Defined	Everything 149 SEBI Securities	and	Exchange	Board	of	India 150 SEC Securities	Exchange	Commission 151 SED Socio-Economic	Development 152 SEF Science	Education	Fellowship 153 SERII Solar	Energy	Research	Institute	for	India	and	 the	United	States 154 SEZ Special	Economic	Zones 155 SHRM 	Society	for	Human	Resource	Management 156 SI System	Integrator 157 SMS 	Short	message	service 158 STP Sewage	Treatment	Plants 159 T&D Transmission	and	Distribution 160 T&M Time	and	Material 161 UNPRI UN	Principle	of	Responsible	Investing 162 USSEF United	States	Science	Education	Fellowship 163 VoC Voice	of	Customer 164 WASE Wipro	Academy	of	Software	Excellence 165 WATIS Wipro	Applying	Thought	in	Schools 166 WEP Women’s	Empowerment	Principles 167 WiSTA Wipro	Software	Technology	Academy 168 WOW Women	of	W ipro 169 WRI World	Resource	Institute 170 WTD Whole	Time	Director 171 WTT Well	To	Tank 172 WWF World	Wildlife	Fund 173 Yo Y 	Year	on	year Certain statements in this annual report concerning our future growth prospects are forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks, and uncertainties  that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements.
The risks and uncertainties relating to these statements  include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties regarding fluctuations in our earnings, revenue and profits, our ability to generate and manage growth,  intense competition in IT services, our ability to maintain our cost advantage, wage increases in India, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals,  time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on immigration, our ability to manage our international  operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate  potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts, the success of the companies in which we make strategic investments, withdrawal of fiscal  governmental incentives, political instability, war, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual  property, and general economic conditions affecting our business and industry.
Additional risks that could affect our future operating results are more fully  described in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
These filings are available at www.sec.gov.
We may, from time to time, make  additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission  and our reports to shareholders.
We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time by us or on our behalf.
Index Overview of the report     01 About Wipro     02 Defining new 04 Key performance highlights   08                 Sustainability highlights   10                 Chairman’s letter to the stakeholders    12 CEO’s letter to the stakeholders  14 Board of Directors    18  Management discussion and analysis 24 Industry and business overview   25 Business strategy    26  Business model    30 Good governance and management practices  35 Capitals and value creation   37 Financial capital   39 Human capital   46 Intellectual capital   53 Social and relationship capital  54 Natural capital   59 Board’s Report              65 Corporate Governance Report   112 Financial Statements  Standalone Financial Statements  under Ind AS    130 Consolidated Financial Statements  under Ind AS         193  Consolidated Financial Statements   under IFRS     266 Business Responsibility Report  319 Glossary   327 Board of Directors Azim H Premji – Chairman Abidali Z Neemuchwala Rishad Premji Narayanan Vaghul Dr. Ashok S Ganguly William Arthur Owens M K Sharma Ireena Vittal Dr. Patrick J Ennis Patrick Dupuis  Chief Financial Officer Jatin Pravinchandra Dalal Statutory Auditors BSR & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Auditors- IFRS KPMG Company Secretary M Sanaulla Khan Depository for American Depository Shares J.P .
Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents Karvy Computershare Private Ltd.
Registered & Corporate Office Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road Bengaluru – 560 035, India Ph: +91 (80) 28440011 Fax: +91 (80) 25440051 Website: http:/ /www.wipro.com     Corporate    information 15.25 mm Spine Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru - 560035, India CIN: L32102KA1945PLC020800 | Email: info@wipro.com www.wipro.com 15.25 mm Spine Annual Report 2016 - 17#BeTheNew