REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC: Growing Contribution Across Agriculture, Manufacturing and Services Board of Directors and Committees 01 Report on Corporate Governance 12 Shareholder Information 28 Report of the Board of Directors &   Management Discussion and Analysis   40 Certificate of Compliance from Auditors with   respect to Corporate Governance 122 CEO and CFO Compliance Certificate 123 Standalone Financial Statements  Balance Sheet 124  Statement of Profit and Loss 125  Statement of changes in equity 126  Cash Flow Statement  128  Notes to the Financial Statements   130  Auditor’s Report   195 Guide to Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates 201 Salient Features of the Financial Statements of   Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates (AOC -1)  204 Consolidated Financial Statements 209 Ten Years at a Glance 296 Financial Highlights  Business Responsibility Report  I-XVI Business Update : lTC lnfotech   Creating Enduring Institutions  Awards & Accolades CONTENTS  ITC: Growing  Contribution  Across Agriculture,  Manufacturing   and Services ITC’s journey to create an exemplary Indian  enterprise is inspired by its abiding vision to  serve larger national priorities.
A journey that  has transformed ITC into a multi-business and  multi-dimensional corporation, making it one  of India’s most admired and valuable companies.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC’s diversified portfolio of businesses, spanning FMCG,  Paperboards & Packaging, Agri Business, Hotels and  Information Technology, enables it to have a significant  presence across all the 3 sectors of the Indian economy,  namely, agriculture, manufacturing and services, providing  the Company with the unique opportunity to contribute  meaningfully to the growth and development of the country.
ITC’s commitment to “Put India  First” is manifest in many ways —  in its strategy to create multiple  drivers of growth for the Indian  economy through a diversified  portfolio of businesses; in the  creation of world-class brands  that create, capture and retain  value in India; in establishing  state-of-the-art brick and  mortar assets for the nation; in  its investment in cutting-edge  R&D and in its Social Investment  Programmes that address some  of the key challenges facing India  today — poverty, unemployment  and environmental degradation.
ITC’s diversified portfolio of  businesses, spanning FMCG,  Paperboards & Packaging, Agri  Business, Hotels and Information  Technology, enables it to have  a significant presence across  all the 3 sectors of the Indian  economy, namely, agriculture,  manufacturing and services,  providing the Company with the  unique opportunity to contribute  meaningfully to the growth and  development of the country.
In Agriculture, driven by  its celebrated e-Choupal  programme, ITC’s engagements  with farmers across the country  to enhance productivity, provide  critical market linkages and  create rural assets have raised  farm incomes, improving  the quality of life of the rural  population and transforming  village ecosystems.
In Manufacturing, supported  by substantial investments in  state-of-the-art technology,  ITC has created world-class  manufacturing facilities across  the length and breadth of  the country for its FMCG,  Paperboards, Packaging and  Printing businesses.
Powered by  deep consumer insights, cutting- edge R&D, superior branding  skills, the culinary expertise  of hotels chefs, packaging  excellence and an extensive  trade marketing & distribution  capacity, ITC’s bouquet of  world-class FMCG brands in  the Branded Packaged Foods,  Personal Care, Education and  Stationery, Lifestyle Retailing,  Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and  Safety Matches sectors, continue  to gain significant consumer  franchise, earning market  leadership across segments.
In the Services sector, ITC  Hotels is the greenest luxury  hotel chain in the world.
It is  acknowledged worldwide for  its iconic properties, its fine  art of hospitality, signature  cuisine and service excellence.
The Company’s wholly owned  subsidiary, ITC lnfotech, is a  specialised full services global  player in the Information  Technology segment.
ITC is today a global exemplar in  sustainability.
ITC’s businesses  have generated sustainable  livelihoods for 6 million people,  many of whom represent the  weakest in society.
It is the  only enterprise in the world to  be carbon positive (12 years),  water positive (15 years), and  solid waste recycling positive  (10 years).
Over 48% of the total  energy requirement of ITC is met  from renewable sources.
ITC has  pioneered the green building  movement in India, establishing  22 green buildings.
All its  premium luxury hotels have  the unique distinction of being  LEED® Platinum certified.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The Journey of Transformation  in Creating a New ITC Highlights  Turnover Rs.
55,002 cr 11-fold increase   from 1996 Profit  Rs.
10,200 cr 39-fold increase   from 1996 Among Top  3 in Contribution   to the Exchequer  Nearly 75% of Value-Added   accrues to the Central  and State Exchequers Around Rs 2,70,000 cr Contribution to the  exchequer since 1996  Market Cap  Rs.
3,74,000 cr (As on 26.05.2017)  67-fold increase   from 1996 Total Shareholder  Returns CAGR since 1996  23.6% (As in March 2017)  outperforming the Sensex  growth of 10.9%  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC Today: Business Leadership  13 businesses spanning  FMCG, Hotels, Agri-Business, Paperboards & Packaging  and Information Technology FMCG Businesses Hotels  India’s leading marketer   ITC Foods is the 3rd largest  and fastest growing  ITC Hotels is world’s greenest  luxury hotel chain  One of the fastest growing  hospitality chains in India ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Agri  -Business Paperboards  & Packaging Information  Technology  No.1 in profitability   Pioneer in Rural  Transformation through   ITC e-Choupal  One of the largest exporters  of coffee  Market Leader in Revenue   & Profits  Most environment friendly   pulp mill in Asia  Sustained investments to  enhance competitiveness and  import substitution  Large-scale Afforestation  programme  Digital Full Services Global  Player  9 Development Centres ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 World-Class Indian Brands   ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 World-Class Indian Brands  25 mother brands  in FMCG with an annual consumer  spend of nearly Rs.
14,000 cr Reaches over 125 million   households Consumer spend Aashirvaad - Rs 3,500 cr  Sunfeast -   over  Rs 3,000 cr  Classmate, YiPPee!
& Bingo!
- over   Rs 1,000 cr each Vivel, Mangaldeep &  Candyman - over    Rs 500 cr each  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Non-cigarette businesses account for: 58% of net  segment  revenue  77% of operating  capital  employed  88% of the  employee  base 40 FMCG categories 10,000 SKUs Over 2 million outlets   directly  serviced Nearly 7 lakh   tons annual  paperboards/  paper capacity 4.5 million  sq.ft of  warehousing  space Over 200 factories Over  1,00,000 markets   served Nearly  100 hotels 80% of aggregate  capex over the  last 5 years  ITC Today: A Snapshot  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Sustainable  livelihoods  supported by ITC’s  businesses: 6 million  Carbon Positive 12 years Water Positive  15 years Solid Waste  Recycling Positive   10 years e-Choupal: 4 million farmers  empowered   Women  Empowerment:  Nearly 55,000  rural women  benefitted Health & Sanitation:  Nearly 24,000  toilets built 417  municipal wards 64,00,000   citizens 25,00,000   school children Solid Waste  Management:   Well-being Out  of Waste (WoW)  programme covers: Primary Education:  Over 5 lakh  children benefitted Skilling and  Vocational Training:   Nearly 44,000  youth benefitted Renewable energy:  Over 48% of  total energy  consumption.
Targeting 50%   by 2020 Afforestation: Over 6,20,000  acres greened Watershed  Development:  Over 7,76,000  acres covered Livestock  Development: 15 lakh milch  animals serviced The only Company  in the world to be Pioneer of green  building movement  in India: Established  22 green buildings World’s greenest  luxury hotel chain:  ITC Hotels  World’s highest  rated green  building:   ITC Green Centre,  Gurugram  World’s largest  LEED® Platinum  certified green hotel:  ITC Grand Chola,  Chennai World’s first LEED®  Platinum certified  data centre:  ITC Sankhya,  Bengaluru Global Exemplar in Sustainability  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC’s Contribution to Agriculture An Enduring Relationship with Farmers over Decades ITC is one of India’s leading corporates in the agricultural sector & among the largest exporters  of agri commodities.
The revolutionary ITC e-Choupal initiative is a global model of farmer  empowerment.
Together with its extensive rural development programmes, ITC’s engagement  with farmers have raised rural incomes by creating competitive capacity, enabling productivity  enhancement, building common assets such as water harvesting structures and diversifying farm  income through livestock development, etc.
ITC’s strategy of enhancing the competitiveness of its agri value chains enables it to make an  enduring contribution to national economic development.
ITC e-Choupal has been designed to tackle the unique  challenges faced by Indian farmers.
In a pioneering  move, ITC leveraged the power of Information  Technology to set up Internet kiosks, or e-Choupals, in  villages to provide to farmers information on weather,  agri best practices, know-how, market prices and others.
The e-Choupals also transmit market signals to the  farmers, which enable them to plan their produce better  and align them to market needs, thereby enabling a  virtual integration of the supply chain.
The initiative  has empowered 4 million farmers, whilst providing  significant competitive advantage to ITC’s Foods  businesses by sourcing quality agri-commodities   such as wheat, coffee, fruit pulp and dairy.
ITC e-Choupal - World’s Largest Rural Digital Infrastructure   ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Innovating further to reach the fruits of scientific  research to the farmer, ITC e-Choupal offers agri  extension services to improve farm competencies.
Demonstration farms called Choupal Pradarshan  Khets have been set up to propagate best  practices, while field schools enable transfer and  adoption of knowledge.
ITC has also set up rural integrated hubs called  Choupal Saagars that serve as procurement  centres, warehouses and retail outlets.
Engagement with the rural consumers are  facilitated at marketing platforms, called Choupal  Haats that ITC has built along the lines of village  fairs.
The endeavour also includes the Swasthya  Choupal initiative that focuses on enhancing  awareness on maternal and child care through a  network of Village Health Champions.
Sustainable Agricultural Practices  Enabling farm mechanisation to enhance productivity  Farmer empowerment through improved  know-how and knowledge    ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Sustainable Agricultural Practices  ITC’s Contribution to Agriculture A demonstration farm or Choupal Pradarshan Khet propagating agricultural best practices Enhancing awareness on maternal and child care through  Swasthya Choupal  ITC is the largest buyer and exporter of leaf tobacco  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Rural Development: Securing Livelihoods  ITC’s Social Investments Programme focuses on India’s  core challenge of securing livelihoods for economically  marginalised communities not just for today but also  for the future.
The initiatives include:    ITC’s Social & Farm Forestry Programme: Creating livelihood opportunities for rural households; promoting green cover  Improved Agriculture Practices:  Raising farm productivity and income ITC’s Livestock Development Programme:  Diversifying livelihood opportunities ITC’s Health & Sanitation Initiative:  Contributing to open defecation-free villages   ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Rural Development: Securing Livelihoods  ITC’s Contribution to Agriculture ITC’s Women Empowerment Programme: Promoting social  dignity through economic empowerment; special initiatives  for ultra poor women  ITC’s Integrated Watershed Development Programme: Strengthening sustainable agriculture; supporting watershed  development in moisture-stressed areas ITC’s Primary Education Programme:   Improving quality of rural education  ITC’s Skilling & Vocational Training Initiative: Equipping youth  with necessary skills to make them more employable  ITC’s Solid Waste Management Initiative: Waste recycling through  Well-being Out of Waste (WOW) programme; waste composting  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Empowering Agri Value Chains Farm to Foods Value Chain ITC’s Agri Business provides a competitive edge to the Company’s Foods Business by sourcing  high-quality agricultural raw material directly from farmers and preserving the identity of those  commodities along the supply chain, to enable manufacturing of food products with consumer- preferred value traits.
This is manifest in brands like Aashirvaad Atta, Aashirvaad Spices, Bingo!
chips, ITC Masterchef super safe spices and B Natural juices that source wheat, chillies, turmeric,  coriander, potato and fruits from the farmer.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Farm to Foods Value Chain ITC’s Contribution to Agriculture  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Paper Value Chain  ITC’s Afforestation Programme provides  marginal and tribal households with a  commercially viable land use option for  their low productivity lands by assisting  them to convert these into pulpwood  plantations.
The renewable plantations  cultivated as part of this initiative  enable ITC to offer the greenest paper  and paperboards products manifest in  stationery brands such as Classmate and  Paperkraft.
These plantations also provide  a competitive source of wood pulp to ITC’s  Paperboards and Specialty Paper Business.
The initiative has greened over 6,20,000  acres, generating over 110 million person  days of employment.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC’s Contribution to Manufacturing  ITC’s commitment to serve a larger national purpose is also manifest in the creation of state-of- the-art brick and mortar assets for the Company’s FMCG, Paperboards, Packaging and Printing  businesses.
This is in deep alignment with the country’s Make in India vision.
Such assets  enrich the nation’s industrial might and enhance India’s competitiveness by offering world- class products to the consumer.
They also contribute significantly to the growth of the Indian  economy, fuelling jobs, maximising revenue and enabling sustainable development.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing Facilities  ITC’s Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing Facility, Malur ITC’s Food Processing Factory, Haridwar ITC’s Food Processing Factory, Ranjangaon ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Paperboards, Packaging & Printing ITC’s Paperboards Factory, Bhadrachalam Inside ITC’s Paperboards Factory, Bhadrachalam ITC’s Packaging Factory, Haridwar Market leader in the Value-Added segments, preferred choice for all the leading packaged goods brands ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Contributing to the Make in India vision  ITC is investing in state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities across the  length and breadth of the country.
Such facilities will further strengthen ITC’s leadership across the farm-to-fork  value chain, enabling greater value realisation to the farmer, reduction of wastage, and a year-round availability of  high-quality products for the consumer through close-to-market distribution.
Going forward, such facilities will be  utilised to establish cost-effective regional cold-chains for farm produce, such as fresh, frozen and dehydrated fruits  and vegetables.
ITC is also investing in building iconic signature hotel properties to contribute to the nation’s tourism  landscape, given its large potential for employment generation.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC’s hotels business is one of the fastest growing hospitality chains in India with nearly 100 properties across the  country under four distinct brands – ‘ITC Hotel’ in the Luxury segment, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the Upper-Upscale segment,  ‘Fortune’ in the Mid-market to Upscale space and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the Leisure & Heritage segment.
With its credo  of Responsible Luxury, ITC Hotels has redefined the fine art of green hospitality, while contributing to the nation’s  tourism landscape and generating livelihoods.
ITC Hotel is the greenest luxury hotel chain in the world.
The Business  continues to receive accolades for its world-class properties and service excellence.
ITC Grand Bharat was recognised  as Number 1 amongst the ‘Top Resorts in Asia’ on the coveted Conde Nast Traveler U.S. Readers’ Choice Awards 2016  for the second consecutive year.
ITC’s Contribution to the Services Sector Hotels ITC Grand Bharat, Gurugram ITC Grand Chola, Chennai ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC Infotech  ITC’s Contribution to the Services Sector ITC Infotech is a specialised global full services technology solutions provider, led by Business and Technology  Consulting.
Recognising the need to differentiate and establish unique competitive positioning in the fast changing  technology landscape, the company has introduced the concept of ‘Digitaligence@work’ to enhance customer  experience and serve as a disruptor to existing business processes.
ITC Infotech provides solutions in Supply Chain  based Industries (CPG, Retail, Manufacturing, Hi-Tech) and Services Industries (Banking, Financial Services and  Insurance, Airline, Hospitality), as a flexible, trusted and sustainable partner.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Trade Marketing & Distribution  ITC’s TM&D network addresses the diverse needs of the Company’s FMCG businesses through a differentiated  and comprehensive market/outlet specific strategy aimed at tapping the opportunities in the FMCG industry.
The  distribution highway today handles over 10,000 SKUs of multiple businesses, directly servicing over 2 million retail  outlets across trade channels in 1,00,000 markets.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Investing in   Game-changing R&D  At the globally benchmarked ITC Life Sciences and  Technology Centre, nearly 350 highly qualified  scientists have the mandate to develop unique sources  of competitive advantage and build future-readiness and  drive science-led product innovation.
In a short period  of time, ITC has filed more than 630 patent applications,  adding to the Intellectual Property prowess of India.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Corporate Management Committee S Puri Chairman N Anand Member R Tandon Member C Dar Member S K Singh Member S Sivakumar Member R Sridhar Member B Sumant Member K S Suresh Member B B Chatterjee Member & Secretary Pillappakkam Bahukutumbi Ramanujam Nirupama Rao Sahibzada Syed Habib-ur-Rehman Meera Shankar David Robert Simpson Zafir Alam Shilabhadra Banerjee Arun Duggal Suryakant Balkrishna Mainak Ashok Malik Sunil Behari Mathur Executive Vice President & Company Secretary Biswa Behari Chatterjee General Counsel Kannadiputhur Sundararaman Suresh Investor Service Centre 37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071, India Telephone nos.
: 033 2288 6426/0034 Facsimile no.
: 033 2288 2358 e-mail : isc@itc.in Statutory Auditors Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants, Kolkata Registered Office Virginia House 37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071, India Telephone no.
: 033 2288 9371 CIN : L16005WB1910PLC001985 ITC Corporate Website : www.itcportal.com Chairman & Non-Executive Director Yogesh Chander Deveshwar Board Committees Sanjiv Puri CEO & Executive Director Nakul Anand Rajiv Tandon (also Chief Financial Officer) Executive Directors S B Mathur Chairman Z Alam Member A Duggal Member P B Ramanujam Member S S H Rehman Member R Tandon Invitee R Parasuram Invitee (Head of Internal Audit) Representative of Invitee the Statutory Auditors B B Chatterjee Secretary Audit Committee CSR and Sustainability Committee Y C Deveshwar Chairman Z Alam Member S B Mainak Member A Malik Member N Rao Member M Shankar Member D R Simpson Member B B Chatterjee Secretary S Banerjee Chairman Y C Deveshwar Member S B Mainak Member S S H Rehman Member M Shankar Member B B Chatterjee Secretary Nomination & Compensation Committee Securityholders Relationship Committee P B Ramanujam Chairman S Puri Member S S H Rehman Member R Tandon Member B B Chatterjee Secretary Independent Directors Committee S Banerjee Member A Duggal Member S B Mathur Member P B Ramanujam Member N Rao Member S S H Rehman Member M Shankar Member 2 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Y. C. Deveshwar Yogesh Chander Deveshwar (70), DIN: 00044171, is the Chairman of ITC.
He was appointed as a Director on the Board of the Company on April 11, 1984 and became the Chief Executive and Chairman of the Board on January 1, 1996.
On splitting the role of the Executive Chairman between Chairman and Chief Executive Officer with effect from February 5, 2017, Deveshwar, at the request of the Nomination & Compensation Committee and the Board, recognising the need for orderly transition in a company of ITC’s size and complexity, agreed to continue as Chairman in non-executive capacity and also play the role of Mentor to the new executive management.
Deveshwar joined ITC in 1968 and is an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and Harvard Business School.
Between 1991 and 1994, he led Air India as Chairman and Managing Director.
Articulating a Vision to put Country before Corporation and serve larger national priorities, he has led ITC’s strategic thrust to create multiple drivers of growth that would make a significant and growing contribution to the Indian economy.
He also shaped and implemented a Strategy of Organisation to effectively manage multiple businesses whilst retaining focus on each one of them, in the process deriving unique sources of competitive advantage from ITC’s diversity.
Deveshwar has also championed the cause for Sustainability world-wide bringing into focus the need to innovate corporate strategies that not only enhance shareholder value but add significantly to the development of natural and social capital.
Spearheading a journey of growth that has led the Harvard Business Review to rank him as the 7th Best Performing CEO in the world, his stewardship has guided ITC to become India’s foremost FMCG marketer, the country’s largest and greenest Paperboards and Packaging Business, a globally acknowledged pioneer in farmer empowerment through its wide-reaching Agri Business, the second largest Hotel Chain in India and a trailblazer in ‘green hoteliering’.
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech India Limited, is also a player of promise in the Information Technology sector.
Today, ITC is a global exemplar in sustainability and is the only Company in the world of comparable dimensions to be ‘carbon positive’, ‘water positive’ and ‘solid waste recycling positive’ for over a decade.
The Company’s businesses generate livelihoods for around 6 million people, many of whom represent the poorest in Rural India.
The pioneering farmer empowerment initiative, ITC e-Choupal, is today the world’s largest rural digital infrastructure and is a case study at the Harvard Business School besides receiving several global awards.
ITC was also conferred the World Business and Development Award 2012 at the Rio+20 United Nations Summit by the United Nations Development Programme, the International Chamber of Commerce and the International Business Leaders Forum for its Social and Farm Forestry Programmes.
Deveshwar has served as a Director on the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India and as a member of the National Foundation for Corporate Governance.
He is a Member of the Board of Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and a Member of the National Food Processing Development Council, Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of India.
Deveshwar is a Member of the Governing Body of the National Council of Applied Economic Research and also the former Chairman of the Society and Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta.
He serves on the National Executive Committees of some of India’s premier trade and industry bodies, and has served as a member of the UK-India CEOs Forum and US-India CEOs Forum instituted by the respective Governments.
Deveshwar is a past President of CII.
In 2011, Deveshwar was conferred the Padma Bhushan, one of the highest civilian awards in the country, by the Government of India.
Amongst several other awards and recognitions during his distinguished career, Deveshwar has been honoured with the Global Leadership Award by Your Directors 3ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors S. Puri Sanjiv Puri (54), DIN: 00280529, was appointed as a Director on the Board of ITC effective December 6, 2015 and Chief Executive Officer effective February 5, 2017 taking independent charge of the executive leadership of the Company and is the Chairman of the Corporate Management Committee.
He was the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of ITC since July 22, 2016.
Before taking over as the COO, he was responsible for overseeing the FMCG, Paperboards, Paper & Packaging and Agri Businesses of ITC.
Puri is an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and Wharton School of Business.
He joined ITC in 1986.
Prior to his appointment as Director on the Board of ITC, Puri was President, FMCG Businesses - Cigarettes, Foods, Personal Care, Education & Stationery Products, Matches and Agarbattis, since December 2014.
He has handled a wide range of responsibilities including business leadership positions as well as in manufacturing, operations and information & digital technology.
Puri became Divisional Chief Executive of the Tobacco Division in 2009, with additional responsibility for the Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution Vertical.
He has led ITC Infotech India Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC, as its Managing Director from May 2006 to August 2009.
He was also on the Boards of ITC Infotech’s wholly owned subsidiaries in the UK and USA.
Puri served between 2001 and 2006 as the Managing Director of Surya Nepal Private Limited, a joint venture subsidiary company of ITC in Nepal.
He has also been a Director on the Board of The Tobacco Institute of India and past member of the Board of Governors of Media Research Users Council.
Puri is a Member of the FICCI National Executive Committee and the FICCI Steering Committee.
He has also served as the Chairman of FICCI’s FMCG Committee, the Agri & Food Processing Task Force of the CII Eastern Region and as a Council Member of the CII Eastern Region.
He was also on the Executive Council of The Indian Society of Advertisers.
the US-India Business Council of the US Chamber of Commerce, Business Leader of the Year Award 2012 from the All India Management Association, Business Person of the Year Award 2006 by the UK Trade & Investment, and the Sustainability Leadership Award conferred at Zurich at the International Sustainability Leadership Symposium.
He was inducted to the prestigious Hall of Pride at the Indian Science Congress.
Earlier, he was also named Manager Entrepreneur of the Year 2001 by Ernst & Young.
The Economic Times has conferred on Deveshwar, the Indian Visionary Business Leader Award and the Smart Green Leader Lifetime Achievement Award, the Bombay Management Association has honoured him with the Management Man of the Year Award, and the Calcutta Management Association has inducted him as the first leader on the Management Hall of Fame.
During the year, he has been conferred Lifetime Achievement Awards by Business Standard & CNBC-TV18, and ‘Global Entrepreneur of Bihar’ Award by the Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries.
The Government of West Bengal also conferred the ‘Banga Vibhushan’, the state’s highest civilian honour, on Deveshwar in 2017.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position ITC Infotech India Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director ITC Infotech Limited, UK* Chairman & Non-Executive Director ITC Infotech (USA), Inc.* Chairman & Non-Executive Director Indian School of Business Member, Governing Board The Associated Chambers Member, of Commerce and Industry Managing Committee of India Committee Membership of other Companies: Nil 4 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors Other Directorships Name of the Company Position Surya Nepal Private Limited* Chairman & Non-Executive Director Committee Membership of other Companies: Nil N. Anand Nakul Anand (60), DIN: 00022279, was appointed as a Director on the Board of ITC effective January 3, 2011.
In addition to overseeing the Hospitality, Travel & Tourism Businesses of ITC, he took over in December 2014 the responsibility for overseeing the Lifestyle Retailing Business.
An Economics Honours graduate from Delhi University with an AMP Degree from Bond University, Australia, Anand joined ITC Hotels’ Management Training Programme in 1978.
He has also served as the Managing Director of erstwhile ITC Hotels Limited during the period 2003-05.
In a career that spans close to four decades, Anand has been acknowledged in the hotels and tourism industry for his vision and commitment.
Leveraging the significant learning of sustainable excellence within ITC, he led the team at ITC Hotels to pioneer the concept of ‘Responsible Luxury’ in the hospitality industry, securing LEED® Platinum certifications for all ITC super premium luxury hotels, making it the ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the world’.
He has formulated value-based strategies to create a unique quality control model.
His dynamic leadership and passion for the business is recognised and acknowledged by his peers.
He is a member of the National Tourism Advisory Council constituted by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, and Chairman of the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality.
Anand has been a past President of the Hotel Association of India and past Chairman of the CII National Tourism Committee.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position International Travel Chairman & House Limited Non-Executive Director Gujarat Hotels Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director Landbase India Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director Fortune Park Hotels Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director WelcomHotels Lanka Chairman & (Private) Limited* Non-Executive Director Srinivasa Resorts Limited Vice-Chairman & Non-Executive Director Bay Islands Hotels Limited Non-Executive Director Maharaja Heritage Resorts Non-Executive Director Limited Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position International Travel Nominations & Member House Limited Remuneration Committee Gujarat Hotels Limited Nominations & Member Remuneration Committee Landbase India Limited Nominations & Member Remuneration Committee Fortune Park Hotels Corporate Social Chairman Limited Responsibility Committee Srinivasa Resorts Nominations & Chairman Limited Remuneration Committee 5ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors R. Tandon Rajiv Tandon (63), DIN: 00042227, was appointed as a Director on the Board of ITC effective January 22, 2016.
He is responsible for Finance, Accounting and Internal Audit Functions and Investment Subsidiaries of the Company.
Prior to this, he was the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, a position that he continues to hold.
A Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India with over three decades of experience, Tandon has held various positions in ITC including Executive Vice President - Finance & MIS of the Tobacco Division, Executive Vice President - Corporate Finance, Finance Advisor and member of the Management Committee of Agri Business and Tobacco Divisions.
Tandon was named the ‘Best CFO in India’ by Business Today in 2013.
He has held several important positions in various industry bodies including Member, Managing Committee, The Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry; Chairman of the Expert Committee on Banking and Finance, Indian Chamber of Commerce; Member, Taxation and Company Law Committee, CII and is currently a member, CII-CFO Forum as well as a member of the Capital Markets Committee of FICCI.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position Russell Credit Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director Greenacre Holdings Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director Gold Flake Corporation Chairman & Limited Non-Executive Director ITC Investments & Holdings Chairman & Limited Non-Executive Director Wimco Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director Name of the Company Position Landbase India Limited Non-Executive Director ITC Infotech India Limited Non-Executive Director ITC Infotech Limited, UK* Non-Executive Director ITC Infotech (USA), Inc.* Non-Executive Director Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position Russell Credit Limited Audit Committee Chairman CSR Committee Chairman Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee Greenacre Holdings Audit Committee Chairman Limited Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee Gold Flake Corporation Audit Committee Chairman Limited Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee Wimco Limited Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee Securityholders Member Relationship Committee Landbase India Limited Audit Committee Chairman Nominations & Chairman Remuneration Committee ITC Infotech India Audit Committee Chairman Limited 6 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors A. Duggal Arun Duggal (70), DIN: 00024262, joined the ITC Board as a Non-Executive Independent Director on September 15, 2014.
Duggal, a Mechanical Engineer from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, is an international banker with global experience in financial strategy, M&A and capital raising.
His professional career includes 26 years with Bank of America (BoA), primarily in the USA, Hong Kong and Japan, with his last assignment as Chief Executive with BoA, India, from 1998 to 2001.
He was the Chief Financial Officer of HCL Technologies Limited, India, from 2001 to 2003.
He has also been the Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce, India, and on the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Bank Management.
Duggal is involved in several initiatives in social and educational sectors and is founder of FICCI’s ‘Women on Corporate Boards’ Programme.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position ICRA Limited Chairman & Non-Executive Director Mangalore Chemicals & Chairman & Fertilisers Limited Non-Executive Director International Asset Chairman & Reconstruction Company Non-Executive Director Private Limited Info Edge (India) Limited Non-Executive Director Dish TV India Limited Non-Executive Director Dr. Lal PathLabs Limited Non-Executive Director Inversion Management Non-Executive Director Services Private Limited Z. Alam Zafir Alam (59), DIN: 07641534, joined the ITC Board as an Additional Non-Executive Director effective October 26, 2016, representing the General Insurers’ (Public Sector) Association of India.
Apart from holding a Diploma in Business Management, he is also an Associate of the Insurance Institute of India.
A Direct Recruit Generalist Officer with United India Insurance Company Limited, Alam has held various senior positions and has been the Head of several operating Units, including tenure as Deputy General Manager, Bengaluru Regional Office.
He was appointed General Manager of The New India Assurance Company Limited in May 2014, and is currently in-charge of its Motor Technical Department which, amongst others, deals with tie-ups with automobile majors.
Alam does not hold directorship of any other company.
S. Banerjee Shilabhadra Banerjee (68), DIN: 02922331, joined the ITC Board as a Non-Executive Director on July 24, 2014 and was appointed as an Independent Director on July 30, 2014.
Banerjee, a Masters in History from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, Post Graduate Diploma holder in Public Administration from the Indian Institute of Public Administration, New Delhi, and an M. Phil in Social Sciences from the University of Panjab, began his career in the Indian Administrative Service in 1971.
In a career spanning over 37 years, he has held several eminent positions including that of Joint Secretary in the Ministries of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Urban Development.
Banerjee was Director General (Acquisition) in the Ministry of Defence and retired as Secretary, Ministry of Tourism in October 2008.
He has been a Visiting Fellow at the Queen Elizabeth House, University of Oxford, UK.
Banerjee also served on the Board of the Company from February 2010 to March 2014.
Banerjee does not hold directorship of any other company.
7ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position ICRA Limited Audit Committee Member Mangalore Chemicals & Audit Committee Member Fertilisers Limited International Asset Nomination & Member Reconstruction Company Remuneration Private Limited Committee Info Edge (India) Limited Audit Committee Chairman Dish TV India Limited Audit Committee Member Nomination & Member Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Member Responsibility Committee Dr. Lal PathLabs Limited Nomination & Chairman Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Member S. B. Mainak Suryakant Balkrishna Mainak (61), DIN: 02531129, joined the ITC Board as a Non-Executive Director effective April 25, 2014, representing the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC).
A qualified Chartered Accountant, he joined LIC as a Direct Recruit Officer in 1983 and retired as its Managing Director with effect from March 1, 2016.
During his long tenure at LIC, Mainak acquired wide range of experience in several functions spanning Investments, Finance & Accounts and Marketing and held various positions including Senior / Branch Manager, Divisional Manager of Pension & Group Superannuation and in various capacities in the Investment department.
Mainak also had a stint in academics as Professor (Life Insurance) and Head of Finance Department in National Insurance Academy (NIA), Pune, where he was instrumental in creating new teaching programmes in finance & accounts, investment, GAAP accounting and Insurance Investment and Financial Reporting Standards.
Mainak was Deputy President of the Insurance Institute of India and member of the Governing Board of NIA.
He was earlier appointed by the Government of India on the Board of Satyam Computer Services Limited as an Independent Director for restructuring that company.
In 2009, he was conferred the ‘NDTV Profit Business Leadership Award’, ‘CNN-IBN Indian of the Year Award’ and ‘Dataquest IT Person of the Year Award’.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position Credit Analysis and Chairman & Research Limited Non-Executive Director Care Advisory Research Chairman & and Training Limited Non-Executive Director Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Non-Executive Director Suncap Insolvency & Recovery Non-Executive Director Agents Private Limited Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position Credit Analysis and Stakeholders Chairman Research Limited Relationship Committee Audit Committee Member Nomination & Member Remuneration Committee 8 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors A. Malik Ashok Malik (48), DIN: 07075819, joined the ITC Board as an Additional Non-Executive Director effective April 11, 2017, as a representative of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI).
A graduate in Political Science from Presidency College, Kolkata, Malik began his career as a journalist and has worked with several leading publications, including India Today, The Times of India and Indian Express.
He is currently a Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation and Head of the Foundation’s Neighbourhood Regional Studies Initiative.
Malik has authored a book, ‘India: The Spirit of Enterprise’ and several papers on India’s political economy, foreign policy and globalisation.
He is also a regular columnist with several leading national and international publications.
He is a member of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs and was awarded the Padma Shri in 2016.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position Avanse Financial Services Non-Executive Director Limited Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position Avanse Financial Nomination, Chairman Services Limited Remuneration and Compensation Committee Audit Committee Member S. B. Mathur Sunil Behari Mathur (72), DIN: 00013239, has been on the ITC Board since July 29, 2005, first as a representative of LIC and then in his individual capacity as a Non-Executive Independent Director.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, Mathur retired from LIC in October 2004 as its Chairman.
Subsequently, the Government of India appointed him the Administrator of SUUTI in December 2004, up to December 2007.
Mathur took over as Chairman of LIC at a time when the insurance sector had just opened up.
Under his leadership, LIC successfully rose to the challenges of a competitive environment by enhancing product offerings.
He joined LIC in 1967 as a Direct Recruit Officer and rose to the rank of Chairman.
He held various positions in LIC including Senior Divisional Manager of Gwalior Division, Chief of Corporate Planning, General Manager of LIC (International) E.C., Zonal Manager in-charge of Western Zone and Executive Director.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position Hindustan Oil Exploration Chairman & Company Limited Non-Executive Director Strugence Trustee Private Chairman & Limited Non-Executive Director NSE Strategic Investment Chairman & Corporation Limited Non-Executive Director National Collateral Management Non-Executive Director Services Limited DCM Shriram Industries Non-Executive Director Limited  UltraTech Cement Limited Non-Executive Director Thomas Cook (India) Limited Non-Executive Director Infrastructure Leasing and Non-Executive Director Financial Services Limited Travel Corporation (India) Non-Executive Director Limited India Mortgage Guarantee Non-Executive Director Corporation Private Limited 9ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position Hindustan Oil Audit Committee Chairman Exploration Company Corporate Social Chairman Limited Responsibility Committee Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee NSE Strategic Audit Committee Member Investment Corporation Nomination & Member Limited Remuneration Committee National Collateral Audit Committee Member Management Services Nomination & Member Limited Remuneration Committee DCM Shriram Remuneration Chairman Industries Limited Committee Audit Committee Member UltraTech Cement Audit Committee Chairman Limited Thomas Cook (India) Audit Committee Member Limited Nomination & Member Remuneration Committee Infrastructure Leasing Nomination & Chairman and Financial Services Remuneration Limited Committee Travel Corporation Audit Committee Chairman (India) Limited Nomination & Member Remuneration Committee India Mortgage Audit Committee Member Guarantee Corporation Private Limited P. B. Ramanujam Pillappakkam Bahukutumbi Ramanujam (72), DIN: 00046101, has been on the Board of ITC since October 30, 1998, first as a representative of General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC) and its erstwhile subsidiaries and then in his individual capacity as a Non-Executive Independent Director.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, Ramanujam has held several responsibilities in GIC covering finance, accounts, investments, reinsurance, information technology etc.
He was General Manager and Director with National Insurance Company Limited, and the Managing Director of GIC till July 31, 2004.
Ramanujam has served as a faculty member at National Insurance Academy.
He was also the Chairman of the Committee appointed by the interim Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA) for prescribing norms, rules and regulations in the area of finance.
He has also been a member of three other IRA Committees on technical issues, investment matters and insurance regulatory information system.
He was a member of FICCI’s Reinsurance Sub-Committee, the Insurance Tariff Advisory Committee, the Advisory Committee on Finance of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), and member of IRDA’s Reinsurance Advisory Committee for recommending regulatory changes with regard to capital structure, IPOs, mergers & acquisitions etc.
of insurance companies.
Ramanujam does not hold directorship of any other company.
N. Rao Nirupama Rao (66), DIN: 06954879, was appointed as a Non-Executive Independent Director on the Board of ITC effective April 8, 2016.
A Graduate in English Literature, she was a Fellow of the Harvard University (1992-93), Fellow of the Brown University, 10 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors Fellow of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, and a recipient of the Degree of Doctor of Letters (Honoris Causa) from the Pondicherry University.
She was conferred with the Vanitha Ratna by the Government of Kerala in 2016.
A career diplomat from the Indian Foreign Service from 1973 to 2011, she served the Government in several important positions including that of the Foreign Secretary of India.
She has represented India in several countries during her distinguished career and was the first Indian woman to be appointed High Commissioner to Sri Lanka and Ambassador to China.
She was also the first woman spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.
After her retirement, she was appointed Ambassador of India to the United States for a tenure of two years.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position KEC International Limited Non-Executive Director Network18 Media & Non-Executive Director Investments Limited TV18 Broadcast Limited Non-Executive Director Coromandel International Non-Executive Director Limited Viacom 18 Media Private Non-Executive Director Limited  Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position  TV18 Broadcast Limited Stakeholders Member Relationship Committee Coromandel International Stakeholders Member Limited Relationship Committee Viacom 18 Media Audit Committee Member Private Limited Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee S. S. H. Rehman Sahibzada Syed Habib-ur-Rehman (73), DIN: 00050862, was appointed as a Non-Executive Independent Director on the Board of ITC effective July 27, 2012.
Rehman’s illustrious career began with a tenure in the Indian Army after he graduated from the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun.
He moved to the hospitality industry in 1975 and joined ITC in 1979, beginning a three decade association with the Company.
Rehman was appointed Managing Director of erstwhile ITC Hotels Limited in 1994.
Subsequently, he joined the Board of ITC as an Executive Director in 1997, and over the next 12 years was responsible for several businesses - Hotels, Travel & Tourism and Foods.
During this period, he ably led ITC’s Hotels Business in consolidating its position as one of India’s leading hospitality chains.
Rehman was the founder President of the Hotel Association of India, and a founder member of the World Travel & Tourism Council, Experience India / Incredible India and has headed several industry associations including tourism committees of FICCI, ASSOCHAM and CII.
Rehman has been a recipient of several awards and honours, recognising his vast contribution to the Indian hospitality industry.
Rehman does not hold directorship of any other company.
M. Shankar Meera Shankar (66), DIN: 06374957, was appointed as a Non-Executive Independent Director on the Board of ITC effective September 6, 2012.
A Post Graduate in English Literature, she joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1973 and had an illustrious career spanning 38 years.
She served in the Prime Minister’s Office for six years from 1985 to 1991 working on foreign policy and security matters.
Thereafter, she led the Commercial Wing in the Indian Embassy in Washington as Minister (Commerce) till 1995.
She returned 11ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Directors as Director General of the Indian Council of Cultural Relations overseeing India’s cultural diplomacy.
She has had extensive experience in South Asia having worked on Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Maldives as Under Secretary and Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs.
Later, as Joint Secretary she headed divisions dealing with neighbours, Nepal and Bhutan, and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC).
As Additional Secretary, she handled the UN and international security issues.
She served as Ambassador of India to Germany from 2005 to 2009 and then to the United States from 2009 to 2011.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position Pidilite Industries Limited Non-Executive Director Adani Transmission Limited Non-Executive Director Hexaware Technologies Limited Non-Executive Director Committee Membership of other Companies Name of the Company Committee Position Pidilite Industries Limited Corporate Social Member Responsibility Committee Adani Transmission Audit Committee Member Limited Nomination and Member Remuneration Committee Hexaware Technologies Audit Committee Member Limited Corporate Social Member Responsibility Committee D. R. Simpson David Robert Simpson (60), DIN: 07717430, was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive Director on the Board of ITC effective January 27, 2017, as a representative of Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited, a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c.
Apart from holding a Masters Degree from the University of Cambridge, he is a qualified lawyer from the Guildford College of Law.
Simpson started his career in 1979 and has held various leadership positions with major corporates including Barclays de Zoete Wedd Limited and KPMG LLP.
At present, he is a Trustee of Cardiff University, UK.
He has earlier held the position of the Global Head of M&A at KPMG LLP.
Simpson has a wide range of expertise and understanding of diverse sectors spanning Investment Banking and Private Equity, Infrastructure, Energy, Transport, Healthcare, Education, Investment Risk Assessment etc.
Other Directorships Name of the Company Position D4jsimpson Limited, UK* Chairman & Non-Executive Director Ecofin Global Utilities and Chairman & Infrastructure Trust plc, UK* Non-Executive Director University College Cardiff Non-Executive Director Consultants Limited, UK* Committee Membership of other Companies: Nil Notes: 1.
Other Directorships and Committee Memberships of Directors are as on 26th May, 2017.
2.
Committee Memberships cover Committees under the Companies Act, 2013 viz., Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and CSR Committee of Indian Companies.
* Denotes Foreign Company Report on Corporate Governance The Directors present the Company’s Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations 2015).
ITC Limited has been one of the frontrunners in India to have put in place a formalised system of Corporate Governance.
Its governance framework enjoins the highest standards of ethical and responsible conduct of business to create value for all stakeholders.
In the context of splitting the role of the Executive Chairman between Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a revised Corporate Governance Policy with effect from 5th February, 2017 to reflect the new Governance structure of the Company.
THE COMPANY’S GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY ITC defines Corporate Governance as a systemic process by which companies are directed and controlled to enhance their wealth-generating capacity.
Since large corporations employ a vast quantum of societal resources, ITC believes that the governance process should ensure that these resources are utilised in a manner that meets stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
This belief is reflected in the Company’s deep commitment to contribute to the “triple bottom line”, namely the conservation and development of the nation’s economic, social and environmental capital.
ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, systems and processes are based on two core principles: (i) Management must have the executive freedom to drive the enterprise forward without undue restraints, and (ii) This freedom of management should be exercised within a framework of effective accountability.
ITC believes that any meaningful policy on Corporate Governance must empower the executive management of the Company.
At the same time, Governance must create a mechanism of checks and balances to ensure that the decision-making powers vested in the executive management are used with care and responsibility to meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
From this definition and core principles of Corporate Governance emerge the cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy, namely trusteeship, transparency, ethical corporate citizenship, empowerment, control and accountability.
ITC believes that the practice of each of these creates the right corporate culture that fulfils the true purpose of Corporate Governance.
Trusteeship recognises that large corporations, which represent a coalition of interests, namely those of the shareholders, other providers of capital, business associates and employees, have both an economic and a social purpose, thereby casting the responsibility on the Board of Directors to protect and enhance shareholder value, as well as fulfil obligations to other stakeholders.
Inherent in the concept of trusteeship is the responsibility to ensure equity, namely, that the rights of all shareholders, large or small, are protected.
Transparency means explaining the Company’s policies and actions to those to whom it has responsibilities.
Externally, this means maximum appropriate disclosures without jeopardising the Company’s strategic interests and internally, this means openness in the Company’s relationship with its employees and in the conduct of its business.
ITC believes transparency enhances accountability.
Ethical Corporate Citizenship means setting exemplary standards of ethical behaviour, both internally within the organisation, as well as in external relationships.
ITC believes that unethical behaviour corrupts organisational culture and undermines stakeholder value.
Governance processes in ITC continuously reinforce and help realise the Company’s belief in ethical corporate citizenship.
Empowerment is a process of unleashing creativity and innovation throughout the organisation by truly vesting decision-making powers at the most appropriate levels and as close to the scene of action as feasible, thereby helping actualise the potential of its employees.
Empowerment is an essential concomitant of ITC’s first core principle of governance that management must The cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy are trusteeship, transparency, ethical corporate citizenship, empowerment, control and accountability.
12 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 have the freedom to drive the enterprise forward.
ITC believes that empowerment combined with accountability provides an impetus to performance and improves effectiveness, thereby enhancing shareholder value.
Control ensures that freedom of management is exercised within a framework of checks and balances and is designed to prevent misuse of power, facilitate timely management of change and ensure effective management of risks.
ITC believes that control is a necessary concomitant of its second core principle of governance that the freedom of management should be exercised within a framework of appropriate checks and balances.
THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The practice of Corporate Governance in ITC takes place at three interlinked levels: Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors Strategic management by the Corporate Management Committee headed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company Executive management by the Divisional Chief Executive assisted by the Divisional Management Committee The three-tier governance structure ensures that: (a) Strategic supervision (on behalf of the shareholders), being free from involvement in the task of strategic management of the Company, can be conducted by the Board with objectivity, thereby sharpening accountability of management; (b) Strategic management of the Company, uncluttered by the day-to-day tasks of executive management, remains focused and energised; and (c) Executive management of the divisional business free from collective strategic responsibilities for ITC as a whole, gets focused on enhancing the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of its business.
The core roles of the key entities flow from this structure.
The core roles, in turn, determine the core responsibilities of each entity.
In order to discharge such responsibilities, each entity is empowered formally with requisite powers.
The structure, processes and practices of governance are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them.
The Governance Document that sets out the structure, policies and practices of governance within the organisation is available on the Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com for general information.
ROLES OF VARIOUS ENTITIES Board of Directors (Board): The primary role of the Board is that of trusteeship to protect and enhance shareholder value through strategic supervision of ITC, its wholly owned subsidiaries and their wholly owned subsidiaries.
As trustees, the Board ensures that the Company has clear goals aligned to shareholder value and its growth.
The Board sets strategic goals and seeks accountability for their fulfilment.
The Board also provides direction and exercises appropriate control to ensure that the Company is managed in a manner that fulfils stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
The Board, as part and parcel of its functioning, annually reviews its role and also evaluates the performance of the Directors and the Board Committees.
Corporate Management Committee (CMC): The primary role of the CMC is strategic management of the Company’s businesses within Board approved direction / framework and realisation of Company goals.
The CMC assesses the performance of the businesses and allocates resources, and operates under the strategic supervision and control of the Board.
Divisional Management Committee (DMC): The primary role of the DMC is executive management of the divisional business to realise tactical and strategic objectives in accordance with Board approved plan.
The Executive Committee for Business Vertical is responsible to deliver comprehensive business results under the overall direction and supervision of the Divisional Chief Executive supported by the DMC.
Chairman: The primary role of the Chairman of the Company is to provide leadership to the Board.
As the Chairman of the Board, he presides over its meetings and leads and assists the Board in setting and realising the Company’s strategic vision and related short and long term goals.
He is responsible, inter alia, for the working of the Board, for its balance of membership (subject to Board and Shareholder approvals) and for 13ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance ensuring that all Directors are enabled and encouraged to play a full part in the activities of the Board.
Based on information and feedback from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman ensures that all relevant issues are on the Board agenda and the Board is kept informed on all matters of importance.
He presides over General Meetings of Shareholders.
The present Chairman, at the request of the Nomination & Compensation Committee and the Board, recognising the need for orderly transition in a company of ITC’s size and complexity, agreed to continue as Chairman in non-executive capacity and also play the role of Mentor to the new executive management.
Providing mentorship to the new executive management and support towards management of critical external stakeholders’ relationships, accordingly, form part of the role of the present Chairman.
Chief Executive Officer (CEO): The CEO carries total responsibility for the strategic management of the Company and accordingly heads the CMC.
His primary role is to provide leadership to the CMC for realising Company goals in accordance with the charter approved by the Board.
He is responsible, inter alia, for the working of the CMC, ensuring that all relevant issues are on the agenda and that all CMC Members are enabled and encouraged to play a full part in its activities.
Executive Director: The Executive Director assists the Board in realising its role of strategic supervision of the Company in pursuit of its purpose and goals.
As a member of the CMC, Executive Director contributes to the strategic management of the Company’s businesses within Board approved direction / framework.
An Executive Director accountable to the Board for a business / shared service, assumes overall responsibility for its strategic management, including governance processes and top management effectiveness.
As Director accountable to the Board for a corporate function, the overall strategic responsibility for its performance forms part of the Executive Director’s role.
CMC Member: The CMC Member contributes to the strategic management of the Company’s businesses within Board approved direction / framework as a member of the CMC.
A CMC Member accountable for a business / shared service, assumes responsibility for its strategic management, including governance processes and top management effectiveness.
Where accountable for a corporate function, the overall strategic responsibility for its performance forms part of the CMC Member’s role.
Category No.
of Percentage to  Directors total no.
of Directors Executive Directors 3 21 Non-Executive Independent Directors 7 50 Other Non-Executive Directors 4  29 Total 14 100 14 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Non-Executive Director: Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors, play a critical role in imparting balance to the Board processes by bringing an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources, standards of Company conduct etc.
Divisional Chief Executive: The Divisional Chief Executive for a business has the overall executive responsibility for its day-to-day operations and to provide leadership to the DMC in its task of executive management of the business and of the Verticals within the Division.
The Chief Operating Officer - Business Vertical is responsible for providing leadership to the Vertical and realising the tactical and strategic objectives of the respective business area.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS In terms of the Company’s Corporate Governance Policy, all statutory and other significant and material information are placed before the Board to enable it to discharge its responsibility of strategic supervision of the Company as trustees of Shareholders.
Composition The ITC Board is a balanced Board, comprising Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Pursuant to splitting the role of the Executive Chairman between Chairman and CEO, the Company is now required to have at least one-third of the total strength of the Board as Independent Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors include the Chairman and independent professionals.
In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, the strength of the Board shall not be fewer than five nor more than eighteen.
The present strength of the Board is fifteen, of which three are Executive Directors, including the CEO, and seven are Non-Executive Independent Directors.
Composition of the Board as on 31st March, 2017: 15ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Director Category No.
of No.
of Membership(s)/ other Chairmanship(s) of Directorship(s) Audit Committee / Stakeholders  Relationship Committee of other Indian public limited  companies Y. C. Deveshwar Chairman & 5 Nil Non-Executive Director S. Puri Chief Executive Officer & 1 Nil Executive Director N. Anand Executive Director 8 Nil R. Tandon Executive Director & 9 6 Chief Financial Officer [including 5 as Chairman] S. Banerjee Independent Director Nil Nil A. Duggal Independent Director 7 5 [including 1 as Chairman] S. B. Mathur Independent Director 11 9 [including 5 as Chairman] P. B. Ramanujam Independent Director Nil Nil N. Rao Independent Director 5 2 S. S. H. Rehman Independent Director Nil Nil M. Shankar Independent Director 3 2 Z. Alam Non-Executive Director - Nil Nil Representative of General Insurers  (Public Sector) Association of India as Investor S. B. Mainak Non-Executive Director - 4 2 Representative of Life [including 1 Insurance Corporation of as Chairman] India as Investor D. R. Simpson Non-Executive Director - 3 Nil Representative of Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited, a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c.
Meetings and Attendance The Company’s Governance Policy requires the Board to meet at least five times a year.
The intervening period between two Board meetings was well within the maximum gap of 120 days prescribed under the Listing Regulations 2015.
The tentative annual calendar of meetings is broadly determined at the beginning of each year.
Board Agenda Meetings are governed by a structured agenda.
The Board members, in consultation with the Chairman, may bring up any matter for the consideration of the Board.
All major agenda items are backed by comprehensive background information to enable the Board to take informed decisions.
Agenda papers are generally circulated at least seven days prior to the Board meeting.
Information placed before the Board In addition to matters required to be placed before the Board under the Governance Policy of the Company, the following are also tabled for the Board’s information / review: G External Audit Management Reports (through the Audit Committee).
G Status of safety and legal compliance etc.
G Status and effectiveness of risk management systems and processes.
G Succession to senior management (through the Nomination & Compensation Committee).
G Show cause, demand, prosecution and adjudication notices, if any, from revenue authorities which are considered materially important, including any exposure that exceeds 1% of the Company’s net worth, and their outcome.
G Significant court judgement or order passing strictures, if any, on the conduct of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company or any employee, which could negatively impact the Company’s image.
G Product liability claims of a substantial nature, if any.
G Default, if any, in payment of dues to any major creditor.
G Write-offs / disposals (fixed assets, inventories, receivables, advances etc.)
on a half-yearly basis.
G Significant development in Human Resources / Industrial Relations.
G Material non-compliance of any regulatory or listing requirements and in relation to shareholders’ services.
G All other matters required to be placed before the Board for its information / review under the Listing Regulations 2015 and other statutes.
Post-meeting follow-up system The Governance processes in the Company include an effective post-meeting follow-up, review and reporting process for action taken / pending on decisions of the Board, the Board Committees, the CMC and the Divisional and other Management Committees.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Currently, there are five Board Committees – the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Compensation Committee, the Securityholders Relationship Committee, the CSR and Sustainability Committee and the Independent Directors Committee.
The terms of reference of the Board Committees are determined by the Board from time to time, other than the Independent Directors Committee, the terms of reference of which have been adopted as prescribed under law.
Meetings of each Board Committee are convened by the respective Committee Chairman.
Matters requiring the Board’s attention / approval, as emanating from the Board Committee meetings, are placed before the Board with clearance of the Committee Chairman.
The role and composition of these Committees, including the number of meetings held during the financial year and the related attendance, are provided below.
I.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee of the Board provides reassurance to the Board on the existence of an effective internal control environment that ensures: G efficiency and effectiveness of operations, both domestic and overseas.
G safeguarding of assets and adequacy of provisions for all liabilities.
G reliability of financial and other management information and adequacy of disclosures.
G compliance with all relevant statutes.
The role of the Committee includes the following: (a) To oversee the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and credible; (b) To recommend the appointment, remuneration, terms of appointment and removal of Statutory Auditors; Sl.
Date Board No.
of No.
Strength Directors present 1 8th April, 2016 16 15 2 20th May, 2016 16 12 3 21st July, 2016 15 14 4 22nd July, 2016 14 14 5 26th October, 2016 13 11 6 27th January, 2017 13 11 16 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Details of Board Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, six meetings of the Board were held, as follows: 3.
Appointed Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
27th January, 2017.
4.
Ceased to be Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
30th December, 2016 consequent to his appointment as Lt.
Governor of Delhi.
5.
Ceased to be Non-Executive Director on conclusion of the AGM held on 22nd July, 2016 upon completion of term.
6.
Resigned as Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
22nd June, 2016.
7.
Ceased to be Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
29th July, 2016 upon completion of term.
Attendance at Board Meetings and at Annual General Meeting (AGM) during the financial year Director No.
of Board Attendance at last   meetings attended AGM Y. C. Deveshwar 6 Yes S. Puri 6 Yes N. Anand 5 Yes R. Tandon 6 Yes Z. Alam  1 1N A S. Banerjee 6 Yes A. Duggal 5 Yes S. B. Mainak 6 Yes S. B. Mathur 6 Yes P. B. Ramanujam 4 Yes N. Rao  2 4 Yes S. S. H. Rehman 5 Yes M. Shankar 6 Yes D. R. Simpson  3 NA NA A. Baijal 4 5 Yes A. V. Girija Kumar 5 1 Yes R. E. Lerwill 6 1N A K. Vaidyanath 7 4 Yes 1.
Appointed Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
26th October, 2016.
2.
Appointed Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
8th April, 2016.
(c) To recommend the appointment, remuneration and removal of Cost Auditors, where necessary; (d) To approve transactions of the Company with related parties, including modifications thereto; (e) To review and monitor the Statutory Auditors’ independence and performance, and effectiveness of the audit process; (f) To evaluate the Company’s internal financial controls and risk management systems; (g) To review with the management the following: (i) Annual financial statements and Auditors’ Report thereon before submission to the Board for approval; (ii) Quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval; (h) To review the following: (i) Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations; (ii) Adequacy of internal control systems and the Company’s statement on the same prior to endorsement by the Board, such review to be done in consultation with the management, Statutory and Internal Auditors; (iii) Reports of Internal Audit and discussion with Internal Auditors on any significant findings and follow-up thereon; (iv) System for storage, retrieval, security etc.
of books of account maintained in the electronic form; (v) Functioning of Whistle Blower mechanism in the Company.
Composition The Audit Committee presently comprises five Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are Independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Director.
The Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and the representative of the Statutory Auditors are Invitees to meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit, who reports to the Audit Committee, is the Coordinator, and the Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The representatives of the Cost Auditors are invited to meetings of the Audit Committee whenever matters relating to cost audit are considered.
All members of the Committee are financially literate; three members, including the Chairman of the Committee, have accounting and financial management expertise.
The names of the members of the Audit Committee, including its Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Meetings and Attendance Details of Audit Committee Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, eight meetings of the Audit Committee were held, as follows: Sl.
Date Committee No.
of No.
Strength Members  present 1 5th May, 2016 5 4 2 20th May, 2016 5 4 3 21st July, 2016 5 5 4 22nd August, 2016 5 5 5 26th October, 2016 5 4 6 27th January, 2017 4 2 7 7th February, 2017 5 4 8 17th March, 2017 5 3 Attendance at Audit Committee Meetings during the financial year Member No.
of meetings attended S. B. Mathur 8 Z. Alam 1 2 A. Duggal 5 P. B. Ramanujam 4 S. S. H. Rehman  2 4 A. Baijal 3 5 K. Vaidyanath 4 3 17ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance 1.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
27th January, 2017.
2.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
23rd July, 2016.
3.
Ceased to be Member w.e.f.
30th December, 2016.
4.
Ceased to be Member w.e.f.
29th July, 2016.
Sl.
Date Committee No.
of No.
Strength Members  present 1 8th April, 2016 5 5 2 20th May, 2016 5 5 3 21st July, 2016 5 5 4 22nd July, 2016 5 5 5 26th October, 2016 5 5 6 27th January, 2017 5 4 Member No.
of meetings attended S. Banerjee 1 6 Y. C. Deveshwar 6 S. B. Mainak 2 2 S. S. H. Rehman 5 M. Shankar 6 K. Vaidyanath  3 4 Attendance at Nomination & Compensation Committee Meetings during the financial year Inherent in the concept of trusteeship is the responsibility to ensure equity, namely, that the rights of all shareholders, large or small, are protected.
18 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance II.
NOMINATION & COMPENSATION COMMITTEE The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board, under the nomenclature ‘Nomination & Compensation Committee’, inter alia, identifies persons qualified to become Directors and formulates criteria for evaluation of the Directors and the Board.
The Committee’s role also includes recommending to the Board the appointment, remuneration and removal of Directors, CMC Members and managers one level below Director.
This Committee also has the responsibility for administering the Employee Stock Option Schemes of the Company.
Composition The Nomination & Compensation Committee presently comprises the Chairman of the Company and four other Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are Independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Director.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The names of the members of the Nomination & Compensation Committee, including its Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Meetings and Attendance Details of Nomination & Compensation Committee Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, six meetings of the Nomination & Compensation Committee were held, as follows: 1.
Appointed Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
23rd July, 2016.
2.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
23rd July, 2016.
3.
Ceased to be Member w.e.f.
29th July, 2016.
Remuneration Policy ITC’s remuneration policy aims at attracting and retaining high calibre talent.
The remuneration policy, therefore, is market-led and takes into account the competitive circumstance of each business so as to attract and retain quality talent and leverage performance significantly.
The Policy on remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees of the Company is provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Remuneration of Directors Remuneration of the CEO and the other Executive Directors is determined by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination & Compensation Committee, subject to the approval of the Shareholders.
Performance bonus of the CEO for each financial year is up to a maximum of 300% of his basic / consolidated salary and for the other Executive Directors up to a maximum of 200% of their basic / consolidated salary, subject to the approval of the Shareholders.
Performance bonus for each year is determined by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination & Compensation Report on Corporate Governance 19ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Committee.
Such remuneration is linked to the performance of the Company inasmuch as the performance bonus is based on various qualitative and quantitative performance criteria.
Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors, are entitled to remuneration by way of commission for each financial year, ranging between ` 30,00,000/- and ` 60,00,000/- individually, as approved by the Shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors’ commission is determined by the Board based, inter alia, on Company performance and regulatory provisions and is payable on a uniform basis to reinforce the principle of collective responsibility.
Non-Executive Directors are also entitled to sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board / Committees thereof, the quantum of which is determined by the Board.
The sitting fees to Non-Executive Directors as determined by the Board are ` 1,00,000/- for each meeting of the Board, ` 50,000/- for each meeting of the Audit Committee, Nomination & Compensation Committee, CSR and Sustainability Committee and Independent Directors Committee, and ` 10,000/- for each meeting of the Securityholders Relationship Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are also entitled to coverage under Personal Accident Insurance.
Mr. Y. C. Deveshwar, Chairman and Non-Executive Director effective 5th February, 2017, is entitled to, apart from the remuneration as applicable to the other Non-Executive Directors of the Company, additional remuneration as covered in the Explanatory Statement to the Notice convening the 106th AGM of the Company.
Performance Evaluation of Directors Performance evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors was carried out in accordance with the Policy approved by the Nomination & Compensation Committee in this regard, synopsis of which is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis’ in the Report and Accounts.
Employee Stock Option Schemes The Company granted 65,79,295 Options during the financial year to the eligible employees and Directors of the Company, other than Independent Directors, and ^ 1,799.18 Lakhs (including 410 Lakhs towards leave encashment on retirement) paid as Executive Chairman till 4th February, 2017; 317.67 Lakhs paid as Chairman & Non-Executive Director from 5th February, 2017, which is subject to the approval of the Shareholders.
# Includes 25.68 Lakhs which is subject to the approval of the Shareholders.
* Paid to the Public Financial Institution the Director represents / represented.
@ Paid to Mrs. M. Khan, spouse of Late S. H. Khan.
1.
Appointed Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
26th October, 2016.
2.
Appointed Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
8th April, 2016.
3.
Appointed Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
27th January, 2017.
4.
Ceased to be Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
30th December, 2016.
5.
Retired as Executive Director on 6th December, 2015.
6.
Ceased to be Non-Executive Director from 23rd July, 2015 upon completion of term; thereafter appointed Additional Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
31st July, 2015, which term completed on conclusion of the AGM held on 22nd July, 2016.
7.
Retired as Executive Director on 22nd January, 2016.
8.
Expired on 12th January, 2016.
9.
Resigned as Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
22nd June, 2016.
10.
Ceased to be Non-Executive Director w.e.f.
29th July, 2016.
Note: Disclosure with respect to Non-Executive Directors - Pecuniary relationship or transaction: None.
Details of Remuneration paid to the Directors during the financial year ended 31st March, 2017 (` in Lakhs) Director Consolidated Perquisites / Performance Sitting Total Salary / other Bonus / Fees Remuneration Benefits Commission Y. C. Deveshwar 601.57 651.27 864.00 - 2116.84 ^ S. Puri 103.43 24.23 41.46 - 169.12 # N. Anand 96.00 65.40 129.60 - 291.00 R. Tandon 96.00 22.87 25.08 - 143.95 Z. Alam 1 - - -   2.00* 2.00 S. Banerjee - - 20.00 9.50 29.50 A. Duggal - - 20.00 8.00 28.00 S. B. Mainak - - 20.00* 8.50 28.50 S. B. Mathur - - 20.00 10.50 30.50 P. B. Ramanujam - - 20.00 6.60 26.60 N. Rao  2 - - - 4.50 4.50 S. S. H. Rehman - - 20.00 10.00 30.00 M. Shankar - - 20.00 11.00 31.00 D. R. Simpson  3 -- - - - A. Baijal 4 - - 20.00 8.00 28.00 P. V. Dhobale 5 - - 88.49 - 88.49 A. V. Girija Kumar 6 - - 19.56* 1.70* 21.26 K. N. Grant 7 - - 104.86 - 104.86 S. H. Khan 8 - - 15.68 @ - 15.68 R. E. Lerwill 9 - - 20.00 1.50 21.50 K. Vaidyanath 10 - - 20.00 7.90 27.90 20 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Service Contract, Severance Fee and Notice Period The appointment of the CEO and the other Executive Directors is governed by resolutions passed by the Board and the Shareholders of the Company, which cover the terms and conditions of such appointment read with the service rules of the Company.
A separate Service Contract is not entered into by the Company with those elevated to the Board from the management cadre, since they already have a Service Contract with the Company.
Letters of appointment have been issued by the Company to the Independent Directors, incorporating their roles, duties, responsibilities etc., which have been accepted by them.
There is no separate provision for payment of severance fee under the resolutions governing the appointment of Executive Directors who have all been drawn from amongst the management cadre.
The statutory provisions will however apply.
With respect to notice period of Directors, the statutory provisions will also apply.
III.
SECURITYHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE The Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board, under the nomenclature ‘Securityholders Relationship Committee’, oversees redressal of shareholder and investor grievances and, inter alia, approves transmission of shares, sub-division / consolidation / renewal / issue of duplicate share certificates etc.
and allotment of shares upon exercise of Options under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes.
Composition The Securityholders Relationship Committee presently comprises four Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Director.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The names of the members of the Securityholders Relationship Committee, including its Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Meetings and Attendance Details of Securityholders Relationship Committee Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, seventeen meetings of the Securityholders Relationship eligible employees of some of its subsidiary companies.
Pursuant to the Shareholders’ approval on 27th June, 2016 to the issue of Bonus Shares in the proportion of One Bonus Share of ` 1/- each for every existing Two fully paid-up Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, adjustment was made to the outstanding Options with respect to the number of Options and the exercise price, in accordance with the Employee Stock Option Schemes of the Company read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, consequent to which 1,46,86,316 Bonus Options were allocated during the year.
Each Option entitles the holder thereof to apply for and be allotted ten Ordinary shares of the Company of ` 1/- each upon payment of the exercise price during the exercise period.
The exercise period commences from the date of vesting of the Options and expires at the end of five years from the date of such vesting.
The vesting period for conversion of Options is as follows: On completion of 12 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 24 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 36 months from the date of grant of the Options : 40% vests Shares and Options of Directors Director No.
of Ordinary shares No.
of Options granted   of ` 1/- each held during the (singly /  jointly) financial year as on 31st March, 2017 Y. C. Deveshwar Nil 2,70,000 S. Puri 75,000 1,35,000 N. Anand 2,32,475 1,35,000 R. Tandon 2,10,000 1,35,000 Z. Alam Nil Nil S. Banerjee Nil Nil A. Duggal Nil Nil S. B. Mainak Nil Nil S. B. Mathur 1,81,500 Nil P. B. Ramanujam 5,12,034 Nil N. Rao Nil Nil S. S. H. Rehman 17,732 Nil M. Shankar Nil Nil D. R. Simpson Nil Nil Note: Options were granted at ‘market price’ as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
The structure, processes and practices of governance are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them.
Sl.
Date Committee  No.
of No.
Strength Members present 1 8th April, 2016 5 4 2 20th May, 2016 6 4 3 26th October, 2016 4 3 21ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Attendance at Securityholders Relationship Committee Meetings during the financial year Member No.
of meetings attended P. B. Ramanujam 1 1 S. Puri 16 R. Tandon 17 A. V. Girija Kumar  2 2 K. Vaidyanath 3 4 1.
Appointed Member and Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
23rd July, 2016.
2.
Ceased to be Member and Chairman of the Committee on conclusion of the AGM held on 22nd July, 2016.
3.
Ceased to be Member w.e.f.
29th July, 2016.
Committee were held, as follows: IV.
CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The role of the CSR Committee of the Board, under the nomenclature ‘CSR and Sustainability Committee’, is inter alia, to review, monitor and provide strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards fulfilling its triple bottom line objectives.
The Committee seeks to guide the Company in integrating its social and environmental objectives with its business strategies and assists in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable livelihoods.
The Committee formulates & monitors the CSR Policy and recommends to the Board the annual CSR Plan of the Company in terms of the Companies Act, 2013.
Composition The CSR and Sustainability Committee presently comprises the Chairman of the Company and six other Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Company is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The names of the members of the CSR and Sustainability Committee, including its Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Meetings and Attendance Details of CSR and Sustainability Committee Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, three meetings of the CSR and Sustainability Committee were held, as follows: Sl.
Date Committee No.
of No.
Strength Members  present 1 8th April, 2016 4 3 2 5th May, 2016 4 3 3 20th May, 2016 4 4 4 24th June, 2016 4 2 5 4th July, 2016 4 2 6 7th July, 2016 4 2 7 21st July, 2016 4 3 8 22nd August, 2016 3 3 9 22nd September, 2016 3 2 10 19th October, 2016 3 2 11 14th November, 2016 3 2 12 20th December, 2016 3 2 13 18th January, 2017 3 2 14 14th February, 2017 3 2 15 23rd February, 2017 3 2 16 9th March, 2017 3 2 17 31st March, 2017 3 2 Attendance at CSR and Sustainability Committee Meetings during the financial year Member No.
of meetings attended Y. C. Deveshwar 3 Z. Alam 1 NA S. B. Mainak 3 N. Rao 2 0 M. Shankar 3 D. R. Simpson 3 NA A. V. Girija Kumar 4 1 R. E. Lerwill 5 1 1.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
26th October, 2016.
2.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
8th April, 2016.
3.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
27th January, 2017.
4.
Ceased to be Member on conclusion of the AGM held on 22nd July, 2016.
5.
Ceased to be Member w.e.f.
22nd June, 2016.
Sl.
Date Committee  No.
of No.
Strength Members present 1 8th April, 2016 8 8 Attendance at Independent Directors Committee Meeting during the financial year Member No.
of meeting attended S. Banerjee 1 A. Duggal 1 S. B. Mathur 1 P. B. Ramanujam 1 N. Rao  1 1 S. S. H. Rehman 1 M. Shankar 1 A. Baijal  2 1 1.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
8th April, 2016.
2.
Ceased to be Member and Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
30th December, 2016.
22 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance V. INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS COMMITTEE The statutory role of the Independent Directors Committee of the Board is to review the performance of non-Independent Directors, the Board and the Chairman of the Company and also to assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company management and the Board.
Composition The Independent Directors Committee comprises all the Independent Directors of the Company, whose names are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Meetings and Attendance Details of Independent Directors Committee Meeting during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, one meeting of the Independent Directors Committee was held, as follows: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The primary role of the CMC is strategic management of the Company’s businesses within Board approved direction / framework and realisation of Company goals.
The CMC assesses the performance of the businesses and allocates resources, and operates under the strategic supervision and control of the Board.
Composition The CMC presently comprises the CEO, the other Executive Directors and seven senior members of management.
The CEO is the Chairman of the Committee.
The composition of the CMC is determined by the Board based on the recommendation of the Nomination & Compensation Committee.
The names of the members of the CMC, including its Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Meetings and Attendance Matters requiring the Board’s attention / approval are placed in the form of notes from the relevant Executive Director / CMC Member, backed by comprehensive background information, alongwith Divisional Management Committee’s recommendation / approval, where applicable.
Minutes of CMC meetings are placed before the Board for its information.
23ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Sl.
Date Committee No.
of No.
Strength Members present 1 18th April, 2016 10 10 2 12th May, 2016 10 9 3 13th June, 2016 10 10 4 12th July, 2016 10 10 5 20th July, 2016 10 8 6 5th August, 2016 10 8 7 23rd August, 2016 10 9 8 15th September, 2016 10 9 9 20th October, 2016 10 10 10 12th November, 2016 10 10 11 2nd December, 2016 10 10 12 16th January, 2017 10 10 13 8th February, 2017 10 10 14 8th February, 2017 10 10 15 8th February, 2017 10 10 16 10th February, 2017 10 10 17 13th February, 2017 10 10 18 17th February, 2017 10 10 19 18th February, 2017 10 10 20 18th February, 2017 10 10 21 23rd February, 2017 10 10 22 23rd February, 2017 10 10 23 24th February, 2017 10 10 24 27th February, 2017 10 10 25 27th February, 2017 10 9 26 2nd March, 2017 10 10 27 2nd March, 2017 10 10 28 3rd March, 2017 10 9 29 11th March, 2017 10 10 30 11th, 12th & 13th March, 2017 10 10 31 16th March, 2017 10 9 32 23rd March, 2017 10 8 33 23rd March, 2017 10 8 34 27th March, 2017 10 9 35 27th March, 2017 10 9 36 29th March, 2017 10 10 37 29th March, 2017 10 10 38 31st March, 2017 10 9 39 31st March, 2017 10 9 Details of Corporate Management Committee Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, thirty nine meetings of the CMC were held, as follows: Attendance at Corporate Management Committee Meetings during the financial year Member No.
of meetings attended S. Puri 1 39 N. Anand 36 R. Tandon 39 B.
B. Chatterjee 36 C. Dar 38 S. K. Singh  2 27 S. Sivakumar 38 R. Sridhar 3 38 B. Sumant 3 37 K. S. Suresh 34 Y. C. Deveshwar 4 10 1.
Appointed Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
5th February, 2017.
2.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
27th January, 2017.
3.
Appointed Member w.e.f.
1st April, 2016.
4.
Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
5th February, 2017.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The role of the Risk Management Committee, constituted pursuant to the Listing Regulations 2015, is inter alia, to approve the strategic risk management framework of the Company, and review the risk mitigation strategies and results of risk identification, prioritisation & mitigation plans for all businesses / functions.
Composition The Risk Management Committee presently comprises the CEO, the other Executive Directors and senior members of management.
The CEO is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The names of the members of the Risk Management Committee, including its Chairman, are provided below.
Meetings and Attendance Details of Risk Management Committee Meetings during the financial year During the financial year ended 31st March, 2017, two meetings of the Risk Management Committee Sl.
Date Committee Strength  No.
of Members No.
(including Invitees) & Invitees present 1 11th January, 2017 7 7 2 16th March, 2017 7 4 The CSR and Sustainability Committee provides strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and Sustainability practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line objectives.
24 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR DIRECTORS ITC believes that a Board, which is well informed / familiarised with the Company and its affairs, can contribute significantly to effectively discharge its role of trusteeship in a manner that fulfils stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
In pursuit of this, the Directors of the Company are updated on changes / developments in the domestic / global corporate and industry scenario including those pertaining to statutes / legislations & economic environment and on matters affecting the Company, to enable them to take well informed and timely decisions.
Visits to Company facilities are also organised for the Directors.
Further details may be accessed on the Company’s corporate website at http://www.itcportal.com/about- itc/leadership/board-of-directors.aspx.DISCLOSURES G Details of non-compliances, penalties, strictures by Stock Exchanges / SEBI / Statutory Authorities on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years: None G Inter-se relationships between Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company: None G Materially significant related party transactions which may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large: None G Material financial and commercial transactions of senior management, where they may have had personal interest, and which had potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large: None G Compliance Officer under the Listing Regulations 2015: B.
B. Chatterjee, Executive Vice President & Company Secretary G Information with respect to ‘Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities’ is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis’ and in the ‘Notes to the Financial Statements’.
Attendance at Risk Management Committee Meetings during the financial year 1.
Appointed Chairman of the Committee w.e.f.
5th February, 2017.
2.
Ceased to be Chairman or Member of the Committee w.e.f.
5th February, 2017.
3.
Inducted as Invitee to the Committee w.e.f.
5th February, 2017.
Member No.
of meetings attended S. Puri 1 2 N. Anand 1 R. Tandon 2 S. Sivakumar 2 B. Sumant 1 Y. C. Deveshwar  2 1 Invitee No.
of meetings attended S. K. Singh 3 0 R. Parasuram 2 were held, as follows: 25ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Timely disclosure of consistent, comparable, relevant and reliable information on corporate financial performance is at the core of good governance.
Towards this end - G The quarterly results of the Company were announced within a month from the end of the quarter.
Audited annual results alongwith the results for the fourth quarter were announced within sixty days from the end of the financial year.
These results were published, inter alia, in ‘The Times of India’ and ‘Bartaman’ / ‘Aajkaal’ from Kolkata, and on an all India basis in major newspapers, and also in ‘Luxemburger Wort’, Luxembourg.
As in the past, the Company will publish its quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results and also post such results on the Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com.
The Company’s presentations on the results, quarterly results updates alongwith FAQs are made available on the Company’s corporate website.
G The Company’s corporate website provides comprehensive information on ITC’s portfolio of businesses, CSR and Sustainability initiatives, EHS performance, shareholding pattern, key Company Policies, and contact details of Company’s employees responsible for assisting investors & handling investor grievances.
The website has entire sections dedicated to ITC’s profile, history and evolution, its core values, corporate governance and leadership.
An exclusive section on ‘Shareholder Value’ serves to inform and service Shareholders, enabling them to access information at their convenience.
The entire Report and Accounts as well as quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results are available in downloadable formats under the section ‘Shareholder Value’ on the Company’s corporate website as a measure of added convenience to investors.
The ‘Media Centre’ section includes all major media releases from the Company and relevant media reports.
G The Report of the Board of Directors, forming part of the Report and Accounts, includes all aspects of Management Discussion and Analysis as required under the Listing Regulations 2015.
ITC CODE OF CONDUCT The ITC Code of Conduct, adopted by the Board of Directors, is applicable to Directors, senior management and employees of the Company.
The Code is derived from three interlinked fundamental principles, viz.
good corporate governance, good corporate citizenship and exemplary personal conduct in relation to the Company’s business and reputation.
The Code covers ITC’s commitment to CSR and sustainable development, concern for occupational health, safety and environment, a gender friendly workplace, transparency and auditability, legal compliance and the philosophy of leading by personal example.
The Code is available on the Company’s corporate website.
Declaration as required under the Listing Regulations 2015 All Directors and senior management of the Company have affirmed compliance with the ITC Code of Conduct for the financial year ended 31st March, 2017.
S. Puri Chief Executive Officer & Kolkata, 26th May, 2017.
Executive Director WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY Synopsis of the Whistleblower Policy of the Company is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis’ in the Report and Accounts.
The Whistleblower Policy is also available on the Company’s corporate website.
POLICY FOR DETERMINATION OF A MATERIAL SUBSIDIARY The Policy may be accessed on the Company’s corporate website at http://www.itcportal.com/about- itc/policies/policy-on-material-subsidiaries.aspx.
POLICY ON RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Policy may be accessed on the Company’s corporate website at http://www.itcportal.com/about- itc/policies/policy-on-rpt.aspx.
26 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance ITC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING - 2015 The ITC Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading - 2015, approved by the Board of Directors, inter alia, prohibits purchase or sale of securities of the Company by Directors and employees while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company.
posted on the Company’s corporate website.
Significant events are also posted on this website under the ‘Media Centre’ section.
The complete Annual Report is sent to every Shareholder of the Company.
4.
Audit Opinion: It has always been the Company’s endeavour to present financial statements with unmodified audit opinion.
The Statutory Auditors have issued an unmodified audit opinion on the Company’s financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Provided in the ‘Shareholder Information’ section of the Report and Accounts.
CONFIRMATION OF COMPLIANCE As required under the Listing Regulations 2015 – G It is confirmed that the Company has complied with the requirements under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations 2015.
G The Statutory Auditors’ Certificate that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance is annexed to the ‘Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis’.
DISCRETIONARY REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE LISTING REGULATIONS 2015 The status of compliance with the discretionary requirements under the Listing Regulations 2015 is provided below: 1.
Separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Pursuant to splitting the role of the Executive Chairman between Chairman and CEO, the Company, effective 5th February, 2017, has a Chairman in non-executive capacity and a CEO.
2.
Chairman’s Office: Chairman’s Office is maintained by the Company and expenses towards performance of the Chairman’s duties are borne by the Company / reimbursed to him.
3.
Shareholder Rights: The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in newspapers on an all India basis and are also Notes: 1.
Reference to Division / Divisional Business includes Strategic Business Unit (SBU), Business Vertical and Shared Services.
2.
Reference to Divisional Management Committee includes SBU Management Committee, Shared Services Management Committee and Executive Committee for Business Vertical.
3.
Reference to Divisional Chief Executive includes Heads of SBU, Business Vertical and Shared Services.
The ITC Code of Conduct is derived from three interlinked fundamental principles – good corporate governance, good corporate citizenship and exemplary personal conduct.
***************** ANNEXURE TO THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy ITC’s Remuneration Strategy is designed to attract and retain high quality talent, that gives each of its businesses a unique competitive advantage and enables the Company achieve its objectives.
ITC’s Remuneration Strategy is a key and integral component of the broader Human Resource Strategy of the Company and, whilst focusing on remuneration and related aspects of performance management, is aligned with and reinforces the employee value proposition of a superior quality of work life, that includes an enabling work environment, an empowering and engaging work culture and opportunities to learn and grow.
The Compensation approach endeavours to align each employee with the Company’s Superordinate goal and enables a congruence between individual aspirations and the Company’s mission and vision.
Policy It is ITC’s policy: 1.
To ensure that its Remuneration practices support and encourage meritocracy.
2.
To ensure that Remuneration is market-led and takes into account the competitive context of each business.
3.
To leverage Remuneration as an effective instrument to enhance performance and therefore, to link a significant component of remuneration to both individual and collective performance outcomes.
4.
To adopt a comprehensive approach to Remuneration in order to support a superior quality of personal and work life, combining both cash and non-cash components / benefits, in a manner so as to judiciously balance short term with long term priorities.
5.
To design Remuneration practices such that they reinforce ITC’s values and culture and to implement them in a manner that complies with all relevant regulatory requirements.
Remuneration of Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior Management 1.
Remuneration of Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior Management is determined and recommended by the Board Nomination & Compensation Committee and approved by the Board.
Remuneration of Executive Directors is also subject to the approval of the shareholders.
2.
Remuneration is reviewed and revised periodically, when such a revision is warranted by the market.
Since the market for Board-level and senior leadership talent is global, remuneration of top management of global corporations as well as Indian corporations of comparable size is considered.
The review also cognises for the Company’s diverse multi-business portfolio and its unique strategy of organisation.
3.
Apart from fixed elements of remuneration and benefits / perquisites, Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior Management are also eligible for Performance Bonus and Employee Stock Options that are linked to their individual performance and the overall performance of the Company.
These elements of compensation design, facilitate alignment of the priorities of Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior Management with the long-term interests of stakeholders.
27ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors and Chairman Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is in the form of annual commission, which is determined by the Board within the limit stipulated under the Companies Act, 2013 and approved by the shareholders.
Commission is based, inter alia, on Company performance and is generally payable on a uniform basis to reinforce the principle of collective responsibility.
Individual performance may be taken into account in exceptional circumstances.
Non-Executive Directors are also entitled to sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board and Committees thereof, the quantum of which is determined by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors, who are not Independent Directors, are also eligible for Stock Options as approved by the shareholders.
The present Chairman, at the request of the Nomination & Compensation Committee and the Board, recognising the need for orderly transition in a company of ITC’s size and complexity, agreed to continue as Chairman in non-executive capacity and also play the role of Mentor to the new executive management, and is entitled to additional remuneration and benefits, as determined by the Board within the limit stipulated under the Companies Act, 2013 and approved by the shareholders.
Remuneration of Management Staff 1.
Remuneration of Management Staff is business-specific and approved by the Corporate Management Committee on the recommendation of the Business and Corporate Human Resources.
2.
Remuneration is reviewed and revised periodically, when such a revision is warranted by the market.
The quantum of revision is linked to market trends, the competitive context of the business, as well as the track record of the individual manager.
3.
Variable Pay in the form of Annual Performance Bonus cognises for the performance rating of the individual manager, the performance of the Business and the overall performance of the Company.
4.
The Nomination & Compensation Committee may grant Stock Options under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes to managers at middle and senior levels, linked to their performance and potential, with benefits vesting in phases over a period of time.
Remuneration of Non-Management Employees 1.
Remuneration of non-management employees is market-led, business specific, leverages performance and is approved by the Management Committee of the Business.
2.
Remuneration of non-management unionised employees is determined through a process of negotiations with the recognised union/s or employee representatives, through a long-term agreement.
3.
The collective bargaining process is anchored in mutuality of interests, characterised by industrial democracy and partnership with enlightened trade unions, aimed at enhancing the competitiveness of the unit and business, and thereby improving the quality of life of the workforce through fair and equitable compensation.
4.
Remuneration, comprising fixed and variable components, is arrived at based on benchmarking with region-cum-industry practices and cognizing for market dynamics, competitiveness of the unit / plant, overall performance of the business, availability of skills, inflation / cost of living and the impact of cost escalation and productivity gains on present and future competitiveness.
Shareholder Information Shareholder / Investor complaints The Company attends to Shareholder / Investor complaints within five working days except where constrained by disputes or legal impediments.
Pending cases relating to disputes over title to shares in which the Company has been made a party, are not material in nature.
During the financial year, three investor complaints (one relating to change of address and the other two relating to dividend), in terms of the Complaint Identification Policy of the Company approved by the Securityholders Relationship Committee, were received and were promptly resolved.
National Stock Exchange, Bombay Stock Exchange and Calcutta Stock Exchange have confirmed that there were no investor complaints pending against the Company at the end of each quarter as also on 31st March, 2017, which position was also reflected on SCORES, the web based complaint redressal system of SEBI.
The e-mail ID earmarked by the Company for this purpose is isc@itc.in .
Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity The shares of the Company are available for trading in the dematerialised form under both the Depository Systems in India - NSDL and CDSL.
The International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares under the Depository System is INE154A01025.
During the year, 1,33,46,715 shares of the Company, covered in 2,475 requests and constituting 0.11% of the issued and subscribed Share Capital of the Company, were dematerialised.
The processing activities with respect to requests received for dematerialisation are generally completed within three working days.
The Company’s shares are amongst the most liquid and actively traded shares on the Indian Stock Exchanges and consistently rank among the top frequently traded shares, both in terms of number of shares traded as well as in terms of value.
The Company’s market capitalisation stood at ` 3,40,491 crores (US$ 52.50 billion) on 31st March, 2017, as compared to ` 2,64,150 crores (US$ 39.87 billion) on 31st March, 2016.
AGM Details Date Friday, 28th July, 2017 Venue Science City Main Auditorium JBS Haldane Avenue Kolkata 700 046 Time 10.00 a.m. Book Closure Dates Wednesday, 7th June, 2017 to Friday, 9th June, 2017 (both days inclusive) Dividend Payment Date Monday, 31st July, 2017 Registrar & Share Transfer Agents The in-house Investor Service Centre of the Company (ISC), accredited with ISO 9001:2008 certification for investor servicing, provides share registration and related services.
The Company is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) as Category II Share Transfer Agent and has been granted a certificate of permanent registration by SEBI.
Share and Debenture Transfer Committee The Share and Debenture Transfer Committee of the Company met twenty nine times during the financial year ended 31st March, 2017 to approve share transfers.
The processing activities with respect to requests received for share transfers are generally completed within three working days.
There were no share transfers pending as on 31st March, 2017.
The Committee presently comprises the following: R. Tandon, Executive Director & - Chairman Chief Financial Officer B.
B. Chatterjee, Executive Vice President & - Member Company Secretary K. S. Suresh, General Counsel - Member A. Bose, Deputy Secretary and Head of ISC, is the Secretary to the Committee and also the Compliance Officer under the SEBI (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993.
28 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Shareholder Information Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March, 2017 No.
of Shares Slab  No.
of Shareholders No.
of Shares Physical Demat Total % Physical % Demat % Total % 1 – 5000 32,399 4,71,613 5,04,012 92.03 2,85,83,623 0.24 18,46,37,229 1.52 21,32,20,852 1.76  5001 – 10000 3,568 13,760 17,328 3.16 2,69,34,037 0.22 10,12,81,517 0.83 12,82,15,554 1.05 10001 – 20000 2,283 9,515 11,798 2.15 3,07,62,251 0.25 13,38,32,030 1.10 16,45,94,281 1.35 20001 – 30000 1,056 4,319 5,375 0.98 2,57,86,974 0.21 10,69,05,920 0.88 13,26,92,894 1.09 30001 – 40000 302 1,921 2,223 0.41 1,02,09,280 0.09 6,64,72,114 0.55 7,66,81,394 0.64 40001 – 50000 220 1,314 1,534 0.28 97,58,218 0.08 5,88,74,949 0.48 6,86,33,167 0.56 50001  – 100000 396 2,370 2,766 0.51 2,77,65,157 0.23 16,47,65,887 1.36 19,25,31,044 1.59 100001and above 154 2,452 2,606 0.48 3,65,06,98,365 30.05 7,52,01,15,520 61.91 11,17,08,13,885 91.96             Total 40,378 5,07,264 5,47,642 100.00 3,81,04,97,905 31.37 8,33,68,85,166 68.63 12,14,73,83,071 100.00 Categories of Shareholders as on 31st March, 2017 Global Depository Receipts Pursuant to the offer of Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) made in 1993 by the Company, 2,50,44,129 GDRs, representing 2,50,44,129 underlying shares of the Company i.e.
0.21% of the issued and subscribed Share Capital, were outstanding as on 31st March, 2017.
The Company’s GDRs are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange (Code: 004660919) at Societe de la Bourse de Luxembourg, 35A Boulevard Joseph II, L-1840, Luxembourg.
The Listing Fee for the calendar year 2017 has been paid to the said Exchange.
Category No.
of % Shares held (A) Institutional Shareholding Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies, Mutual Funds and Banks 4,33,90,97,491 35.72 Foreign Portfolio Investors and Foreign Institutional Investors 2,43,37,89,792 20.03 Sub-Total (A) 6,77,28,87,283 55.75     (B) Non-Institutional Shareholding     Foreign Companies 3,62,06,73,627 29.81 NRIs, PIOs and Foreign Nationals 6,72,66,373 0.55 Bodies Corporate 45,97,94,553 3.79 Public and Others 1,20,17,17,106 9.89 Sub-Total (B) 5,34,94,51,659 44.04 Public Shareholding (A+ B) 12,12,23,38,942 99.79 Shares underlying Global Depository Receipts 2,50,44,129 0.21 Total12,14,73,83,071 100.00 29ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Listing of Shares on Stock Exchanges with Stock Code Stock Exchange Stock Code National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) ITC Exchange Plaza, Plot No.
C/1, G Block Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E) Mumbai 400 051 Telephone nos.
: 022-2659 8100-14 Facsimile no.
: 022-2659 8120 e-mail : ignse@nse.co.in Website : www.nseindia.com BSE Limited (BSE) 500875 Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street Mumbai 400 001 Telephone nos.
: 022-2272 1233/34 Facsimile no.
: 022-2272 1919 e-mail : is@bseindia.com Website : www.bseindia.com The Calcutta Stock Exchange Limited (CSE) 10000018 7, Lyons Range Kolkata 700 001 Telephone no.
: 033-4025 3000 Facsimile no.
: 033-4025 3030 e-mail : cseisc@cse-india.com Website : www.cse-india.com The Listing Fees for the financial year 2017-18 have been paid to the Stock Exchanges.
Stock Exchange Reuters Code Bloomberg NSE ITC.NS ITC IS BSE ITC.BO ITC IB Monthly High and Low Quotes and Volume of Shares traded on NSE, BSE and GDRs on Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LSE) NSE BSE LSE Year & Month High Low Volume High Low Volume High Low Volume in 000 s in 000 s in 000 s (`)( `) (Nos.)
( `)( `) (Nos.)
(US$) (US$) (Nos.)
2016 APRIL 225.57 208.33 1,85,906 225.60 208.00 12,042 3.38 3.21 13 MAY 242.67 204.00 2,69,414 242.83 204.00 24,812 3.61 3.13 7 JUNE 247.80 230.43 2,29,838 247.60 230.47 14,273 3.64 3.47 5 JULY 259.75 242.20 1,96,407 258.85 242.20 21,818 N.A.
N.A.
Nil AUGUST 262.00 245.80 1,78,062 262.00 246.00 20,951 N.A.
N.A.
Nil SEPTEMBER 265.90 240.50 1,78,163 266.00 240.80 17,205 N.A.
N.A.
Nil OCTOBER 246.55 233.50 1,64,097 246.50 233.60 25,926 N.A.
N.A.
Nil NOVEMBER 259.65 222.10 2,86,821 259.60 222.25 23,531 N.A.
N.A.
Nil DECEMBER 242.40 222.00 1,86,837 242.30 222.05 13,956 3.55 3.31 2 2017 JANUARY 266.95 238.60 1,89,741 266.70 238.55 19,447 3.89 3.54 3 FEBRUARY 292.15 257.85 2,21,203 291.95 258.20 22,993 4.16 3.60 11 MARCH 288.90 258.15 2,80,923 289.00 258.40 34,029 4.40 3.92 2 Note: Share Price & Volume adjusted to reflect Bonus Shares issued during the financial year 2016-17.
There was no trading in the Company’s shares on CSE during the financial year 2016-17.
30 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Shareholder Information During the year, the Company’s shares have outperformed the market.
While the Nifty 50 has risen by 18.5%, the Company’s share price has risen by 28.1%.
ITC Share Price vis-à-vis Nifty 50 Notes: Indicates monthly closing positions.
Share Price adjusted to reflect Bonus Shares issued during the financial year 2016-17.
ITC Share Price & Volume traded on NSE Notes: Indicates monthly high & low price and monthly volume.
Share Price & Volume adjusted to reflect Bonus Shares issued during the financial year 2016-17.
31ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Shareholder Information Nifty 50ITC Share Price 1000010000 7000 300 175 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 ITC Share Price ( `) Nifty 50 275 250 225 200 9000 8000 ITC Share Price ( `) Volume Traded ( 000 Shares) Highest Lowest Volume Traded 300 Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 300000 100000175 250000 200000 150000 275 250 225 200 Dividend History (Last 10 Years) As one of India’s foremost private sector companies, the Company has performed consistently for over a century now and has rewarded Shareholders since inception with uninterrupted dividends.
Financial Calendar 1 First Quarter Results July 2017 2 Second Quarter and Half-Year Results October / November 2017 3 Third Quarter Results January / February 2018 4 Fourth Quarter and Annual Results May 2018 Financial Year 2017-18 (1st April - 31st March) Particulars of past three AGMs Science City Main Auditorium JBS Haldane Avenue Kolkata 700 046 10.00 a.m. AGM Financial Year Venue Date Time Special Resolutions passed 105th 2015-16 22/07/2016 – 104th 2014-15 31/07/2015 – 103rd 2013-14 30/07/2014 G Approval to retain the number of  Directors on the Board of Directors at  eighteen, in line with the Articles of  Association of the Company.
G Amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company for  incorporation of Article 10A with  respect to charging of fees for copies of documents / registers / records.
Financial Year Dividend per Share Dividend Dividend Total Dividend  (`)( ` in Crores) Distribution Tax including Dividend (` in Crores) Distribution Tax (` in Crores) 2016-17 4.75 * 5,770.01       1,174.64 6,944.65 2015-16 8.50 ^ 6,840.13 1,392.48 8,232.61 2014-15 6.25 5,009.71 1,019.86 6,029.57 2013-14 6.00 4,771.91 810.99 5,582.90 2012-13 5.25 4,148.46 705.03 4,853.49 2011-12 4.50 3,518.29 570.75 4,089.04 2010-11 4.45@ 3,443.48 558.62 4,002.10 2009-10 10.00 # 3,818.18 634.15 4,452.33 2008-09 3.70 1,396.53 237.34 1,633.87 2007-08 3.50 1,319.02 224.17 1,543.19 * Subject to approval of Shareholders; on expanded Share Capital arising out of Bonus Shares issued in the ratio of 1:2.
^ Includes special dividend of  2.00 per share.
@ On expanded Share Capital arising out of Bonus Shares issued in the ratio of 1:1 and includes special dividend of 1.65 per share.
# Includes special Centenary dividend of 5.50 per share.
32 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Shareholder Information Postal Ballot and E-Voting During the year, the following resolutions were passed by the Members by requisite majority by means of postal ballot and e-voting.
The Board of Directors of the Company appointed Mr. R. L. Auddy, Senior Solicitor and Partner, Messrs. Sandersons & Morgans, Advocates & Solicitors, as the Scrutinizer for scrutinizing the postal ballot and e-voting process.
Resolutions for increase in Resolution for alteration  Authorised Share Capital, of the Objects Clause of the amendment to the Articles of Memorandum of Association Association to reflect the increased  to include Healthcare Authorised Share Capital and issue of Bonus Shares Date of Postal Ballot Notice 20th May, 2016 27th January, 2017 Date of completion of despatch of Postal Ballot Notice 28th May, 2016 14th February, 2017 Voting period 29th May, 2016 to 15th February, 2017 to 27th June, 2016 16th March, 2017 Date of declaration of Results 28th June, 2016 17th March, 2017 The results of the postal ballot and e-voting were as follows: Votes in favour of the Resolution Votes against the Resolution Resolution Number of Shares % of votes to total Number of Shares % of votes to total for which valid number of valid for which valid number of valid votes cast votes cast votes cast votes cast Ordinary Resolution - Increase in the 656,23,61,918 99.48 3,43,44,907 0.52 Authorised Share Capital of the Company Special Resolution - Amendment to 659,60,91,251 99.62 2,49,58,407 0.38 Article 4 of the Articles of Association of the Company Ordinary Resolution - Issue of 662,03,27,702 99.99 8,21,019 0.01 Bonus Shares Special Resolution - Alteration of the 907,28,23,765 90.68 93,26,23,282 9.32 Objects Clause of the Memorandum of Association of the Company to include ‘Healthcare’ No special resolution requiring postal ballot is being proposed for the ensuing AGM.
Shareholder Information 33ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Plant Locations CIGARETTE FACTORIES Bengaluru 1.
Meenakunte Village Jala Hobli Bengaluru North Taluk Karnataka 562 157 Kolkata 2.
93/1, Karl Marx Sarani Kolkata West Bengal 700 043 Munger 3.
Basdeopur P.O.
District Munger Bihar 811 202 Pune 4.
Plot No.
B - 27, MIDC Ranjangaon, Taluka Shirur District Pune Maharashtra 412 220 Saharanpur 5.
Sardar Patel Marg Saharanpur Uttar Pradesh 247 001 GREEN LEAF THRESHING PLANTS Anaparti 1.
Anaparti East Godavari District Andhra Pradesh 533 342 Chirala 2.
Chirala Prakasam District Andhra Pradesh 523 157 Nanjangud 3.
Thandya Industrial Area Immavu & Adakanahalli Villages Nanjangud Taluk, District Mysuru Karnataka 571 302 PACKAGING & PRINTING FACTORIES Chennai 1.
Tiruvottiyur Chennai Tamil Nadu 600 019 Haridwar 2.
Plot No.
1, Sector - 11 Integrated Industrial Estate Haridwar Uttarakhand 249 403 Munger 3.
Basdeopur P.O.
District Munger Bihar 811 202 PAPER & PAPERBOARD MILLS Bollaram 1.
Anrich Industrial Estate Bollaram Village, District Medak Telangana 502 325 Sarapaka 2.
Sarapaka Village District Bhadradri Kothagudem Telangana 507 128 Thekkampatty 3.
Thekkampatty Village Vivekanandapuram Post Mettupalayam Taluk District Coimbatore Tamil Nadu 641 113 Tribeni 4.
Village & Post Chandrahati District Hooghly West Bengal 712 504 FOODS FACTORIES Dhulagarh 1.
F - 26, Howrah Food Park Dhulagarh, Sankrail Howrah West Bengal 711 302 Haridwar 2.
Plot No.
1, Sector - 11 Integrated Industrial Estate Haridwar Uttarakhand 249 403 Kamrup 3.
NH - 37, Bortejpur Mouza Rampur Kukurmara, District Kamrup Assam 781 134 Malur 4.
Survey Nos.
15/1 & 15/2 Madivala Gram Panchayat Yeshwanthpura Village District Kolar Karnataka 563 130 Munger 5.
Sitakund Industrial Area Village Nandlalpur District Munger Bihar 811 202 Nanjangud 6.
Survey No.
77/3 Thandya Industrial Area Immavu & Adakanahalli Villages Nanjangud Taluk, District Mysuru Karnataka 571 302 Pune 7.
Plot No.
D - 1, MIDC Ranjangaon, Taluka Shirur District Pune Maharashtra 412 220 Uluberia 8.
Mouza Amraberia, J. L. No.
8 P.S.
Uluberia, District Howrah West Bengal 711 303 PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS FACTORIES Haridwar 1.
Plot No.
1, Sector - 11 Integrated Industrial Estate Haridwar Uttarakhand 249 403 Kamrup 2.
NH - 37, Bortejpur Mouza Rampur Kukurmara, District Kamrup Assam 781 134 Manpura 3.
Village Manpura Tehsil Baddi District Solan Himachal Pradesh 174 101 Shareholder Information 34 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Panchla 6.
Integrated Packaged Foods Manufacturing Unit Mouza Kulai, J. L. No.
26 P.S.
Panchla, District Howrah West Bengal 711 322 Pudukkottai 7.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics Facility Vadugapatti & Velur Villages Taluk Illupur District Pudukkottai Tamil Nadu 621 316 Pune 8.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing Facility Plot No.
D - 1, MIDC Ranjangaon, Taluka Shirur District Pune Maharashtra 412 220 Sehore 9.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics Facility Industrial Area Badiya Khedi District Sehore Madhya Pradesh 466 001 HOTELS Owned Hotels Agra 1.
ITC Mughal* Taj Ganj Agra Uttar Pradesh 282 001 Bengaluru 2.
ITC Gardenia* 1, Residency Road Bengaluru Karnataka 560 025 3.
ITC Windsor* 25, Windsor Square Golf Course Road Bengaluru Karnataka 560 052 4.
My Fortune, Bengaluru 46, Richmond Road Bengaluru Karnataka 560 025 Chennai 5.
ITC Grand Chola* 63, Mount Road, Guindy Chennai Tamil Nadu 600 032 6.
My Fortune, Chennai Cathedral Road Chennai Tamil Nadu 600 086 Jaipur 7.
ITC Rajputana* Palace Road Jaipur Rajasthan 302 006 Kolkata 8.
ITC Sonar* 1, JBS Haldane Avenue Kolkata West Bengal 700 046 Mumbai 9.
ITC Maratha* Sahar, Mumbai Maharashtra 400 099 10.
ITC Grand Central* 287, Dr. B. Ambedkar Road Parel, Mumbai Maharashtra 400 012 New Delhi 11.
ITC Maurya* Sardar Patel Marg Diplomatic Enclave New Delhi 110 021 12.
Sheraton New Delhi Hotel District Centre, Saket New Delhi 110 017 Licenced Hotels Ahmedabad 13.
Fortune Park, Ahmedabad Ellis Bridge Ahmedabad Gujarat 380 006 LIFESTYLE RETAILING Design & Technology Centre Manesar Plot No.
3, Sector - 5 IMT Manesar Gurugram Haryana 122 050 PLANTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION Ambarnath 1.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing Facility Off Kalyan Badlapur Road Ambarnath District Thane Maharashtra 421 505 Haridwar 2.
Food Unit - II Plot No.
1, Sector - 11 Integrated Industrial Estate Haridwar Uttarakhand 249 403 Kapurthala 3.
Integrated Foods Manufacturing and Logistics Facility A-1-A, Mixed Use Industrial Park Village Jhalthikriwal District Kapurthala Punjab 144 601 Khordha 4.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics Facility IDCO Plot No.
4 Kholadwara Industrial Area District Khordha Odisha 752 050 Medak 5.
Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics Facility Village Manhorabad District Medak Telangana 502 336 *  Operating under ‘The Luxury Collection ’ brand under Licence from Starwood Asia Pacific Hotels & Resorts Pte.
Ltd.
Shareholder Information 35ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Gurugram 14.
ITC Grand Bharat* P.O.
Hasanpur, Tauru District Mewat Gurugram Haryana 122 105 Kota 15.
WelcomHeritage Umed Bhawan  Palace Palace Road, Kota Rajasthan 324 001 Port Blair 16.
Fortune Resort Bay Island Marine Hill Port Blair Andaman & Nicobar Islands 744 101 Vadodara 17.
WelcomHotel Vadodara R. C. Dutt Road Alkapuri Vadodara Gujarat 390 007 Hotels Under Operating Services Aurangabad 18.
WelcomHotel Rama International R - 3, Chikalthana Jalna Road Aurangabad Maharashtra 431 210 Hyderabad 19.
ITC Kakatiya* 6-3-1187, Begumpet Hyderabad Telangana 500 016 Jodhpur 20.
WelcomHotel Jodhpur Khasra No.
53 Uchiyarda Village Jodhpur Rajasthan 342 027 Khimsar 21.
WelcomHotel Khimsar Fort & Dunes P.O.
Khimsar District Nagaur Rajasthan 341 025 Chandouli 4.
Khasra Nos.
57-62 & 641 Village Muhabatpur, Ganj Khwaja Pargana Dhoos Tehsil Sakaldeeha District Chandouli Uttar Pradesh 232 104 Chindwara 5.
Survey Nos.
16/1-16/2 & 16/4-16/7 Settlement No.
7 Patwari Halka No.
34, R. I. Circle Village Imaliya Bohata, Chindwara - I Tehsil & District Chindwara Madhya Pradesh 480 001 Dewas 6.
Survey Nos.
294/2 & 295 Patwari Halka No.
26 Village Lohar Pipliya Tehsil & District Dewas Madhya Pradesh 455 001 Dhar 7.
Survey No.
438 Patwari Halka No.
13 Village Jaitpura Tehsil & District Dhar Madhya Pradesh 454 001 Gonda 8.
Arazi Nos.
420 (Part), 421-424, 427-428, 431, 433-434, 442-446, 447 (Part), 448 (Part), 450-456, 456 (kha) & 457 (Part) Village Haripur Tehsil & District Gonda Uttar Pradesh 271 001 Hardoi 9.
Arazi Nos.
658 & 659 Village Korriyan Pargana Gopamau Tehsil & District Hardoi Uttar Pradesh 241 001 Hathras 10.
Khasra No.
21 Village Srinagar Tehsil Sasni District Hathras Uttar Pradesh 204 216 *  Operating under ‘The Luxury Collection ’ brand under Licence from Starwood Asia Pacific Hotels & Resorts Pte.
Ltd. Mamallapuram 22.
WelcomHotel Kences Palm Beach No.
53, Devaneri Village East Coast Road District Kanchipuram Mamallapuram Tamil Nadu 603 104 New Delhi 23.
WelcomHotel Dwarka Plot No.
3, Sector - 10 District Centre, Dwarka New Delhi 110 075 Panchkula 24.
WelcomHotel Bella Vista SM - 8, City Center, Sector - 5 Panchkula Haryana 134 109 Visakhapatnam 25.
WelcomHotel Grand Bay Beach Road Visakhapatnam Andhra Pradesh 530 002 CHOUPAL SAAGARS – RURAL SERVICES CENTRES Amravati 1.
Old Survey Nos.
12/5A, 12/6 & 12/7 Gat No.
19 Patwari Halka No.
48 Mouza Degaon Pargana Nandgaon Peth Taluka & District Amravati Maharashtra 444 901 Badaun 2.
Arazi Nos.
10 & 12/3 (Part) Village Khunak Tehsil & District Badaun Uttar Pradesh 243 601 Bahraich 3.
Khasra Nos.
475-476, 477 (Part), 496-kha (Part), 497, 498 (Part), 500-Mi, 501-505, 507 & 509 Village Mohammad Nagar Tehsil, Pargana & District Bahraich Uttar Pradesh 271 801 Shareholder Information 36 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Nagda 15.
Khasra Nos.
1393 (Part), 1394 (Part), 1396/1 & 1397/1 Patwari Halka No.
18 Village Padliya Kala Tehsil Nagda District Ujjain Madhya Pradesh 456 335 Parbhani 16.
Gat No.
803 Village Asola Tehsil & District Parbhani Maharashtra 431 401 Pilibhit 17.
Khasra No.
261 Village Sandiya Mustakil Tehsil, Pargana & District Pilibhit Uttar Pradesh 262 001 Ratlam 18.
Survey Nos.
107/1-107/3 R. I. Circle No.
5, Moondri Patwari Halka No.
31 Village Kharakhedi Tehsil & District Ratlam Madhya Pradesh 457 001 Sehore 19.
Khasra Nos.
208-209 Patwari Halka No.
36 Village Rafiqganj Tehsil & District Sehore Madhya Pradesh 466 001 Ujjain 20.
Survey Nos.
433/3, 456 & 458 R. I. Circle No.
2 Patwari Halka No.
19 Village Kamed Tehsil Ghattia, District Ujjain Madhya Pradesh 456 001 Vidisha 21.
New Revenue Survey Nos.
18 & 18/2 Patwari Halka Nos.
35 & 45 Village Bais Tehsil & District Vidisha Madhya Pradesh 464 001 Wardha 22.
Survey Nos.
151/1 & 151/4 Mouza No.
17, Mouza Inzapur Tehsil & District Wardha Maharashtra 442 001 Washim 23.
Survey No.
104 Patwari Halka No.
10 Mouza Zakalwadi Taluka & District Washim Maharashtra 444 505 Yavatmal 24.
Bhumapan Kramank 15 Bhumapan Kramank Upvibhag 2A Village Parwa Taluka & District Yavatmal Maharashtra 445 001 Itarsi 11.
Survey Nos.
309/1, 310/2 & 310/3 Patwari Halka No.
11 Village Raisalpur Tehsil Itarsi District Hoshangabad Madhya Pradesh 461 111 Jagdishpur 12.
Khasra Nos.
2377-2380 Village Kathura Pargana Jagdishpur Tehsil Musafirkhana District Amethi Uttar Pradesh 227 817 Mandsaur 13.
Survey Nos.
30-33 Patwari Halka No.
14 Village Azizkhedi Tehsil & District Mandsaur Madhya Pradesh 458 001  Mhow 14.
Survey Nos.
188/2, 189/1, 189/2, 189/4, 190/1,191 & 192/2 Patwari Halka No.
20 Village Gawli Palasia Vikaskhand Mhow Tehsil Mhow District Indore Madhya Pradesh 453 441 Shareholder Referencer Transfer of Dividend and corresponding Ordinary Shares to the Investor Education and Protection Fund Unclaimed dividend for the years prior to and including the financial year 2008-09 has been transferred to the General Revenue Account of the Central Government / the Investor Education and Protection Fund established by the Central Government (IEPF), as applicable, except where the Company was restrained from such transfer by injunction orders from Courts.
Corresponding Ordinary Shares of the Company in respect of which such dividend entitlements were unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more will be due for transfer to the IEPF on 31st May, 2017 or such other date as may be notified, pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016.
Shareholders / legal heir(s) of deceased Shareholders who have not encashed their dividend warrants relating to the aforesaid financial year(s) may claim such dividend and corresponding shares from the IEPF Authority by applying in the prescribed Form.
This Form can be downloaded from the website of the IEPF Authority www.iepf.gov.in, the access link of which is also available on the Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com under the section ‘Investor Relations’.
Shareholder Information 37ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The unclaimed dividend for the undernoted years and the corresponding Ordinary Shares will be transferred by the Company to IEPF in accordance with the schedule given below.
Communication has been sent to the concerned Shareholders advising them to write to the Investor Service Centre of the Company (ISC) to claim their dividend.
Notices in this regard have also been published in newspapers.
Details of such unclaimed dividend and particulars with respect to corresponding shares are available on the Company’s corporate website under the section ‘Investor Relations’.
Attention is drawn that the unclaimed dividend for the financial year 2009-10 and the corresponding shares will be due for transfer to IEPF on 29th August, 2017.
Voting rights in respect of the aforesaid 1,20,41,597 shares will remain frozen till the time such shares are transferred from the Unclaimed Suspense Account to the concerned Shareholders / legal heirs.
Service of documents The Notice, alongwith the Report and Accounts, has been sent in electronic mode to those Shareholders who have registered their e-mail addresses with the Company or with the Depositories and in physical mode to the other Shareholders.
Shareholders who wish to update or register their e-mail addresses with the Company or with the Depositories may use the updation / registration Form, which can also be downloaded from the Company’s corporate website under the section ‘Investor Relations’.
Shareholder Referencer *   It will not be possible to entertain any claim received by ISC after 28th August, 2017.
Financial Dividend Date of Total Dividend Unclaimed Dividend Due for Year Identification declaration ( `) as on 31/03/2017 transfer to IEPF No.
of Dividend  on (`)% 2009-10 80th 23rd July, 2010 38,18,17,67,900 17,44,70,900 0.46 29th August, 2017* 2010-11 81st 29th July, 2011 34,43,47,81,921 16,26,61,745 0.47 4th September, 2018 2011-12 82nd 27th July, 2012 35,18,29,33,284 16,96,66,437 0.48 2nd September, 2019 2012-13 83rd 26th July, 2013 41,48,46,73,429 19,79,45,418 0.48 1st September, 2020 2013-14 84th  30th July, 2014 47,71,90,97,700 24,20,12,478 0.51 5th September, 2021 2014-15 85th  31st July, 2015 50,09,70,66,528 25,47,50,709 0.51 5th September, 2022 2015-16 86th  22nd July, 2016 68,40,13,10,170 36,25,45,734 0.53 27th August, 2023 Unclaimed Shares The status of unclaimed shares of the Company transferred to the demat account, ‘ITC Limited - Unclaimed Suspense Account’, in accordance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations 2015), is as follows: Note: 145 requests for transfer of 6,34,202 shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account were pending as on 31st March, 2017 for w ant of necessary  documents from the Shareholders / legal heirs of deceased Shareholders.
Particulars No.
of No.
of Shareholders Shares Aggregate number of Shareholders and outstanding shares held in the Unclaimed 4,004 84,89,236 Suspense Account as on 1st April, 2016 Number of Shareholders / legal heirs who approached the Company for transfer of 93 7,99,662 shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account Number of Shareholders / legal heirs to whom the shares were transferred from the 82 6,58,768 Unclaimed Suspense Account upon receipt and verification of necessary documents Bonus Shares issued during the financial year 2016-17 in respect of the unclaimed 3,976 42,11,129 shares held in the Unclaimed Suspense Account  Aggregate number of Shareholders and outstanding shares held in the Unclaimed 3,922 1,20,41,597 Suspense Account as on 31st March, 2017 Transfer of Dividend and corresponding Ordinary Shares to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Contd.)
38 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Remittance of Dividend through Electronic Mode The Company provides the facility for remittance of dividend to Shareholders through NECS (National Electronic Clearing Service) / RTGS (Real Time Gross Settlement) / NEFT (National Electronic Funds Transfer).
Shareholders, who have not opted for remittance of dividend through electronic mode and wish to avail the same, are required to provide their bank details, including MICR (Magnetic Ink Character Recognition) and IFSC (Indian Financial System Code) to their respective Depository Participants (DPs) or to the ISC, where shares are held in the dematerialised form and in the certificate form, respectively.
Bank Details Shareholders holding shares in the certificate form are requested to advise ISC of change in their address / mandate / bank details to facilitate better servicing.
Shareholders are advised that their bank details or addresses, as available with the Company, will be printed on the dividend warrants as required under the Listing Regulations 2015 as a measure of protection against fraudulent encashment.
Permanent Account Number (PAN) Attention is drawn that Shareholders holding shares in the certificate form are mandatorily required to furnish copy of PAN Card in the following cases: i) Transferees’ and Transferors’ PAN Cards for transfer of shares, ii) Legal heirs’ / Nominees’ PAN Cards for transmission of shares, iii) Surviving joint holders’ PAN Cards for deletion of name of deceased Shareholder, and iv) Joint holders’ PAN Cards for transposition of shares.
Nomination Facility Shareholders who hold shares in the certificate form and wish to make any nomination / change nomination made earlier in respect of their shareholding in the Company, should submit to ISC the prescribed Form; this Form can be downloaded from the Company’s corporate website under the section ‘Investor Relations’ or can be furnished by ISC on request.
Depository Services Shareholders may write to the respective Depository or to ISC for guidance on depository services.
Address for Correspondence with Depositories National Securities Depository Limited Central Depository Services (India) Limited Trade World, ‘A’ Wing, 4th & 5th Floors Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 17th Floor Kamala Mills Compound Dalal Street Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel Fort Mumbai 400 013 Mumbai 400 001 Telephone no.
: 022-2499 4200 Telephone no.
: 022-2272 3333 Facsimile no.
: 022-2497 6351 Facsimile no.
: 022-2272 3199 e-mail : info@nsdl.co.in e-mail : helpdesk@cdslindia.com Website : www.nsdl.co.in Website : www.cdslindia.com Address for Correspondence with ISC Investor Service Centre ITC Limited 37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 Telephone nos.
: 033-2288 6426 / 0034  Facsimile no.
: 033-2288 2358 e-mail : isc@itc.in Website : www.itcportal.com Shareholders holding shares in the dematerialised form should address their correspondence to their respective DPs, other than for dividend and Report and Accounts, which should be addressed to ISC.
In all correspondence with ISC, Registered Folio numbers / DP ID & Client ID numbers should be furnished to facilitate prompt response.
Shareholders are requested to also provide their e-mail addresses and contact numbers.
Shareholder Referencer 39ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ***************** Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2017 SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT The global economy remained on a decelerating trend in 2016 growing by 3.1% compared to 3.4% in 2015 (as per latest IMF estimates).
This marks the slowest pace of expansion since the global financial crisis in 2009 and the fifth successive year that the global economy has grown at a rate lower than its long-term average of 3.6% p.a.
The anticipated pick-up in global growth (3.4%) at the beginning of the year did not fructify mainly due to slower growth in the Advanced Economies which grew by 1.7% in 2016 against 2.1% in 2015.
Within the Advanced Economies, the US posted a muted growth of 1.6% led by downward adjustments in inventories and contraction in Private Investments, particularly during the first half of the year.
The Euro Area also recorded tepid growth, expanding by 1.7% during the year compared to 2.0% in 2015.
Emerging Market & Developing Economies witnessed a growth of 4.1% in 2016 against 4.2% in 2015, with Brazil and Russia recording a reduced pace of contraction which was offset by slower growth in the emerging European economies and further slowdown in the Chinese economy from 6.9% in 2015 to 6.7% in 2016.
In spite of the lacklustre performance during the year as aforestated, green shoots of economic recovery became visible in the latter half of the year.
It is anticipated that the global economy will perform better and grow by 3.5% in 2017 and improve further to 3.6% in 2018, on the back of synchronised growth momentum in Advanced as well as Emerging Economies.
Within the Advanced Economies, the US economy is projected to grow at 2.3% in 2017 driven by expectations of a liberal fiscal policy and continued momentum in the manufacturing-led cyclical recovery.
The outlook for Euro Area has also improved, though socio-political risks remain a potential downside.
The Emerging Market & Developing Economies are also likely to witness improvement in growth at 4.5% in 2017, aided by recovery in commodity prices and Brazil and Russia emerging out of deep recession.
Growth in China, however, is projected to slow down further to 6.6% in 2017, reflecting the ongoing rebalancing of the economy towards a more sustainable and broad-based consumption and services led growth.
After years of persistently low inflation (even deflation), 2017 is expected to be a year of reflation.
Stronger growth momentum, better prospects for oil and other commodities, and the US Dollar’s appreciation against other major currencies could cause inflation to return in most major economies.
A strong US Dollar, increase in US interest rates, progressive tapering of quantitative easing in the EU and the looming threat of protectionism in the developed world could weigh on the nascent recovery in emerging markets including commodity-exporting emerging economies.
The Indian economy witnessed another challenging year, with Real GDP growth pegged at 7.1% representing a sharp slowdown over 2015-16 (7.9%).
The Industry and Services sectors decelerated further during the year, recording the slowest growth in three years.
Further, looking beyond the reported numbers, a wide range of economic indicators suggest tepid performance across 40 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The global economy remained on a decelerating trend in 2016.
The Indian economy witnessed another challenging year, with Real GDP growth pegged at 7.1% representing a sharp slowdown over 2015-16 (7.9%).
private investments, consumption and manufacturing activity which have contracted significantly.
The anticipated pick-up in Consumption and Private Investment remained elusive.
Private Investment is estimated to have grown by a mere 0.6% in 2016-17 - a 5-year low.
Indian industry continues to be adversely impacted by low capacity utilisation and stretched balance sheets.
Growth in Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE) is estimated at 7.2% for 2016-17 (compared to 7.3% in 2015-16) aided by a rebound in Agriculture on the back of a good monsoon after two consecutive years of sub-par rainfall, partial implementation of recommendations of 7th Pay Commission and ‘One Rank One Pension’ (OROP) scheme.
However, proxy indicators such as subdued performance of two-wheeler sales, marked deceleration in corporate sales growth, weak power demand, decline in cement and oil volumes, point to persistent weakness in Private Consumption and the broader economy.
On the positive side, India remains the fastest growing major economy in the world.
During the year, there was significant improvement on the ‘twin deficit’ front.
Fiscal Deficit is estimated to be contained within target at 3.5% of GDP in 2016-17 (against 3.9% in 2015-16) aided by buoyant tax collections and decline in oil subsidies.
The Current Account Deficit was also contained within 1.0% of GDP in spite of an increase in oil prices during the year.
Inflation remained largely within the comfort zone of the RBI during the year.
While growth in Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for 2016-17 stood at 1.7% compared to a decline of  3.7% in 2015-16, this was mainly attributable to the base effect of low fuel and commodity prices.
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for 2016-17 declined to 4.5% against 4.9% in 2015-16 with Core CPI remaining stable at 4.7% in 2016-17 (4.6% in 2015-16).
This prompted the RBI to reduce policy interest rates by 50 bps during the year.
However, with commodity prices expected to firm up in the ensuing year and Core CPI remaining sticky at around 5% for the past several months, the scope for further reduction in interest rates seems limited.
Foreign capital flows into the country, in the form of Foreign Institutional Investments and Foreign Direct Investment, grew significantly during the year.
It was a good year for the capital markets as well, with the Sensex advancing by 17% during the year (after declining by 9% in 2015-16), reflecting the optimism on improvement in the business environment, expected progress on the reforms agenda and anticipated acceleration in corporate earnings going forward.
As per median estimates, based on the Survey of Professional Forecasters conducted by RBI, the Gross Value Added (GVA) of the Indian economy is likely to grow by 7.3% in 2017-18 (6.7% in 2016-17).
Timely and smooth implementation of key reforms, low inflation and expectations of a normal monsoon in the ensuing year represent some of the key factors that are likely to positively influence Private Consumption going forward.
The pace of growth is expected to gather momentum in the medium-term on the back of favourable global economic tailwinds, pick-up in Private Investment and implementation of key policy reforms such as the Goods and Services Tax (GST).
The proposed implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), with effect from 1st July 2017, is expected to transform the indirect tax landscape in the country and accelerate economic growth in the long run by simplifying the tax structure, enhancing tax compliance Report of the Board of Directors 41ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The proposed implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) is expected to transform the indirect tax landscape in the country and accelerate economic growth in the long run by simplifying the tax structure, enhancing tax compliance and facilitating the ease of doing business in a unified common market.
and facilitating the ease of doing business in a unified common market.
This augurs well for your Company and each Business is gearing up to ensure a smooth transition to the new indirect tax regime and harness the supply chain and logistics efficiencies that are expected to accrue post implementation of GST.
In the near-term, however, the preparedness of your Company’s suppliers and service providers, customers, trade channels etc.
- especially the small and medium scale enterprises - remains a key factor to ensure a seamless transition to the GST regime with minimal disruption to operations.
While India remains one of the fastest growing major economies in the world, the pace of economic growth in recent years has remained below the desired levels and the country’s potential.
Stagnation in the manufacturing sector needs to be reversed at the earliest towards the creation of sustainable livelihoods and absorption of millions of Indians entering the job market every year.
In this context, the Government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative to turn the country into a global manufacturing hub coupled with focus on skill development are steps in the right direction.
The successful implementation of structural initiatives identified by the Government towards improving the ease of doing business in the country by enhancing transparency, speeding up the approvals process, resolving policy issues by working in tandem with the States and fostering greater levels of value addition within the country would be critical to boost the performance of the Indian economy and realise its true potential.
Enhancing agricultural productivity and value addition to international standards while simultaneously improving market linkages remain critical for the growth of the Agricultural sector.
In this context, it is pertinent to note that anywhere between 5% and 40% of food is wasted along the chain in India, depending on the inherent perishability of the crop and the season.
India processes only 8% of its total food production as compared to 23% in China, 65% in USA and 78% in Philippines.
A big thrust on India’s Food Processing sector can lead to significant job creation, enhance rural incomes and help manage food inflation.
Similarly, supportive policies in the area of agro-forestry would go a long way in creating sustainable livelihoods while simultaneously augmenting the nation’s environmental capital.
Given India’s disproportionately low share of global natural resources relative to its large population and where millions continue to live in abject poverty, the focus both at the national and corporate level should be on fashioning strategies that foster sustainable, equitable and inclusive growth.
Differentiated and preferential incentives, in the form of fiscal or financial benefits to companies that adopt sustainable business practices would act as a force multiplier in achieving this critical national goal.
It is your Company’s belief that businesses can bring about transformational change by pursuing innovative business models that synergise the creation of sustainable livelihoods and the preservation of natural capital with enhancing shareholder value.
This ‘Triple Bottom Line’ approach to creating larger ‘stakeholder value’, as opposed to merely ensuring uni-dimensional ‘shareholder value’, is the driving force that defines your Company’s sustainability vision and its growth path into the future.
Your Company is a global exemplar in ‘Triple Bottom Line’ performance and is the only enterprise in the world of comparable dimensions to have achieved and sustained the three key global indices of environmental sustainability of being ‘water positive’ (for 15 years), Report of the Board of Directors 42 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 It is your Company’s belief that businesses can bring about transformational change by pursuing innovative business models that synergise the creation of sustainable livelihoods and the preservation of natural capital with enhancing shareholder value.
Report of the Board of Directors Your Directors are pleased to recommend an Ordinary Dividend of ` 4.75 per share (previous year Ordinary Dividend of ` 4.33 per share and Special Dividend of ` 1.33 per share; adjusted for Bonus Issue) for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Total cash outflow in this regard will be ` 6944.65 crores  including Dividend Distribution Tax of ` 1174.64 crores.
Your Directors approved a transfer of ` 1030.00 crores (previous year ` 990.00 crores) to General Reserve.
Consequently, Retained Earnings as at 31st March, 2017 stands at ` 17576.81 crores (previous year ` 16589.89 crores).
VALUE-ADDED AND CONTRIBUTION TO EXCHEQUER ` crores ‘carbon positive’ (for 12 years), and ‘solid waste recycling positive’ (for 10 years).
The focus on creating unique business models that generate substantial livelihoods across the value chains has led to your Company’s Businesses supporting six million sustainable livelihoods, many of whom belong to the weakest in society.
The following sections outline your Company’s progress in pursuit of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Your Company delivered a steady performance during the year in the backdrop of a persistently sluggish demand environment, continuing pressure on the legal cigarette industry due to the cumulative impact of steep increase in taxation and regulatory pressures, sharp hike in input costs and gestation costs relating to new products/categories especially in the non-cigarette FMCG segment.
The operating environment was rendered particularly challenging in the second half of the year with the currency crunch impacting the incipient recovery in demand.
The business environment in the Hotels industry also remained subdued, with only a marginal improvement in room rates reflecting the overhang of excess room inventory in key markets.
The Paperboards, Paper and Packaging segment also had to contend with a weak demand and pricing environment.
Despite the challenging business environment as aforestated, Gross Revenue at ` 55001.69 crores grew by 6.6% primarily driven by an 8.0% growth in the non-cigarette FMCG segment, 10.8% growth in Agri Business and 5.1% growth in the Cigarettes segment.
Profit Before Tax registered a growth of 7.4% to ` 15502.96 crores while Profit After Tax at ` 10200.90 crores increased by 9.4%.
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at ` 10277.90 crores (previous year ` 9261.79 crores).
Earnings Per Share for the year stood at ` 8.43 (previous year ` 7.74).
Cash flows from Operations aggregated ` 15214.98 crores, compared to  ` 14039.64 crores in the previous year.
43ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 12-13 13-14 14-15 15-16 16-17 Exchequer share of Value-Added Contribution to ExchequerValue Added 30530 22343 35255 25669 37972 27546 41059 30742 43568 32075 Over the last five years, the Value-Added by your Company, i.e.
the value created by the economic activities of your Company and its employees, aggregated ` 188384 crores and grew at a compound annual rate (CAGR) of 11.8%.
During this period, your Company’s Contribution to the Exchequer aggregated ` 138375 crores growing at 12.2% CAGR.
It is pertinent to note that 75% of the incremental Value-Added during this period accrued to the Exchequer.
Report of the Board of Directors (` in Crores) PROFITS 2017 2016 a) Profit Before Tax 15502.96 14434.07 b) Tax Expense – Current Tax 5285.65 4896.06 – Deferred Tax 16.41  209.64 c) Profit for the year 10200.90 9328.37 d)  Other Comprehensive Income       77.00 (66.58) e) Total Comprehensive Income 10277.90 9261.79 STATEMENT OF RETAINED EARNINGS a) At the beginning of the year 16589.89 14257.63 b) Add: Profit for the year 10200.90  9328.37 c) Add: Other Comprehensive Income (24.92)    (35.21) (net of tax) d) Add: Transfer from share option 14.58    7.64 on exercise and lapse  e) Less: Dividends – Ordinary Dividend of ` 6.50 (2016: 5230.68 5009.70 ` 6.25) per share.
[Adjusted for Bonus  Issue, Ordinary Dividend of ` 4.33 (2016 - ` 4.17) per share] – Special Dividend of ` 2.00 (2016: 1609.44 – ` Nil) per share.
[Adjusted for Bonus Issue, Special Dividend of  ` 1.33 (2016 - ` Nil) per share] – Income tax on Dividend paid 1333.52 968.84 f) Less: Transfer to General Reserve      1030.00        990.00 g) At the end of the year 17576.81 16589.89 44 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Company delivered a steady performance during the year in the backdrop of a persistently sluggish demand environment, continuing pressure on the legal cigarette industry due to the cumulative impact of steep increase in taxation and regulatory pressures, sharp hike in input costs and gestation costs.
PROFITS, DIVIDENDS AND RETAINED EARNINGSIncluding the share of dividends paid and retained earnings attributable to government owned institutions, your Company’s contribution to the Central and State Governments represents 80% of its Value-Added during the year.
Your Company remains amongst the Top three Indian corporates in the private sector in terms of Contribution to Exchequer.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS Your Company continues to view foreign exchange earnings as a priority.
All Businesses in the ITC portfolio are mandated to engage with overseas markets with a view to testing and demonstrating international competitiveness and seeking profitable opportunities for growth.
Foreign exchange earnings of the ITC Group over the last ten years aggregated nearly US$ 7.0 billion, of which agri exports constituted 56%.
Earnings from agri exports, which effectively link small farmers with international markets, are an indicator of your Company’s contribution to the rural economy.
During the financial year 2016-17, your Company and its subsidiaries earned ` 4609 crores in foreign exchange.
The direct foreign exchange earned by your Company amounted to ` 3961 crores, mainly on account of exports of agri-commodities.
Your Company’s expenditure in foreign currency amounted to ` 1828 crores, comprising purchase of raw materials, spares and other expenses of ` 1301 crores and import of capital goods at ` 527 crores.
Report of the Board of Directors 45ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Legal cigarettes account for only about 11% of total tobacco consumption in the country and they contribute more than 87% of tax revenue from the tobacco sector.
FMCG Cigarettes The legal cigarette industry continues to be severely impacted due to the cumulative impact of steep increase in taxation, intense regulatory pressures and the tight liquidity conditions - especially in the wholesale channel - prevailing in the market during the latter half of the year.
While legal cigarette industry volumes remain under pressure, illegal trade continues to grow unabated resulting in significant revenue loss to the Exchequer.
Over the last five years, the incidence of Excise Duty and VAT on cigarettes, at a per unit level, has gone up cumulatively by 131% and 157% respectively, thereby exerting severe pressure on legal industry volumes.
Due to the steep hike in taxation over the past several years, at levels well above the rate of inflation, duty-paid cigarettes have become less affordable in the country, leading to a drop in volumes.
Research indicates that a significant number of cigarette consumers in India are dual consumers, in that they also consume some other tobacco product.
The high incidence of taxation and a discriminatory regulatory regime on cigarettes in India have over the years only served to divert consumption of tobacco to lightly taxed or tax-evaded tobacco products like bidis, chewing tobacco, guthka and illegal cigarettes.
In fact, India’s per capita cigarette consumption is amongst the lowest in the world and is significantly lower in comparison to Russia, Japan, China, United States, and even neighbouring countries like Pakistan and Bangladesh.
Thus, while tobacco consumption has been growing steadily in the country over the years, the share of legal cigarettes in total tobacco consumption has been on the decline as would be apparent from the figures given in the table below.
Year Total Domestic Legal Cigarette % Share of Legal Consumption Consumption Cigarettes in including Illegal (Million Kgs) Total Tobacco Cigarettes Consumption (Million Kgs) 1981/82 406 86 21% 2009/10 499 73 15% 2014/15 562 62 11% Source: USDA and Industry Estimates Although legal cigarettes account for only about 11% of total tobacco consumption in the country, they Affordability Index USA Russia Germany Canada China Australia UK Malaysia Pakistan India 1.14 1.31 1.55 1.68 2.14 2.53 2.87 3.40 3.73 10.82 (% of per capita GDP required to purchase 2,000 cigarettes of Most Sold Brand) Source: WHO Report on the Global Tobacco Epidemic, 2015 - Raising Taxes on Tobacco Per Capita Cigarette Consumption Russia Japan China USA Bangladesh Pakistan India Source: The Tobacco Atlas - 4th Edition (American Cancer Society) 2786 1841 1711 1028 468 154 96 Report of the Board of Directors 1 Report on the impact of current tax framework on the tobacco sector in India and suggestions for its improvements - 2014, by ASSOCHAM and KPMG.
46 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The illegal cigarette segment is the only segment that has been growing year on year and currently accounts for one-fifth of the market.
According to an independent study conducted by Euromonitor International, India is today the 4th largest market for illegal cigarettes in the world.
contribute more than 87% of tax revenue from the tobacco sector.
The other types of tobacco products contribute barely 13% of tax revenue from the tobacco sector despite accounting for 89% of total tobacco consumption.
Since these products are predominantly manufactured in a fragmented manner in the unorganised sector, there is rampant tax evasion.
Moreover, most of these products escape regulatory oversight as well and tend to be manufactured in unhygienic conditions with ingredients of questionable quality.
Consequently, most of these products are of inferior quality and their growing volumes undermine the health objectives of tobacco control.
Further, the high rates of tax on cigarettes also provide attractive tax arbitrage opportunities to unscrupulous players.
Consequently, the illegal cigarette market, consisting of duty-evaded cigarettes manufactured within the country and offered to consumers at ` 1 / ` 2 per stick and the contraband international brands of cigarettes have been growing rapidly over the years.
The illegal cigarette segment is the only segment that has been growing year on year and currently accounts for one-fifth of the market.
According to an independent study conducted by Euromonitor International, India is today the 4th largest market for illegal cigarettes in the world.
It is estimated that almost 68% of the tobacco consumed in the country remains outside the tax net on account of evasion1.
The proliferation of these tax-evaded products have resulted in significant losses to the Exchequer, in excess of ` 9000 crores per annum according to an independent study conducted by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).
Seizures of large quantum of smuggled cigarettes by enforcement agencies across the country over the past couple of years confirm the growing menace of illegal cigarette trade in the country.
A conducive policy framework, which effectively reduces the huge tax arbitrage opportunity enjoyed by unscrupulous players presently, is critical to arrest the unabated growth of illegal cigarette trade in the country.
As reported last year, the significant decline in legal cigarette volumes and the consequent reduction in the utilisation of Indian Flue-cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco has adversely impacted the livelihoods of over 45 million tobacco farmers, farm workers and others dependent on the tobacco sector.
Besides, the soft demand for Indian FCV tobacco has prompted consecutive reductions in the authorised tobacco crop size in 2015-16 and 2016-17.
This, in turn, has also led to lower exports of tobacco.
Consequently, the acute distress of the tobacco farming community continues unabated, particularly in Andhra Pradesh with an estimated drop of over ` 900 crores in earnings in 2016-17.
This distress is expected to be aggravated by the unprecedented drought in Andhra Pradesh during the year.
Unfortunately, the taxation policy of the country is largely cigarette centric and based on western models of tobacco taxation.
This policy is not suitable for India since duty-paid cigarettes account for only about 11% of tobacco consumption in the country as compared to the global average of more than 90%.
Your Company continues to engage with policy makers for a tobacco taxation policy that is non-discriminatory, helps combat the problem of illegal cigarettes and addresses the issues of all stakeholders, particularly tobacco farmers, Exchequer and consumers.
Such a policy will not only help maximisation of the revenue potential of tobacco even in a shrinking basket of tobacco consumption but also address the tobacco control and health objectives of the Government.
The Goods and Services Tax (GST) is expected to be implemented with effect from 1st July 2017.
The Government has enunciated the principle of revenue neutrality for all products including cigarettes while transitioning to the GST regime.
In this context, Report of the Board of Directors 47ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The significant decline in legal cigarette volumes and the consequent reduction in the utilisation of Indian Flue-cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco has adversely impacted the livelihoods of over 45 million tobacco farmers, farm workers and others dependent on the tobacco sector.
as per the schedule of rates published pursuant to the GST Council’s meeting on 18th May 2017, cigarettes are likely to be taxed at the peak rate of 28%.
Additionally, a GST Compensation Cess, comprising a 5% ad-valorem component and a specific component based on cigarette length, is likely to be imposed.
It may be noted that the GST Council is yet to finalise the GST rate applicable for bidis.
It would be imperative to implement an appropriate taxation structure for bidis under the GST framework, rectifying the discriminatory treatment meted out to the legal cigarette industry under the present tax regime.
A level playing field for the legal cigarette industry would go a long way in realising the revenue potential of the tobacco sector and supporting the millions of livelihoods that are dependent on it.
In addition to the punitive taxation landscape, the legal cigarette industry in India continues to grapple with an increasingly stringent regulatory framework.
As reported last year, the proposal for increasing the size of the Graphic Health Warnings (GHW) from 40% of the surface area on one side of the cigarette package to 85% of the surface area of both sides of the cigarette package with effect from 1st April 2015 was kept in abeyance pending the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee on Subordinate Legislation (PCOSL), which had been entrusted with the responsibility of examining the issues consequent to introduction of a larger GHW.
However, even before the PCOSL submitted their final report on the matter, the larger health warnings were notified for implementation with effect from 1st April 2016.
In the interim, on 15th March, 2016 the PCOSL, in its final report recommended that the size of the GHW should be restricted to 50% on both sides of the cigarette package and not 85% as proposed by the Government.
Pursuant to the order of the Honourable Supreme Court, the Honourable High Court of Karnataka has heard your Company’s and other writ petitions challenging the revised GHW and has reserved its judgement.
The 85% GHW is excessively large, extremely gruesome and unreasonable.
There is no evidence that cigarette smoking would cause the diseases depicted in the pictures or that large GHW will lead to reduction in consumption.
As reported last year, this inadequacy of evidence prompted an appeals court in USA to hold the US FDA’s proposal for introduction of similar GHW in that country as unconstitutional.
It is pertinent to note that the global average size of GHW is only about 30% coverage of the principal display area.
Further, over 100 countries representing 60% of the signatories to the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) have not adopted GHW2 .
In fact, the three countries that account for about 51% of the world’s cigarette consumption viz.
USA, Japan and China, have not adopted pictorial / graphic warnings and have prescribed only text-based warnings on cigarette packages.
Moreover, several major tobacco producing countries, including the USA, are either not parties to the FCTC or are very recent signatories.
These countries have taken into consideration the interests of their tobacco farmers in deciding whether or not to adopt large or excessive pictorial warnings.
The excessively large GHWs prevent consumers from making an informed choice in a competitive market, since they are denied adequate information about the brand on the cigarette packages.
Your Company believes that such GHW also devalues the Intellectual Property Rights of brand owners and sub-optimises the large investments made over the years in creating and nurturing the brands.
Additionally, studies by independent market research agencies show that consumers tend to prefer the smuggled brands of international cigarettes which do not carry the GHWs mandated by Indian Laws.
The absence of GHWs on packages of such contraband 2  Canadian Cancer Society – Cigarette Package Health Warnings, International Status Report, Fourth Edition, September 2014.
Report of the Board of Directors Despite the extremely challenging operating environment, your Company retained its leadership position in the cigarette industry and improved its standing in key competitive markets across the country.
48 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 cigarettes makes consumers perceive them to be a ‘safer alternative’ notwithstanding the fact that the origins and age of such contraband stocks are not determinable.
The absence of GHWs along with the significantly lower cost of these contraband cigarettes, due to reasons of tax evasion, only serve to accelerate the growth of the illegal cigarette segment.
The unintended consequences of the extant tobacco taxation and regulatory framework may be summarised as follows: – Progressive decline in legal cigarette volumes in favour of lightly taxed and tax-evaded tobacco products resulting in sub-optimisation of the revenue potential of the tobacco sector and significant loss to the Exchequer.
– About 68% of the tobacco consumption in the country remaining outside the tax net.
– Availability of illegal cigarettes and other tobacco products of dubious quality and hygiene to consumers at extremely affordable prices.
– Adverse impact on the livelihood of tobacco farmers and others dependent on tobacco for their livelihood.
– Fillip to the growth of illegal cigarettes in the absence of statutory GHW on smuggled international brands.
Your Company continues to represent to the Government for the implementation of an equitable, evidence based and pragmatic tobacco taxation and regulatory framework that cognises for the economic imperatives of the country whilst, simultaneously, supporting the tobacco control objectives of the Government.
Despite the extremely challenging operating environment, your Company retained its leadership position in the industry and improved its standing in key competitive markets across the country.
This demonstrates the resilience of your Company’s strong portfolio of brands, superior execution of competitive strategies, relentless focus on value creation through innovation and deep consumer insights.
Some of the strategic initiatives during the year include the launch of Gold Flake Kings Blue Tropical Switch, Classic Citric Burst, Classic Tangy Burst, Classic Fine Taste Plus Low Smell, American Club, Players Fruity Cool Flavour, Flake Mint Capsule, Silk Cut Mint Capsule and Navy Cut Mint Capsule.
The Business continued to make investments in manufacturing facilities towards sustaining its competitive advantage.
State-of-the-art, on-line quality oversight systems and cutting-edge technology for innovative packaging were inducted during the year.
Long Term Agreements with the unionised workforce were concluded successfully for the Kidderpore and Munger cigarette factories during the year.
In addition to grant of patents in previous years, the ongoing initiatives in research and development have resulted in your Company being granted two more international patents during the year in respect of cigarettes.
It is a matter of deep satisfaction that the Business won several awards during the year for its focus on manufacturing excellence, commitment to sustainability and superior standards in Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) in line with your Company’s commitment to the ‘Triple Bottom Line’.
The Ranjangaon cigarette factory was awarded ‘Platinum Rating’ at the India Manufacturing Excellence Awards 2016 (IMEA) by Frost & Sullivan, a global consulting firm.
This highly acclaimed award acknowledges Indian manufacturing capability and its global competitiveness.
The Munger cigarette factory was awarded ‘Eminent Supply Chain and Logistics Unit’ at CII National Supply Chain and Logistics Excellence Awards 2016 in recognition of its consistent achievement of benchmark performances in Report of the Board of Directors 49ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The FMCG industry in the country witnessed further deceleration in growth rate during the year with demand conditions remaining subdued for the fourth successive year.
The much anticipated pick-up in consumption expenditure did not play out fully.
supply chain and logistics.
The Business received industry recognition and several accolades for its commitment towards excellence in sustainability.
With the Kidderpore cigarette factory receiving the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) Platinum Rating under Green Factory Building certification during the year, all cigarette factories of your Company are today IGBC Green Platinum rated.
The Bengaluru and Munger factories also received the ‘Excellent Energy Efficiency Unit’ award under the CII National Awards for Excellence in Energy Management 2016 whilst the Saharanpur cigarette factory received the first prize in FICCI Water Awards under ‘Industrial Water Use Efficiency’ category.
In recognition of the growing trend of consumers seeking alternative sources of nicotine like Electronic Vaping Devices (EVD), your Company expanded its EON brand of EVDs to several new markets during the year.
The rechargeable variant, ‘EON Charge’, launched in the previous year was extended to several new markets and a disposable variant, ‘EON ZIP’, was launched during the year.
Initial consumer response to this variant has been positive.
The market for this category is, however, at an embryonic stage globally and, as reported last year, the regulatory oversight is still evolving.
Accordingly, your Company remains engaged with policy makers for an apposite regulatory framework for this emerging category.
In the Nicotine Gum category, the Business extended the KwikNic brand to several new markets and has received encouraging response from consumers.
The operating environment for the legal cigarette industry, marked by a punitive taxation and discriminatory & increasingly stringent regulatory regime, will undoubtedly test the resilience of all legitimate players in the industry.
Your Company is, however, confident that the trust reposed on it by consumers together with its strong brand portfolio and robust strategic initiatives - based on excellence in product quality and innovation in manufacturing and operations - will enable it to sustain its leadership position in the market.
FMCG - Others The FMCG industry witnessed further deceleration in growth rate during the year with demand conditions remaining subdued for the fourth successive year.
The much anticipated pick-up in consumption expenditure on the back of good monsoons in 2016, low inflation and implementation of the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission did not play out fully.
The incipient recovery in demand witnessed during the middle of the year was adversely impacted by the cash crunch especially during the third quarter.
Further, the industry had to contend with sharp escalation in the cost of major commodities in the midst of heightened competitive intensity, leading to compression in margins.
Subdued demand conditions and high commodity prices are expected to weigh on the FMCG industry in the near-term.
The prospects of the FMCG industry over the long run, however, remain attractive in view of the favourable demographics of the country, increasing affluence and consumer aspirations, and rapid urbanisation amongst others.
Your Company’s FMCG-Others Businesses Segment Revenue growth during the year was relatively subdued due to reasons as aforestated.
While most categories recovered progressively after severe disruption in operations in the initial period of the cash crunch, the impact on the Lifestyle Retailing and Education & Stationery Products Businesses was more amplified and prolonged.
This, inter alia, led to heavy discounting, earlier ‘end of season sales’ and rebalancing of inventory Report of the Board of Directors Your Company continued to make investments during the year towards enhancing brand salience and consumer connect while simultaneously implementing strategic cost management measures across the value chain.
50 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 pipelines by trade in these Businesses.
Consequently, Segment Revenue at ` 10511.83 crores grew by 8.0% over the previous year.
Segment Results also reflect the impact of sustained investment in brand building and gestation costs of new categories viz.
Juices, Dairy, Chocolates and Coffee, sharp increase in input cost (particularly of Wheat, Maida, Sugar, Cashew, Soap Noodles) besides disruption in sales momentum due to the cash crunch.
Your Company continued to make investments during the year towards enhancing brand salience and consumer connect while simultaneously implementing strategic cost management measures across the value chain.
Several initiatives were also implemented during the year towards leveraging the rapidly growing e-commerce channel with a view to enhancing the reach of your Company’s products and harnessing digital and social media platforms for deeper consumer engagement.
During the year, three Company-owned units were commissioned to cater to the requirements of the Branded Packaged Foods and Personal Care Products Businesses.
Significant progress was also made during the year in constructing several state-of-the-art owned Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities across regions to secure capacity and enable the FMCG businesses to rapidly scale up in line with long-term demand forecast.
Currently, over 20 projects are underway and in various stages of development – from land acquisition/site development to construction of buildings and other infrastructure.
The FMCG Businesses comprising Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, Education and Stationery Products, Lifestyle Retailing, Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches have grown at an impressive pace over the past several years.
Today, your Company’s vibrant portfolio of brands represents an annual consumer spend of nearly `14000 crores in aggregate.
These brands have been built organically by your Company over a relatively short period of time - a feat unparalleled in the Indian FMCG industry.
In terms of annual consumer spend, Aashirvaad and Sunfeast are today over ` 3500 crores and ` 3000 crores respectively; Classmate, YiPPee!
& Bingo!
are over ` 1000 crores each and Vivel, Mangaldeep & Candyman are over ` 500 crores each.
These world-class Indian brands support the competitiveness of domestic value chains of which they are a part, ensuring creation and retention of value within the country.
Your Company’s FMCG brands have achieved impressive market standing in a relatively short span of time.
Today, Aashirvaad is No.
1 in Branded Atta, Classmate is No.
1 in Notebooks, Sunfeast is No.
1 in the Cream Biscuits segment, YiPPee!
is No.
2 in Noodles, Bingo!
is No.
2 in Snack foods, Engage is No.
2 in Deodorants and Mangaldeep is No.
2 in Agarbattis.
The Indian FMCG market is at an inflection point and your Company continues to remain extremely agile and FMCG – Others 2003-04 2004-052005-062006-072007-082008-092009-102010-112011-122012-132013-14 2002-03 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 109 304 1013 1704 2511 3014 3642 4482 5545 7012 8122 9038 9731 563 10512Revenue (` Crores) Report of the Board of Directors 51ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Branded Packaged Foods Demand conditions in the Branded Packaged Foods industry remained sluggish during the year, with consumers curbing discretionary spending and rural demand remaining tepid.
While signs of recovery were visible in the first half of the year, the second half reflected significant deceleration in growth rates across most categories largely due to the cash crunch.
Industry Your Company’s FMCG brands have achieved impressive market standing in a relatively short span of time.
Today, Aashirvaad is No.
1 in Branded Atta, Classmate is No.
1 in Notebooks, Sunfeast is No.
1 in the Cream Biscuits segment, YiPPee!
is No.
2 in Noodles, Bingo!
is No.
2 in Snack foods, Engage is No.
2 in Deodorants and Mangaldeep is No.
2 in Agarbattis.
responsive to the emerging trends shaping the future of the industry.
Some of the noteworthy consumer trends include the emergence of health and wellness products as a key consumer need; increasing preference for products rooted to ‘Indianness’ and with regional/cultural connects; rising importance of high quality, hygienic and environmentally sustainable products; increasing need for customised products and bespoke experiences; growth in demand for ‘on-the-go’ consumption formats and rising influence of social media and digitalisation on consumer preferences and shopping behaviour.
Similarly, the FMCG market construct is likely to undergo rapid change driven by exponential growth in middle and rural India and the emergence of relatively new channels such as Modern Trade and e-commerce.
Your Company seeks to rapidly scale up the FMCG Businesses leveraging its institutional strengths viz.
deep consumer insight, proven brand building capability, a deep and wide distribution network, strong rural linkages and agri-commodity sourcing expertise, packaging know-how and cuisine knowledge.
In addition, your Company continues to make significant investments in Research & Development and focus on consumer insight discovery to develop and launch disruptive and breakthrough products in the market place.
Highlights of progress in each category are set out below.
players intensified consumer promotions and trade schemes in a bid to garner volumes.
The year also witnessed a sharp rise in the prices of major raw materials such as wheat, sugar, maida, gram meal and cashew, the impact of which was partially offset through a calibrated pricing approach adopted by most players.
Despite such a challenging operating environment, your Company sustained its position as one of the fastest growing branded packaged foods businesses in the country leveraging a robust portfolio of brands, a range of differentiated products customised to address regional tastes and preferences along with an efficient supply chain and distribution network that ensures benchmark levels of visibility, availability and freshness of products in the market.
The Business implemented several initiatives encompassing cost management, supply chain optimisation, smart procurement and recipe optimisation, which helped in partially mitigating the impact of higher raw material costs.
Your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses continued to make significant investments towards brand building and supporting the launch of new variants apart from absorbing the gestation costs of new categories viz.
Dairy, Juices, Chocolates and Coffee.
Relentless focus on delivering superior quality products to consumers remains a key source of competitive advantage for the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
In this context, the Businesses continue to leverage your Company’s agri-commodity sourcing expertise to procure high quality raw materials thereby ensuring the highest level of quality and safety of its products.
In addition, each of your Company’s branded packaged food products is manufactured in state-of-the-art, world-class facilities complying with strict quality and hygiene norms.
Report of the Board of Directors 52 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Several innovative, differentiated and first-to-market products were launched during the year leveraging the robust product development processes of the Business along with Life Sciences and Technology Centre, Bengaluru and the cuisine expertise resident in your Company’s Hotels Business.
During the year, the Business launched a luxury range of chocolates under the ‘Fabelle’ brand at exclusive ‘Fabelle Chocolate Boutiques’ set up in seven ITC Hotels across the country.
Fabelle offers a range of exquisite chocolate creations such as ‘Fabelle Elements’ - intricately crafted pralines inspired by the elements of nature; ‘Fabelle Ganache’ - velvety soft cubes of exotic cocoas delicately churned with butter & fresh cream; ‘Fabelle As You Like It’ - personalised chocolate cup creations offering myriad possibilities of fillings and toppings; ‘Fabelle Gianduja’ – an Italian delicacy made with fine Ghana cocoas and Turkish hazelnuts; ‘Fabelle Single Origin Cacaos’ – assortment of six dark chocolate bars each made from cocoa sourced from a different country and Fabelle Gift Hampers – a special collection of delectable chocolates.
In addition, the chocolate boutiques offer a range of exquisitely crafted desserts and cocoa beverages, created live by Fabelle Master Chocolatiers.
Made from impeccable cocoas sourced from the best growing regions in Africa & South America and combined with unique ingredients, Fabelle is set to redefine the luxury chocolate segment in India.
Within a short span of time, Fabelle Chocolate Boutiques have won several accolades including the Times Food Award for the ‘Best Dessert destination’.
The Business also launched two exquisitely crafted blends of gourmet coffee during the year, under the ‘Sunbean’ brand.
The brand is currently available at all ITC Hotels.
While ‘Sunbean Nicamalai’ - a blend of the choicest coffee beans from Nicaragua and Anamalai in Tamil Nadu - is a fruity-sweet aromatic coffee with a creamy expression, ‘Sunbean Panagiri’ - a blend of select coffee varietals from Panama and Baba Budangiri in Chikkamagaluru, Karnataka - is an intensely fragrant coffee with a pleasant roasted nutty taste and a hint of chocolate.
The products have met with excellent response from discerning consumers and plans are on the anvil to scale up presence in the ensuing year.
Several manufacturing units of your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses, competing with both the best within and outside the industry, received several awards and accolades during the year bearing testimony to your Company’s focus on manufacturing excellence, safety and quality.
Your Company continues to make investments towards augmenting the manufacturing and sourcing footprint across categories with a view to improving market responsiveness and reducing the cost of servicing proximal markets.
During the year, three new own manufacturing facilities - Uluberia in West Bengal, Mysuru in Karnataka and Guwahati in Assam - were commissioned.
The manufacturing units at Kapurthala (Punjab) and Panchla (West Bengal) are at an advanced stage of completion and are expected to be commissioned in the ensuing year.
– The Staples Business posted robust performance during the year, growing well ahead of the industry.
In the Staples category, ‘Aashirvaad’ atta further consolidated its position as India’s No.
1 Atta brand while maintaining its price leadership position in the market.
The value-added product portfolio, comprising Multigrains, Select and Sugar Release Control atta, continued to record robust growth.
Aashirvaad Salt grew at a steady pace during the year, supported by a new positioning, ‘Created by Sun and Sea - pure just like nature intended it to be’ and new pack Despite a challenging operating environment, your Company sustained its position as one of the fastest growing branded packaged foods businesses in the country leveraging a robust portfolio of brands, a range of differentiated products along with an efficient supply chain and distribution network.
Report of the Board of Directors 53ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 design.
In the branded spices category, your Company launched ITC Master Chef ‘Super Safe Spices’, which are tested for over 470 pesticide residues in accordance with European standards as compared to only nine required under Indian regulations.
The recently launched range of blended spices under the ‘ITC Master Chef’ brand garnered good traction amongst target consumers.
– In the Snacks and Meals Business, the ‘Bingo!’ range of finger snacks recorded robust growth during the year driven by the Tedhe Medhe and Mad Angles sub-brands.
Yumitos Original Style potato chips was extended to target markets during the year, posting impressive growth in sales.
The finger snacks portfolio was augmented with the launch of Tedhe Medhe Achaari Masti and Tangles Cheese variants while the Yumitos potato chips portfolio was revamped with an improved product and a new vibrant pack.
The Instant Noodles industry saw a steady recovery during the year after significant disruption caused by regulatory issues in the previous year largely pertaining to a competitor’s product.
The recovery was largely led by metro cities and large towns while rural demand remained sluggish.
YiPPee!
noodles, which had garnered significant volumes in the previous year on the strength of superior quality and safety, sustained its robust growth momentum during the year despite the entry of several regional discount players and relaunch of products by the lead competitor.
The year also saw the launch of ‘Power Up Atta Noodles’ - a differentiated product with vegetable additions – which received good consumer response.
– The Confections Business scaled up operations and improved its market standing during the year.
In the Biscuits category, the Business continued to focus on premiumising its product portfolio.
The ‘Sunfeast Mom’s Magic’ range of premium cookies sustained its strong growth momentum driven by superior product attributes and investment in brand building.
The recently launched ‘Sunfeast Farmlite All Good Digestive’ – ‘No maida & No added sugar’ cookie made from Aashirvaad whole-wheat atta – was well received by target consumers.
‘Sunfeast Marie Light’ biscuit doubled its sales in focus geographies, while Bounce strengthened its market leadership position in the creams segment.
Your Company leveraged its recently commissioned biscuits manufacturing unit owned by North East Nutrients Private Limited, a joint venture company, to record impressive gains in market standing in the Northeast markets.
The Confectionery category continued with its portfolio premiumisation strategy by increasing the salience of ‘Re.
1 & above’ products in the sales mix.
During the year the Business launched ‘Candyman Jellicious Jelimals’ – a soft fruit bear shaped jelly, ‘Candyman Jellicious DubbleZ’ – an innovative twin flavoured jelly and ‘Candyman Tadka’ in the hard boiled candy segment.
These products have received encouraging consumer response.
– In the Dairy & Beverages Business, the B Natural range of juices continue to gain traction amongst its target consumers aided by a clutter-breaking media campaign, on-ground trial generation initiatives and visibility & availability enhancement drives.
During the year, your Company launched another unique and first-to-market offer – ‘B Natural 100% Pomegranate Juice; Not from Concentrate’.
Unlike most other packaged fruit juices available in the market which are made from fruit concentrates, B Natural 100% Pomegranate Juice is made directly During the year, ITC launched a luxury range of chocolates under the ‘Fabelle’ brand at exclusive ‘Fabelle Chocolate Boutiques’ set up in seven ITC Hotels.
The Company also launched two exquisitely crafted blends of gourmet coffee during the year, under the ‘Sunbean’ brand.
Report of the Board of Directors 54 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 from the fruit pulp and has no added sugar, colour, preservatives or flavour.
The year also witnessed the launch of ‘Punjab Da Kinnow’ variant catering to the taste and preference of the North markets.
These products have been well received by consumers.
Aashirvaad Svasti Ghee was extended to other focus markets during the year, gaining consumer franchise.
Your Company is well positioned to establish itself as the ‘most trusted provider of food products in the Indian market’ with continued focus on product quality and innovation, consumer insight discovery, R&D and operational excellence across the value chain.
Your Company will continue to make investments towards establishing a distributed manufacturing footprint, structural interventions towards reducing operating costs and focus on supply chain optimisation to support the rapid and profitable growth of the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses in the years ahead.
Personal Care Products Your Company’s Personal Care Products Business delivered a resilient performance during the year against a backdrop of sluggish demand conditions, consumers curbing discretionary spending and seeking value-for-money offers and sharp uptick in input costs.
Most industry players adopted a calibrated pricing strategy despite sharp escalation in input costs towards supporting volume growth, thereby impacting margins.
Your Company’s Personal Care Products Business responded proactively to these challenges by pursuing a balanced approach to deliver steady growth and improvement in market standing.
This was driven largely by enriching the product portfolio, expanding distribution, proactive cost management and enhancing supply chain responsiveness.
The Business launched several differentiated products during the year in the Soaps, Shower Gel, Skin Care and Fragrance categories under the ‘Fiama’, ‘Vivel’, ‘Engage’ and ‘Superia’ brands.
The Business also strengthened its presence in the Health & Hygiene space leveraging the ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ brands.
Within a short span of time, Savlon has strengthened its equity around the core value proposition of germ protection.
During the year, the Business launched new variants in the Hand Wash and Antiseptic Liquid categories under the Savlon brand thereby expanding its product portfolio and gaining access to new consumer segments and markets.
Engage Perfume Sprays continued to gain consumer franchise in the ‘No Gas’ segment with the launch of several new variants both for men and women.
The Business also augmented its skin care portfolio with the launch of ‘Vivel Cell Renew – Aqua Quench Cleansing Mousse’.
Innovation has been the bedrock of your Company’s Personal Care Products Business.
Affordability and convenience were the two key vectors of innovation during the year which marked the introduction of ‘Engage ON Pocket Perfume’ in six exciting variants and two differentiated variants of Savlon Hand Wash in 10 ml.
multi-use sachets.
These first-to-market offers are available in select markets and have received encouraging consumer response.
The Business also deployed several innovative brand campaigns and leveraged social media platforms with a view to deepening consumer engagement.
Fiama broke the category clutter with its new ‘Dil Ko De Lift’ campaign by highlighting product benefits anchored around destressing and rejuvenation benefits.
For the Vivel brand, the Business rolled out a highly innovative and original creative communication - ‘Ab Samjhauta Nahin’ - in collaboration with content partner Blush with The year marked the introduction of ‘Engage ON Pocket Perfume’ in six exciting variants and two differentiated variants of Savlon Hand Wash in 10 ml.
multi-use sachets.
The Personal Care Products Business also augmented its skin care portfolio with the launch of ‘Vivel Cell Renew – Aqua Quench Cleansing Mousse’.
Report of the Board of Directors 55ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Bollywood actor Mr. Amitabh Bachchan playing the voice of society.
The ‘Ab Samjhauta Nahin’ campaign has expanded Vivel’s appeal beyond its functional attributes to addressing the larger issues of gender-typecasting and attitudes towards women.
By provoking discussion around age-old prejudices, the brand has inspired young women to question the idea of compromise.
The campaign has received excellent response and has enhanced consumer connect with Vivel’s new brand purpose of Women Empowerment.
Your Company’s brands viz.
Essenza Di Wills, Fiama, Vivel, Superia, Engage, Savlon and Shower To Shower continue to garner consumer franchise and win industry recognition.
During the year, in a survey conducted by afaqs!
- a leading media portal - Vivel, Engage and Fiama were ranked amongst the Top five brands in the personal care segment while Savlon was ranked second in the OTC category.
Vivel also featured amongst the Top 10 ‘Buzziest brands’ across categories in this survey.
Savlon’s advertising campaign featuring brand ambassador Ms. Saina Nehwal, seeking to inspire parents to encourage their children to push their limits and realise their true potential, was rated as the Top Ad of 2016 by Brand Equity readers.
The Advertising Age rated Vivel’s Ab Samjhauta Nahin campaign and the Savlon Healthy Hands Chalk Sticks creative as the top ads.
On the supply chain front, the Business commissioned a state-of-the-art facility at Guwahati, Assam for in-house manufacture of soaps.
This facility, which was commissioned in March 2017, will enable servicing of proximal markets in a highly responsive and efficient manner.
The year saw a sharp increase in commodity prices, particularly of crude and vegetable oils.
The Business mitigated the impact of such cost escalation through selective price increases in the midst of intense competitive pressures and cost management interventions including proactive sourcing, alternative vendor development and recipe optimisation to partly mitigate the steep hike in input costs.
With per capita consumption at relatively low levels when compared to other emerging economies, the Indian Personal Care industry is poised for rapid growth driven by increasing urbanisation, rising disposable incomes and increasing consumer preference for enhanced personal grooming.
Your Company is well positioned to seize the emerging opportunities in this rapidly evolving industry and continues to invest in creation of vibrant brands, innovative consumer-centric products and a robust supply chain to emerge as a significant player in this space.
Education and Stationery Products During the year, the Education & Stationery Products Business had to contend with a very challenging operating environment marked by subdued demand and tight liquidity conditions exacerbated by the cash crunch in the latter half.
This led to significant disruption in the wholesale channel.
Consequently, the trade channel maintained leaner inventory pipelines and shifted the timing of purchase closer to the consumer buying cycle thereby impacting revenue growth during the year.
Despite these challenging conditions, the Business sustained its leadership position in the Indian Education and Stationery Products industry by leveraging a portfolio of world-class products and brands.
The Business continued to focus on delivering innovative and superior products through its dedicated product development cell working along with your Company’s Life Sciences & Technology Centre.
During the year, In a survey conducted by a leading media portal - Vivel, Engage and Fiama were ranked amongst the Top five brands in the personal care segment while Savlon was ranked second in the OTC category.
Vivel also featured amongst the Top 10 ‘Buzziest brands’ across categories in this survey.
Report of the Board of Directors 56 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 the Business further enriched its product portfolio by launching several new products including educative board games (puzzles), innovative products in the notebook category under the Classmate brand, premium Paperkraft notebooks with paper having 100 years archival life, pens with enhanced writing experience and several premium offerings in the scholastics category.
The Business continued to focus on enhancing brand affinity by leveraging the ‘Classmate Spellbee’ and ‘Classmate Handwriting Olympiad’ platforms besides other interventions across mass and digital media.
These events collectively reach out to nearly a million school children across 1000 schools in 30 cities.
On the supply chain front, several technology initiatives were implemented during the year towards delivering superior product quality and enhancing operational efficiency.
The supply chain network was further optimised by leveraging demand and production planning tools, thereby reducing the total cost of servicing demand.
During the year, the Business continued to expand its distribution reach through a multi-pronged approach of channel proliferation, market penetration and increase in outlet coverage.
The Classmate notebook is a manifestation of the environmental capital built by your Company in its paper business.
Classmate notebook leverages your Company’s world-class fibre line at Bhadrachalam which is India’s first ozone treated elemental chlorine free facility.
In order to provide Indian consumers with world-class products, the Business launched the Paperkraft range of notebooks using Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper, made at your Company’s paper mill, which match the best quality paper in the world.
The Indian Education and Stationery Products industry is poised for exponential growth driven by growing literacy, enhanced scale of government & public-private initiatives in the education sector and a favourable demographic profile of the country’s population.
Your Company, with its strong brands and robust product portfolio, and collaborative linkages with small & medium enterprises is well poised to strengthen its leadership position in the Indian stationery market.
Lifestyle Retailing Business The Branded Apparel industry witnessed severe pressure during the year in the wake of consumers cutting back on discretionary spends, heavy discounting by industry players and emergence of value retailing by e-commerce majors.
Squeeze in liquidity during the third quarter further impacted consumer spending in the apparel category.
While sales recovered progressively after significant disruption in the immediate aftermath of the currency shortage, the industry had to contend with a significantly shorter window for the Autumn – Winter season leading to build-up of unsold inventory.
In addition, industry players resorted to early rollout of ‘End of Season Sales’ besides offering additional special discounts.
The performance of your Company’s Lifestyle Retailing Business was significantly impacted by the challenging environment as aforestated.
During the year, the Business initiated several structural interventions across channels and processes including restructuring the retail foot print and modifying the design language of its offerings with a view to enhancing consumer experience and garnering larger consumer franchise.
Positioned at the premium end of the market, the Wills Lifestyle brand continues to fulfil lifestyle aspirations by offering elegant designs in high quality premium fabrics and styles.
The premium imagery of the ‘Wills Lifestyle’ range stood sharpened during the year The Education and Stationery Products Business further enriched its product portfolio by launching several new products including educative board games (puzzles), innovative products in the Classmate notebook category, premium Paperkraft notebooks with paper having 100 years archival life and several premium offerings in the scholastics category.
Report of the Board of Directors 57ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 with the introduction of several differentiated and first-to-market offers across men’s and women’s collections.
Sales of Wills Lifestyle products to Club ITC members sustained its strong growth momentum during the year, reaffirming the salience of the brand amongst discerning consumers.
The Wills Lifestyle brand is currently available in 400 outlets across 56 cities including six exclusive boutique stores across ITC Hotels.
In the ‘Youth fashion’ segment, John Players enhanced its market standing by driving fashion imagery anchored on bold and edgy fashion.
The brand is available in over 350 exclusive stores and 750 outlets in leading national and regional department stores and multi-brand outlets.
During the year, the John Players range was made more youthful and trendy by widening the offerings in casual fashion knits and introduction of linen & linen blends.
John Players Jeans continued to gain consumer franchise with the standardisation of washes across shirts and bottoms for a consistent consumer experience and the introduction of a more fashionable denim range incorporating latest trends such as ‘Do-It-Yourself’, laser printing and premium stretch knit fabrics.
The brands continued to win industry recognition during the year - Wills Lifestyle was recognised at the 2016 DMAi CREATEFFECT Awards for creativity in ‘Interactive Experiential Marketing’ for the ‘Mannequins on a break’ campaign while John Players won top awards at Goa Fest 2016 (Creative ABBY Awards) for innovative use of image/design and social media content.
The Business will continue to drive brand engagement and advocacy amongst the target customers while continuously enhancing shopping experience, sharpening design focus, increasing market representation and improving supply chain responsiveness.
Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches The Agarbatti category sustained its growth momentum during the year anchored on a robust product portfolio and enhanced distribution reach.
Mangaldeep fortified its market standing in the Agarbatti and Dhoop segment during the year.
Investments in media coupled with on-ground activation activities were made during the year towards enhancing Mangaldeep’s salience as the most preferred brand in the devotional space.
Towards playing a deeper role in the devotional life of consumers, the Business launched a unique and highly innovative mobile app with an extensive collection of devotional content.
Currently available in seven languages, the app’s content caters to the everyday devotional needs of consumers by providing detailed information and guidelines on how to perform various pujas and innovative features such as a collection of popular devotional songs, a panchang (Hindu calendar and almanac), an innovative chant counter and temple locator amongst others.
Launched in September 2016 on both Android & iOS platforms, the app has been developed by the Business in partnership with several subject matter experts and carefully curated to cater to regional nuances.
In a relatively short span of time, the app has received excellent response with over 1,00,000 installations with more than 50% of the users belonging to the age group ‘below 35 years’.
The agarbatti industry continues to import raw battis primarily from Vietnam and China, although bamboo and charcoal – the principal raw materials – are available in India in plenty.
This is resulting in loss of livelihood creation opportunities for women and tribals in rural areas, particularly in the North-East.
In this regard, the Business has implemented several measures including facilitating the mechanisation of agarbatti manufacturing The Wills Lifestyle brand is currently available in 400 outlets across 56 cities.
The John Players brand is available in over 350 exclusive stores and 750 outlets in leading national and regional department stores and multi-brand outlets.
Report of the Board of Directors 58 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 at vendor locations and backward integration by vendors into raw batti manufacturing using indigenous inputs in line with your Company’s commitment to enhancing the competitiveness of Indian value chains linked to its operations.
Suitable changes in fiscal policy are required to encourage indigenous raw batti manufacturing and facilitate the creation of sustainable livelihood opportunities for the weakest sections of society.
In the Safety Matches category, your Company sustained its market leadership position by leveraging a robust portfolio of offerings across market segments.
‘AIM’ continues to be the largest selling brand in the industry.
The Business continues to focus on enriching product mix by expanding the share of value-added products in the portfolio.
Technology induction in manufacturing is crucial for the long-term sustainability of the Safety Matches Industry.
A uniform taxation framework that provides a level playing field to all manufacturers remains a key imperative to trigger the required investments for modernising and enhancing the competitiveness of this industry.
Trade Marketing & Distribution Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D) vertical has over the years developed critical insights into customer behaviour and channel-specific trends in the FMCG industry.
Given the diverse needs of your Company’s FMCG businesses, the TM&D vertical has crafted a differentiated and comprehensive market / outlet specific strategy to address the opportunities in the FMCG industry.
During the year the TM&D vertical strengthened its formidable distribution network covering over 1 lakh markets and over four million retail outlets (directly and Towards playing a deeper role in the devotional life of consumers, the Incense Sticks Business launched a unique and highly innovative Mangaldeep mobile app with an extensive collection of devotional content.
The app has received excellent response with over 1,00,000 installations.
indirectly) across various trade channels.
This further enhanced the reach and availability of your Company’s large and diverse FMCG product portfolio comprising several world-class brands and hundreds of SKUs.
In urban markets, your Company rolled out customised servicing / engagement programmes for the top outlets through dedicated infrastructure.
This resulted in enhancing trade relationships and improving the market standing of your Company’s FMCG products.
In rural markets, while demand pick-up was dampened by the cash crunch especially in the wholesale channel, your Company continued to roll out market specific interventions including augmentation of supervision structure and increase in direct coverage, to achieve higher growth rates and support enhanced scale of operations going forward.
During the year, your Company sustained its clear leadership position in the convenience channel while consolidating its market standing as the benchmark supplier in premium grocery outlets.
TM&D’s trade loyalty programmes – ‘First Club’ for retail outlets and ‘Shubh Laabh’ for the wholesale channel – continued to gain traction with these outlets contributing significantly to the growth of the FMCG portfolio.
Sales of your Company’s FMCG products in the Modern Trade channel recorded robust growth on the strength of extensive deployment of in-store merchandisers, consumer connect programmes coupled with joint business planning during large-scale customer activation drives, channel specific SKUs, extensive sampling initiatives etc.
Significant progress was made during the year in scaling up presence of your Company’s FMCG portfolio in the Chemist channel.
Your Company also strengthened its presence in the fast growing e-Commerce channel by enhancing engagement with major e-tailers.
Report of the Board of Directors 59ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 During the year the Trade Marketing & Distribution vertical strengthened its formidable distribution network covering over 1 lakh markets and over four million retail outlets (directly and indirectly) across various trade channels.
HOTELS The operating environment in the hospitality sector remained challenging during the year.
While second half initially indicated signs of pick-up in the Hotels industry, collateral impact on the economy on account of currency crunch limited the recovery.
Segment Revenue recorded a growth of 4.3% during the year driven by improvement in average room rates and higher Food & Beverage sales.
While Segment Results improved significantly as compared to the previous year, profitability remained relatively muted due to the challenging business context as aforestated and gestation costs of the recently commissioned ITC Grand Bharat, Gurugram.
Your Company’s Hotels business remains amongst the fastest growing Indian hospitality chains with around 100 properties across the country under four distinct brands – ‘ITC Hotel’ in the Luxury segment, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the Upper-Upscale segment, ‘Fortune’ in the Mid-market to Upscale space and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the Leisure & Heritage segment.
The Business continues to focus on strengthening the equity and differentiation of the ITC Hotels brand anchored on unique and path-breaking ‘Responsible Luxury’ initiatives, culinary excellence and personalisation of guest services.
The scale and diversity of your Company’s distribution network continues to be a critical lever to enhance market presence, gain valuable consumer/trade insights and facilitate seamless execution of new product/category launches.
During the year, TM&D executed nearly 50 product launches across geographies apart from extending distribution reach of several existing products in the portfolio.
Technology enablement in the form of customised mobility solutions, data analytics comprising insightful visualisation tools & predictive analysis are being leveraged increasingly towards enabling quick and accurate data capture, informed decision making in real time and scientifically designing trade promotion schemes.
TM&D’s supply chain and logistics function continues to play a vital role in enabling superior market servicing while continuously reducing cost of market servicing.
During the year, several initiatives were undertaken to enhance supply chain responsiveness and cost competitiveness.
These include reducing distance to market, enhancing flexibility to cater to new launches and contingencies, and reconfiguring market servicing infrastructure.
In addition, innovative distribution models were implemented to optimise inventory holding and improve distribution efficiency of trade channel partners, and reduce transit time by increasing direct market servicing.
Your Company is also in the process of setting up several state-of-the-art warehouses co-located with the Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing facilities.
These modern warehouses are expected to provide long-term benefits by improving operating efficiency and enhancing product freshness in the market.
The TM&D vertical continues to invest in augmenting the depth and width of your Company’s distribution network while adopting a differentiated approach to address the unique needs of your Company’s diverse FMCG product portfolio, market segments and trade channels.
With its best-in-class systems and processes, agile and responsive supply chain and synergistic relationship with trade, TM&D’s distribution highway is a source of sustainable competitive advantage for your Company’s FMCG Businesses and is well poised to support the rapid scale up of operations in the ensuing years.
Report of the Board of Directors 60 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Company’s Hotels business remains amongst the fastest growing Indian hospitality chains with around 100 properties across the country.
The Business made steady progress during the year in the construction of luxury hotels at Hyderabad, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Srinagar.
The year also marked the launch of ‘Sunbean’ gourmet coffee across all ITC Hotels.
Meticulously crafted by master blenders and served by expert baristas, this intervention encompassed all customer touch points including sale of coffee beans at custom designed retail counters, in-room sachets and a la carte services in all restaurants.
Your Company’s Hotels Business continues to receive accolades for its world-class properties and service excellence.
ITC Grand Bharat was recognised as #1 amongst the ‘Top Resorts in Asia’ on the coveted Conde Nast Traveler U.S. Readers’ Choice Awards for the second consecutive year, while ITC Grand Chola was the winner in the ‘Sustainable Operations’ category at the HICAP Sustainable Awards.
The Food & Beverage segment continues to be a major strength of your Company with some of the most iconic brands in the country.
The ‘Bukhara’ restaurant at the ITC Maurya, New Delhi continues to receive international recognition and remains a favourite in India.
Bukhara was recognised amongst the ‘Greatest Restaurants around the Globe’ by Conde Nast Traveler U.S., ‘Favourite Restaurant in an Indian Hotel’ by Conde Nast Traveller Readers’ Travel Awards India, and the ‘Best Culinary Heritage Delhi in Fine Dining’ at the Times Food Awards.
‘Ottimo’, ‘EDO’, ‘Tian’ and ‘Pan Asian’ continued to win accolades at the Times Food Awards.
Your Company’s internationally acclaimed spa brand, ‘Kaya Kalp’, won several accolades.
The spa at ITC Grand Bharat was adjudged the ‘Most Luxurious Spa’ in the Resort category at the ‘GeoSpa asiaSpa India Awards’, while the one at ITC Mughal was listed in the ‘Hall of Fame’.
Your Company’s Hotels Business continuously strives to reduce water and energy consumption and enhance the usage of renewable energy to meet its overall energy The Business also extended several ‘Responsible Luxury’ themed culinary initiatives and promotions under the ‘Kitchens of India’ banner.
‘Club ITC’, your Company’s pan-ITC consumer loyalty programme with a current membership base of around 3.5 lakh premium consumers, continues to gain franchise amongst the premium clientele of ITC hotels Business and Wills Lifestyle.
During the year, the Business entered into a strategic partnership for integration of Club ITC with Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), global loyalty programme of Starwood, enabling members to redeem points at over 1200 hotels worldwide.
The ‘Club ITC Culinaire’ dining loyalty programme is also gaining popularity.
During the year, the Business augmented its digital presence towards enriching online experience of users along with superior e-commerce capabilities.
This resulted in enhancing customer engagement, increasing traffic and improving the share of direct conversions.
Towards strengthening the online presence of ITC Hotels, the Business hosted the ‘IndiaInstameet’ in collaboration with ‘Beautiful Destinations’ - the world’s largest online social community for luxury travel.
The event registered over 100 million online global impressions.
The world-class ambience of your Company’s luxury hotels was leveraged effectively during the year for the launch of gourmet luxury chocolates under the ‘Fabelle’ brand at select ITC Hotels across India.
In addition to selling premium packaged chocolates from the Branded Packaged Foods Business, the Fabelle chocolate boutiques offer a range of exquisitely crafted desserts and cocoa beverages, created live by Fabelle Master Chocolatiers.
The initiative has received encouraging response and will go a long way in establishing the Fabelle brand at the luxury end of the market.
Report of the Board of Directors During the year, your Company sustained its leadership position in the Value-Added Paperboards segment and consolidated its preferred supplier status amongst leading end-use customers and brands.
61ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 34 cities.
The ‘WelcomHeritage’ brand remains the country’s most successful and largest chain of heritage hotels with 35 operational hotels.
As reported last year, your Company was declared the successful bidder for a 250-room luxury beach resort located in South Goa operating under the name Park Hyatt Goa Resort and Spa, following an auction held by IFCI Limited in February 2015 in terms of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.
Subsequent to your Company making full payment of the bid amount, IFCI issued the requisite Sale Certificates in favour of your Company on 25th February, 2015.
However, based on an appeal by the erstwhile owners, the sale has been struck down by the Honourable Bombay High Court.
Your Company and IFCI have filed a Special Leave Petition before the Honourable Supreme Court and the matter is sub judice.
Your Company’s Hotels Business, with its world-class properties, globally benchmarked levels of service excellence and customer centricity, is well positioned to sustain its leadership status in the industry.
PAPERBOARDS, PAPER AND PACKAGING The domestic Paperboards, Paper and Packaging industry continued to be impacted by sluggish demand conditions prevailing in the FMCG and legal Cigarette industry.
This, coupled with zero duty imports under ASEAN Free Trade Agreement, cheap imports from China and capacity ramp up by other industry players adversely impacted Segment Revenue during the year.
Segment Results, however, improved on the back of benign input costs and product mix enrichment.
Consequently, while Segment Revenue grew by 0.7%, Segment Profits grew at a faster pace of 6.4% during the year.
requirements.
Such commitment to the Triple Bottom Line is manifest in the Business’s ‘Responsible Luxury’ ethos and has enabled it to position itself as the greenest luxury hotel chain in the world.
It is pertinent to note that over 50% of the total electrical energy consumption of the Business is currently met through renewable sources.
Your Company remains committed to building world-class hotel properties in view of the long-term potential of the Indian hospitality sector.
The Business made steady progress during the year in the construction of luxury hotels at Hyderabad, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Srinagar.
In addition, your Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Sri Lanka made good progress towards setting up a luxury hotel christened ‘ITC One’ and a super-premium residential apartment complex, ‘Colombo One – Private Residences’, situated at a strategic location in Colombo.
Excavation and allied works have been completed and the main construction activity is underway.
The Business is progressing growth plans towards enhancing its presence in the Upper-Upscale segment under the WelcomHotel brand.
Construction of WelcomHotel Coimbatore is nearing completion with the hotel expected to be commissioned in the first quarter of 2017-18.
During the year, the Business also commenced construction of WelcomHotels at Guntur and Bhubaneswar and entered into a management contract with ‘WelcomHotel Kences Palm Beach’ Mamallapuram.
With this, nearly a 1000 rooms are under management contract and plans are on the anvil to expand presence through this route.
The ‘Fortune’ brand strengthened its leadership position and expanded its presence with the addition of two new hotels during the year.
The number of operational hotels under the Fortune brand presently stands at 46 across Report of the Board of Directors 62 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Paperboards & Specialty Papers Global demand for Paper & Paperboard in 2016 remained muted at appx.
406 million MT.
During the period 2011-2016, global demand has grown marginally at 0.4% CAGR primarily driven by moderate growth of appx.
1.5% CAGR in the paperboard segment.
Going forward, global demand for Paper & Paperboard is projected to grow at 1% CAGR driven by Asia - particularly China and India.
The Writing & Printing and Newsprint segments, on the other hand, are expected to witness relatively muted growth, largely due to increasing adoption of digital media and proliferation of smartphones usage.
Domestic demand for Paperboards remained impacted during the year due to slowdown in the FMCG industry and severe pressure on legal Cigarette industry volumes as highlighted earlier in this Report.
Pricing power of industry players was also impacted with significant capacity addition by industry players in recent years.
The Writing & Printing paper segment witnessed supply disruptions during the year primarily on account of shut down of capacity by a major player, leading to higher prices and increase in imports.
Over the next five years, overall domestic demand is projected to grow at 6% CAGR with the Paperboard (46% of the market) and Writing & Printing paper (30% of the market) segments estimated to grow at 7% CAGR and 4% CAGR respectively.
Within Paperboards, demand for Value-Added Paperboards (VAP) in India is projected to grow at a healthy rate of appx.
12% CAGR driven by increasing requirements of the FMCG, Pharma, Publishing, and Food & Beverages industries.
In the Writing & Printing paper segment, demand for copier papers is expected to grow faster at appx.
10% CAGR on the back of traditional consumption segments (offices, schools / colleges) and higher corporate spending especially in the service industry.
Imports from ASEAN countries have been growing at a rapid pace since the implementation of zero duty on such imports, w.e.f.
1st January, 2014, under various trade agreements.
Disruption in domestic supplies, as aforestated, provided further impetus to imports during the year.
Consequently, 2016-17 witnessed a marked acceleration in imports of coated & uncoated papers, which grew by appx.
30% over last year.
The current import policy and extant regulations governing commercial and social forestry in the country have put the Indian Paper and Paperboard industry at a disadvantage vis-à-vis imports.
The economic viability of domestic manufacturers has been severely impacted leading to the closure of several paper mills in the recent past.
There is clearly a need to review the current import duty structure and re-examine the existing Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) and the new ones under formulation towards providing a level playing field to the domestic industry and encourage commercial farming of wood in India.
Legislative changes along with appropriate environmental safeguards need to be implemented to enable private sector participation in commercial forestry on drylands and wastelands.
During the year, your Company sustained its leadership position in the VAP segment and consolidated its preferred supplier status amongst leading end-use customers and brands.
The Business fortified its product portfolio by upgrading select variants and introducing value-added offers such as moisture resistant, grease resistant, medical grade peel-clean paper etc., thereby maintaining its lead over competition.
The Specialty Papers portfolio was also expanded with the launch of new grades to service the needs of customers.
The During the year, the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business clocked its highest ever saleable production of about seven lakh tonnes – a reflection of its relentless focus on operational excellence and quality.
Report of the Board of Directors 63ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business sustained its leadership position in the sale of eco-labelled products, volumes of which grew by appx.
8% during the year.
The Business continues to be a leading quality player in Writing & Printing paper segment, leveraging strong forward linkages with your Company’s Education and Stationery Products Business.
In the Specialty Papers segment, your Company sustained its leadership position in the pharma leaflets and thin printing segments.
During the year, the Business clocked its highest ever saleable production of appx.
seven lakh tonnes – a reflection of its relentless focus on operational excellence and quality.
The Business continues to make investments in capacity augmentation, quality and efficiency enhancement, wastage reduction and productivity improvement, benchmarked with international standards.
Your Company continues to source its wood requirements from sustainable sources.
Your Company’s research on clonal development has resulted in the introduction of high yielding and disease resistant clones that are adaptable to a wide variety of agro-climatic conditions.
In this context, your Company’s Life Sciences & Technology Centre is engaged in developing higher yielding second generation clones with enhanced pest & disease resistance attributes.
The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India has promulgated the Green Highways (Plantation, Transplantation, Beautification and Maintenance) Policy – 2015, to develop green corridors along national highways through plantation and allied activity on median, avenue and other available nearby land patches.
During the year, your Company was chosen as the knowledge and implementation partner of National Green Highways Mission under National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which has been entrusted with the task of planning, implementing and monitoring roadside plantations along one lakh kilometres of national highways.
In this regard, during the year your Company signed an agreement with the NHAI to green around 200 hectares of land along NH-44 and NH-40 on a pilot basis.
Plans are on the anvil to expand this commendable initiative, which would go a long way in enhancing the green cover of the nation and generate employment opportunities for rural communities.
Your Company has the distinction of being the first in India to have obtained the Forest Stewardship Council - Forest Management (FSC-FM) certification, which confirms compliance with the highest international benchmarks of plantation management across the dimensions of environmental responsibility, social benefit and economic viability.
Till date, your Company has received FSC-FM certification for 33,500 hectares of plantations involving over 30,000 farmers.
During the year, nearly 55,000 tonnes of FSC-certified wood were procured from these certified plantations.
All four manufacturing units of the Business have obtained the FSC Chain of Custody certification and have complied with all requirements during the year, thereby sustaining your Company’s position as the leading supplier of FSC-certified paper and paperboard in India.
All manufacturing units of the Business continue to recycle nearly 100% of the solid waste generated during operations by converting the same into lime, fly ash bricks, grey boards, egg trays etc.
In addition, the Business procured and recycled close to 1,24,000 tonnes of waste paper during the year, thereby sustaining your Company’s overall positive solid waste recycling footprint.
ITC has commissioned India’s first Bleached Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp (BCTMP) mill at the Bhadrachalam unit, which will reduce dependence on imports and reduce cost.
Report of the Board of Directors 64 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The manufacturing facilities at Bhadrachalam and Kovai continue to receive industry recognition for their green credentials and safety standards in line with your Company’s focus on sustainable business practices.
During the year, the Bhadrachalam unit became the first integrated pulp & paperboard mill to receive the ‘GreenCo Platinum’ certification from Confederation of Indian Industry, Green Business Centre (CII GBC).
The Bhadrachalam unit also received the Excellent Energy Efficiency Unit 2016 award from CII GBC.
The Kovai unit received National Safety Award (2nd prize) from National Safety Council of India (NSCI) Mumbai and Green Award (2nd Prize) from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board.
The Business successfully commissioned a 46 MW wind energy project in Andhra Pradesh in July 2014, which has been generating wind power since then.
As reported in previous years, permission for inter-state wheeling of power was not granted by the authorities post bifurcation of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
Consequently, the majority of the intended benefits from this large investment did not fructify with only a minor portion of the wind power generated by the project being used by your Company’s units in Andhra Pradesh and the balance being sold to the state power grid at nominal rates.
After several representations and discussions with the concerned authorities on the matter, your Company received permission during the year for wheeling of power from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana, thereby enabling the Bhadrachalam mill to utilise wind energy to meet its energy requirements.
While clearances required for inter-state wheeling of power are now in place, the regulatory framework for levy of charges, banking of power and deviation settlement are still evolving.
Consequently, your Company continues to bear charges/levies at multiple points which have adversely impacted the attractiveness of the investment.
Your Company continues to engage with State and Central regulatory authorities towards seeking relief from such additional levies/charges and remains hopeful of an expeditious resolution of the matter.
In line with your Company’s objective of meeting 50% of its energy requirements from renewable sources, the Business has implemented several initiatives including investments in a green boiler, soda recovery boilers, high pressure & efficiency circulating fluidised bed boiler, solar & wind energy and increased usage of bio-fuel.
With these initiatives, renewable sources presently account for over 50% of total energy consumed at the Bhadrachalam and Kovai units.
The Business continues to make structural interventions in the areas of strategic cost management and import substitution.
Some of the key interventions in this regard include augmentation of in-house pulp manufacturing capacity and developing alternative sources of supply for key inputs on an ongoing basis.
In line with this approach, the Business has commissioned India’s first Bleached Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp (BCTMP) mill at the Bhadrachalam unit, which will reduce dependence on imports and reduce cost.
The Business has also commissioned a 36 MW high pressure energy efficient power plant at the Bhadrachalam unit which will reduce coal consumption and consequently, your Company’s carbon footprint.
The integrated nature of the business model comprising access to high-quality fibre from the economic vicinity of the Bhadrachalam mill, in-house pulp mill and state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities along with clear market leadership in value-added paperboards and a robust forward linkage with the Education and Stationery Products Business strategically positions your Company to further consolidate and enhance its leadership status in the Indian Paperboard and Paper industry.
Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business is a leading provider of superior value-added packaging for the consumer packaged goods industry.
The Business also provides strategic support to your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
Report of the Board of Directors 65ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Despite challenging market conditions, ITC reinforced its leadership position as the largest Indian exporter of unmanufactured tobacco with further improvement in market standing.
Packaging and Printing Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business is a leading provider of superior value-added packaging for the consumer packaged goods industry.
The Business also provides strategic support to your Company’s FMCG Businesses by facilitating faster turnaround for new launches, design changes, ensuring security of supplies and delivering benchmarked international quality at competitive cost.
The Business caters to the packaging requirements of leading players across several industry segments viz.
Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Home care, Apparel, Consumer Electronics, Pharma, Liquor and Tobacco.
With its comprehensive capability-set across multiple platforms, coupled with in-house cylinder making and blown film manufacturing lines, the Business continues to provide innovative solutions to several key customers in India and overseas.
In line with its strategy of consolidating its position as a ‘one-stop shop for packaging solutions’, during the year the Business invested in new product lines viz.
rigid boxes and flexo corrugated packaging, and augmented capacity in the carton and flexibles packaging segments with the addition of state-of-the-art lines at its facility at Tiruvottiyur.
As in previous years, the Business won several awards for operational excellence and creative packaging.
The Business continues to be acknowledged as a key associate by several large FMCG companies in the country for providing superior packaging solutions.
The 14 MW wind energy farm in Tamil Nadu, set up in 2008, continues to provide clean energy to the Tiruvottiyur facility, contributing towards reducing your Company’s carbon footprint.
The manufacturing facilities at Tiruvottiyur, Haridwar and Munger continued to maintain the highest standards in Quality and Environment, Health & Safety (EHS).
All the three units are certified as per the Integrated Management System, consisting of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007 and have also received Social Accountability Certification (SA 8000:2008).
Both the Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar units received the highest ‘Grade A’ BRC/IOP certification (British Retail Consortium / Institute of Packaging), for global standards in packaging and packaging materials - a key enabler for supplies to the packaged foods industry.
During the year, the Haridwar unit received the CII North Zone award for ‘5S excellence’ while the Munger unit won the Suraksha Puraskar from the National Safety Council of India.
The Risk Management Framework of the Business was re-certified under ISO 31000:2009 during the year.
The Packaging and Printing Business has established itself as a one-stop shop offering a wide range of superior and innovative packaging solutions.
With world-class technology across a diverse range of packaging platforms, best-in-class quality management systems and a distributed manufacturing footprint, the Business is well positioned to rapidly grow its external business while continuing to service the requirements of your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
AGRI BUSINESS Leaf Tobacco Global production of Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco registered a decline of 8.5% in 2016, with crop output in Brazil degrowing by nearly 20%.
Indian FCV crop production declined for the second successive year, Report of the Board of Directors 66 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Company’s deep rural linkages and expertise in agri-commodity sourcing, coupled with differentiation through value-added services of identity & traceability and certification is a critical source of competitive advantage for the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
dropping by nearly 20% during 2016 to 217 million Kgs., mainly due to lower Andhra crop consequent to the Tobacco Board’s decision to reduce the authorised crop size by 50 million Kgs.
over 2015.
Consequently, FCV farm prices recorded a sharp increase during the year.
Whilst the reduction in global FCV output as aforestated resulted in bringing down uncommitted inventory levels, Indian leaf tobacco exports were impacted by contraction in global demand, lower domestic crop production and significant currency depreciation in competing origins.
Consequently, Indian leaf tobacco exports fell to an eight-year low of 200 million Kgs.
thereby adversely impacting the earnings of the tobacco farming community.
Despite such challenging market conditions, your Company reinforced its leadership position as the largest Indian exporter of unmanufactured tobacco with further improvement in market standing.
This was achieved through new business development and enhanced value delivery to existing customers by leveraging the Business’s expertise in crop development, superior leaf procurement processes and world-class processing facilities.
The Business continued to provide strategic sourcing support to your Company’s Cigarette Business meeting all requirements at competitive prices.
Your Company’s leadership in sustainability was reinforced by the first ever Global Sustainability Audit (Sustainable Tobacco Programme - STP) conducted by AB Sustain – an independent third party on behalf of international manufacturers.
In STP, a leaf tobacco supplier’s operation is measured for sustainability performance covering areas such as governance, processing units, agronomy, natural resource and farm labour management.
The Division has been placed amongst the best leaf tobacco suppliers in the world in the first ever STP Audit conducted in 2016.
Cost management across the value chain continues to be a key for the Business.
Accordingly, the Business implemented several initiatives during the year including improvement in yield, enhancement of manufacturing efficiencies, reduction in specific consumption of power and logistics optimisation to continuously drive down costs.
Several Lean and Six Sigma projects covering various facets of business operations - from processing, waste reduction, manpower rationalisation to data analytics - were successfully concluded resulting in improved process efficiencies and cost savings.
The Business continues to set benchmarks in leaf threshing operations through focused initiatives and innovative technological solutions.
Investments continue to be made in your Company’s Green Leaf Threshing plants (GLT) at Anaparti, Chirala and Mysuru towards delivering world-class quality and upgrading processing technology.
In line with your Company’s strategy to adopt a low-carbon growth path, all three units at Chirala, Anaparti and Mysuru are meeting a significant portion of their energy needs from renewable sources.
The  Business remains committed to the highest standards of EHS and quality and continues to win recognition in these areas.
During the year, the Chirala and Anaparti units received the ‘Best Management Award – 2016’ from the Labour Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh, the Anaparti GLT received the ‘National Energy Management Award 2016’ from CII in the 17th National Energy Management Award and the ‘Par Excellence’ award in the National Convention on Quality Concepts 2016 competition organised by Quality Circle Forum of India.
Report of the Board of Directors 67ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC continues to focus on providing a range of value-added services in rural areas towards enhancing the competitiveness of Indian agriculture and playing a critical enabling role for farmers.
Other Agri Commodities Domestic food grain production for 2016 crop year stood at 252 million tonnes, representing a marginal growth over the previous year.
While wheat production grew by 6.7% to 92.3 million tonnes, rice production was lower by 1% at 104.4 million tonnes and coarse cereals production dropped by 10.1% at 38.5 million tonnes.
Oilseed production increased by 33% to 33.6 million tonnes mainly due to higher soybean output, which increased by 65% to 14.1 million tonnes due to good monsoon.
Based on current expectations of a normal monsoon in 2017 year, food grain production is projected to increase by 8% to 272 million tonnes.
During 2016-17, world wheat production increased by 16 million tonnes to about 751 million tonnes mainly due to higher production in Australia and Russia.
While higher global production led to surplus inventory in the international markets, India had to contend with lower wheat crop availability during the year as the 2015 crop output (marketed in 2016) was adversely impacted due to unfavourable weather conditions.
In order to alleviate the shortage of supplies and rising prices in the domestic market, the Food Corporation of India scaled down procurement levels and released higher quantum of The Business will continue to extend strategic sourcing support to your Company’s Cigarette Business even as it sustains its leadership position as a major exporter of quality Indian tobacco thereby catalysing the multiplier impact of increased farmer incomes to benefit the rural economy.
With its strong R&D capability, modern processing facilities, crop development and extension expertise, and deep understanding of customer and farmer needs, your Company is well poised to sustain its position as a world-class leaf tobacco organisation.
wheat from its buffer stocks.
In addition, the Government reduced Customs Duty on wheat leading to the import of over five million tonnes from Ukraine and Australia during the year.
The Business leveraged its wide geographical sourcing network, multiple sourcing models including imports, to secure supplies of critical grades with benchmark quality towards meeting the growing requirements for Aashirvaad atta.
The Business delivered substantial savings to your Company through efficient logistics management and other cost-optimisation initiatives.
The Business also leveraged its strong network comprising suppliers, millers and customers to supply significant quantities of imported wheat in the domestic market.
The Business continues to collaborate with reputed research organisations such as Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Directorate of Wheat Research, Punjab Agricultural University and Agarkhar Research Institute towards scaling up wheat sourcing from areas that are in close proximity of atta manufacturing plants and increasing crop production in non-traditional areas.
As part of its wheat crop development programme, the Business has facilitated the introduction of location-specific new and improved seed varieties along with appropriate package of practices in over 1,47,000 acres across Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka.
With a view to supporting the future requirements of your Company, the Business continues to focus on deepening capabilities in proprietary crop intelligence, scaling up the sourcing & delivery network and developing blends based on customer requirements.
Your Company’s deep rural linkages and expertise in agri-commodity sourcing, coupled with differentiation through value-added services of identity & traceability Report of the Board of Directors 68 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ITC Master Chef range of blended and ‘Super Safe’ spices adhere to stringent EU standards, which require the products to be tested for over 470 pesticide residues.
and certification is a critical source of competitive advantage for the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
Given the volatile market conditions caused by climatic variations, changes in Government policies and global demand-supply dynamics, your Company has invested significantly in building competitively superior agri-commodity sourcing expertise comprising multiple business models, wide geographical spread and customised infrastructure.
These capabilities and infrastructure have created structural advantages that facilitate competitive sourcing of agri raw materials for your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
The Business continues to focus on developing capabilities and vectors of differentiation for potential foray into branded consumer and institutional segments while increasing the overall efficiency of procurement and logistics operations by consistently pursuing cost optimisation initiatives and eliminating non value-adding activities.
Towards meeting the requirements of your Company’s Yumitos range of potato chips, the Business is working closely with farmers towards improving quality, yield and introducing chip stock in newer geographies proximal to manufacturing centres.
Further, the Business continues to focus on identifying suitable varieties, sourcing locations and establishing strict protocols for storage, handling & dispatch with a view to enhancing potato conversion efficiency in manufacturing operations.
The Business also leveraged its extensive sourcing network and associated infrastructure in key growing areas coupled with well entrenched farmer linkages to source high quality fruit pulp for your Company’s ‘B Natural’ brand.
The key interventions in this area include strategic plantation development for key fruits, varietal segregation at source for improved colour and taste, customised fruit collection systems for identified fruits, establishing suitable processing protocols and product standardisation.
In the processed fruits category, the Business sustained its leadership position in ‘Fairtrade’ mango pulp exports from India anchored on a comprehensive portfolio of organic and certified mango products.
The Business is working closely with small and marginal farmers across five states in building scale and sourcing options.
Your Company’s Spices Business continued its expansion in Food Safe Markets viz.
US, EU and Japan, leveraging its strong backward integration and customer focused strategies.
All major industry players witnessed a substantial drop in food safe chilli exports due to sharp escalation in domestic chilli prices which touched a historical high during the year.
However, your Company’s chilli exports grew at a healthy pace driven by the addition of new customers and foray into new markets such as Brazil and Mexico.
It is pertinent to note that over the last two years there has been a significant increase in rejection of Indian chilli exports to the EU due to issues relating to product quality and safety.
However, your Company’s Spices Business has maintained an unblemished track record on food safety parameters leveraging its superior processes and custody of supply chain, thereby consolidating its position as a preferred supplier for food safe customers.
In the domestic market, the Business provided strategic sourcing support to the Branded Packaged Foods Business for the launch of ITC Master Chef range of blended and ‘Super Safe’ spices.
Your Company’s range of ‘Super Safe’ spices adhere to stringent EU standards, which require the products to be tested for over 470 pesticide residues as compared to nine under Indian regulations.
During the year, the Business scaled up its ‘Integrated Pest Management’ crop development programme for Report of the Board of Directors 69ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The e-Choupal platform will also be increasingly leveraged to provide rural marketing and agri services and serve as a unique delivery mechanism towards enhancing agricultural growth and productivity, and fostering sustainable rural development.
chilli and cumin.
Leveraging its crop development capabilities, the Business continues to partner with the Government of Andhra Pradesh for food safe chilli production covering 400 farmers across 1000 acres.
The processing unit in Guntur is certified to ‘AA’ grade – the highest level of global food safety standards under the British Retail Consortium Food certification regime.
Your Company believes that it is imperative to take an integrated and holistic view of the agricultural value chain.
This requires a joint participatory approach from all the stakeholders such as farmers, input vendors, traders, processors and government agencies.
In this regard, the Government’s initiative to develop a uniform and suitable legal framework to undertake reforms in marketing of agricultural produce through a Central Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act as well as introduction of e-auctions to facilitate transparency of transactions and superior price discovery at the Mandis are welcome steps towards stimulating agricultural growth in the country.
More than a decade ago, your Company conceptualised and rolled out the e-Choupal network as a platform towards empowering the farming community by dis-intermediating the value chain, making available accurate weather related information, enabling price discovery in a transparent manner and disseminating best practices relating to farming.
Your Company continues to focus on providing a range of value-added services in rural areas towards enhancing the competitiveness of Indian agriculture and playing a critical enabling role in integrating farmers, input vendors and government agencies besides facilitating the necessary market linkages.
The unique ‘Choupal Haat’ platform seeks to create awareness and improve access of the rural community to a wide range of areas - ranging from financial services and pharmaceuticals to commercial vehicles and white goods.
Along with Choupal Saagars (integrated rural services hubs), this platform fosters round-the-year and large scale engagement with the rural community thereby enhancing the vitality of your Company’s e-Choupal network.
The Business will continue to leverage its deep rural linkages and agri-commodity sourcing expertise towards providing your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses a distinct competitive advantage.
The e-Choupal platform will also be increasingly leveraged to provide rural marketing and agri services and serve as a unique delivery mechanism towards enhancing agricultural growth and productivity, and fostering sustainable rural development.
NOTES ON SUBSIDIARIES The following may be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 110.
Shareholders desirous of obtaining the report and accounts of your Company’s subsidiaries may obtain the same upon request.
Further, the report and accounts of the subsidiary companies will also be available under the ‘Shareholder Value’ section of your Company’s website, www.itcportal.com, in a downloadable format.
During the year, your Company divested the entire equity shareholding in King Maker Marketing, Inc., (KMM), New Jersey, USA.
Consequently, effective 16th November 2016, KMM ceased to be a subsidiary of your Company.
Pursuant to Pyxis Inc., merger with ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., with effect from 1st April, 2016, Pyxis has ceased to be a subsidiary Report of the Board of Directors of ITC Infotech India Limited and that of ITC Limited with effect from that date.
During the year ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited, subscribed to the entire share capital of Indivate Inc. a company incorporated in USA.
Consequently, Indivate Inc., became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ITC Infotech Inc., USA with effect from 18th November 2016.
ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited, Singapore (‘Global’), a subsidiary of your Company, is in liquidation in terms of the Order of the High Court of the Republic of Singapore dated 30th November, 2007.
Consequently, your Company is not in a position to consolidate the accounts of Global for the financial year ended 31st December, 2016.
The Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries, adopted by your Board, in conformity with Regulation 16, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, can be accessed on the Company’s corporate website at http://www.itcportal.com/about- itc/policies/policy-on-material-subsidiaries.aspx.
Presently, the Company does not have any material subsidiary.
Surya Nepal Private Limited During the year under review, the economic environment in Nepal remained weak due to slowdown in inward remittances, subdued government expenditure, political unrest and the continuing impact of the catastrophic earthquakes in April 2015 and May 2015.
At the same time, inflation ruled high in the backdrop of supply disruptions, tight liquidity position and higher interest rates.
Consequently, GDP grew at record low of 0.8% (previous year 2.3%) with  the Industry sector degrowing by 6.3%.
The newly constituted government in Nepal has been making concerted efforts to get the economy back on a growth path.
Several significant and enabling policies have been implemented to boost economic activity in the country.
Prospects of a favourable monsoon, growth in Services sector and pick-up in expenditure on reconstruction activities are expected to provide a fillip to economic growth in the near-term.
The legal cigarette industry in Nepal faced severe pressure during the year due to the dramatic slowdown in the economy as aforestated.
Besides, the industry continues to be adversely impacted by a harsh regulatory regime and discriminatory tobacco taxation policy.
The rapid growth of illegal cigarette trade is not only adversely impacting Government revenues but also compromising the tobacco related health objectives of the Government since illegal cigarettes are of undeterminable origin & age and of questionable quality credentials.
It is pertinent to note that while the legal cigarette industry contributes 81% of Government’s revenue from tobacco products, its share in the country’s tobacco consumption is merely 16%.
During the year, the company’s Revenue from Operations at Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
2873 crores (Previous Year – NRs.
2483 crores) and Profit After Tax at NRs.
736 crores (Previous Year – NRs.
624 crores) recorded a growth of 16% and 18% respectively.
The company continues to be one of the largest contributors to the Government Exchequer, accounting for about 3% of the total revenues of the Government of Nepal.
The company was recognised as the largest tax payer during the year by the Inland Revenue Department of Nepal.
During the year, the company’s Cigarette business consolidated its leadership position in the country by leveraging a portfolio of world-class products anchored on innovation and benchmarked quality backed by robust distribution network.
Investments in best-in-class manufacturing technologies along with adoption of benchmarked practices ensured delivery of products of international quality.
The new factory in Seratar, Nepal delivered an impressive performance across all parameters and has been fully stabilised in terms of induction of new technologies, building skill levels of the team and operational efficiencies.
During the year, a long-term agreement valid for a period of two years, has been signed with the workmen of the company’s cigarette factory in Simara.
In the Branded Apparel business, ‘John Players’ has established itself as a leading brand in the premium segment of the branded menswear segment, and has a significant presence across markets through exclusive 70 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors branded outlets, departmental chains and multi-brand outlets.
In the Safety Matches business, the company’s brand ‘Tir’ strengthened its market leadership in the industry, leveraging its superior trade marketing & distribution reach.
The company is now the largest domestic player in the wooden matches segment.
In the Agarbatti business, the company significantly improved its market standing through a strategy of deploying a diverse portfolio of offerings targeting all consumer segments.
The company continues to support and invest in initiatives aimed at enhancing the social and economic capital of the nation.
All the initiatives are woven around and are in alignment with the sustainable development goals of the Government of Nepal.
Accordingly, the company continues to: G assist farmers, proximate to the Simara factory, in agro forestry through high quality Poplar plantation promoting ‘Grow Wood Grow Food’ concept through inter cropping; G support animal husbandry extension services covering animal breeding, health and nutrition that will drive milk yield improvement and higher returns for underprivileged farmers; G focus on providing community health services through various programmes such as periodic health camps and awareness programmes in the vicinity of the manufacturing units; G focus on building local supply chain towards sourcing its agarbatti requirements from domestic small and medium enterprises, thereby providing employment and skill building opportunities to the economically deprived sections of society, especially women; The company declared a dividend of NRs.
298/- per equity share of NRs.
100/- each for the year ended 16th July, 2016 (31st Ashad, 2073) amounting to NRs.
600.77 crores.
ITC Infotech India Limited and its subsidiaries The IT Services industry is undergoing rapid change driven by technological shifts, emergence of new models of customer value delivery, enhanced focus on experience journeys and automation.
As per a recent NASSCOM report, the Indian IT industry is feeling the impact of the slowdown in global economic activity and political uncertainties as clients go slow on their decision-making and investment processes.
It is pertinent to note that the Banking, Financial services and Insurance (BFSI) segments, which constitute a major share of global IT spends, is yet to witness any revival of discretionary spending by clients.
The challenging operating environment for the Indian IT industry is manifest in the marked deceleration in growth rates reported during the year by a majority of the Indian IT majors.
The Indian IT industry is also facing headwinds on account of protectionist measures announced by governments in key markets.
The outlook for the Indian IT industry remains relatively muted with NASSCOM, for the first time in 25 years, deferring its revenue growth guidance for 2017-18 in the wake of various global uncertainties, especially the proposed regulatory changes in USA.
Technology spending is witnessing a clear shift in favour of digital technologies, which are estimated to account for 80% of incremental IT spends.
With traditional lines of businesses and business models coming under increasing pressure, the fragmented IT services market is gearing up to meet these challenges by strengthening alternative delivery models and accelerating investments in digital capabilities.
In this context, ITC Infotech continues on its journey to become a specialised, global scale, full service provider led by business and technology consulting.
During the year, the company strengthened its offerings in the digital space by incubating a new service line ‘Interactive Marketing’ in addition to existing service lines of ‘Digital supply chain’ and ‘Internet of Things (IOT)’.
Recognising the need to differentiate and establish unique competitive positioning in the fast changing technology landscape, the company also introduced the concept of ‘Digitaligence@work’ to enhance customer experience and serve as a disruptor to existing business processes.
The company’s ‘Innoruption Lab’, established last year, has built several ‘proofs of concept’ in emerging areas such as Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality, Internet of 71ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors Things, Artificial Intelligence, BOTs etc.
These have generated additional leads from target customers for the company.
During the year, the company’s consolidated Total Income at ` 1554.38 crores (previous year ` 1550.36 crores), while Net Profit stood at ` 37.95 crores (previous year ` 36.16 crores).
As stated in the previous year, the company’s financial performance reflects, inter alia, the impact of restructuring a contract with a key client, which set up its own captive centre in India.
Excluding the impact of restructuring as aforestated, the company posted steady growth in revenue, driven by new client additions in USA and Europe and sustained growth momentum in the India, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa regions.
On 18th November 2016, ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, subscribed to the entire share capital of M/s.
Indivate Inc., a company incorporated in the USA, to provide business development, consulting and other advisory services.
Consequently, Indivate Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. and that of ITC Infotech India Limited and your Company with effect from 18th November, 2016.
For the year under review: a) ITC Infotech India Limited recorded Revenue from Operations of ` 911.99 crores (previous year ` 932.44 crores) and Net Profit of ` 17.89 crores (previous year ` 54.94 crores); b) ITC Infotech Limited, UK, (ITC Infotech UK), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, recorded Revenues of GBP 37.00 million (previous year GBP 31.19 million) and Net Profit of GBP 1.17 million (previous year GBP 0.39 million).
For the year under review, ITC Infotech UK declared a dividend of GBP 2.50 (previous year GBP 2.20) per Ordinary Share of GBP 1/- each on 685,815 shares, amounting to GBP 1,714,538 (previous year GBP 1,508,793); c) ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., (ITC Infotech USA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, together with its wholly-owned subsidiary Indivate Inc., recorded Revenue of US$ 91.44 million (previous year US$ 86.44 million) and Net Profit of US$ 1.21 million (previous year US$ (-) 0.31 million).
Pursuant to its merger with ITC Infotech USA with effect from 1st April, 2016, Pyxis has ceased to be a subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited and that of ITC Limited with effect from that date.
The company’s superior service delivery capability continues to earn global recognition.
During the year, the company was recognised by Information Services Group (ISG) as a ‘Leader’ in the archetype ‘Enabling Digital’ in the ISG Insights Index for Application Development & Maintenance.
The company also featured in the leader’s category of ‘2017 Global Outsourcing 100’ by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) for the 11th consecutive year.
The company won the Aecus Innovation Awards 2016 for providing an innovative customer experience solution to a leading health retailer in UK.
Besides those relating to service delivery, a notable recognition was in winning the Asia Pacific HRM Congress Awards 2016 aimed at recognising the best talent and HR practices across industries.
With enhanced focus on newer technologies and innovation backed by deep domain expertise & delivery excellence, the company is confident of establishing itself as a differentiated and specialised player focused on services and supply chain based industries.
Technico Pty Limited and its subsidiaries The company continues to focus on upgradation and commercialisation of TECHNITUBER®  seed technology and customising its application across various geographies.
Besides, the company is engaged in the marketing of TECHNITUBER®  seed to global customers produced at the facilities of its subsidiaries in China and Canada and Technico Agri Sciences Limited, India (TASL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company.
The Canadian subsidiary of the company is also engaged in field multiplication of seeds.
For the year under review: a. Technico Pty Limited, Australia registered a turnover of Australian Dollar (A$) 2.46 million (previous year 72 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors A$ 2.31 million) and a Net Profit of A$ 1.36 million (previous year A$ 10.95 million).
On 22nd March, 2016, the company sold its entire shareholding in Technico Agri Sciences Limited (TASL) to your Company for a consideration of A$ 23.84 million.
Consequently, Net Profit for the previous year included a net gain of about A$ 10 million on sale of investment in TASL.
During the year, the company aligned its capital structure with its business requirements by reducing its share capital by A$ 24.5 million (from A$ 43.99 million to A$ 19.49 million) and returned the said amount to your Company, its sole shareholder.
b. Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia, Technico Technologies Inc., Canada and Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited, China – There were no significant events to report with respect to the aforestated companies.
Technico Agri Sciences Limited The company’s leadership in the production of early generation seed potatoes and strength in agronomy continues to support the ‘Yumitos’ range of potato chips of your Company and in servicing the seed potato requirements of the farmer base of your Company’s Agri Business.
Potato prices ruled firm in the domestic market in first half of 2016-17 on the back of lower crop output.
While this had all the settings for a promising year for seed potato sales, currency crunch at the time of the peak season for seed potato sales adversely impacted demand.
The situation was exacerbated by high unsold potato inventory levels, built up as a result of lower offtake during the year due to firm prices and lack of potato export opportunities on account of imposition of Minimum Export Price of potato.
Despite such difficult circumstances, the company leveraged the strength of its brand, superior product quality, better on-field performance and strong trade and customer relationship to register a Revenue from Operations of ` 108.35 crores (previous year ` 95.27 crores) and Profit After Tax of ` 14.52 crores (previous year ` 16.89 crores) for the financial year ended 31st March, 2017.
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at ` 14.48 crores (previous year ` 16.91 crores).
During the year, the company declared a dividend of ` 31.98 crores (including Dividend Distribution Tax of ` 5.41 crores).
WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited (WLPL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company was incorporated in Sri Lanka with the objective of developing and operating a mixed-use development project (‘Project’) comprising a luxury hotel christened ‘ITC One’ and a super-premium residential apartment complex, ‘Colombo One – Private Residences’, situated on 5.86 acres of prime sea-facing land in Colombo.
The Project has been accorded ‘Strategic Development Project ’status entitling the company to various fiscal benefits in Sri Lanka.
Further, the Project is also exempt from Sri Lankan foreign exchange regulations.
During the year, the company made good progress on construction of the Project.
The excavation and allied works were completed and the construction activity for the main complex was commenced during the year.
Design development work by major consultants was also completed during the year.
Your Company’s investment in WLPL stood at US$ 115 million as at 31st March, 2017.
Landbase India Limited The company owns ‘ITC Grand Bharat’ – a 104 key all suite luxury hotel at Gurugram, which has been licenced to your Company.
ITC Grand Bharat, an ultimate expression of unhurried luxury, is co-located with the company’s prestigious Classic Golf & Country Club, a 27-hole Jack Nicklaus Signature Golf Course.
ITC Grand Bharat received several accolades and awards, establishing itself amongst the top luxury resort destination hotels in the world.
During the year, the hotel was recognised as #1 amongst the ‘Top Resorts in Asia’ on the coveted Conde Nast Traveler U.S. Readers’ Choice Awards for the second consecutive year.
73ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors During the year, the Classic Golf & Country Club hosted various tournaments and events and garnered the highest market share in the corporate tournament segment.
The Club enjoys strong brand equity with its members, guests and the golfing fraternity and continues to receive the patronage of professional and amateur golfers in the country.
During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Total Income of ` 21.75 crores (previous year `18.86 crores) and Net Profit of ` 2.10 crores (previous year ` 0.92 crores).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at ` 2.10 crores (previous year ` 0.82 crores).
Srinivasa Resorts Limited The company’s hotel ‘ITC Kakatiya’ in Hyderabad continued to face sluggish demand conditions during the year.
While room occupancy rates and average room rates remained under pressure, Food and Beverages recorded robust growth.
The company recorded Total Income of ` 54.43 crores (previous year ` 54.32 crores) for the year ended 31st March, 2017 with Net Loss of ` 1.52 crores (previous year ` 1.93 crores).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at (-) ` 1.50 crores (previous year (-) ` 1.92 crores).
During the year, ITC Kakatiya received the Times Food Guide awards for ‘Dakshin’ (Best South Indian Fine Dining), ‘Kebabs & Kurries’ (Best Barbeque & Grills), and ‘Marco Polo’ (Best Resto Bar).
TripAdvisor, a renowned hotel review website, continues to rate Dakshin and Kebabs & Kurries as the best restaurants in Hyderabad, ranking them No.1 and No.2 respectively.
The company’s 100-key full service hotel in Amritsar, located on a land parcel assigned to the company by ITC Limited, is under development.
While civil and structural works are nearing completion, other works including interiors are progressing according to schedule.
Fortune Park Hotels Limited During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Total Income of ` 29.53 crores (previous year ` 28.77 crores), Net Profit of ` 2.44 crores (previous year ` 2.15 crores).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at ` 2.39 crores (previous year ` 1.86 crores).
The company, which caters to the ‘Mid-market to Upscale’ segment through a chain of Fortune hotels, continues to forge new alliances and expand its footprint.
Currently, the company has an aggregate inventory of nearly 5,000 rooms spread over 64 properties of which 46 are operating hotels.
Of the balance 18 properties, six hotels are slated to be commissioned in the ensuing year and 12 hotel projects are in various stages of development.
The company has established ‘Fortune’ as the premier ‘value’ brand in the Indian hospitality sector.
The brand remains a frontrunner in its operating segment and is well positioned to sustain its leadership position in the industry.
During the year, the company bagged Today’s Traveller Award 2016 for the ‘Best First Class Business Hotel Chain’, and Hospitality India & Explore The World Annual International Travel Award 2016 for ‘Best First Class Business Hotel Chain’.
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended a dividend of ` 12.50 per Equity Share of ` 10/- each for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Bay Islands Hotels Limited Fortune Resort Bay Island, the company’s hotel in Port Blair, with its strategic location, excellent architectural design and superior service quality, continues to offer a unique gateway to the Andamans.
A comprehensive renovation and expansion programme towards enhancing the market standing of the hotel is currently underway.
During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Total Income of ` 1.98 crores (previous year ` 1.75 crores), Net Profit of ` 0.76 crore (previous year ` 1.10 crores).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year was ` 0.76 crore (previous year ` 1.10 crores).
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended a dividend of ` 70/- per Equity Share of ` 100/- each for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
74 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 75ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Russell Credit Limited During the year, the company registered Total Revenue of ` 59.67 crores (previous year ` 70.64 crores) King Maker Marketing, Inc. During the year, your Company divested the entire equity shareholding (100% of paid-up capital) in King Maker Marketing, Inc. (KMM), New Jersey, USA, along with assignment of certain trademarks owned by the company.
Consequently, effective 16th November 2016, KMM ceased to be a subsidiary of your Company.
Wimco Limited The company’s business activities are mainly focused on fabrication and assembly of filling and cartoning machinery for the FMCG and Pharmaceutical industry.
The company’s order book was impacted during the year due to the sluggish demand conditions prevailing in the FMCG and Pharmaceutical industry.
The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year stood at ` 16.15 crores (previous year ` 14.85 crores) with a Net Loss of ` 0.07 crore (previous year  ` 0.35 crore).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at (-) ` 0.09 crore (previous year (-) ` 0.41 crore).
The company is focussing on building a robust business model, widening its customer base and developing superior solutions towards addressing customer requirements.
North East Nutrients Private Limited Your Company holds 76% equity stake in North East Nutrients Private Limited (NENPL), a company formed with the objective of setting up a food processing facility in Mangaldoi, Assam to cater to the fast-growing biscuits market in Assam and other north-eastern States.
The company commissioned a state-of-the-art facility comprising three biscuit manufacturing lines in August 2015.
In the first full year of its commercial operations, the company recorded Revenue from Operations of ` 138.05 crores (previous year ` 28.84 crores) and Net Loss of ` 1.81 crores (previous year ` 11.98 crores).
The performance for the year reflects gestation costs associated with the initial phase of operations.
and Net Profit of ` 34.22 crores (previous year ` 45.01 crores).
Temporary surplus liquidity of the company is mainly deployed in debt mutual funds and bank fixed deposits.
The company continues to explore opportunities to make strategic investments for the ITC Group.
Gold Flake Corporation Limited During the year, the company registered Total Income of ` 3.46 crores (previous year ` 3.42 crores) and Net Profit of ` 2.55 crores (previous year ` 2.64 crores).
The company holds 50% equity stake in ITC Essentra Limited – a joint venture with Essentra Group, UK.
Greenacre Holdings Limited During the year, the company recorded Total Income of ` 6.34 crores (previous year ` 4.90 crores) and Net Profit of ` 2.25 crores (previous year ` 1.63 crores).
The company continues to provide maintenance services for commercial office buildings.
ITC Investments & Holdings Limited The company, a Core Investment Company within the meaning of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2011, recorded Total Revenue of ` 0.07 crore during the year (previous year ` 0.07 crore) and Net Profit of ` 0.05 crore (previous year ` 0.04 crore).
MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited The company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ITC Investments & Holdings Limited, holds tenancy rights in a commercial building located in Mumbai and also provides estate maintenance services.
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of ` 0.07 crore (previous year ` 0.07 crore).
Pavan Poplar Limited The operations of the company continue to be adversely impacted pursuant to the Order of the Honourable High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in February 2014 dismissing the writ petition filed by the company against Report of the Board of Directors 76 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 the Order of the District Magistrate authorising the State authorities to take possession of the land leased to the company.
The appeal filed by the company against the aforestated Order was admitted in April 2014 and the matter is pending before the Honourable High Court.
During the year, the company recorded Total Revenue of ` 0.20 crore (previous year ` 0.07 crore) and Net Loss of ` 0.32 crore (previous year  ` 0.44 crore).
Prag Agro Farm Limited The operations of the company continue to be adversely impacted pursuant to the Order of the Honourable High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in February 2014 dismissing the writ petition filed by the company against the Order of the District Magistrate authorising the State authorities to take possession of the land leased to the company.
The appeal filed by the company against the aforestated Order was admitted in April 2014 and the matter is pending before the Honourable High Court.
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of ` 0.05 crore (previous year ` 0.07 crore) and Net Loss of ` 0.06 crore (previous year ` 0.17 crore).
During the year, the company reduced its Share Capital from ` 12.80 crores comprising 1.28 crore equity shares of ` 10 each to ` 1.28 crores comprising 1.28 crore equity shares of ` 1 each.
ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited As has been stated in the previous years’ reports, the Judicial Managers were conducting the affairs of ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited, Singapore (‘Global’) since 8th November, 1996, under the authority of the High Court of Singapore.
Pursuant to the application of the Judicial Managers, the Singapore High Court on 30th November, 2007 ordered the winding up of Global, appointed a Liquidator and discharged the Judicial Managers.
The Judicial Managers commenced proceedings against your Company in November 2002 before the Singapore High Court claiming approximately US$ 18.10 million.
Pursuant to legal advice, your Company has filed its defence in the proceedings.
Your Company is contesting that the said claims are not sustainable and that your Company does not accept any liability in this regard.
The proceedings are pending.
NOTES ON JOINT VENTURES ITC Essentra Limited The relentless pressure on volumes of the legal cigarette industry on account of the harsh taxation and regulatory burden continue to adversely impact the demand for cigarette filters.
However, the company retained its leadership position of being the preferred supply chain partner for several well-known national and international brands leveraging its core strengths – strong customer relationships, access to world-class innovation, superior execution, consistent delivery and best-in-class quality.
In line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 requiring companies to adopt a uniform financial year, the company had changed its financial year last year from January – December to April – March.
Consequently, the financial statements of the company for the year under review for the 12 months ended 31st March, 2017 are not strictly comparable with the previous 15-month period ended 31st March, 2016.
During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Revenue from Operations of ` 270.07 crores (Previous 15-month period ended 31st March, 2016 – ` 404.31 crores) and Net Profit after tax of ` 9.94 crore (Previous 15-month period ended 31st March, 2016 – ` 14.53 crore).
The company continues to focus on scaling up exports by leveraging a portfolio of high quality products.
Investments continue to be made in technology and capability towards sustaining the company’s position as the innovation and quality benchmark in the Indian cigarette filter industry.
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended a dividend of ` 9.00 per Ordinary Share of ` 10/- each for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited, a joint venture of your Company with Jodhana Heritage Resorts Private Report of the Board of Directors 77ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Limited, currently operates 35 heritage properties across 13 States in India.
The company, with its WelcomHeritage brand portfolio comprising ‘Legend Hotels’, ‘Heritage Hotels’ and ‘Nature Resorts’, provides uniquely differentiated offerings to guests in the cultural, heritage and adventure tourism segments respectively.
During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Total Income of ` 3.49 crores (previous year ` 3.73 crores) and Net Loss of ` 0.77 crore (previous year ` 0.45 crore).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year was a Loss of ` 0.78 crore (previous year Loss at Total Comprehensive Income level was ` 0.45 crore).
The ‘WelcomHeritage Hotels’ brand was awarded the ‘Best Heritage Hotel Chain’ by Today’s Traveller Awards 2016.
Espirit Hotels Private Limited Espirit Hotels Private Limited (EHPL) is a joint venture between your Company and the Ambience Group, Hyderabad for developing a luxury hotel complex at Begumpet, Hyderabad.
Under the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, your Company acquired 26% equity stake in EHPL and will, inter alia, provide hotel operating services, upon commissioning of the hotel.
The Ambience Group has expressed its desire to review the timing of further investments in EHPL, citing concerns about the viability of the project in view of the challenging economic environment and the sluggish demand conditions currently prevailing in Hyderabad.
Your Company is exploring its options in this regard.
Your Company’s investment in EHPL stood at ` 46.51 crores as at 31st March, 2017.
Logix Developers Private Limited Logix Developers Private Limited (LDPL) is a joint venture between your Company and Logix Estates Private Limited for developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment complex at the company’s site located at Sector 105 in NOIDA.
Under the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, your Company acquired 26% equity stake in LDPL and will, inter alia, provide hotel operating services, upon commissioning of the hotel by LDPL.
Your Company’s total investment in LDPL stood at ` 41.95 crores as at 31st March, 2017 and it currently owns 27.91% of the equity capital of the company.
As reported in the previous year, your Company reiterated its position with the JV partner that it was committed to developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment complex as envisaged under the JV Agreement and that it was not interested in progressing with any alternative project plans proposed by the JV partner.
However, the JV partner refused to progress the project and instead expressed its intent to exit from the JV by selling its stake to your Company.
Subsequently the JV partner proposed that both parties should find a third party to sell the entire shareholding in LDPL.
In view of these developments, your Company had filed a petition before the Company Law Board (CLB) submitting that the affairs of the JV entity were being conducted in a manner that was prejudicial to the interest of your Company and the JV entity.
The matter is currently before the National Company Law Tribunal (which replaced the erstwhile CLB).
The JV partner had also filed a petition before the Honourable Delhi High Court for winding up the JV company.
The National Company Law Tribunal, while hearing the matter, was of the view that your Company’s petition should be heard before the winding up petition was heard by the Honourable High Court.
Notwithstanding the above, both the venturers have confirmed that necessary measures would be undertaken to meet the liabilities of the company (as and when required) so as to protect the leasehold rights over the land.
During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded a Net Loss of ` 22.75 crores (previous year ` 19.60 crores).
NOTES ON ASSOCIATES International Travel House Limited The company offers a full range of travel services including air ticketing, car rentals, inbound and outbound tourism, domestic holidays, conferences, events and exhibition management and foreign exchange services to travellers.
Report of the Board of Directors During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Total Income of ` 205.74 crores (previous year ` 200.04 crores) and Net Profit of ` 11.17 crores (previous year ` 9.61 crores).
Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at ` 10.46 crores (previous year ` 9.48 crores).
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended a dividend of ` 4.25 per Equity Share of ` 10/- each for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Gujarat Hotels Limited The company’s hotel, ‘WelcomHotel Vadodara’ at Vadodara is operated by your Company under an Operating License Agreement.
During the year ended 31st March, 2017, the company recorded Total Income of ` 5.12 crores (previous year ` 5.29 crores), Net Profit and Total Comprehensive Income of ` 3.86 crores (previous year ` 3.25 crores).
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended a dividend of ` 3.50 per Equity Share of ` 10/- each for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
ATC Limited (an associate of Gold Flake Corporation Limited) The company is a contract manufacturer of cigarettes.
During the year, the company recorded Total Revenue of ` 21.03 crores (previous year ` 22.85 crores) and Net Profit of ` 0.22 crore (previous year ` 0.32 crore).
The company continued to maintain high levels of operational responsiveness, benchmark quality and cost efficiency during the year.
The company was conferred ‘Quality Systems Excellence Award - Certificate of Appreciation’ by FICCI for excellence in quality systems.
Associates of Russell Credit Limited Russell Investments Limited During the year, the company recorded Total Revenue of ` 3.72 crores (previous year ` 3.22 crores) and Net Profit of ` 2.78 crores (previous year ` 2.25 crores).
The company continues to explore opportunities to make investments.
Divya Management Limited During the year, the company recorded Total Revenue of ` 0.52 crore (previous year ` 0.42 crore) and Net Profit of ` 0.20 crore (previous year ` 0.15 crore).
The company continues to explore opportunities to make investments.
Antrang Finance Limited During the year, the company recorded Total Revenue of ` 0.30 crore (previous year ` 0.31 crore) and Net Profit of ` 0.09 crore (previous year ` 0.10 crore).
The company continues to explore opportunities to make investments.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS The Corporate Governance Policy guides the conduct of affairs of your Company and clearly delineates the roles, responsibilities and authorities at each level of its three-tiered governance structure and key functionaries involved in governance.
The ITC Code of Conduct commits management to financial and accounting policies, systems and processes.
The Corporate Governance Policy and the ITC Code of Conduct stand widely communicated across the enterprise at all times, and, together with the ‘Strategy of Organisation’, Planning & Review Processes and the Risk Management Framework provide the foundation for Internal Financial Controls with reference to your Company’s Financial Statements.
Such Financial Statements are prepared on the basis of the Significant Accounting Policies that are carefully selected by management and approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
These Policies are supported by the Corporate Accounting and Systems Policies that apply to the entity as a whole to implement the tenets of Corporate Governance and the Significant Accounting Policies uniformly across the Company.
The Accounting Policies are reviewed and updated from time to time.
These, in turn are supported by a set of divisional policies and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that have been established for individual businesses.
Your Company uses ERP Systems as a business enabler and also to maintain its Books of Account.
The SOPs 78 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors in tandem with transactional controls built into the ERP Systems ensure appropriate segregation of duties, tiered approval mechanisms and maintenance of supporting records.
The Information Management Policy reinforces the control environment.
The systems, SOPs and controls are reviewed by divisional management and audited by Internal Audit whose findings and recommendations are reviewed by the Audit Committee and tracked through to implementation.
Your Company has in place adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements.
Such controls have been assessed during the year taking into consideration the essential components of internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Based on the results of such assessment carried out by management, no reportable material weakness or significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal financial controls was observed.
Nonetheless your Company recognises that any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations and accordingly, regular audit and review processes ensure that such systems are reinforced on an ongoing basis.
RISK MANAGEMENT As a diversified enterprise, your Company continues to focus on a system-based approach to business risk management.
The management of risk is embedded in the corporate strategies of developing a portfolio of world-class businesses that best match organisational capability with market opportunities, focusing on building distributed leadership and succession planning processes, nurturing specialism and enhancing organisational capabilities through timely developmental inputs.
Accordingly, management of risk has always been an integral part of the Company’s ‘Strategy of Organisation’ and straddles its planning, execution and reporting processes and systems.
Backed by strong internal control systems, the current Risk Management Framework consists of the following key elements: – The Corporate Governance Policy and the Risk Management Policy approved by the Board, clearly lay down the roles and responsibilities of the various entities in relation to risk management covering a range of responsibilities, from the strategic to the operational.
These role definitions, inter alia, provide the foundation for appropriate risk management procedures, their effective implementation across your Company and independent monitoring and reporting by Internal Audit.
– The Risk Management Committee, constituted by the Board, monitors and reviews the strategic risk management plans of the Company as a whole and provides necessary directions on the same.
– The Corporate Risk Management Cell, through focused interactions with businesses, facilitates the identification and prioritisation of strategic and operational risks, development of appropriate mitigation strategies and conducts periodic reviews of the progress on the management of identified risks.
– A combination of centrally issued policies and divisionally-evolved procedures brings robustness to the process of ensuring that business risks are effectively addressed.
– Appropriate structures are in place to proactively monitor and manage the inherent risks in businesses with unique / relatively high risk profiles.
– A strong and independent Internal Audit function at the Corporate level carries out risk focused audits across all businesses, enabling identification of areas where risk management processes may need to be strengthened.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews Internal Audit findings, and provides strategic guidance on internal controls.
The Audit Compliance Review Committee closely monitors the internal control environment within your Company including implementation of the action plans emerging out of the internal audit findings.
– At the Business level, Divisional Auditors continuously verify compliance with laid down policies and procedures, and help plug control gaps by assisting operating management in the formulation of control procedures for new areas of operation.
79ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors – A robust and comprehensive framework of strategic planning and performance management ensures realisation of business objectives based on effective strategy implementation.
The annual planning exercise requires all businesses to clearly identify their top risks and set out a mitigation plans with agreed timelines and accountabilities.
Businesses are required to confirm periodically that all relevant risks have been identified, assessed, evaluated and that appropriate mitigation systems have been implemented.
During the year, the Risk Management Committee was updated on the status and effectiveness of the risk management plans.
The Audit Committee was also updated on the effectiveness of your Company’s risk management systems and policies.
Your Company sources several commodities for use as inputs in its businesses and also engages in agri-commodity trading as part of its Agri Business.
Your Company has a comprehensive risk assessment framework and well laid out policy to manage the risks arising out of the inherent price volatility associated with such commodities.
This includes robust mechanisms for monitoring market dynamics on an ongoing basis towards making informed sourcing decisions, continuous tracking of net open positions & ‘value at risk’ against approved limits, use of futures contracts to hedge commodity price risk as applicable, hedging associated foreign exchange risk through appropriate instruments, assessment of country risk and counter-party exposure for suitable mitigation plans.
Additionally, your Company’s strategy of backward integration in areas such as sourcing of agri-commodities e.g.
wheat, potato, fruit pulp and leaf tobacco, in-house manufacturing of paperboards, paper and packaging (including pulp production and print cylinder making facilities) facilitates access to critical inputs at benchmark quality and competitive cost besides ensuring security of supplies.
Further, each of your Company’s businesses continuously focuses on product mix enrichment towards protecting margins and insulating operations from spikes in input price.
The combination of policies and processes as outlined above adequately addresses the various risks associated with your Company’s businesses.
AUDIT AND SYSTEMS Your Company believes that internal control is a necessary concomitant of the principle of governance that freedom of management should be exercised within a framework of appropriate checks and balances.
Your Company remains committed to ensuring an effective internal control environment that inter alia provides assurance on orderly and efficient conduct of operations, security of assets, prevention and detection of frauds / errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information.
Your Company’s independent and robust Internal Audit processes, both at the Business and Corporate levels, provide assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls, compliance with operating systems, internal policies and regulatory requirements.
The Internal Audit function consisting of professionally qualified accountants, engineers and IT Specialists is adequately skilled and resourced to deliver audit assurances at highest levels.
In the context of the IT environment of your Company, systems and policies relating to Information Management are periodically reviewed and benchmarked for contemporariness.
Compliance with the Information Management policies receive focused attention of the Internal Audit team.
Qualified engineers in the Internal Audit function review the quality of design, planning and execution of all ongoing projects involving significant expenditure to ensure that project management controls are adequate and yield ‘value for money’.
Processes in the Internal Audit function have been continuously strengthened for enhanced effectiveness and productivity including the deployment of best-in-class tools for analytics in the Audit domain, certification as complying with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Standards in its processes, ongoing knowledge improvement programmes for staff, etc.
The Audit methodology is also designed to validate effectiveness of critical IT controls that are embedded in the business systems, leading to greater alignment with the business process environment.
80 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors The Audit Committee of your Board met eight times during the year.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee inter alia included reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control environment, evaluation of the Company’s internal financial control and risk management systems, monitoring implementation of the action plans emerging out of Internal Audit findings including those relating to strengthening of your Company’s risk management systems and discharging of statutory mandates.
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Human Resource Development practices in your Company are guided by the principles of relevance, consistency and fairness.
Several initiatives are being implemented across Businesses to strengthen talent management, capability development and performance management processes.
Taken together, these interventions are making a positive impact on talent attraction, retention and commitment.
The Human Resources function of your Company continues to align its strategic interventions and processes with your Company’s Vision of sustaining its position as one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations, creating and growing value for the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders.
Towards this end, five capability platforms relevant to making Businesses future-ready have been identified – Strategic, Value Chain, Leadership, Innovation and Human Resources Development.
Your Company’s capability development agenda is geared to make organisational learning one of the key levers for improved business performance.
These capability platforms are also designed to strengthen organisational systems to facilitate quick and competitively superior responses to market opportunities.
Your Company’s talent management promise of ‘Building Winning Businesses.
Building Business Leaders.
Creating Value for India.’ backed by its strong corporate equity continues to play a key role in attracting and retaining best-in-class talent.
The Performance Management System in your Company encompasses all activities undertaken to identify, measure, and enhance the performance of individuals, teams and the businesses.
It also serves to align individual and team performance with the strategic goals of the organisation.
Your Company’s Performance Management System and processes contribute immensely towards enhancing the level of Business performance as well as that of consistency and fairness that employees perceive, which in turn result in improved employee contribution and retention.
Your Company continues to define sharp performance criteria along with commensurate reward mechanisms.
Your Company launched a companywide engagement survey, iEngage, in 2016.
The survey provides a framework for capturing the pulse of the employees on a comprehensive set of parameters – Employee Engagement, Performance Enablement, Managerial Effectiveness, Trust, Growth & Development, Compensation & Benefits and Work Life Balance.
The findings of the survey indicate a very high degree of pride and affinity amongst the employees with your Company’s Vision, Mission and Core Values.
Insights gained from the survey are being leveraged to further strengthen employee engagement and enhance performance levels.
Dedicated to nurturing sustainable Employee Relations, your Company continues to leverage the ‘Good Employee Relations’ approach in ensuring responsive manufacturing, flexible work systems and, at the same time, maintaining a cost and environment conscious ecosystem in all units.
The Employee Relations philosophy of your Company, anchored in the tenets of Scientific Management, Industrial Democracy, Human Relations and Employee Well-being, has contributed to building a robust platform which has aided the conclusion of several Long Term Agreements at multiple locations during the year and ensured the smooth execution of large-scale change management initiatives and adoption of contemporary management practices.
To meet employee expectations, all Businesses appropriately acknowledge the demographic diversity of their factories and adopt a commitment based segmented approach.
Adopting a progressive Employee Relations approach has enabled a harmonious atmosphere to be maintained across all units.
This in turn has been a vital element in ensuring that HR systems and practices remain world-class.
81ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors Your Company has been able to galvanize its human resource to become more agile, leverage change, stay ahead of competition and win in the market.
Your Company’s interventions in the area of Talent Management and Employee Relations continue to receive accolades and industry recognition.
Over 25,000 employees of your Company relentlessly strive to deliver world-class performance and discharge their role as ‘trustees’ of all stakeholders with true faith and in the spirit of allegiance.
Your Company’s employees have collectively envisioned the future with commitment to realise your Company’s vision of creating enduring value – for the nation and for the institution that is ITC.
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY Your Company’s Whistleblower Policy encourages Directors and employees to bring to the Company’s attention, instances of unethical behaviour, actual or suspected incidents of fraud or violation of the ITC Code of Conduct that could adversely impact your Company’s operations, business performance and / or reputation.
The Policy provides that the Company investigates such incidents, when reported, in an impartial manner and takes appropriate action to ensure that requisite standards of professional and ethical conduct are always upheld.
It is your Company’s Policy to ensure that no employee is victimised or harassed for bringing such incidents to the attention of the Company.
The practice of the Whistleblower Policy is overseen by the Audit Committee and no employee has been denied access to the Committee.
The Whistleblower Policy is available on your Company’s corporate website ‘www.itcportal.com’.
SUSTAINABILITY – CONTRIBUTION TO THE ‘TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE’ Inspired by the opportunity to sub-serve larger national priorities, your Company redefined its Vision to not only reposition the organisation for extreme competitiveness but also make societal value creation the bedrock of its corporate strategy.
This super-ordinate Vision spurred innovative strategies to address some of the most challenging societal issues including widespread poverty, unemployment and environmental degradation.
82 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Company’s sustainability strategy aims at creating significant value for the nation through superior ‘Triple Bottom Line’ performance that builds and enriches the country’s economic, environmental and social capital.
The sustainability strategy is premised on the belief that the transformational capacity of business can be very effectively leveraged to create significant societal value through a spirit of innovation and enterprise.
Your Company is today a global exemplar in sustainability.
It is a matter of immense satisfaction that your Company’s models of sustainable development have led to the creation of sustainable livelihoods for around six million people, many of whom belong to the marginalised sections of society.
Your Company has also sustained its position of being the only Company in the world of comparable dimensions to have achieved the global environmental distinction of being carbon positive (for 12 consecutive years), water positive (for 15 years in a row) and solid waste recycling positive (for 10 years in succession).
To contribute to the nation’s efforts in combating climate change, your Company’s strategy of adopting a low-carbon growth path is manifest in its growing renewable energy portfolio, establishment of green buildings, large-scale afforestation programme and achievement of international benchmarks in energy & water consumption.
Today, over 48% of your Company total energy requirements are met from renewable energy sources - an outstanding performance given its large manufacturing base.
Further, premium luxury hotels, several office complexes and factories of your Company are certified at the highest level by the US Green Building Council / Indian Green Building Council and the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE).
Your Company has adopted a comprehensive set of sustainability policies that are being implemented across the organisation in pursuit of its ‘Triple Bottom Line’ agenda.
These policies are aimed at strengthening the mechanisms of engagement with key stakeholders, identification of material sustainability issues and progressively monitoring and mitigating the impacts along the value chain of each Business.
Report of the Board of Directors 83ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Your Company’s overarching aspiration to create significant and sustainable societal value is manifest in its CSR initiatives that embrace the most disadvantaged sections of society, especially in rural India, through economic empowerment based on grassroots capacity building.
Towards this end, your Company adopted a comprehensive CSR policy in 2014-15 outlining programmes, projects and activities that your Company plans to undertake to create a significant positive impact on identified stakeholders.
All these programmes fall within the purview of Schedule VII of the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
The key elements of your Company’s CSR interventions are to: – Deepen engagement in identified core operational geographies to promote holistic development, designed to respond to the most prominent development challenges of your Company’s stakeholder groups.
Your Company’s 13th Sustainability Report, published during the year detailed the progress made across all dimensions of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ for the year 2015-16.
This report is in conformance with the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines - G4 under ‘In Accordance – Comprehensive’ category and is third-party assured at the highest criteria of ‘reasonable assurance’ as per International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000.
The 14th Sustainability Report, covering the sustainability performance of your Company for the year 2016-17, is being prepared in accordance with the GRI-G4 guidelines and will be made available shortly.
In addition, the Business Responsibility Report (BRR), as mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, was brought out as an annexure to the Report and Accounts 2016, mapping the sustainability performance of your Company against the reporting framework suggested by Securities and Exchange Board of India.
The BRR for the year under review is annexed to this Report and Accounts.
– Strengthen capabilities of Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) / Community Based Organisations (CBOs) in all the project catchments for participatory planning, ownership and sustainability of interventions.
– Drive the Development agenda in a manner that benefits the poor and marginalised communities in our factory and agri-catchments thereby significantly improving Human Development Indices (HDI).
– Move beyond mere asset creation to behaviour change through focus on demand generation for all interventions thereby enabling participation, contribution and asset creation for the community.
– Continue to strive for scale by leveraging government partnerships and accessing the most contemporary knowledge / technical know-how.
Your Company’s stakeholders are confronted with multi-dimensional and inter-related issues, at the core of which is the challenge of securing sustainable livelihoods.
Accordingly, interventions under your Company’s Social Investments Programme (SIP) are appropriately designed to build their capacities and promote sustainable livelihoods.
The footprint of your Company’s projects is spread over 26 States / Union Territories covering 182 districts.
Social Forestry Your Company’s pioneering afforestation initiative through the Social Forestry programme is currently spread across 19 districts in six States covering 2.55 lakh acres in 4,809 villages, impacting over 96,500 poor households.
Together with your Company’s Farm Forestry programme, this initiative has greened over 6.20 lakh acres till date, and generated over 113 million person days of employment for rural households, including poor tribal and marginal farmers.
Integral to the Social Forestry programme is the Agro-Forestry initiative, which currently extends to over 82,255 acres and ensures food, fodder and wood security.
.
Besides enhancing farm level employment, generating incomes and increasing green cover, the Social and Farm Forestry initiative of your Company, through a Report of the Board of Directors 84 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 multiplier effect, has led to improvement in pulpwood availability in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.
This initiative is also contributing meaningfully towards the nation’s endeavour in creating additional carbon sinks for tackling climate change.
During the year, your Company’s Social Forestry programme was extended to West Tripura district and Malkangiri district (Odisha).
In Tripura, your Company plans to promote bamboo plantations covering an area of 5,000 acres over the next five years, which would benefit around 2,000 families.
In addition, your Company aims to promote 10,000 acres under Agro-Forestry in Malkangiri district of Odisha in order to provide livelihood opportunities to small and marginal farmers.
Soil and Moisture Conservation The Soil and Moisture Conservation programme promotes the development and management of local water resources in moisture-stressed areas by facilitating village-based participation in planning and implementing such measures as well as building, reviving and maintaining water-harvesting structures.
The coverage of this programme currently extends to 45 districts across 12 States.
During the year, the area under watershed increased by 1.36 lakh acres taking the cumulative coverage area till 2016-17 to over 7.76 lakh acres.
2,101 water harvesting structures were built during the year, taking the total number of water harvesting structures to 10,099.
Biodiversity The focus of the programme is on reviving ecosystem services provided to agriculture by nature, comprising natural regulation of pests, pollination, nutrient cycling, soil retention and genetic diversity, which have witnessed considerable erosion in recent decades.
During the year, your Company’s biodiversity conservation initiative covered 2,060 acres, in seven States and 15 districts, taking the cumulative area under biodiversity conservation to 11,803 acres.
While the conservation work is being carried out in select plots of village commons, this intervention significantly benefits agricultural activity in the vicinity of these plots through soil moisture retention, carbon sequestration and by acting as hosts to insects and birds.
Sustainable Agriculture The Sustainable Agriculture programme attempts to de-risk farmers from erratic weather events through the promotion of climate smart agriculture premised on dissemination of relevant package of practices, adoption of appropriate mechanisation and provision of institutional services.
Spread in 60 districts across 16 States, 1,280 Farmer Field Schools (FFS) disseminated advanced agri-practices covering over 1.50 lakh acres under different crops.
326 Agri Business Centres (ABCs) delivered extension services, arranged agri-credit linkages and established collective input procurement and agricultural equipment on hire.
In pursuit of your Company’s long-term sustainability objective of increasing soil organic carbon, a total of 3,931 compost units were constructed during the year taking the total number till date to 34,799 units.
In addition, the ‘Choupal Pradarshan Khet’ programme promoted field demonstrations of improved seed varieties and effective production practices covering around 1.5 lakh acres and directly benefitting more than 69,000 farmers with a multiplier effect of 10X in terms of adoption by the farming community.
With the addition of 23 model villages during the year, the ‘Village Adoption Programme’ pioneered by your Company’s Leaf Tobacco Business presently covers 108 model villages.
This initiative comprises several focused farm level interventions towards enhancing quality and productivity, promoting sustainable agriculture practices and community empowerment.
The programme has resulted in generating significant economic surplus for the farming community including creating sustainable rural livelihoods.
Livestock Development The programme provides an opportunity for farmers to convert an existing asset into a substantial supplementary income with the potential of growing into a sustainable source of livelihood.
The programme provided extension services, including breeding, fodder propagation and training of farmers in order to increase their incomes through enhanced productivity of milch animals across 25 districts in seven States.
During the year, 2.28 lakh Artificial Inseminations (AIs) were carried Report of the Board of Directors out which led to the birth of 1.01 lakh cross-bred progeny.
Cumulatively, the figures for AI and calving stand at 20.19 lakh and 6.72 lakh respectively.
In addition, pilot projects on indigenous breed promotion were initiated during the year in Madhya Pradesh in partnership with 13 existing gaushalas.
Your Company has also implemented a project in Punjab to demonstrate to dairy farmers the commercial viability of having cattle farms with indigenous breeds with the intent of encouraging them to preserve indigenous cattle varieties.
Women Empowerment This initiative is designed to provide a range of gainful entrepreneurial opportunities to poor women supported with financial assistance by way of loans and grants.
Strong market linkages are attempted to ensure long-term sustainability.
Currently spread across eight districts in six States, the programme covers over 10,200 ultra-poor women who have been trained in entrepreneurial skills and provided with assets for income generation, taking the cumulative number of women impacted to 13,800.
In addition, during the year 496 Self-Help Groups (SHGs) with 6,398 members were formed, in 11 states and 28 districts.
Over 46,000 women were linked to individual bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) and life insurance schemes under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY).
Education The Primary Education Programme aims to provide children from weaker sections of society access to education with focus on learning outcomes and retention in your Company’s factory catchment areas in 19 districts across 11 States.
Over 49,000 children were covered during the year under this initiative comprising ‘Read India Plus’ programme and 210 Supplementary Learning Centres to mainstream out-of-school children into regular schools.
Till date, these programmes have reached out to over 5.14 lakh children in aggregate.
In addition, 160 government primary schools were provided infrastructure support comprising boundary walls, additional classrooms, sanitation units, and furniture, taking the total number of government primary schools covered till date to 1,482.
To ensure sustainable operations and maintenance of infrastructure provided, School Management Committees were strengthened in 276 schools and 215 Child Cabinets and Water and Sanitation (WATSAN) Committees were formed in various schools with the active involvement of students and teachers.
Skilling & Vocational Training The Skilling & Vocational Training Programme focuses on providing market-linked skills to young people to make potential job-seekers industry-ready and employable in the services and manufacturing sectors.
During the year, 12,338 youth were enrolled for training under different courses like Hospitality, Bedside Assistance, Electricals, Industrial Sewing Machines etc., offered as part of this programme.
Of the total students enrolled, 11,344 (92% of enrolled) completed training and 8,084 (71% of trained) students were provided placement.
The students trained included a healthy mix of women and SC/ST candidates.
The initiative is spread across 29 districts covering 17 States and has enrolled over 43,700 youth cumulatively.
Your Company continues to work with the Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration (WGSHA) together with Dr. TMA Pai Foundation to cater to the ever growing need for professionally trained human resources in the hospitality industry.
WGSHA has been recently rated by CEO World Magazine amongst the top 50 hospitality schools in the world.
In addition, since the inception of ITC Culinary Skills Training Centre, Chhindwara in 2014, 63 trainee chefs in five batches have successfully completed the 6-months programme wherein cooking skills are imparted to youth from the disadvantaged sections of society.
Health & Sanitation Your Company continues to adopt a multi-pronged approach to improve public health.
To promote a hygienic environment through prevention of open defecation and reduce incidence of water-borne diseases, 8,550 household toilets were constructed during the year in collaboration with the Government’s Swachh Bharat 85ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors Abhiyan.
With this, a total of 23,979 low-cost sanitary units have been constructed so far in your Company’s catchment areas covering 22 districts in 14 States.
In areas with water quality problems, 85 Reverse Osmosis plants have been installed providing safe drinking water to nearly 1 lakh rural households in Andhra Pradesh.
Efforts to enhance awareness on various health issues continued through ‘Swasthya Choupal’, your Company’s e-Choupal Rural Health initiative.
A network of 300 women Village Health Champions (VHCs) across seven Districts in Uttar Pradesh and three in Madhya Pradesh reached out to nearly two lakh women, adolescent girls and school children during the year.
The VHCs conducted over 5,000 village meetings and participated in over 2,000 group events apart from making door-to-door visits focusing on aspects like sanitation, menstrual and personal hygiene, family planning, diarrhoea prevention and nutrition.
Through your Company’s ‘Savlon Swasth India Mission’, a mix of audio-visual aids, games and practical training was leveraged to encourage healthy hygiene habits.
More than nine lakh children from around 1,900 schools in 23 cities were covered during the year.
Under the ‘First Cry Programme’, 60,000 mothers were made aware of hygienic practices in 1,500 hospitals.
Solid Waste Management Your Company’s solid waste recycling programme, ‘WOW – Well Being Out of Waste’, helps in the creation of a clean and green environment through awareness and education of citizens on source segregation and recycling of dry waste.
It also promotes sustainable livelihoods for ragpickers and waste collectors.
During the year, in addition to Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Chennai and Bengaluru, the programme was expanded to Delhi, Tirupati and Muzaffarpur.
The quantum of dry waste collected aggregated 33,982 MT from 417 wards.
The programme covers over 64 lakh citizens, 25 lakh school children and 2,000 Corporates and creates sustainable livelihoods for 13,500 ragpickers and waste collectors by propagating source segregation and facilitating effective collection in collaboration with municipal corporations.
Besides, the intervention has also created over 60 social entrepreneurs who are involved in maximising value capture from the dry waste collected.
In addition, another programme on solid waste management under the Mission Sunehra Kal initiative has spread to 10 districts of seven states covering 61,200 households and collected 6,033 MT of waste during the year.
This programme focuses on home composting in addition to recycling of dry waste.
Under this programme, 4,161 MT wet waste was composted and 459 MT of dry waste recycled in 2016-17.
ITC Sangeet Research Academy The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), which was established in 1977, is a true embodiment of your Company’s sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage.
Your Company’s pledge towards ensuring enduring excellence in Classical Music education has helped ITC SRA uphold the age-old ‘Guru-Shishya Parampara’ – a model that has otherwise begun fading away owing to lack of patronage.
Although methods of music education are now changing with the advent of digitisation, exceptionally gifted students, carefully handpicked across India receive full scholarships to reside and pursue their music education at the Academy’s campus.
This has helped young talent who have limited access to the newer modes of music education, to train under the tutelage of the country’s most distinguished stalwarts who are helping create the next generation of musical masters.
Forging Partnerships with NGOs The substantial progress made by your Company’s Social Investments Programme in contributing to address some of the country’s key development challenges, has been possible in significant measure, due to your Company’s partnerships with globally renowned NGOs such as BAIF, DB Tech, DSC, FES, MYRADA, Pratham, SEWA Bharat, Outreach, WASH Institute and Water for People amongst others.
These partnerships, which bring together the best-in-class management practices of your Company and the development experience and mobilisation skills of NGOs, will continue to provide innovative grassroots solutions to some of India’s most challenging problems of development in the years to come.
86 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors CSR Expenditure The annual report on Corporate Social Responsibility activities as required under Sections 134 and 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Environment, Health & Safety Your Company’s Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) strategies are directed towards achieving the greenest and safest operations across all your Company’s units by optimising natural resource usage and providing a safe and healthy workplace.
Systemic efforts continue to be made towards natural resource conservation by continuously improving resource-use efficiencies and enhancing the positive environmental footprint following a life-cycle based approach.
Your Company’s focus on inculcating a green and safe culture is supported through the adoption of EHS standards that incorporate best international standards, codes and practices and verified through regular audits.
Your Company is addressing the critical area of climate change mitigation through several innovative and pioneering initiatives.
These include continuous improvement in energy efficiency, enhancing the renewable energy portfolio, integrating green attributes into the built environment, better efficiency in material utilisation, maximising water use efficiencies and rain water harvesting, maximising reuse and recycling of waste and utilising post-consumer waste as raw material.
Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy Your Company is well positioned to benefit from India-specific energy conservation and renewable energy promotion schemes such as Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) and Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) promoted by the Government of India.
As a responsible corporate citizen, your Company has made a commitment to reduce dependence on energy from fossil fuels and to achieve 50% of its total energy requirements from renewable sources by 2020.
Significant progress has been made in enhancing the renewable energy portfolio and during 2016-17 over 48% of your Company’s total energy requirements was met from carbon neutral fuels such as biomass, and wind and solar.
Your Company has drawn up action plans based on a feasible balance of energy conservation and renewable energy investments to progressively move towards meeting the aforestated target.
Water Security With water scarcity increasingly becoming an area of serious concern, your Company continues to focus on an integrated water management approach that includes water conservation and harvesting initiatives at its units – while also working towards meeting the water security needs of all stakeholders at the local watershed level.
These include interventions to improve water use efficiencies by adopting latest technologies and increasing reuse and recycling practices within the fence while also working with farmers and other community members towards improving agricultural water use efficiencies.
The supply side interventions include enhanced capture and storage of rainwater (in soil and storage ponds) and recharging aquifers.
These initiatives, have resulted in the creation of rainwater harvesting potential that is over three times the net water consumption of your Company’s operations.
Greenhouse Gases and Carbon Sequestration The greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory of your Company for the year 2016-17 compiled as per the ISO 14064 standard, has been assured, as in the earlier years, at the highest ‘Reasonable Level’ by a third party assurance provider.
During the year, your Company was determined as having achieved ‘Leadership’ position in the Climate Change disclosure of CDP.
The CDP Global Climate Change Report ‘Out of the Starting Blocks’, has commended your Company for decoupling emission growth with financial growth (having reduced 10% or more GHG emission over five years while simultaneously growing revenue by 10%).
Reaffirming your Company’s commitment to the ethos of ‘Responsible Luxury’, all luxury hotels of your Company are LEED®  Platinum certified, making it the 87ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 88 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 R&D, QUALITY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Your Company continues to invest in a comprehensive Research & Development programme leveraging its world-class infrastructure, benchmarked processes, state-of-the-art technology and a business-focused R&D strategy.
‘greenest luxury hotel chain’ in the world.
In order to continually reduce your Company’s energy footprint, green features are integrated in all new constructions and also incorporated in existing hotels, manufacturing units, warehouses and office complexes.
Your Company’s Social and Farm Forestry initiatives enabled sequestration of over twice the amount of Carbon Dioxide emitted by its operations.
Besides mitigating the impact of increasing levels of GHG emissions in the atmosphere, these initiatives help greening degraded wasteland, prevent soil erosion, enhance organic matter content in soil and enable ground water recharge.
Waste Recycling Your Company continues to make significant progress in reducing specific waste generation through constant monitoring and improvement of efficiencies in material utilisation and also in achieving almost total recycling of waste generated in operations.
In this way, your Company has prevented waste reaching landfills and the associated problems of soil and groundwater contamination and GHG emissions, all of which can impact public health.
In the current year, your Company has achieved over 99% waste recycling, with the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business, which accounts for 90% of the total waste generated in your Company, recycling 99.9% of the total waste generated by its operations.
During the year, this Business also recycled around 1,15,074 tonnes of externally sourced post-consumer waste paper, thereby creating yet another positive environmental footprint.
Safety Your Company’s commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace to all has been reaffirmed by several national and international awards and certifications received by various units.
Your Company’s approach is to institutionalise safety as a value-led concept with focus on inculcating a sense of ownership at all levels to drive behavioural change.
In line with this approach, several of your Company’s operating units are progressively implementing behavioural-based safety initiatives and customised risk assessment programmes to strengthen their safety culture.
Your Company continuously strives to improve on safety performance by incorporating best-in-class engineering standards in the design and project execution phase itself for all investments in the built environment, besides optimising costs.
During the year, the total number of on-site lost time accidents (LTA) reduced by 11.1% over the last year.
Environment, Health & Safety audits before commissioning and during the operation of units are carried out to verify compliance with standards.
Promoting Thought Leadership in Sustainability The ‘CII–ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development’, established by your Company in 2006 in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), continues to focus on its endeavour to promote sustainable business practices amongst Indian enterprises.
The major highlights during the year include the 11th Sustainability Summit held on 14th-15th September 2016 in New Delhi.
Some eminent personalities who addressed the delegates included Late Mr. Anil Madhav Dave, Minister for Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Mr. Piyush Goyal, Minister for Power, New & Renewable Energy, Coal and Mines, Mr. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, Mr. Yuri Afanasiev, UN Resident Coordinator & UNDP Resident Representative in India.
The 11th CII-ITC Sustainability Awards were handed over by Mr. Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister of Human Resources to 23 winning companies for excellence in sustainable business in different categories.
Your Company participated in the Business and Biodiversity Forum organised by Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) COP 13, Mexico on 2nd – 3rd December 2016.
The India Business & Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) also released a case study publication ‘Reimagining Business for Biodiversity Enhancement: Case Studies from Indian Industry’ which featured your Company.
Report of the Board of Directors 89ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 produce significant business impact in the years to come.
The Agrisciences team continues to focus on delivering world-class solutions using contemporary technologies in crops such as wheat, soya, potato and rice.
Recognising the unique construct of your Company in terms of its strong presence in Agri, Branded Packaged Foods and Personal Care Product Businesses, a convergence of R&D capabilities is being leveraged to deliver future products aimed at nutrition, health and well-being.
Advances in biosciences are creating a convergence of these areas and it is likely that several future developments in these Businesses and their products are heavily influenced by this trend.
In this context, LSTC has created a Biosciences R&D team to design and develop several long-term research platforms evolving multi-generation product concepts and associated claims that are fully backed by scientific evidence for the Branded Packaged Foods and Personal Care Products Businesses.
Multiple value propositions have been identified in the area of functional foods, which are being progressed to products of the future with strong scientifically validated claims via clinical trials.
Similar advances have been made in the area of skin care and hair care.
LSTC has a clear vision and road map for long-term R&D, backed by a well-crafted Intellectual Property strategy.
With scale, speed, science and sustainability considerations, LSTC is poised to deliver long-term competitive advantage for your Company.
In line with your Company’s relentless focus on operational excellence and quality, each Business is mandated to continuously innovate on processes and systems to enhance their competitive position.
During the year, your Company’s Hotels Business leveraged its ‘Lean’ and ‘Six Sigma’ programmes to improve business process efficiencies.
This will further enhance capability to create superior customer value through a service excellence framework.
The Paperboards, Paper & Packaging Businesses continued to pursue ‘Total Productive Maintenance’ (TPM) programmes in all units, resulting in substantial cost savings and productivity improvements.
All manufacturing units of your Company have ISO quality certification.
All manufacturing units of the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre (LSTC) has a mandate to develop unique sources of competitive advantage and build future readiness by harnessing contemporary advances in several relevant areas of science and technology, and blending the same with classical concepts of product development and leveraging cross-business synergies.
This challenging task of driving science-led product innovation has been carefully addressed by appropriately identifying the required set of core competency areas of science.
LSTC has evolved over the years and is presently resourced with nearly 350 highly qualified scientists, world-class measurement systems and state-of-the-art facilities to conduct experimental research, rapid prototyping and process development.
Several Centres of Excellence have been established over the past few years in these areas in LSTC.
In addition, a number of areas centred around these capabilities have secured global quality certifications of the highest order.
The Agrisciences R&D team continues to engage in evaluating and introducing several germplasm lines of identified crops including Casuarina and Eucalyptus to increase the genetic and trait diversities in these species.
This intervention would facilitate the development of new varieties with higher yields, better quality and other traits relevant for your Company’s Businesses.
LSTC continues to evaluate and build research collaborations with globally recognised Centres of Excellence to remain contemporary and fast-track its journey towards demonstrating multiple ‘proofs of concept’.
These collaborations, covering identified species, are designed in a manner that enables your Company in gaining fundamental insights into several technical aspects of plant breeding and genetics and the influence of agro-climatic conditions on the growth of these species.
Such interventions will accelerate LSTC’s efforts in creating future generations of these crops with greater genetic and trait diversities leading to significant benefits for your Company’s Businesses.
Further, these outcomes have a strong potential to contribute towards augmenting the nation’s ecological capital and biodiversity as well.
Several ‘proof of concept’ studies have been accomplished at laboratory scale which are being advanced to large scale field trials in multiple locations.
These initiatives are expected to Report of the Board of Directors 90 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Branded Packaged Foods Businesses (including contract manufacturing units) and hotels operate in compliance with stringent food safety and quality standards.
Almost all Company owned units / hotels and contract manufacturing units of the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses are certified by an accredited third party in accordance with ‘Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points’ (HACCP) / ISO 22000 standards.
Additionally, the quality of all FMCG products of your Company is regularly monitored through ‘Product Quality Ratings Systems’ (PQRS).
PROCEEDINGS INITIATED BY THE ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE In the proceedings initiated by the Enforcement Directorate in 1997, in respect of some of the show cause memoranda issued by the Directorate, after hearing arguments on behalf of your Company, the appropriate authority has passed orders in favour of your Company, and dropped those memoranda.
In respect of some of the remaining memoranda, your Company, has filed writ petitions before the Honourable Calcutta High Court challenging their validity.
These petitions are pending.
Meanwhile, some of the prosecutions launched by the Enforcement Directorate have been quashed by the Honourable Calcutta High Court while others are pending.
TREASURY OPERATIONS During the year, your Company’s treasury operations continued to focus on deployment of surplus liquidity and management of foreign exchange exposures within a well-defined risk management framework.
During the year, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), reduced policy interest rates by 50bps.
This coupled with the surplus banking system liquidity, post demonetisation of Specified Bank Notes, led to decline in market interest rates.
Consolidation in Fiscal / Current Account Deficits and persistent decline in headline inflation during the year also contributed to the positive sentiment in Debt Markets.
All investment decisions relating to deployment of surplus liquidity continued to be guided by the tenets of Safety, Liquidity and Return.
Proactive rebalancing of portfolio mix during the year in line with the evolving interest rate environment helped improve treasury performance.
Your Company’s risk management processes ensured that all deployments were made with proper evaluation of underlying risk while remaining focused on capturing market opportunities.
The foreign exchange market remained stable for most part of the year barring periods of heightened volatility induced by global / domestic events such as the surprise outcome of UK referendum to exit the European Union, escalation of geo-political tensions with Pakistan, US Presidential elections and demonetisation of Specified Bank Notes.
These events led to depreciation of the Indian Rupee (INR) to a lifetime low of ` 68.86 per US$ in November 2016.
However, the INR recovered significantly in February and March 2017 to close the year at ` 64.84 per US$.
During the year, INR outperformed most of its emerging market peers and appreciated by 2.1% vs. the US Dollar on the back of stability in domestic macro-economic and political environment and sharp increase in capital inflows mainly from foreign institutional investors.
In this scenario, your Company adopted a proactive forex exposure management strategy, which included the use of foreign exchange forward contracts and plain vanilla options, to protect business margins and reduce risks / costs.
As in earlier years, commensurate with the large size of the temporary surplus liquidity under management, treasury operations continue to be supported by appropriate control mechanisms, including independent check of 100% of transactions, by your Company’s Internal Audit department.
DEPOSITS Your Company’s erstwhile Public Deposit Scheme closed in the year 2000.
As at 31st March, 2017, there were no deposits due for repayment except in respect of two deposit holders totalling to ` 20,000/- which have been withheld on the directives received from the government agencies.
There was no failure to make repayments of Fixed Deposits on maturity and the interest due thereon in terms of the conditions of your Company’s erstwhile Schemes.
Report of the Board of Directors on medical grounds with effect from 22nd June, 2016.
Mr. Angara Venkata Girija Kumar [representing General Insurers’ (Public Sector) Association of India (‘GIPSA’)], on completion of his term, ceased to be Non-Executive Director of your Company on conclusion of the 105th AGM.
Mr. Krishnamoorthy Vaidyanath, on completion of his term, also ceased to be Non-Executive Director of your Company with effect from close of business on 28th July, 2016.
Mr. Anil Baijal ceased to be an Independent Director of your Company with effect from 30th December, 2016, consequent to his appointment as Lt.
Governor of Delhi.
Your Directors would like to record their appreciation for the services rendered by Messrs. Lerwill, Girija Kumar, Vaidyanath and Baijal.
On the recommendation of the Nomination & Compensation Committee, Mr. Zafir Alam (representing GIPSA), Mr. David Robert Simpson (representing TMI), and Mr. Ashok Malik (representing Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India), were appointed by the Board as Additional Non-Executive Directors with effect from 26th October, 2016,  27th January, 2017 and 11th April, 2017, respectively.
By virtue of the provisions of Article 96 of the Articles of Association of your Company and Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), Messrs. Alam, Simpson and Malik will vacate office at the ensuing AGM of your Company.
On the recommendation of the Nomination & Compensation Committee, your Board at the meeting held on 26th May, 2017 recommended for the approval of the Members, the appointment of Messrs. Alam, Simpson and Malik as Non-Executive Directors of your Company, liable to retire by rotation.
Requisite Notices under Section 160 of the Act have been received for the appointment of Messrs. Alam, Simpson and Malik, who have filed their consents to act as Directors of the Company, if appointed.
Appropriate resolutions seeking your approval to the aforesaid appointments are appearing in the Notice convening the 106th AGM of your Company.
Retirement by Rotation In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act read with Article 91 of the Articles of Association of 91ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Your Company has not accepted any deposit from the public / members under Section 73 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 during the year.
DIRECTORS Changes in Directors Mr. Yogesh Chander Deveshwar shed his executive role on completion of term as Chairman and Wholetime Director on 4th February, 2017.
Mr. Deveshwar’s period of Executive Chairmanship witnessed transformation of your Company into one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations.
His vision to make your Company an engine of growth for the Indian economy, keeping societal value creation as an integral part of business purpose, has led to the creation of multiple drivers of growth, world-class Indian Brands and recognition of your Company as a global exemplar in Sustainability.
Your Directors would like to place on record their deep appreciation for Mr. Deveshwar’s invaluable contribution in the transformation of your Company under his leadership as Executive Chairman.
It may be recalled that Mr. Deveshwar, at the request of the Nomination & Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors of your Company (‘the Board’), recognising the need for orderly transition in a company of ITC’s size and complexity, agreed to continue as Chairman in non-executive capacity and also play the role of Mentor to the new executive management.
Mr. Deveshwar was appointed Non-Executive Director, not liable to retire by rotation, and Chairman of the Company for a period of three years with effect from 5th February, 2017, as approved by the Members at the 105th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) held on 22nd July, 2016.
On the recommendation of the Nomination & Compensation Committee, the Board at the meeting held on 27th January, 2017 appointed Mr. Sanjiv Puri, Wholetime Director, also as Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 5th February, 2017 to take independent charge of the executive leadership of your Company.
Mr. Robert Earl Lerwill [representing Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited (‘TMI’), a subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c.]
resigned from the Board Report of the Board of Directors provided under the section ‘Report on Corporate Governance’ in the Report and Accounts.
Board Evaluation As reported in earlier years, the Policy on Board evaluation, evaluation of Board Committees’ functioning and individual Director evaluation was approved by the Nomination & Compensation Committee.
In keeping with ITC’s belief that it is the collective effectiveness of the Board that impacts Company performance, the primary evaluation platform is that of collective performance of the Board as a whole.
Board performance is assessed against the role and responsibilities of the Board as provided in the Act and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 read with the Company’s Governance Policy.
The parameters for Board performance evaluation have been derived from the Board’s core role of trusteeship to protect and enhance shareholder value as well as fulfil expectations of other stakeholders through strategic supervision of the Company.
Evaluation of functioning of Board Committees is based on discussions amongst Committee members and shared by the respective Committee Chairman with the Board.
Individual Directors are evaluated in the context of the role played by each Director as a member of the Board at its meetings, in assisting the Board in realising its role of strategic supervision of the functioning of the Company in pursuit of its purpose and goals.
While the Board evaluated its performance against the parameters laid down by the Nomination & Compensation Committee, the evaluation of individual Directors was carried out anonymously in order to ensure objectivity.
Reports on functioning of Committees were placed before the Board by the Committee Chairmen.
AUDIT COMMITTEE & AUDITORS The composition of the Audit Committee is provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
Statutory Auditors The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, Chartered Accountants (‘DHS’), were appointed with 92 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 the Company, Mr. Suryakant Balkrishna Mainak will retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Your Board has recommended his re-election.
Number of Board Meetings Six meetings of the Board were held during the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Attributes, Qualifications & Independence of Directors and their Appointment As reported in earlier years, criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of Directors were approved by the Nomination & Compensation Committee pursuant to the Act and the Rules thereunder, in respect of Directors, including Independent Directors.
The Corporate Governance Policy also, inter alia, requires that Non-Executive Directors be drawn from amongst eminent professionals with experience in business / finance / law / public administration & enterprises.
The Board Diversity Policy of the Company requires the Board to have balance of skills, experience and diversity of perspectives appropriate to the Company.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the strength of the Board shall not be fewer than five nor more than eighteen.
Directors are appointed / re-appointed with the approval of the Members for a period of three to five years or a shorter duration, in accordance with retirement guidelines and as may be determined by the Board from time to time.
All Directors, other than Independent Directors, are liable to retire by rotation, unless otherwise approved by the Members.
One-third of the Directors who are liable to retire by rotation, retire every year and are eligible for re-election.
The Independent Directors of your Company have confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed under Section 149 of the Act and Regulation 16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
The Company’s Policy on remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees is Report of the Board of Directors your approval at the 103rd AGM to hold such office till the conclusion of the 108th AGM.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and pursuant to Section 139 of the Act, the Board recommended for the ratification of the Members, the appointment of DHS from the conclusion of the ensuing AGM till the conclusion of the 107th AGM.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and pursuant to Section 142 of the Act, the Board also recommended for the approval of the Members, the remuneration of DHS for the financial year 2017-18.
Appropriate resolution for the purpose is appearing in the Notice convening the 106th AGM of the Company.
Cost Auditors Your Board, as recommended by the Audit Committee, appointed for the financial year 2017-18: (i) Mr. P. Raju Iyer, Cost Accountant, for audit of Cost Records maintained by the Company in respect of ‘Paper and Paperboard’ and ‘Nicotine Gum’ products.
(ii) Messrs. Shome & Banerjee, Cost Accountants, for audit of Cost Records maintained in respect of all applicable products of the Company, other than ‘Paper and Paperboard’ and ‘Nicotine Gum’ products.
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, appropriate resolutions seeking your ratification to the remuneration of the said Cost Auditors are appearing in the Notice convening the 106th AGM of the Company.
Secretarial Auditor Your Board appointed Messrs. S. M. Gupta & Co., Company Secretaries, to conduct secretarial audit of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2017.
The report of Messrs. S. M. Gupta & Co. is provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report, pursuant to Section 204 of the Act.
CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL During the year, the following changes were effected in the Share Capital of your Company:- a) Increase in Authorised Share Capital The Authorised Share Capital of your Company was increased from ` 1000 crores to ` 2000 crores divided into 2000,00,00,000 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, with effect from 27th June, 2016. b) Issue of Bonus Shares 402,66,57,100 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, fully paid-up, were issued and allotted as Bonus Shares, in the proportion of 1 (One) Bonus Share of ` 1/- each for every existing 2 (Two) fully paid-up Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each held on 4th July, 2016, being the Record Date determined by the Board for the purpose.
The Bonus Shares were allotted on 7th July, 2016. c) Issue of Shares under ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes 7,35,18,980 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, fully paid-up, were issued and allotted during the year upon exercise of 73,51,898 Options under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes.
Consequently, the Issued and Subscribed Share Capital of your Company, as on 31st March, 2017, stands increased to ` 1214,73,83,071/- divided into 1214,73,83,071 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each.
The Ordinary Shares issued during the year rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary Shares of your Company.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEMES Disclosures with respect to Stock Options, as required under Regulation 14 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (‘the Regulations’), are available in the Notes to the Financial Statements and can also be accessed on the Company’s corporate website ‘www.itcportal.com’ under the section ‘Shareholder Value’.
During the year, there has not been any material change in the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes.
Your Company’s Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, have certified that the Employee Stock Option Schemes of the Company have been implemented in accordance with the Regulations and the resolutions passed by the Members in this regard.
93ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors INVESTOR SERVICE CENTRE The Investor Service Centre of your Company (‘ISC’), registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India as Category II Share Transfer Agent for providing in-house share registration and related services, maintains its position as an exemplar in investor servicing.
ISC with its experienced team of professionals, supported by contemporary infrastructure, continues to provide best-in-class services to the investors.
During the year, the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System certification for investor servicing by ISC was renewed by Messrs. Det Norske Veritas, accredited agency for ISO certification, up to 15th September, 2018.
ISC achieved the highest ‘Level 5’ rating for the eighth consecutive year - a testimony to the excellence achieved by ISC in providing quality investor services.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS All contracts or arrangements entered into by the Company with its related parties during the financial year were in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
All such contracts or arrangements have been approved by the Audit Committee.
No material contracts or arrangements with related parties were entered into during the year under review.
Further, the prescribed details of related party transactions of the Company in Form No.
AOC-2, in terms of Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is given in the Annexure to this Report.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT As required under Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, your Directors confirm having: a) followed in the preparation of the Annual Accounts, the applicable accounting standards with proper explanation relating to material departures if any; b) selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of your Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit of your Company for that period; c) taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of your Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; d) prepared the Annual Accounts on a going concern basis; e) laid down internal financial controls to be followed by your Company and that such internal financial controls were adequate and operating effectively; and f) devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Your Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of your Company & its Subsidiaries (‘the Group’), Associates and Joint Venture entities, in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and joint venture entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of your Company, as aforestated.
94 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 95ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
When used in this Report, the words ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’ and other similar expressions as they relate to the Company and/or its Businesses are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Actual results, performances or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of their dates.
This Report should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included herein and the notes thereto.
CONCLUSION Inspired by the superordinate purpose to serve national priorities, your Company redefined its Vision two decades ago to transform itself into a vibrant engine of growth OTHER INFORMATION Compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance The certificate from your Company’s Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, confirming compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, is annexed.
Compliance with requirements relating to downstream investments Your Company’s Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, have certified that the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the requirements relating to downstream investment as laid down in the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident outside India) (Ninth Amendment) Regulations, 2013 and other applicable FEMA Regulations.
Going Concern status There is no significant or material order passed during the year by any regulator, court or tribunal impacting the going concern status of the Company or its future operations.
Extract of Annual Return The information required under Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, is provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments Details of Loans, Guarantees and Investments covered under the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 are provided in Notes 4, 5, 6, 9 and 27 (v) (a) (ii) to the Financial Statements.
Particulars relating to Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption Particulars as required under Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 relating to Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption are also provided in the Annexure to this Report.
Employees The total number of employees as on 31st March, 2017 stood at 25,883.
There were 59 employees, who were employed throughout the year and were in receipt of remuneration aggregating ` 102 lakhs or more or were employed for part of the year and were in receipt of remuneration aggregating ` 8.5 lakhs per month or more during the financial year ended 31st March, 2017.
The information required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Dividend Distribution Policy The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company, adopted by your Board pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, is provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Report of the Board of Directors On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer 26th May, 2017 Kolkata India 96 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 that would make a substantial contribution to the Indian economy, whilst rewarding shareholders by creating growing value for the Indian society.
Over the last 21 years, your Company has created multiple drivers of growth by developing a portfolio of world-class businesses across all sectors of the national economy spanning agriculture, manufacturing and services.
Your Company ranks amongst the top three in the private sector in terms of Contribution to the Exchequer.
Over the last 21 years, your Company’s Value Addition aggregated ` 3.6 lakh crores of which nearly 75% accrued to the Exchequer at the Central and State levels.
During this period, your Company’s Gross Revenue and Post-tax profit have recorded an impressive compound annual growth of 12.0% and 19.1% respectively.
Total Shareholder Returns, measured in terms of increase in market capitalisation and dividends, have grown at a compound rate of 23.6% per annum during this period, placing your Company amongst the foremost in the country in terms of efficiency of servicing financial capital.
Your Company’s non-cigarette businesses have grown over 18-fold since 1996 and presently constitute 58% of net segment revenue.
In aggregate, the non-cigarette businesses account for nearly 80% of your Company’s operating capital employed, about 90% of the employee base and over 80% of annual investments.
Your Company today, is the leading FMCG marketer in India, a pre-eminent hotel chain and a globally acclaimed icon in green hoteliering, the clear market leader in the Indian Paperboard and Packaging industry, a pioneering trailblazer in farmer and rural empowerment through its Agribusiness and a global exemplar in sustainable business practices.
Additionally, its wholly-owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech India Limited, is a player of promise in the field of Information Technology.
Aligned with the Government’s Make in India Vision, your Company is building national assets in the manufacturing and tourism sector.
As stated earlier in this Report, around 20 world-class Integrated Consumer Manufacturing & Logistics facilities are being built to deliver sustainable competitive advantage to your Company’s FMCG businesses.
In total, 65 projects with an outlay of ` 25,000 crores are in various stages of implementation / planning across the length and breadth of the country facilitating regional and national economic development.
Recognising that tomorrow’s world will belong to those who create, own and nurture intellectual capital, your Company continues to invest in augmenting the capability of its globally benchmarked Life Sciences and Technology Centre to ensure that its Businesses are future-ready and contribute to building intellectual property assets for the nation.
Your Company’s Board and employees are inspired by the Vision of sustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s most admired and valuable companies, creating enduring value for all stakeholders, including the shareholders and the Indian society.
The vision of enlarging your Company’s contribution to the Indian economy is driven by its ‘Let’s Put India First’ credo anchored on the core values of Trusteeship, Transparency, Empowerment, Accountability and Ethical Citizenship, which are the cornerstones of ITC’s Corporate Governance philosophy.
Inspired by this Vision, driven by Values and powered by internal Vitality, your Directors and employees look forward to the future with confidence and stand committed to creating an even brighter future for all stakeholders.
Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY 1.
CSR Policy - Brief Outline and Overview a.
Brief outline of CSR Policy: To direct ITC’s CSR Programmes, inter alia, towards achieving one or more of the following: enhancing environmental and natural capital; supporting rural development; promoting education and vocational skills; providing preventive healthcare; providing sanitation and drinking water; creating livelihoods for people, especially those from disadvantaged sections of society, in rural and urban India; preserving and promoting traditional art and culture and promoting sports.
b.
Role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee: The role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee is, inter alia, to formulate, monitor and provide strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line objectives.
The Committee seeks to guide the Company in integrating its social and environmental objectives with its business strategies and assists in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable livelihoods.
The Committee formulates, reviews and monitors the CSR Policy and recommends to the Board the annual CSR Plan of the Company in terms of the Companies Act, 2013.
The Committee also reviews the Business Responsibility Report of the Company.
c. Programmes / Projects: The two most important stakeholders for ITC’s CSR programmes / projects are: Rural communities primarily in the Company’s Agri Business areas.
The communities residing in close proximity to the Company’s production units.
The Company’s stakeholder representation is varied, calling for an integrated approach to development comprising several layers of interventions which are summarised below: i.
Promoting Preventive Healthcare, Sanitation & Poverty Alleviation (Schedule VII - i): Sanitation:  Promote a hygienic environment through prevention of open defecation and reduce incidence of water-borne diseases.
Focus on interventions to enhance awareness and impact behaviour change on Water, Sanitation & Hygiene (WASH).
Village Health Champions (VHCs): Specific focus on maternal and child care through a network of women VHCs.
Healthcare: Provide medical aid to communities, infrastructure support to government hospitals and relief to victims of natural calamities.
Health Infrastructure: Undertake various social and civic infrastructure services to improve sanitation and hygiene in the neighbourhood of the factories comprising potable drinking water, drainage systems, etc.
Waste Recycling: Create a clean and green environment through source segregation and recycling of dry waste, and create sustainable livelihoods for ragpickers and waste collectors.
Solid Waste Management: Door-to-door collection of household waste against levies and segregation at site in order to recycle and compost such waste so as to minimise the load at municipal landfills.
Poverty Alleviation: These programmes are targeted to the poor and needy who are provided with garments as a part of the implementation agency’s goal of poverty alleviation.
ii.
Livelihood Enhancement (Schedule VII - ii): Integrated Animal Husbandry Programme: Enhance incomes of farmers by increasing productivity of milch animals through a comprehensive package of extension services and training to dairy farmers.
Education: Provide children from weaker sections access to education with focus on enrolment, retention and improved pedagogy.
Vocational Training: Build and upgrade skills of youth to better compete with the emerging needs of the job market across different sectors.
iii.
Economic Empowerment of Women (Schedule VII - iii): Provide a range of gainful employment opportunities to poor women supported with financial assistance by way of loans and grants.
iv.
Ensuring Environmental Sustainability (Schedule VII - iv): Social Forestry:  Provide food, fuel and fodder security through plantations to small farmers.
Soil & Moisture Conservation:  Promote local management of water resources by facilitating community-based participation in planning and executing watershed projects.
97ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Kolkata 26th May, 2017 On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman – CSR Committee S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development: Enable businesses to create enduring value on a sustainable basis by embedding the imperatives of sustainable development in their strategies and processes.
v. Protection of National Heritage, Art & Culture (Schedule VII - v): Revive and restore vanishing musical sub-genres by enlisting the goodwill of some of the greatest musicians of the time through the ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), which was established in 1977. vi.
Rural Development (Schedule VII - x): Sustainable Agriculture: Introduce advanced knowledge and technology through package of practices and increase awareness of farmers on optimum use of natural resources in order to increase farm productivity and minimise cost of cultivation.
Knowledge Empowerment: Leverage knowledge based interventions to empower farmers to make informed choices by providing relevant and real-time information on commodity prices, local weather reports, customised knowledge on farm management, risk management and scientific farming.
Agri-extension / services: Encourage sustainable agricultural practices through Choupal Pradarshan Khets to enable access to relevant farm mechanisation technologies and implements, especially for small farm holdings.
Farm Productivity Enhancement: Improve the technical know-how of farmers, increase access to best practices and agricultural technologies and, thereby, enhance farm productivity.
2.
Composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee as on 31st March, 2017: Mr. Y. C. Deveshwar Chairman Mr. Z. Alam Member Mr. S. B. Mainak Member Ms. N. Rao Member Ms. M. Shankar Member Mr. D. R. Simpson Member Mr. B.
B. Chatterjee Secretary to the Committee 3.
Average Net Profit of the Company for last three financial years:  ` 13763.29 crores.
4.
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two percent of the amount as in item 3 above):  ` 275.27 crores for FY 2016-17.
5.
Details of CSR Spent during the financial year: The total CSR expenditure for the financial year 2016-17 stood at ` 275.96 crores.
Please refer attached statement for details.
6.
Details of implementing agencies: a.
The Company’s CSR projects are implemented through partner implementing agencies which were identified and selected through a comprehensive due diligence process.
The Company partnered with: i.
Eminent NGOs / Trusts such as BAIF Development Research Foundation, Pratham Education Foundation, Ramakrishna Mission, Bandhan Konnagar, SEWA Bharat, Foundation for Ecological Security, etc.
; ii.
ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), a true embodiment of the Company’s sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage.
iii.
ITC Rural Development Trust, a Public Charitable Trust, involved in undertaking various programmes of rural development.
iv.
‘CII–ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development’, established by the Company in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).
7.
Responsibility Statement of the CSR Committee: The CSR Committee affirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy is in compliance with CSR Policy and Objectives of the Company.
98 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ` in LakhsStatement of details of CSR spends during the financial year 2016-17 Total 27600 26278 1318 27596 Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up oldage homes, day care centres and such other facilities forsenior citizens and measures for reducing inequalities facedby socially and economically backward groups.
Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry,conservation of natural resources and maintaining qualityof soil, air and water including contribution to the CleanGanga Fund set-up by the Central Government forrejuvenation of river Ganga.
Sl.
No.
CSR Project or activity identified Sector in which the Project is covered Projects or programmes (1) Local area or other (2) State and district where projects or programmes was undertaken Amount outlay (budget) project or programme wise Amount spent on the projects or programmes Cumulative expenditure up to the reporting period Amount spent: Direct or through Implementing Agency 1.
Direct expenditure on projects  or programmes 2.
Overheads Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting health care including preventive health care and sanitation includingcontribution to the Swachh Bharat Kosh set-up by the CentralGovernment for the promotion of sanitation and makingavailable safe drinking water.
Health & Sanitation, Drinking Water, Eradication of Poverty Local & Others *Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Meghalaya, Odisha, Rajasthan, Punjab, New Delhi, Jharkhand 8672 10064 480 10544 **Through Project Implementing Agencies, Government & Direct 1 Promoting education, including special education and employment enhancing vocation skills specially amongchildren, women, elderly, and the differently abled andlivelihood enhancement projects.
Vocational Training Livestock Development Education Livelihood Local *Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, New Delhi, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Goa, Kerala 5573 2309 1295 506154 39 95 95 0 2404 1390 545 154 **Through Project Implementing Agencies & Direct Women Empowerment *Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Rajasthan, West Bengal, New Delhi, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand Local 1882 1196 89 1285 **Through Project Implementing Agencies & Direct 2 3 Environment Sustainability, Soil & Moisture Conservation Local & Others *Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, New Delhi, Gujarat, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh,Tripura, Chhattisgarh, Odisha 7852 5673 1310 310 106 5983 1416 **Through Project Implementing Agencies & DirectWasteland Development Protection of national heritage, art and culture, including restoration of buildings and sites of historical importance andworks of art, setting up public libraries, promotion anddevelopment of traditional arts and handicrafts.
Protection of national heritage, art and culture *West Bengal, Punjab Local 151 218 104 218 4 5 Rural Development projects.7 Agri Development Local *Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Jammu & Kashmir **Through Project Implementing Agencies & Direct 3553 3657 0 **Through Project Implementing Agencies & Direct 3469 Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognised sports,paralympic sports and Olympic sports Sports 10 0 0 Direct–6 The CSR programmes are carried out primarily in the following districts of the States / Union Territories as mentioned below: Bihar – Munger, Bhagalpur, Begusarai, Lakhisarai, Buxar, Sasaram, Samastipur, Banka, Chhapra, Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Khagaria West Bengal – Hooghly, Kolkata, Murshidabad, South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Paschim Medinipur, Purba Medinipur, Birbhum, Darjeeling, Bankura, Cooch Behar, Malda, North 24 Parganas, Purulia, Jalpaiguri,Durgapur, Jhargram, Paschim Bardhaman Odisha – Ganjam, Khordha, Malkangiri, Puri, BhubaneswarAssam – Kamrup, Darrang, Guwahati, Cachar,Tinsukia, Sonitpur, KarimgunjJharkhand – Deoghar, Jamtara, Ranchi, East Singbhum, HazaribaghTripura – West TripuraMeghalaya – East Khasi HillsUttar Pradesh – Allahabad, Budaun, Gonda, Bahraich, Chandauli, Saharanpur, Hardoi, Hathras, Pilibhit, Etah, Mathura, Ghazipur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Bareli, Agra, Meerut, Mirzapur, Fatehpur, Unnao, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Aligarh, Gorakhpur Madhya Pradesh – Agar, Bhopal, Chhindwara, Guna, Indore, Vidisha, Sehore, Ujjain, Hoshangabad, Mandsaur, Dewas, Shivpuri, Mhow, Balaghat Uttarakhand – Haridwar, Champawat, DehradunNew DelhiHimachal Pradesh – Solan, UnaMaharashtra – Ahmednagar, Pune, Parbhani, Satara, Amravati, Wardha, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Nasik, Aurangabad, Thane Rajasthan – Baran, Bhilwara, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Bundi, Kota, Barmer, Jalore, Jaipur, Nimbahera, Jhunjhunu, Banswara, Pali Andhra Pradesh – East Godavari, Guntur, West Godavari, Prakasam, Nellore, Krishna, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, Anantapur, Chittoor Telangana – Khammam, Nalgonda, Warangal, Hyderabad, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mahbubnagar, Adilabad Karnataka – Mysuru, Chikballapura, Hassan, Mandya, Chamarajnagar, Kolar, Tumkur, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Udupi (Manipal), Kodagu, Bellary, Dakshina Kannada Tamil Nadu – Coimbatore, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Virudhunagar, Sivagangai, Theni, Madurai, Chennai, Niligiris, Vellore, Salem, Ramanathapuram Jammu & Kashmir – Jammu, Pulwama, SrinagarKerala – Kozhikode, Ernakulam, PathananthittaPunjab – Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, JalandharChandigarhGujarat – Navsari, Rajkot, AhmedabadHaryana – Gurugram (Gurgaon)Chhattisgarh – Raipur, Kabirdham, SukmaGoa – North Goa **The CSR programmes are carried out both directly and through the project implementing agencies the details of which are stated in the Report * 99ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors FORM NO.
MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2017 [Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] To The Members ITC Limited Virginia House 37, J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporat e practices by ITC Limited (hereinafter called the Company).
Secretarial audit was conducted in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (a statutory body constituted under the Company Secretaries Act, 1980) and in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing ou r opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company and read with the Statutory Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements and their certificate on compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion and to the best of our information, knowledge and belief and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has during the audit period covering the financ ial year ended on 31.03.2017 complied with the applicable statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has prope r Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on 31.03.2017 according to the applicable provisions of: 1.
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made thereunder; 2.
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Rules made thereunder; 3.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder; 4.
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder in respect of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings to the extent applicable to the Company; 5.
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act) to the extent applicable to the Company: a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 - The in-house Investor Service Centre of the Company, registered with SEBI as a Category II Share Transfer Agent, provides share registration and related services.
6.
Certain other laws specifically applicable to the Company: a) The Tobacco Board Act, 1975 and the Rules made thereunder; b) The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 and the Rules made thereunder and other laws relating to manufacture and sale of Tobacco; c) The Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 and the Rules made thereunder; d) The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and the Rules made thereunder.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following: i. Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India; ii.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards etc.
mentioned above.
We further report that: 1.
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors and the changes in the composition of Board of Directors that took place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
100 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Place: Kolkata Date: 26.05.2017 Encl: Annexure ‘A’ forming an integral part of this Report Place: Kolkata Date: 26.05.2017 2.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors for the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seve n days in advance, and appropriate systems are in place for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with the applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company had the following specific events: 1.
Issue and allotment of 7,35,18,980 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, fully paid-up, upon exercise of Stock Options under the Employee Stock Option Schemes of the Company, from time to time.
2.
Increase in Authorised Share Capital from ` 1,000 Crores to ` 2,000 Crores and consequential amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company.
3.
Issue and allotment of 4,02,66,57,100 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, fully paid-up, as Bonus Shares.
4.
Divestment of the Company’s entire shareholding in King Maker Marketing, Inc. USA (KMM), consequent to which KMM ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company with effect from 16.11.2016.
5.
In the context of splitting the role of the Executive Chairman between Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sanjiv Puri, Wholetime Director, was also appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 5.02.2017.
Mr. Y. C. Deveshwar was appointed as Chairman and Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from the said date.
6.
Alteration of the Objects Clause of the Memorandum of Association of the Company to include ‘Healthcare’.
To The Members ITC Limited Virginia House 37, J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 Our Report of even date is to be read alongwith this letter.
1.
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on such secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and processes as we considered appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance on the correctness and completeness of the secretarial records.
Our verification was conducted on a test basis to ensure that all entries have been made as per statutory requirements.
We believe that the processes and practices we followed for this purpose provided a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the financial records and Books of Account of the Company.
4.
Wherever required, we have obtained Management representation with respect to compliance of Laws, Rules and Regulations and of significant events during the year.
5.
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable Laws, Rules and Regulations is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination was limited to the verification of secretarial records on test basis to the extent applicable to th e Company.
ANNEXURE ‘A’ (S. M. Gupta) Partner S. M. Gupta & Co. Company Secretaries Firm Registration No.
: P1993WB046600 FCS No.
: 896 CP No.
: 2053 101ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 (S. M. Gupta) Partner S. M. Gupta & Co. Company Secretaries Firm Registration No.
: P1993WB046600 FCS No.
: 896 CP No.
: 2053 1.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis (a) Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship Technico Pty Limited, Australia, a wholly-owned subsidiary (d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any Return of capital of Australian Dollar (AUD) 24.50 million by Technico Pty Limited by reduction of its share capital from AUD 43.99 million to AUD 19.49 million and consequent cancellation of 1,25,90,563 shares.
(b) Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions Return of capital by Technico Pty Limited to its sole shareholder, ITC Limited (e) Justification for entering into such contracts or arrangements or transactions Technico Pty Limited returned capital to its sole shareholder, ITC Limited, in order to align its capital employed with the business requirements.
The transaction has been carried out under the ‘average capital per share’ method as applicable under Australian laws.
Further, since the transaction is between the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, there is no potential conflict with the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
N.A.
(c) Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions 102 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Form No.
AOC-2 [Pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014] Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2017 2.
Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis (a) Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship (b) Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions (c) Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions (d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any (e) Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any (f) Amount paid as advances, if any NOT APPLICABLE Kolkata 26th May, 2017 On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer (f) Date(s) of approval by the Board 21st July, 2016 (g) Amount paid as advances, if any N.A.
(h) Date on which the special resolution was passed in general meeting as required under first proviso to Section 188 N.A.
Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors FORM NO.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN as on the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2017 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i) CIN : L16005WB1910PLC001985 ii) Registration Date : 24th August, 1910 iii) Name of the Company : ITC Limited iv) Category / Sub-Category of the Company : Public company - Limited by shares v) Address of the Registered office and : Virginia House contact details 37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 India Telephone no.
: 033-2288 9371 Facsimile no.
: 033-2288 2358 e-mail : enduringvalue@itc.in vi) Whether Listed Company : Yes vii) Name, Address and Contact details of : The Company provides share registration and related services Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any in-house through its Investor Service Centre.
1 FMCG - Cigarettes etc.
12003, 46307 61.82% 46.77% - Branded Packaged Food Products 10501, 10502, 10504, 14.61% 20.59% 10611, 10795, 10798, 10712, 10733, 10735, 10740, 10750, 10308, 10304, 10732 - Others (Apparel, Education and Stationery 46496, 46909, 47711, 4.48% 6.25% Products, Personal Care Products, 20231, 20236, 20237, Safety Matches, Agarbattis etc.)
20234, 46497  2 Hotels - Hotels Sales / Income from Hotel Services 55101, 56101, 56210, 2.42% 3.41% 56301, 74909 3 Agri Business - Wheat, Soya, Spices, Coffee, 10795, 10209, 10304, 9.73% 13.73% Unmanufactured Tobacco, Aqua etc.
10309, 10406,10611, 10792, 46201, 46207, 46209, 46301, 46305, 46306, 47190, 47300, 47737, 12001, 20213 4 Paperboards, Paper & Packaging - Paperboards and Paper 17016 5.85% 7.76% - Printed Material 17022, 17029, 22203 1.09% 1.49% Gross Turnover Net Turnover Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main products / services % to total turnover of the CompanyNIC Code of the products / services II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY: 103ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1 Russell Credit Limited U65993WB1994PLC061684 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Virginia House 37 J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 2 Greenacre Holdings Limited U55202WB1986PLC049467 Wholly owned subsidiary – 2(87) ITC Centre of Russell Credit Limited, 37 J. L. Nehru Road referred to in Sl.
No.
1 Kolkata 700 071 3 Technico Agri Sciences Limited U0 1111DL1999PLC098646 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) 25, Community Centre Basant Lok, Vasant Vihar New Delhi 110 057 4 Technico Pty Limited NA Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Gillespies, Suite 5, 20 Bundaroo Street BOWRAL NSW 2576 Australia 5 Technico Technologies Inc. NA Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) c/o Stewart McKelvey Stirling Scales Technico Pty Limited, Suite 600, Frederick Square referred to in Sl.
No.
4 77 Westmoreland, Fredericton New Brunswick E3B 5B4 Canada 6 Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited NA Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) Gillespies, Suite 5, 20 Bundaroo Street Technico Pty Limited, BOWRAL NSW 2576 referred to in Sl.
No.
4 Australia 7 Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited NA Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) A-38, Yanglin Industrial Development Zone Technico Asia Holdings Pty Songming, Yunnan Province Limited, referred to in Sl.
No.
6 People’s Republic of China 8 Srinivasa Resorts Limited U74999TG1984PLC005192 Subsidiary 68% 2(87) 6-3-1187, Begumpet Hyderabad 500 016 9 Fortune Park Hotels Limited U55101HR1995PLC052281 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) ITC Green Centre 10 Institutional Area, Sector - 32 Gurugram 122 001 10 Bay Islands Hotels Limited U74899HR1976PLC052282 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) ITC Green Centre 10 Institutional Area, Sector - 32 Gurugram 122 001 11 ITC Infotech India Limited U65991WB1996PLC077341 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Virginia House 37 J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 12 ITC Infotech Limited NA Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) Norfolk House ITC Infotech India Limited, 118 Saxon Gate West referred to in Sl.
No.
11 Milton Keynes, MK9 2 DN United Kingdom CIN / GLNName and address of the companySl.
No.
Holding / Subsidiary / Associate % of Shares held by the Company Applicable Section III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: 104 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 13 ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. NA Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) 12 Route, 17 North ITC Infotech India Limited, Suite 303, Paramus referred to in Sl.
No.
11 New Jersey 07652 United States of America 14 Indivate Inc. NA Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) 820, Bear Tavern Road ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., West Trenton referred to in Sl.
No.
13 New Jersey 08628 United States of America 15 Gold Flake Corporation Limited U16003WB1935PLC008314 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Virginia House 37 J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 16 Landbase India Limited U74899HR1992PLC052412 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) ITC Green Centre 10 Institutional Area, Sector - 32 Gurugram 122 001 17 Wimco Limited U24291MH1923PLC001082 Subsidiary 98.21% 2(87) Indian Mercantile Chambers R. K. Marg, Ballard Estate Mumbai 400 001 18 Pavan Poplar Limited U01100MH1995PLC128849 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Indian Mercantile Chambers R. K. Marg, Ballard Estate Mumbai 400 001 19 Prag Agro Farm Limited U01100MH1997PLC128846 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Indian Mercantile Chambers R. K. Marg, Ballard Estate Mumbai 400 001 20 ITC Investments & Holdings Limited U65923WB2012PLC176166 Subsidiary 100% 2(87) Virginia House 37 J. L. Nehru Road Kolkata 700 071 21 MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited U65990MH1980PLC023259 Wholly owned subsidiary of – 2(87) Eucharistic Congress Building No.
1 ITC Investments & Holdings 5 Convent Street Limited, referred to in Sl.
No.
20 Mumbai 400 039 22 Surya Nepal Private Limited NA Subsidiary 59% 2(87) Shree Bal Sadan Gha-2-513, Kantipath Kathmandu Nepal 23 WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited NA Subsidiary 100% 2(87) 216, De Saram Place, Colombo 10 Sri Lanka 24 North East Nutrients Private Limited U15122WB2013PTC196135 Subsidiary 76% 2(87) Aradhana Building 2/1 Anandilal Poddar Sarani Kolkata 700 071 CIN / GLNName and address of the companySl.
No.
Holding / Subsidiary / Associate % of Shares held by the Company Applicable Section III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (Contd.
): 105ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 25 Gujarat Hotels Limited L55100GJ1982PLC005408 Associate 45.78% 2(6) WelcomHotel Vadodara R. C. Dutt Road, Alkapuri Vadodara 390 007 26 International Travel House Limited L63040DL1981PLC011941 Associate 3.60% 2(6) Travel House, T-2 Community Centre Sheikh Sarai, Phase I New Delhi 110 017 27 Russell Investments Limited U65993WB1987PLC043324 Associate of Russell Credit – 2(6) 21 Prafulla Sarkar Street Limited, referred to in Sl.
No.
1 Kolkata 700 072 28 Divya Management Limited U51109WB1995PLC069518 Associate of Russell Credit – 2(6) Room No.
28 Limited, referred to in Sl.
No.
1 8/2 Kiron Sankar Roy Road Kolkata 700 001 29 Antrang Finance Limited U65993WB1993PLC060271 Associate of Russell Credit – 2(6) 4 Ripon Street Limited, referred to in Sl.
No.
1 Kolkata 700 016 30 ATC Limited U16000TZ1973PLC018100 Associate of Gold Flake – 2(6) 35, Rajaji Nagar Corporation Limited, Hosur 635 126 referred to in Sl.
No.
15 31 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited U74899DL1995PLC099649 Joint Venture 25% 2(6) 25, Community Centre Basant Lok, Vasant Vihar New Delhi 110 057 32 Espirit Hotels Private Limited U55101TG2009PTC063757 Joint Venture 26% 2(6) 810-818, Swapnalok Complex 92/93 S. D. Road Secunderabad 500 003 33 Logix Developers Private Limited U70101DL2010PTC207640 Joint Venture 27.90% 2(6) 85, World Trade Centre Barakhamba Lane, Barakhamba New Delhi 110 001 34 ITC Essentra Limited U85110KA1993PLC014278 Joint Venture of Gold Flake – 2(6) Survey No.
29 & 30, Doddajala Post Corporation Limited, Yarthiganahalli referred to in Sl.
No.
15 Bettahalasur Post Bengaluru North 562 157 CIN / GLNName and address of the companySl.
No.
Holding / Subsidiary / Associate % of Shares held by the Company Applicable Section III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (Contd.
): Note: The above list does not include ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited, Singapore, a subsidiary, under liquidation vide Singapore Hig h Court ’s Order dated 30th November, 2007.
106 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 IV.
SHAREHOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity) (i) Category-wise Shareholding: Category of Shareholders % Change during the year% of total SharesTotalPhysicalDemat% of total SharesTotalPhysicalDemat No.
of Shares held at the beginning of the year No.
of Shares held at the end of the year A. Promoters (1) Indian (a) Individual / HUF 00000000 0 (b) Central Govt.
00000000 0 (c) State Govt.
(s) 00000000 0 (d) Bodies Corp. 00000000 0 (e) Banks / FI 00000000 0 (f) Any Other 00000000 0 Sub-total (A)(1):- 0 0 000000 0 (2) Foreign (a) NRIs - Individuals 00000000 0 (b) Other - Individuals 00000000 0 (c) Bodies Corp. 00000000 0 (d) Banks / FI 00000000 0 (e) Any Other 00000000 0 Sub-total (A)(2):- 0 0 000000 0 Total Shareholding of Promoter (A) = (A)(1)+(A)(2) 0 0 000000 0 B.
Public Shareholding (1) Institutions (a) Mutual Funds  21,35,21,919 90,724 21,36,12,643 2.66 48,28,26,241 1,36,085 48,29,62,326 3.98 1.32 (b) Banks / FI 90,24,00,460 9,69,178 90,33,69,638 11.23 1,11,17,28,420 14,49,139 1,11,31,77,559 9.16 (2.07) (c) Central Govt.
00000000 0 (d) State Govt.
(s) 00000000 0 (e) Venture Capital Funds 00000000 0 (f) Insurance Companies 1,71,33,96,534 63,485 1,71,34,60,019 21.29 2,74,28,62,379 95,227 2,74,29,57,606 22.58 1.29 (g) FPIs / FIIs 1,64,50,09,215 2,58,910 1,64,52,68,125 20.44 2,43,33,50,115 3,88,366 2,43,37,38,481 20.03 (0.41) (h) Foreign Venture Capital Funds 00000000 0 (i) Others: Alternative Investment Funds 0000 51,311 0 51,311 0 0 Sub-total (B)(1):- 4,47,43,28,128 13,82,297 4,47,57,10,425 55.62 6,77,08,18,466 20,68,817 6,77,28,87,283 55.75 0.13 (2) Non-Institutions   (a) Bodies Corp. (i) Indian 28,52,95,169 9,32,540 28,62,27,709 3.55 45,84,10,270 13,84,283 45,97,94,553 3.78 0.23 (ii) Overseas 1,09,172 2,41,30,76,100 2,41,31,85,272 29.99 10,59,477 3,61,96,14,150 3,62,06,73,627 29.81 (0.18) (b) Individuals (i) Individual shareholders holding 54,28,28,573 11,03,45,683 65,31,74,256 8.12 73,77,42,884 14,53,12,963 88,30,55,847 7.27 (0.85) nominal share capital upto  ` 1 lakh  (ii) Individual shareholders holding 11,49,58,969 1,39,45,590 12,89,04,559 1.60 23,86,58,062 2,84,86,635 26,71,44,697 2.20 0.60 nominal share capital in excess of  ` 1 lakh (c) Others:  (i) NRIs / PIOs 3,54,77,762 94,00,900 4,48,78,662 0.56 5,36,75,816 1,29,24,197 6,66,00,013 0.55 (0.01) (ii) Foreign Nationals 68,054 4,44,240 5,12,294 0.01 0 6,66,360 6,66,360 0.01 0  (iii) Trusts 1,89,68,411 0 1,89,68,411 0.24 3,99,49,891 0 3,99,49,891 0.33 0.09  (iv) Clearing Members 75,57,815 0 75,57,815 0.09 1,15,66,671 0 1,15,66,671 0.09 0 Sub-total (B)(2):- 1,00,52,63,925 2,54,81,45,053 3,55,34,08,978 44.16 1,54,10,63,071 3,80,83,88,588 5,34,94,51,659 44.04 (0.12) Total Public Shareholding (B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 5,47,95,92,053 2,54,95,27,350 8,02,91,19,403 99.78 8,31,18,81,537 3,81,04,57,405 12,12,2 3,38,942 99.79 0.01 C. Shares held by Custodian for GDRs & ADRs 1,80,60,588 27,000 1,80,87,588 0.22 2,50,03,629 40,500 2,50,44,129 0.21 (0.01) Grand Total (A+B+C) 5,49,76,52,641 2,54,95,54,350 8,04,72,06,991 100.00 8,33,68,85,166 3,81,04,97,905 12,14,73,83,071 100.00 0 (ii) Shareholding of Promoters: NOT APPLICABLE (iii) Change in Promoters’ Shareholding: NOT APPLICABLE 107ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1 Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited At the beginning of the year 1,98,55,64,880 24.68 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 07/07/2016* 99,27,82,440 – 2,97,83,47,320 24.65 @ At the end of the year 2,97,83,47,320 24.52 @ 2 Life Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 1,15,50,35,797 14.35 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 07/07/2016* 57,75,17,894 – 1,73,25,53,691 14.34 @ 07/02/2017# 24,25,22,289 2.00 1,97,50,75,980 16.29 At the end of the year 1,97,50,75,980 16.26 @ 3 Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India At the beginning of the year 89,67,42,540 11.14 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  07/07/2016* 44,83,71,270 – 1,34,51,13,810 11.14 07/02/2017# (24,25,22,289) 2.00 1,10,25,91,521 9.09 At the end of the year 1,10,25,91,521 9.08 @ 4 Myddleton Investment Company Limited At the beginning of the year 32,42,07,960 4.03 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  07/07/2016* 16,21,03,980 – 48,63,11,940 4.03 At the end of the year 48,63,11,940 4.00 @ 5 General Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 14,30,00,552 1.78 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  07/07/2016* 7,15,00,276 – 21,45,00,828 1.78 29/07/2016 (75,000) 0.00 21,44,25,828 1.77 05/08/2016 (25,000) 0.00 21,44,00,828 1.77 09/09/2016 (65,000) 0.00 21,43,35,828 1.77 16/09/2016 (35,000) 0.00 21,43,00,828 1.77 27/01/2017 (50,000) 0.00 21,42,50,828 1.77 03/02/2017 (1,50,000) 0.00 21,41,00,828 1.77 10/02/2017 (2,00,000) 0.00 21,39,00,828 1.76 03/03/2017 (1,50,000) 0.00 21,37,50,828 1.76 10/03/2017 (2,70,154) 0.00 21,34,80,674 1.76 17/03/2017 (79,846) 0.00 21,34,00,828 1.76 24/03/2017 (3,00,000) 0.00 21,31,00,828 1.75 At the end of the year 21,31,00,828 1.75 6 The New India Assurance Company Limited At the beginning of the year 14,80,17,229 1.84 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  08/04/2016 (2,00,000) 0.00 14,78,17,229 1.84 15/04/2016 (1,25,000) 0.00 14,76,92,229 1.84 22/04/2016 (1,95,000) 0.00 14,74,97,229 1.83 29/04/2016 (92,500) 0.00 14,74,04,729 1.83 06/05/2016 (12,500) 0.00 14,73,92,229 1.83 20/05/2016 (64,000) 0.00 14,73,28,229 1.83 27/05/2016 (2,00,000) 0.00 14,71,28,229 1.83 03/06/2016 (5,10,000) 0.01 14,66,18,229 1.82 10/06/2016 (3,09,996) 0.00 14,63,08,233 1.82 17/06/2016 (2,07,186) 0.00 14,61,01,047 1.82 24/06/2016 (4,71,948) 0.01 14,56,29,099 1.81 30/06/2016 (3,40,866) 0.00 14,52,88,233 1.80 04/07/2016 (37,500) 0.00 14,52,50,733 1.80 07/07/2016* 7,26,25,366 – 21,78,76,099 1.80 Sl.
No.
For each of the top ten Shareholders No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs): 108 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 15/07/2016 (3,43,333) 0.00 21,75,32,766 1.80 22/07/2016 (4,06,667) 0.00 21,71,26,099 1.80 05/08/2016 (1,66,262) 0.00 21,69,59,837 1.79 12/08/2016 (1,74,862) 0.00 21,67,84,975 1.79 19/08/2016 (2,80,050) 0.00 21,65,04,925 1.79 26/08/2016 (4,78,826) 0.00 21,60,26,099 1.79 02/09/2016 (3,30,000) 0.00 21,56,96,099 1.78 09/09/2016 (2,96,562) 0.00 21,53,99,537 1.78 16/09/2016 (1,40,254) 0.00 21,52,59,283 1.78 23/09/2016 (33,184) 0.00 21,52,26,099 1.78 07/10/2016 (1,38,474) 0.00 21,50,87,625 1.78 14/10/2016 (1,46,524) 0.00 21,49,41,101 1.77 21/10/2016 (2,15,002) 0.00 21,47,26,099 1.77 11/11/2016 (7,50,000) 0.01 21,39,76,099 1.77 18/11/2016 (1,40,000) 0.00 21,38,36,099 1.76 02/12/2016 (1,00,000) 0.00 21,37,36,099 1.76 09/12/2016 (5,00,000) 0.00 21,32,36,099 1.76 16/12/2016 (3,82,444) 0.00 21,28,53,655 1.76 23/12/2016 (8,06,513) 0.01 21,20,47,142 1.75 31/12/2016 (4,31,043) 0.00 21,16,16,099 1.75 06/01/2017 (3,75,000) 0.00 21,12,41,099 1.74 13/01/2017 (4,11,739) 0.00 21,08,29,360 1.74 20/01/2017 (4,43,261) 0.00 21,03,86,099 1.73 27/01/2017 (4,67,869) 0.00 20,99,18,230 1.73 03/02/2017 (4,96,729) 0.00 20,94,21,501 1.73 10/02/2017 (9,22,164) 0.01 20,84,99,337 1.72 17/02/2017 (4,93,747) 0.00 20,80,05,590 1.71 24/02/2017 (3,70,865) 0.00 20,76,34,725 1.71 03/03/2017 (5,33,000) 0.00 20,71,01,725 1.71 10/03/2017 (1,00,000) 0.00 20,70,01,725 1.71 17/03/2017 (4,95,000) 0.00 20,65,06,725 1.70 24/03/2017 (4,72,599) 0.00 20,60,34,126 1.70 31/03/2017 (5,57,401) 0.00 20,54,76,725 1.69 At the end of the year 20,54,76,725 1.69 7 The Oriental Insurance Company Limited At the beginning of the year 12,05,02,319 1.50 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  08/04/2016 (95,000) 0.00 12,04,07,319 1.50 15/04/2016 (30,000) 0.00 12,03,77,319 1.50 22/04/2016 (1,00,000) 0.00 12,02,77,319 1.49 29/04/2016 (60,702) 0.00 12,02,16,617 1.49 13/05/2016 (48,000) 0.00 12,01,68,617 1.49 20/05/2016 (1,25,000) 0.00 12,00,43,617 1.49 27/05/2016 (35,000) 0.00 12,00,08,617 1.49 07/07/2016* 6,00,04,308 – 18,00,12,925 1.49 15/07/2016 (75,000) 0.00 17,99,37,925 1.49 22/07/2016 (1,70,000) 0.00 17,97,67,925 1.49 29/07/2016 (2,00,000) 0.00 17,95,67,925 1.49 05/08/2016 (2,30,000) 0.00 17,93,37,925 1.48 12/08/2016 (2,60,000) 0.00 17,90,77,925 1.48 19/08/2016 (2,00,000) 0.00 17,88,77,925 1.48 26/08/2016 (2,50,000) 0.00 17,86,27,925 1.48 02/09/2016 (2,50,000) 0.00 17,83,77,925 1.47 09/09/2016 (2,37,500) 0.00 17,81,40,425 1.47 16/09/2016 (2,12,500) 0.00 17,79,27,925 1.47 23/09/2016 (2,50,000) 0.00 17,76,77,925 1.47 30/09/2016 (58,271) 0.00 17,76,19,654 1.47 07/10/2016 (2,40,000) 0.00 17,73,79,654 1.46 14/10/2016 (90,000) 0.00 17,72,89,654 1.46 Sl.
No.
For each of the top ten Shareholders No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.
): 109ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 21/10/2016 (2,10,000) 0.00 17,70,79,654 1.46 28/10/2016 (3,66,503) 0.00 17,67,13,151 1.46 04/11/2016 (1,38,497) 0.00 17,65,74,654 1.46 11/11/2016 (35,000) 0.00 17,65,39,654 1.46 31/12/2016 (1,00,000) 0.00 17,64,39,654 1.46 06/01/2017 (3,50,000) 0.00 17,60,89,654 1.45 13/01/2017 (4,80,000) 0.00 17,56,09,654 1.45 20/01/2017 (6,25,000) 0.01 17,49,84,654 1.44 27/01/2017 (5,00,000) 0.00 17,44,84,654 1.44 03/02/2017 (4,86,221) 0.00 17,39,98,433 1.43 10/02/2017 (6,13,779) 0.01 17,33,84,654 1.43 17/02/2017 (5,81,000) 0.00 17,28,03,654 1.42 24/02/2017 (4,42,511) 0.00 17,23,61,143 1.42 03/03/2017 (6,15,352) 0.01 17,17,45,791 1.41 10/03/2017 (6,04,425) 0.00 17,11,41,366 1.41 17/03/2017 (6,00,000) 0.00 17,05,41,366 1.40 24/03/2017 (7,00,000) 0.01 16,98,41,366 1.40 31/03/2017 (4,50,000) 0.00 16,93,91,366 1.39 At the end of the year 16,93,91,366 1.39 8 Rothmans International Enterprises Limited At the beginning of the year 10,33,03,260 1.28 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  07/07/2016* 5,16,51,630 – 15,49,54,890 1.28 At the end of the year 15,49,54,890 1.28 9 Government of Singapore At the beginning of the year 10,71,12,079 1.33 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  08/04/2016 (4,02,048) 0.00 10,67,10,031 1.33 15/04/2016 1,47,875 0.00 10,68,57,906 1.33 22/04/2016 (11,18,692) 0.01 10,57,39,214 1.31 29/04/2016 (4,68,943) 0.01 10,52,70,271 1.31 06/05/2016 (9,49,551) 0.01 10,43,20,720 1.30 13/05/2016 (70) 0.00 10,43,20,650 1.30 03/06/2016 11,05,967 0.01 10,54,26,617 1.31 10/06/2016 2,49,615 0.00 10,56,76,232 1.31 17/06/2016 (4,84,144) 0.01 10,51,92,088 1.31 24/06/2016 (1,76,700) 0.00 10,50,15,388 1.30 30/06/2016 (4,97,836) 0.01 10,45,17,552 1.30 04/07/2016 1,72,927 0.00 10,46,90,479 1.30 07/07/2016* 5,23,45,239 – 15,70,35,718 1.30 15/07/2016 (10,00,000) 0.01 15,60,35,718 1.29 22/07/2016 (99,683) 0.00 15,59,36,035 1.29 29/07/2016 (9,41,866) 0.01 15,49,94,169 1.28 05/08/2016 (15,00,750) 0.01 15,34,93,419 1.27 12/08/2016 (1,59,280) 0.00 15,33,34,139 1.27 02/09/2016 (4,57,619) 0.00 15,28,76,520 1.26 09/09/2016 52,136 0.00 15,29,28,656 1.26 16/09/2016 (5,00,656) 0.00 15,24,28,000 1.26 23/09/2016 (5,26,501) 0.00 15,19,01,499 1.25 07/10/2016 4,20,622 0.00 15,23,22,121 1.26 21/10/2016 8,51,123 0.01 15,31,73,244 1.26 04/11/2016 14,46,818 0.01 15,46,20,062 1.28 11/11/2016 38,80,037 0.03 15,85,00,099 1.31 18/11/2016 13,25,565 0.01 15,98,25,664 1.32 25/11/2016 (714) 0.00 15,98,24,950 1.32 02/12/2016 15,41,443 0.01 16,13,66,393 1.33 09/12/2016 (1,10,333) 0.00 16,12,56,060 1.33 Sl.
No.
For each of the top ten Shareholders No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.
): 110 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 31/12/2016 3,64,924 0.00 16,16,20,984 1.33 06/01/2017 3,40,598 0.00 16,19,61,582 1.34 20/01/2017 (87,756) 0.00 16,18,73,826 1.33 27/01/2017 (5,00,100) 0.00 16,13,73,726 1.33 03/02/2017 (35,12,923) 0.03 15,78,60,803 1.30 10/02/2017 (7,32,020) 0.01 15,71,28,783 1.30 17/02/2017 (15,32,269) 0.01 15,55,96,514 1.28 03/03/2017 (2,46,074) 0.00 15,53,50,440 1.28 10/03/2017 1,00,803 0.00 15,54,51,243 1.28 24/03/2017 5,12,716 0.00 15,59,63,959 1.28 31/03/2017 (10,93,164) 0.01 15,48,70,795 1.27 At the end of the year 15,48,70,795 1.27 10 National Insurance Company Limited At the beginning of the year 9,81,81,434 1.22 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year:  08/04/2016 2,57,406 0.00 9,84,38,840 1.22 15/04/2016 6,50,000 0.01 9,90,88,840 1.23 29/04/2016 59,000 0.00 9,91,47,840 1.23 06/05/2016 3,05,000 0.00 9,94,52,840 1.24 27/05/2016 (3,00,000) 0.00 9,91,52,840 1.23 24/06/2016 (1,00,000) 0.00 9,90,52,840 1.23 07/07/2016* 4,95,26,420 – 14,85,79,260 1.23 22/07/2016 (1,50,000) 0.00 14,84,29,260 1.23 05/08/2016 (3,00,000) 0.00 14,81,29,260 1.23 19/08/2016 (3,00,000) 0.00 14,78,29,260 1.22 26/08/2016 (2,10,000) 0.00 14,76,19,260 1.22 02/09/2016 (2,50,000) 0.00 14,73,69,260 1.22 09/09/2016 (40,000) 0.00 14,73,29,260 1.22 16/09/2016 (1,50,000) 0.00 14,71,79,260 1.22 23/09/2016 (1,50,000) 0.00 14,70,29,260 1.21 07/10/2016 80,000 0.00 14,71,09,260 1.21 21/10/2016 1,80,000 0.00 14,72,89,260 1.22 28/10/2016 8,28,000 0.01 14,81,17,260 1.22 11/11/2016 (8,43,283) 0.01 14,72,73,977 1.22 18/11/2016 4,00,000 0.00 14,76,73,977 1.22 25/11/2016 1,00,000 0.00 14,77,73,977 1.22 16/12/2016 (10,00,000) 0.01 14,67,73,977 1.21 31/12/2016 (1,20,000) 0.00 14,66,53,977 1.21 06/01/2017 (32,50,000) 0.03 14,34,03,977 1.18 13/01/2017 (23,20,121) 0.02 14,10,83,856 1.16 20/01/2017 (13,26,500) 0.01 13,97,57,356 1.15 27/01/2017 (6,59,717) 0.01 13,90,97,639 1.15 03/02/2017 (9,50,000) 0.01 13,81,47,639 1.14 10/02/2017 (10,00,000) 0.01 13,71,47,639 1.13 17/02/2017 (15,18,689) 0.01 13,56,28,950 1.12 24/02/2017 (7,81,311) 0.01 13,48,47,639 1.11 03/03/2017 (1,14,309) 0.00 13,47,33,330 1.11 10/03/2017 (32,50,000) 0.03 13,14,83,330 1.08 17/03/2017 (35,00,000) 0.03 12,79,83,330 1.05 24/03/2017 (94,00,000) 0.08 11,85,83,330 0.98 31/03/2017 (53,50,000) 0.04 11,32,33,330 0.93 At the end of the year 11,32,33,330 0.93 Sl.
No.
For each of the top ten Shareholders No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year (iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.
): 111ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Change in shareholding percentage was consequent to increase in Share Capital on account of allotment of shares under the ITC E mployee Stock Option Schemes (ITC ESOS).
Date of allotment of Bonus Shares in the proportion of 1 (One) Bonus Share of 1/- each for every existing 2 (Two) fully paid-up Ordinary Shares of   1/- each.
Date of purchase / sale of Shares based on disclosures received by the Company.
@ * # Note: Unless otherwise stated, increase / decrease in shareholding, as indicated above, are based on downloads of beneficial ownershi p provided by the Depositories, generally every Friday.
(v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: Sl.
No.
For each of the Directors and KMP No.
of Shares@ % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares@ % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year 1 Y. C. Deveshwar, Chairman & Non-Executive Director1 At the beginning of the year 6,80,000 0.01 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 24/05/2016** (2,00,000) 0.00 4,80,000 0.01 25/05/2016** (1,40,000) 0.00 3,40,000 0.00 01/06/2016** (70,000) 0.00 2,70,000 0.00 07/06/2016** (1,00,000) 0.00 1,70,000 0.00 07/07/2016^ 85,000 – 2,55,000 0.00 22/08/2016** (1,00,000) 0.00 1,55,000 0.00 25/08/2016** (7,500) 0.00 1,47,500 0.00 26/08/2016** (12,000) 0.00 1,35,500 0.00 30/08/2016** (8,000) 0.00 1,27,500 0.00 01/09/2016** (15,000) 0.00 1,12,500 0.00 02/09/2016** (15,000) 0.00 97,500 0.00 06/09/2016** (2,000) 0.00 95,500 0.00 08/09/2016** (10,500) 0.00 85,000 0.00 16/09/2016** (10,500) 0.00 74,500 0.00 19/09/2016** (3,000) 0.00 71,500 0.00 09/11/2016** (15,000) 0.00 56,500 0.00 31/01/2017** (40,000) 0.00 16,500 0.00 01/02/2017** (10,000) 0.00 6,500 0.00 03/02/2017** (6,500) 0.00 0 NA At the end of the year 0 N A 2 S. Puri, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director 2 At the beginning of the year 50,000 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 25/05/2016** (50,000) 0.00 0 NA 24/06/2016* 1,50,000 0.00 1,50,000 0.00 07/07/2016^ 75,000 – 2,25,000 0.00 28/07/2016** (27,564) 0.00 1,97,436 0.00 29/07/2016** (47,436) 0.00 1,50,000 0.00 02/08/2016** (50,000) 0.00 1,00,000 0.00 12/08/2016** (25,000) 0.00 75,000 0.00 22/08/2016* 1,75,000 0.00 2,50,000 0.00 02/09/2016** (75,000) 0.00 1,75,000 0.00 22/09/2016* 25,000 0.00 2,00,000 0.00 07/11/2016** (50,000) 0.00 1,50,000 0.00 14/11/2016* 1,00,000 0.00 2,50,000 0.00 28/12/2016** (25,000) 0.00 2,25,000 0.00 29/12/2016** (25,000) 0.00 2,00,000 0.00 30/12/2016** (50,000) 0.00 1,50,000 0.00 30/01/2017** (25,000) 0.00 1,25,000 0.00 31/01/2017** (50,000) 0.00 75,000 0.00 01/02/2017** (50,000) 0.00 25,000 0.00 14/02/2017* 1,25,000 0.00 1,50,000 0.00 15/03/2017** (25,000) 0.00 1,25,000 0.00 16/03/2017** (50,000) 0.00 75,000 0.00 At the end of the year 75,000 0.00 3 N. Anand, Executive Director At the beginning of the year 73,000 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 07/06/2016** (50,000) 0.00 23,000 0.00 24/06/2016* 2,00,000 0.00 2,23,000 0.00 07/07/2016^ 1,11,500 – 3,34,500 0.00 26/07/2016** (1,10,000) 0.00 2,24,500 0.00 02/08/2016** (55,000) 0.00 1,69,500 0.00 22/08/2016* 3,00,000 0.00 4,69,500 0.00 112 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30/08/2016** (55,000) 0.00 4,14,500 0.00 01/09/2016** (1,10,000) 0.00 3,04,500 0.00 22/09/2016* 2,00,000 0.00 5,04,500 0.00 23/09/2016** (90,000) 0.00 4,14,500 0.00 07/11/2016** (1,00,000) 0.00 3,14,500 0.00 27/12/2016** (1,00,000) 0.00 2,14,500 0.00 18/01/2017* 2,00,000 0.00 4,14,500 0.00 30/01/2017** (28,625) 0.00 3,85,875 0.00 31/01/2017** (71,400) 0.00 3,14,475 0.00 01/02/2017** (50,000) 0.00 2,64,475 0.00 07/02/2017** (60,000) 0.00 2,04,475 0.00 14/02/2017* 3,00,000 0.00 5,04,475 0.00 28/02/2017** (47,000) 0.00 4,57,475 0.00 17/03/2017** (1,55,000) 0.00 3,02,475 0.00 24/03/2017** (70,000) 0.00 2,32,475 0.00 At the end of the year 2,32,475 0.00 4 R. Tandon, Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer At the beginning of the year 1,71,420 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 25/05/2016** (60,420) 0.00 1,11,000 0.00 26/05/2016** (25,000) 0.00 86,000 0.00 07/06/2016** (25,000) 0.00 61,000 0.00 24/06/2016* 50,000 0.00 1,11,000 0.00 28/06/2016** (25,000) 0.00 86,000 0.00 07/07/2016^ 43,000 – 1,29,000 0.00 28/07/2016** (50,000) 0.00 79,000 0.00 29/07/2016* 50,000 0.00 1,29,000 0.00 02/08/2016** (35,000) 0.00 94,000 0.00 22/08/2016* 1,00,000 0.00 1,94,000 0.00 30/08/2016** (29,000) 0.00 1,65,000 0.00 02/09/2016** (22,000) 0.00 1,43,000 0.00 22/09/2016* 50,000 0.00 1,93,000 0.00 07/11/2016** (40,000) 0.00 1,53,000 0.00 14/11/2016* 70,000 0.00 2,23,000 0.00 30/12/2016** (50,000) 0.00 1,73,000 0.00 18/01/2017* 50,000 0.00 2,23,000 0.00 30/01/2017** (40,000) 0.00 1,83,000 0.00 31/01/2017** (45,000) 0.00 1,38,000 0.00 01/02/2017** (45,000) 0.00 93,000 0.00 14/02/2017* 1,50,000 0.00 2,43,000 0.00 23/02/2017** (23,000) 0.00 2,20,000 0.00 01/03/2017** (5,000) 0.00 2,15,000 0.00 14/03/2017** (22,000) 0.00 1,93,000 0.00 17/03/2017** (53,000) 0.00 1,40,000 0.00 20/03/2017* 1,00,000 0.00 2,40,000 0.00 21/03/2017** (30,000) 0.00 2,10,000 0.00 At the end of the year 2,10,000 0.00 5 S. B. Mathur, Non-Executive Independent Director At the beginning of the year 3,01,000 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 23/05/2016** (1,00,000) 0.00 2,01,000 0.00 07/07/2016^ 1,00,500 – 3,01,500 0.00 02/08/2016** (25,000) 0.00 2,76,500 0.00 12/08/2016** (25,000) 0.00 2,51,500 0.00 30/08/2016** (50,000) 0.00 2,01,500 0.00 02/02/2017** (20,000) 0.00 1,81,500 0.00 At the end of the year 1,81,500 0.00 (v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (Contd.
): Sl.
No.
For each of the Directors and KMP No.
of Shares@ % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares@ % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year 113ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 (v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (Contd.
): Sl.
No.
For each of the Directors and KMP No.
of Shares@ % of total Shares of the Company No.
of Shares@ % of total Shares of the Company Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative Shareholding during the year 6 P. B. Ramanujam, Non-Executive Independent Director At the beginning of the year 3,41,356 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 07/07/2016^ 1,70,678 – 5,12,034 0.00 At the end of the year 5,12,034 0.00 7 S. S. H. Rehman, Non-Executive Independent Director At the beginning of the year 1,13,488 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 27/06/2016** (5,000) 0.00 1,08,488 0.00 07/07/2016^ 54,244 – 1,62,732 0.00 28/07/2016** (20,000) 0.00 1,42,732 0.00 17/08/2016** (10,000) 0.00 1,32,732 0.00 25/08/2016** (10,000) 0.00 1,22,732 0.00 30/08/2016** (15,000) 0.00 1,07,732 0.00 31/08/2016** (10,000) 0.00 97,732 0.00 01/09/2016** (15,000) 0.00 82,732 0.00 02/09/2016** (10,000) 0.00 72,732 0.00 06/09/2016** (5,000) 0.00 67,732 0.00 30/01/2017** (10,000) 0.00 57,732 0.00 31/01/2017** (10,000) 0.00 47,732 0.00 01/02/2017** (10,000) 0.00 37,732 0.00 17/03/2017** (10,000) 0.00 27,732 0.00 29/03/2017** (10,000) 0.00 17,732 0.00 At the end of the year 17,732 0.00 8 B.
B. Chatterjee, Executive Vice President & Company Secretary At the beginning of the year 2,31,000 0.00 Increase / Decrease in Shareholding during the year: 26/05/2016** (20,000) 0.00 2,11,000 0.00 01/06/2016** (11,000) 0.00 2,00,000 0.00 24/06/2016* 1,23,000 0.00 3,23,000 0.00 07/07/2016^ 1,61,500 – 4,84,500 0.00 31/08/2016** (10,000) 0.00 4,74,500 0.00 06/09/2016** (1,000) 0.00 4,73,500 0.00 04/11/2016** (4,000) 0.00 4,69,500 0.00 07/11/2016** (12,000) 0.00 4,57,500 0.00 20/12/2016* 66,500 0.00 5,24,000 0.00 30/12/2016** (66,000) 0.00 4,58,000 0.00 01/02/2017** (10,000) 0.00 4,48,000 0.00 02/02/2017** (20,000) 0.00 4,28,000 0.00 07/02/2017** (700) 0.00 4,27,300 0.00 17/03/2017** (71,300) 0.00 3,56,000 0.00 20/03/2017* 72,000 0.00 4,28,000 0.00 At the end of the year 4,28,000 0.00 Mr. S. Banerjee, Mr. A. Duggal, Mr. S. B. Mainak and Ms. M. Shankar, Directors, did not hold any Shares of the Company, either at the beginning or at the end of the year or at any time during the year.
Mr. Z. Alam, Ms. N. Rao and Mr. D. R. Simpson, Directors, also did not hold any Shares of the Company either at the time of app ointment as Director or at the end of the year or at any time since their appointment till 31st March, 2017.
114 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1 * Chairman & Non-Executive Director since 5th February, 2017, prior to which Mr. Deveshwar was Executive Chairman.
Chief Executive Officer since 5th February, 2017.
Shares held singly / jointly.
Allotment of Shares under ITC ESOS.
Sale of Shares allotted under ITC ESOS; Options were granted to Non-Executive Independent Directors prior to their current tenure.
Allotment of Bonus Shares in the proportion of 1 (One) Bonus Share of 1/- each for every existing 2 (Two) fully paid-up Ordinary Shares of 1/- each.
2 @ ** ^ Note: Increase / decrease in shareholding, as indicated above, are based on disclosures received from the Directors and KMP.
Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year (i) Principal Amount  359.98  3,868.87  0.20  4,229.05 (ii) Interest due but not paid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 (iii)Interest accrued but not due 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total (i+ii+iii)  359.98  3,868.87  0.20  4,229.05 Change in Indebtedness during the financial year – Addition 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 – Reduction 358.99  1,286.12 0.00  1,645.11 Net Change (358.99)  (1,286.12) 0.00  (1,645.11) Indebtedness at the end of the financial year (i) Principal Amount  0.99  2,582.75  0.20  2,583.94 (ii) Interest due but not paid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 (iii)Interest accrued but not due 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total (i+ii+iii)  0.99  2,582.75  0.20  2,583.94 V. INDEBTEDNESS Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding / accrued but not due for payment: (` in Lakhs) Secured Loans excluding deposits Unsecured Loans* Deposits Total Indebtedness VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Wholetime Directors and / or Manager: S. Puri, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director * Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Total AmountN.
Anand, Executive Director Name of WTD (` in Lakhs) 1 Gross Salary (a) Salary as per provisions 146.39 227.10 122.58 496.07 contained in Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961  (b) Value of perquisites under Section 17(2) 37.73 42.97 34.51 115.21 of the Income-tax Act, 1961** (c) Profits in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 of the Income-tax Act, 1961  2 Stock Option ^ 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3 Sweat Equity 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 4 Commission  - as % of profit 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 - others, specify 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5 Others, please specify 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total (A) 184.12 270.07 157.09 611.28 Ceiling as per the Act 1,49,482 (Being 10% of the Net Profits of the Company as calculated under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) * Chief Executive Officer since 5th February, 2017.
** Does not include contribution to the approved Pension Fund under the defined benefit scheme which is actuarially determined o n an overall Company basis.
^ The Company grants Stock Options to the Directors, KMP and other employees under its Employee Stock Option Schemes at market price [within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014].
Since such Options are not trade able, no perquisite or benefit is immediately conferred upon the employee by such grant of Options, and accordingly the said grant has not been considered as remuneration.
R. Tandon, Executive Director &  Chief Financial Officer 115ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 * Includes amounts disclosed under Note 14 - Deferred payment liabilities and Note 15 - Current maturities of long-term debt, to the Financial Statements forming part of the Report and Accounts.
Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer On behalf of the Board Kolkata 26th May, 2017 (` in Lakhs) C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD / Manager / WTD: B.
B. Chatterjee, Executive Vice President & Company Secretary Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration 1 Gross Salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 121.85   (b) Value of perquisites under Section 17(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961* 4.84 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 0.00 2 Stock Option ^ 0.00 3 Sweat Equity 0.00 4 Commission  - as % of profit 0.00 - others, specify 0.00 5 Others, please specify 0.00 Total Amount 126.69 * Does not include contribution to the approved Pension Fund under the defined benefit scheme which is actuarially determined on  an overall Company basis.
^ The Company grants Stock Options to the Directors, KMP and other employees under its Employee Stock Option Schemes at  market price [within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014].
Since such Option s are not tradeable, no perquisite or benefit is immediately conferred upon the employee by such grant of Options, and accordingly the sa id grant has not been considered as remuneration.
VII.
PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT / COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES against the Company, Directors and other Officers in Default under the Companies Act, 2013: NONE B. Remuneration to the other Directors: Sl.
No.
Directors Particulars of Remuneration Fee for attending Board / Board Committee Meetings Commission Total Amount (` in Lakhs) 1 Independent Directors S. Banerjee  9.50  20.00 0.00 29.50 A. Duggal  8.00  20.00 0.00 28.00 S. B. Mathur  10.50  20.00 0.00 30.50 P. B. Ramanujam  6.60  20.00 0.00 26.60 N. Rao 1  4.50 0.00 0.00 4.50 S. S. H. Rehman  10.00  20.00 0.00 30.00 M. Shankar  11.00  20.00 0.00 31.00 Total (B)(1) 180.10 2 Other Non-Executive Directors Y. C. Deveshwar 2 0.00 0.00 317.67 317.67 Z. Alam 3 2.00* 0.00 0.00 2.00 S. B. Mainak 8.50 20.00* 0.00 28.50 D. R. Simpson 4 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total (B)(2) 348.17  Total (B) = (B)(1) + (B)(2) 528.27 Total Managerial Remuneration (A+B) 1139.55 Overall Ceiling as per the Act 1,64,430 (Being 11% of the Net Profits of the Company as calculated under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) 1 Non-Executive Independent Director since 8th April, 2016.
2 Chairman & Non-Executive Director since 5th February, 2017.
3 Additional Non-Executive Director since 26th October, 2016.
4 Additional Non-Executive Director since 27th January, 2017.
* Paid to the Public Financial Institution the Director represents.
Others (additional remuneration and benefits) 116 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY: All business units continued their efforts to improve energy usage efficiencies and increase the share of renewable energy.
Various key performance indicators like specific energy consumption (energy consumed per unit of production), specific energy costs and renewable energy contributions were continuously tracked to monitor alignment with the Company’s overall sustainability approach.
The Company has a process to identify and evaluate energy risks and opportunities, taking into account future expansion plans, evolving regulatory frameworks, techno-commercial feasibility and socio-political aspects.
Accordingly, phased implementation of energy conservation and renewable energy generation projects are carried out and innovative ways and new technologies are constantly explored to bring about alignment between organisational interests and the larger social purpose.
a) Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy: Some of the energy conservation measures adopted across the Company are outlined below: I.
Improvement in energy usage efficiency in lighting systems by changing over to efficient lighting solutions such as Light Emitting Diodes.
II.
Replacement of existing boilers and turbines with a higher efficiency boiler and turbine to reduce fuel consumption.
III.
Recovery of waste heat from Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system to improve energy efficiency.
IV.
Automation of tube cleaning system in HVAC chiller resulting in improved efficiency.
V. Installation of automated controls at cogeneration units to improve energy efficiency.
VI.
Replacement of existing motors, pumps, agitators with more energy efficient equipment.
VII.
Process improvements to enhance productivity and reduce specific energy consumption.
b)  Steps taken for utilising alternate sources of energy: As part of its strategy to adopt a low-carbon growth path, the Company intends to progressively move towards meeting at least 50% of its total energy requirements from renewable sources by 2020.
Some of the renewable energy initiatives undertaken during the year are as follows: I.
Increased use of wind energy to meet production requirements.
II.
Installation of additional solar photovoltaic based lighting system.
III.
Increased use of biomass-based fuels for steam generation to reduce dependency on fossil fuels.
c)  Capital investment on energy conservation equipment: ` 22,234.05 lakhs TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION: a) Efforts made towards technology absorption: I.
Induction of Bleached Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp line.
II.
Induction of Rigid Boxes manufacturing and Flexo Printing lines.
III.
Automation in the manufacturing process using SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) systems.
IV.
New process and product technologies with a focus on personal wash, skin care, and fragrances, developed through in-house Research & Development.
V. Automation and integration of sandwiching and packaging systems in biscuits manufacturing units.
VI.
Induction of contemporary technologies and continuous improvements across businesses, towards reducing process variability, cycle time and wastages while enhancing manufacturing flexibility and productivity.
b) Benefits derived: I.
Cycle time reduction and productivity enhancement.
II.
World-class quality and differentiated products.
III.
Addressing market specific end-use applications.
IV.
Conservation of resources and improved efficiencies.
c) The expenditure incurred on Research and Development: For the year ended 31st March, 2017 Expenditure on R&D : ( ` in Lakhs) i) Capital 2,141.95 ii) Revenue 13,483.48 Total 15,625.43 Total R&D Expenditure as a % of Gross Revenue 0.28% Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer Kolkata 26th May, 2017 117ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INFORMATION UNDER SECTION 134 (3) (m) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES, 2014 AND FORMING PART OF THE REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2017 A.
Information pursuant to Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of  the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Name of Directors & Designation Ratio of Remuneration to Increase in Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Median Remuneration over LY (%)## of all Employees Y C Deveshwar Executive Chairman (Till 4th February 2017) 508 : 1 58 * Chairman & Non-Executive Director (From 5th February 2017) 81 : 1 – S Puri Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director 59 : 1 54 ** N Anand Executive Director 74 : 1 26 *** R Tandon Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer 53 : 1 34 *** Z Alam Non-Executive Director (From 26th October 2016) 5 : 1 – S Banerjee Independent Director 13 : 1 71 # A Duggal Independent Director 12 : 1 55 # S B Mainak Non-Executive Director 12 : 1 80 # S B Mathur Independent Director 13 : 1 63 # P B Ramanujam Independent Director 12 : 1 64 # N Rao Independent Director (From 8th April 2016) 11 : 1 – S S H Rehman Independent Director 13 : 1 72 # M Shankar Independent Director 13 : 1 70 # D R Simpson Non-Executive Director (From 27th January 2017) 2 : 1 – A Baijal Non-Executive Director (Till 29th December 2016) 10 : 1 57  # A V Girija Kumar Non-Executive Director (Till conclusion of 105th AGM on 22nd July 2016) 4 : 1 64  # R Lerwill Non-Executive Director (Till 21st June 2016) 3 : 1 60 # K Vaidyanath Non-Executive Director (Till 28th July 2016) 5 : 1 47 # B B Chatterjee Executive V.P.
& Company Secretary 34 : 1 12 *** * Reflects revision effective 1st April 2016 and includes Leave encashment on retirement ** Reflects revision effective 1st April 2016 and 5th February 2017 on appointment as Chief Executive Officer *** Reflects revision effective 1st April 2016 # Reflects increase in commission ## Based on annualised remuneration Notes 1) The number of permanent employees as on 31st March, 2017 was 25,883 2) Compared to 2015-16, the figures for 2016-17 reflect that:           (i) Median remuneration of employees - Increased by 7%           (ii) Average remuneration of employees - Increased by 7%           (iii) Average remuneration of employees excluding Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) - Increased by 7%           (iv) Remuneration of KMPs - Increased by 1% 3) Remuneration of Directors, KMPs and other employees is in accordance with the Company’s Remuneration Policy 118 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 B.
Information pursuant to Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Name Age Designation Gross Net Qualifications Experi- Date of Previous Employment/ Remuneration Remuneration ence Commence- Position Held  (`)( `) (Years) ment of Employment 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Top ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn.
Deveshwar Y C 70 Executive Chairman (Upto 4th February 2017) 19,91,99,701 9,69,88,329 B.Tech.(Mech.)
48 11.02.1994 Air India Ltd., Chai rman & M.D.
Anand N 60 Executive Director 2,91,42,437 1,20,12,277 B.A.(Hons.)
37 01.12.1979 @ Puri S 54 Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director 2,29,73,221 90,60,492 B.Tech.
32 20.01.1986 TELCO Ltd., Trainee Tandon R 63 Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer 2,07,95,575 81,16,001B.Sc., F.C.A.
39 01.01.1987 Triveni Handlooms Ltd., Finance Mgr.
& Secy.
Sivakumar S 56 Group Head - Agri Business 1,93,45,128 98,19,286 B.Sc., P.G.
Dip.
in Rural Mgmt.
34 18.09.1989 Gujarat Co-op Oil Seeds Growers’ Fed.
Ltd., Mgr.
Mktg.
Rajput A K 61 Senior V.P.
- Corporate Affairs 1,55,92,414 66,19,771 B.Com., M.B.A. 40 10.04.1976 Nil Sumant B 53 President - FMCG Businesses 1,54,84,230 53,96,650 B.E.
31 20.01.1986 Nil Suresh K S 57 General Counsel 1,52,10,377 64,44,622 B.A., B.L., P.G.D.P.M., I.R.
& L.W.
35 01.09.1990 Chambers of Sri C.S.
Venkata  Subramaniam, Advocate Dar C 61 Group Head - LS & T, Central Projects, 1,46,95,610 61,20,133 B.Tech.(Hons.
), P.G.D.M.
38 01.05.1981 Tata Engg.
& Loco.
Co., Sh ift  EHS & Quality Assurance Supvr.
Chatterjee B B 64 Executive V.P.
& Company Secretary 1,34,42,047 69,92,230 B.Com.(Hons.
), F.C.A., F.C.S., LL.B.
39 16.05.1983 Wacsgen, Deputy Mgr.
Other employees employed throughout the year and in receipt of remuneration aggregating ` 1,02,00,000/- or more per annum.
Ahmad S M 63 On deputation 1,13,53,919 49,14,377 B.A., M.A.
40 06.03.1980 ANZ Grindlays Bank Plc., Mgmt.
Trainee Arif N 55 Executive V.P.
& Head - Corporate 1,14,39,500 48,25,163 B.A.(Hons.
), M.A.
31 01.09.2006 Indian Chamber of Commerce,  Communications Secretary General Chandrasekharan L C (Dr.) 62 Chief Scientist - Research & 1,31,49,969 76,68,965 Ph.D. 35 01.10.2005 G.E.
India, Director, Mfg.
Engg.
Technology Innovation (LS & T) Degan S 48 V.P.
- Skin Care & New Product 1,18,57,744 69,15,537 B.Sc., M.B.A. 23 15.07.2014 Britannia Industries Ltd.,  Development (PCPB) Category Director - Delight &  Lifestyle Ganesan M 54 Executive V.P.
- Finance, 1,05,69,078 46,48,584 B.Com., A.C.A.,  A.C.S.
31 01.03.1986 Nil Procurement  & IT (FD) Ganesh Kumar S 49 Chief Operating Officer  - Staples, 1,02,51,234 45,52,868 B.E.
25 14.12.1991 Nil Snacks & Meals (FD) Kaul S 50 Divisional Chief Executive (ITD) 1,14,84,530 49,07,076 B.E., P.G.D.M.
26 01.06.1990 Nil Malik H 51 Divisional Chief Executive (FD) 1,21,51,298 52,23,610 B.A., M.B.A. 27 01.06.1989 Nil Mukerji A K 58 Corporate Financial Controller 1,19,11,727 63,79,304 B.Com.
(Hons.
), A.C.A.
35 01.11.1982 Gupta Chowdhury & Ghose,   Jr.
Officer Parasuram R 58 Head - Corporate Internal Audit 1,15,14,029 49,48,266 B.Com.
(Hons.
), A.C.A.
34 15.09.1982 Nil Rai R K 54 Chief Operating Officer (ABD) 1,04,59,157 50,08,480 B.A.
(Mktg.
), P.G.D.
in Exports & 34 16.08.1990 Britannia Industries Ltd.,  Imports Commercial Officer Rangrass S 56 Divisional Chief Executive (ABD-ILTD) 1,26,48,907 59,66,413 B.Tech.
34 01.07.1982 Nil Satpathy S 44 SBU Chief Executive (PCPB) 1,32,34,437 58,84,061 B.Com., P.G.D.M.
21 01.12.2015 Marico Ltd., Chief Marketing  Officer Senguttuvan R 55 SBU Chief Executive (PPB) 1,20,32,514 52,47,597 B.E., P.G.D.M.
31 27.05.1991 Asian Paints, Purchase Executive Seth A 59 Executive V.P.
- Finance & MIS (ITD)  1,12,70,301 46,29,857 B.A.
(Hons.
), A.C.A., P.G.D.B.M.
34 01.11.1982 Nil Shanmuga Sundaram A 50 Deputy General Counsel 1,08,98,337 51,95,778 B.L., M.L.
28 20.10.1997 Maxworth Home Ltd., Manager, Legal Singh S K 60 Divisional Chief Executive (PSPD) 1,21,93,146 57,08,251 B.Tech.
(Chem.)
40 21.06.1977 # Tyagi S 58 SBU Chief Executive (ESPB) 1,03,31,245 45,43,589 M.Sc., P.G.D.
35 01.02.1982 Nil Other employees employed for a part of the year and in receipt of remuneration aggregating ` 8,50,000/- or more per month.
Aparajita 31 Senior Manager - Legal 1,62,482 1,36,705 B.A., LL.B.
6 21.02.2011 S.A.I.L., Jr. Mgr.
B R Vishnu Kumar 28 Area Executive (TM & D) 42,790 42,688 B.Sc., M.B.A. 5 09.12.2013 Funskool, Sales Officer Bansal R 32 Manager - Finance, JP Operations (LRBD) 4,37,701 3,91,171 B.Com., A.C.A.
8 01.04.2009 Nil Charraudeau  P H 60 V.P.
& General Manager - ITC 50,40,721 21,80,308 B.E.P.C., (Rehaul Rebout), 35 09.05.2011 Movenpick Hotels & Resorts, Maratha (HD) C.A.P.
Saudi Arabia, G.M.
Chawla V 28 Asst.
Manager - HR (ITD) 1,11,007 1,02,508 B.Tech., P.G.D.M.
3 10.06.2013 Nil Ghadiali J 60 V.P.
- Corporate 16,52,143 10,90,155 Dip.
in Hotel Mgmt.
36 01.02.1981 Nil Ghosh P 32 Asst.
Manager Sales (HD) 89,746 89,060 Bachelor in Hotel Mgmt.
8 01.07.2008 Nil Ghosh R 44 Senior Principal Technologist - Media 15,54,033 10,78,565 B.Com., P.G.D.M.
18 20.09.2007 Times Internet, Chief Manager Planning & Buying (PCPB) Gulati S 39 Acting Branch Manager (TM & D) 3,01,182 2,50,758 B.Com., P.G.D.S.M.
11 01.04.2013 ITC Infotech India Ltd., Sr.
Consultant 119ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Gupta S 25 Asst.
Manager - Technical (FD) 2,56,401 2,43,412 B.Tech.
3 10.06.2013 Nil Gupta V 52 Divisional Chief Executive (LRBD) 36,71,884 24,76,525 B.E., P.G.D.M.
26 09.01.2017 Cello (Writing) Group of Companies, C.E.O.
Kumar A S 32 Officer (PSPD) 56,950 52,847 B.Sc., M.Sc.
9 26.02.2008 Nil Kumar B M I 34 Officer (PSPD) 1,11,900 1,11,700 M.B.A. 14 17.06.2002 Nil Mishra A K 32 Asst.
Manager - Secondary Projects (ITD) 3,18,276 3,06,206 B.Tech., M.Tech.
9 01.07.2011 General Mills, Sr.
Reliability  Analyst Mishra M 44 Category Manufacturing Manager - Atta (FD) 4,36,029 3,45,660 B.Sc., M.Sc., Ph.D. 20 05.03.2014 Britannia Industries Ltd., U nit  Head Mishra N 29 Asst.
Manager - Central Projects Organization 2,47,956 2,39,039 B.Tech.
7 15.07.2009 Nil Mittal R 23 Asst.
- Technical (ESPB) 42,190 41,854 B.Tech.
1 01.07.2015 Nil Nirmale S S 29 Finance Exec.
(TM & D) 58,673 58,556 B.B.A., M.B.A. 9 07.05.2013 Larsen & Toubro Ltd., Accounts Exec.
Padhi B K 60 Area Manager (TM & D) 4,57,941 4,08,137 B.A.
34 05.01.1983 Nil Parthasarathy R 60 Area Manager (TM & D) 6,62,865 5,79,235 B.Com.
39 07.12.1982 Indian Airlines, Accounts Asst.
Prakash S 37 Area Manager (TM & D) 1,93,132 1,92,012 B.Com.
15 09.08.2004 The Primus Company, Territory Sales Exec.
Rao A V 62 Executive V.P.
- Manufacturing & 32,02,721 16,46,277 B.Tech.
40 21.06.1996 GTN Textiles Ltd., Manager  Projects (PSPD) Engineering Services Savithri N 27 Asst.
Manager - Finance (HD) 2,09,332 1,94,443 M.B.A. 3 27.05.2013 Nil Sen R 54 Sales & Marketing Manager (HD) 7,37,720 6,53,649 B.Com.
28 01.12.1988 Nil Shanmughanathan V 60 Manager - HR (PPB) 9,76,313 8,65,353 B.A., B.L., P.G.D.
36 15.12.2004 N-Logue Communication Pvt.
Ltd., V.P., H.R.
Singal S 46 Chief Operating Officer - Dairy & 1,14,08,830 53,41,068 B.Sc., P.G.D.M.
11 01.07.2016 Dabur India Ltd., Head of  Beverages Cluster (FD) Marketing (Foods) Sivakumar R 28 Officer (PSPD) 54,070 50,008 B.Tech.
11 18.01.2013 J K Paper Ltd., Jr.
Officer Tolani M 36 Head of Sales (HD) 12,55,700 9,13,837 B.A.
(Hons.
), Hospitality 15 01.03.2017 Marriot International, Area  Mgmt.
Director Virmani M 60 V.P.
- Operations Support (HD) 76,91,387 36,93,842 Dip.
in Hotel Mgmt.
34 01.07.1982 Nil Vishwanathan V 60 Asst.
Manager - Customer 8,68,556 6,97,101 B.Com.
36 01.03.1988 Surya Agro Oils., Sales Supvr.
Development (TM & D) Yadav S M 47 V.P.
- Technology & Manufacturing 64,61,156 33,08,603 B.E., Dip.
in International Business 26 24.08.2016 Mondelez Internat ional, Associate (FD) Director - Asia Pacific  (Engineering) B.
Information pursuant to Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Name Age Designation Gross Net Qualifications Experi- Date of Previous Employment/ Remuneration Remuneration ence Commence- Position Held  (`)( `) (Years) ment of Employment 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Kolkata 26th May, 2017 On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer Abbreviations denote : ITD : India Tobacco Division HD : Hotels Division PSPD : Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division ESPB : Education & Stationery Products Business LRBD : Lifestyle Retailing Business Division PCPB : Personal Care Products Business ABD : Agri Business Division PPB : Printing & Packaging Business ABD-ILTD : Agri Business-India Leaf Tobacco Division LS&T : Life Sciences & Technology FD : Foods Division TM&D : Trade Marketing & Distribution @ Previously employed with ITC Hotels Ltd. which was merged with the Company on March 23, 2005 # Previously employed with ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Ltd. which was merged with the Company on March 13, 2002 Notes : 1.
Remuneration includes salary, performance bonus, allowances & other benefits / applicable perquisites except contribution to the approved Pension Fund under the defined benefit scheme and Gratuity Funds and provisions for leave encashment which are actuarially determined on an overall Company basis.
The term ‘remuneration’ has the meaning assigned to it under the Companies Act, 2013.
2.
The Company grants Stock Options to the Directors, KMP and other employees under its Employee Stock Option Schemes at ‘market price’ [within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014].
Since such Options are not tradeable, no perquisite or benefit is immediately conferred upon the employee by such grant of Options, and accordingly the said grant has not been considered as remuneration.
3.
Net remuneration comprises cash income less : a) income tax, surcharge (as applicable) & education cess deducted at source.
b) employees’ own contribution to Provident Fund.
4.
All appointments are/were contractual in accordance with terms and conditions as per Company rules.
5.
None of the above employees is a relative of any Director of the Company.
6.
The above list does not include employees who are on deputation and whose cost is not borne by the Company.
120 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors 121ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY This Dividend Distribution Policy is framed in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Dividend Distribution shall take into account the distributable surplus available under law as well as the need to retain earnings, which in turn will take into account foreseeable funding requirements of the Company’s businesses, including their growth plans, organic and inorganic, as also the financial capacity that needs to be conserved to address contingencies that may arise.
The surplus so determined shall be returned to shareholders over the long term.
Consistent with the above, the Company will strive to declare a steady stream of dividend to its shareholders.
The actual quantum of dividend pay-out each year will be guided by the Company’s financial performance and cash flow position and will take into account the requirements of funds to sustain the business and growth plans of the Company, as well as the economic and market conditions then prevailing.
Dividend distribution will also cognise for foreseeable opportunities and threats in the globalised competitive context.
The Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’) may declare interim dividend(s), at their discretion.
The Board’s recommendation to the shareholders on the final dividend may include special dividend(s) as considered appropriate.
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
302009E)  P. R. Ramesh Partner (Membership No.
70928)Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 To the Members of ITC Limited 1.
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter reference no.
SRT/2016-17/10 dated 22nd August, 2016.
2.
We, Deloitte Haskins & Sells, Chartered Accountants, the Statutory Auditors of ITC Limited (“the Company”), have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by the Company, for the year ended on 31st March, 2017, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and para C and D of Schedule V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “Listing Regulations”).
Managements’ Responsibility 3.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management.
This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
Auditor’s Responsibility 4.
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
5.
We have examined the books of account and other relevant records and documents maintained by the Company for the purposes of providing reasonable assurance on the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by the Company.
6.
We have carried out an examination of the relevant records of the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the “ICAI”), the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act 2013, in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate and as per the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
7.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion 8.
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us and the representations provided by the Management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and para C and D of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations during the year ended 31st March, 2017.
9.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annexure to the Report of the Board of Directors 122 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 We, S. Puri, Chief Executive Officer & Director and R. Tandon, Director & Chief Financial Officer certify that : a) We have reviewed the financial statements including the cash flow statement for the year ended 31st March, 2017 and to the best of our knowledge and belief : i) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might be misleading; ii) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with Indian Accounting Standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b) To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year ended 31st March, 2017 are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
c) We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting.
Deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware have been disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee and steps have been taken to rectify these deficiencies.
d) i) There has not been any significant change in internal control over financial reporting during the year under reference; ii) The changes in the Significant Accounting Policies arising from the adoption of the Indian Accounting Standards have been discussed with the auditors and have been approved by the Audit Committee; and iii) We are not aware of any instance during the year of significant fraud with involvement therein of the management or any employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
CEO and CFO Compliance Certificate Kolkata 26th May, 2017 S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer 123ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2017  As at As at As at Note 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) ASSETS  Non-current assets   (a) Property, Plant and Equipment 3A 14469.32 13591.96 13572.99  (b) Capital work-in-progress 3B  3491.33  2388.42  2010.47 (c) Intangible assets 3C 410.92 419.01 401.35  (d) Intangible assets under development 3D 45.69 30.75 28.65  (e) Financial Assets (i) Investments 4 8485.51 6853.20 2878.03  (ii) Loans 5 5.84 8.12 9.34  (iii) Others 6 99.83 8591.18 1031.18 7892.50 1381.22 4268.59  (f) Other non-current assets 7 2670.12 29678.56 2474.72 26797.36 1707.64 21989.69 Current assets   (a) Inventories 8 7863.99 8519.82 7836.76  (b) Financial Assets (i) Investments 9 10099.78 6471.33 6091.59 (ii) Trade receivables 10 2207.50 1686.35 1722.40 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 11 156.15 75.79 36.29 (iv) Other Bank Balances 12 2591.12 5563.41 6236.52 (v) Loans 5 3.37 3.85 40.09 (vi) Others 6 1004.91 16062.83   407.22 14207.95 255.58 14382.47 (c) Other current assets 7  610.57  24537.39   506.15  23233.92  555.89  22775.12 TOTAL ASSETS  54215.95  50031.28  44764.81 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity (a) Equity Share capital 13 1214.74 804.72 801.55 (b) Other Equity 44126.22 45340.96 40851.71 41656.43 36486.28 37287.83 Liabilities Non-current liabilities (a) Financial Liabilities (i) Borrowings 14 17.99 25.83 38.69 (ii) Other financial liabilities 15 9.21 27.20 15.13 40.96 7.05 45.74 (b) Provisions 16 131.37 112.19 100.72 (c) Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 17 1871.70 1867.43 1677.22 (d) Other non-current liabilities 18 14.65 2044.92 – 2020.58 – 1823.68 Current liabilities (a) Financial Liabilities (i) Borrowings 19 0.01 3.60 0.02 (ii) Trade payables 2551.22 2228.01 1872.97 (iii) Other financial liabilities 15 784.78 3336.01 594.71 2826.32 646.79 2519.78 (b) Other current liabilities 18 3351.15 3441.96 3056.99 (c) Provisions 16 41.83 57.60 74.98 (d) Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 20 101.08 6830.07 28.39 6354.27 1.55 5653.30 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  54215.95  50031.28  44764.81 124 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31st March, 2017 Note For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary I Revenue From Operations 21A  55448.46  51944.57 II Other Income 22  1985.91  1769.26 III Total Income (I+II)  57434.37  53713.83 IV EXPENSES Cost of materials consumed  11765.56  11054.75 Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  3566.57  2591.80 Changes in inventories of finished goods, Stock-in-Trade, work-in-progress and intermediates  644.17  (196.55) Excise duty  15359.78  15361.90 Employee benefits expense 23  2444.31  2331.59 Finance costs 24  22.95  49.13 Depreciation and amortization expense  1038.04  1000.68 Other expenses 25  7090.03  7086.46 Total expenses (IV)  41931.41  39279.76 V Profit before tax (III- IV)  15502.96  14434.07 VI Tax expense: Current Tax 26  5285.65  4896.06 Deferred Tax 26  16.41  209.64 VII Profit for the year (V-VI)  10200.90  9328.37 Other Comprehensive Income A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: – Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans 27(vi)(a)  (27.96)  (53.84) – Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  129.95  (29.85) – Effective portion of losses on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge  (61.19)  – (ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 26  24.22  18.63 B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: – Effective portion of gains/(losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments  in a cash flow hedge  18.29  (2.32) (ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 26  (6.31)  0.80 VIII Other Comprehensive Income [A(i-ii)+B(i-ii)]  77.00  (66.58) IX Total Comprehensive Income for the year (VII+VIII)  10277.90  9261.79 X Earnings per equity share (Face Value ` 1.00 each): 27(i) (1) Basic (in `) 8.43 7.74 (2) Diluted (in `) 8.38 7.70 125ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31st March, 2017 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017126 Reserves and Surplus B.
Other Equity (` in Crores) A.
Equity Share Capital (` in Crores) Balance at the beginning Changes in equity share Balance at the end of the of the reporting year capital during the year reporting Year For the year ended 31st March, 2016 801.55 3.17 804.72 For the year ended 31st March, 2017 804.72 410.02 1214.74 Equity Share Instruments Effective Foreign Securities Options Capital through Other portion of Currency   Capital Premium Outstanding Redemption Contingency General Retained Com phrensive Cash Flow Translation Reserve Account Account Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Income Hedges Reserve Items of other comprehensive income Total Balance as at 1st April, 2015 2.48 5134.75 677.87 0.30 363.05 15565.31 14257.63 436.40 7.94 40.55 36486.28 Profit for the year – –  –  –  –  –  9328.37  –  –  –  9328.37Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax)–––––– (35.21) (29.85) (1.52) – (66.58) Total Comprehensive Income for the year –––––– 9293.16 (29.85) (1.52) – 9261.79 Issue of equity shares under ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme – 528.53 –––––––– 528.53 Dividend – Ordinary Dividend (2016 – ` 6.25 per share) –––––– (5009.70) – – – (5009.70) Income tax on Dividend paid –––––– (968.84) – – – (968.84) Transfer from retained earnings ––––– 990.00 (990.00) –––– Transfer from share option reserve on exercise and lapse – 22.58 (30.22) – – – 7.64 –––– Recognition of share based payment – – 553.65 ––––––– 553.65 Balance as at 31st March, 2016 2.48 5685.86 1201.30 0.30 363.05 16555.31 16589.89 406.55 6.42 40.55 40851.71Profit for the year –––––– 10200.90 – – – 10200.90 Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax) –––––– (24.92) 129.95 (28.03) – 77.00 Total Comprehensive Income for the year –––––– 10175.98 129.95 (28.03) – 10277.90 The Board of Directors of the Company recommended a dividend of ` 4.75 per share (for the year ended 31st March, 2016 - ordinary dividend ` 6.50 per share and special dividend ` 2.00 per share) be paid on fully paid equity shares.
This equity dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The total equity dividend to be paid is ` 5770.01 Crores (for the year ended 31st March, 2016 - ordinary dividend ` 5230.68 Crores and special dividend ` 1609.44 Crores).
Income tax on proposed dividend being ` 1174.64 Crores (for the year ended 31st March, 2016 - ` 1392.48 Crores).
In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & SellsChartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHA TTERJEE Company Secretary Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31st March, 2017 Capital Reserve:  This Reserve repesents the difference between value of the net assets transferred to the Company in the course of business combinations and the consideration paid for such combinations.
Securities Premium Account: This Reserve represents the premium on issue of shares and can be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Share Options Outstanding Account:  This Reserve relates to stock options granted by the Company to employees under ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes.
This Reserv e is transferred to securities premium or retained earnings on exercise or cancellation of vested options.
Capital Redemption Reserve: This Reserve has been transferred to the Company in the course of business combinations and can be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Contingency Reserve: This Reserve has been created out of retained earnings, as a matter of prudence, to take care of any unforseen adverse developments in pending legal disputes.
General Reserve: This Reserve is created by an appropriation from one component of equity (generally retained earnings) to another, not being an  item of Other Comprehensive Income.
The same can be utilized by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013.
Retained Earnings: This Reserve represents the cumulative profits of the Company and effects of remeasurement of defined benefit obligations.
This Reserve can be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income: This Reserve represents the cumulative gains (net of losses) arising on the revaluation of Equity Instruments measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income, net of amounts reclassified, if any, to Retained Earnings when those instruments are disposed of.
Effective portion of Cash Flow Hedges: This Reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated as Cash F low Hedges.
It will be reclassified to profit or loss or included in the carrying amount of the non-financial asset in accordan ce with the Company’s accounting policy.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve:  This Reserve contains the accumulated balance of foreign exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in substance, fo rm part of the Company’s net investment in a foreign operation whose functional currency is other than Indian Rupees.
Exchange differences previously accumulated in this reserve are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
127ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Reserves and Surplus B.
Other Equity (` in Crores) (contd.)
Items of other comprehensive income Total Equity Share Instruments Effective Foreign Securities Options Capital through Other portion of Currency   Capital Premium Outstanding Redemption Contingency General Retained Com phrensive Cash Flow Translation Reserve Account Account Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Income Hedges Reserve Issue of equity shares under ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme – 1059.61 – – – – – – – – 1059.61 Issue of Bonus Shares – (402.67) – – – – – – – – (402.67) Dividends – – Ordinary Dividend (2017 – ` 6.50 per share) – – – – – – (5230.68) – – – (5230.68) – Special Dividend (2017 – ` 2.00 per share) – – – – – – (1609.44) – – – (1609.44) Income tax on Dividend paid – – – – – – (1333.52) – – – (1333.52) Transfer from retained earnings – – – – – 1030.00 (1030.00) – – – – Transfer from share option reserve on exercise and lapse – 89.44 (104.44) – – – 14.58 – – – (0.42) Transferred to initial carrying amount ofhedged items (net of tax) – – – – – – – – 10.88 – 10.88 Recognition of share based payment – – 502.85 – – – – – – – 502.85 Balance as at 31st March, 2017 2.48 6432.24 1599.71 0.30 363.05 17585.31 17576.81 536.50 (10.73) 40.55 44126.22 128 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2017 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) A.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities PROFIT BEFORE TAX 15502.96 14434.07 ADJUSTMENTS FOR: Depreciation and amortization expense 1038.04 1000.68 Share based payments to employees 450.32 501.91 Finance costs 22.95 49.13 Interest Income (864.58) (851.63) Dividend Income (248.85) (376.90) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment - Net 5.00 45.21 Doubtful and bad debts 30.74 22.40 Doubtful and bad advances, loans and deposits 1.25 (9.50) Impairment of investment in subsidiary companies, reversed - Net 16.29 (26.00) Net (gain)/loss recognised on disposal of subsidiary and return of capital by subsidiary (203.95) 34.48 Net (gain)/loss arising on investments mandatorily measured at Fair value through profit and loss (605.20) (522.68) Foreign currency translations and transactions - Net 6.90 (351.09) (9.74) (142.64) OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE WORKING CAPITAL CHANGES 15151.87 14291.43 ADJUSTMENTS FOR: Trade receivables, loans, advances and other assets (859.05) (196.85) Inventories 655.83 (683.06) Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 266.33 63.11   628.12 (251.79) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 15214.98 14039.64 Income tax paid (5212.96) (4827.72) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 10002.02 9211.92 B.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment, Intangibles etc.
(2944.49) (2144.78) Sale of property, plant and equipment 47.38  7.11 Purchase of current investments (76998.70) (140152.13) Sale/redemption of current investments 74903.71 141499.39 Investment in subsidiaries (139.80) (286.98) Purchase of non-current investments from subsidiary – (121.00) Purchase of non-current investments (2280.65) (4926.25) Sale of non-current investments to subsidiary  –  5.40 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary 132.88  – Return of capital by subsidiary 126.57 – Redemption proceeds of non-current investments –  187.00 Dividend Income 248.85  376.90 Interest received 720.43  716.31 Investment in bank deposits (original maturity more than 3 months) (1714.79) (5366.87) Redemption/maturity of bank deposits (original maturity more than 3 months) 5615.52 6450.13 Investment in deposit with housing finance company (500.00) – Loans given –  (3.20) Loans realised  2.76  48.07 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (2780.33) (3710.90) Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2017 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 31 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary C. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 1066.96  531.70 Repayment of non-current borrowings (12.86) (14.31) Interest paid (21.77) (23.05) Net increase in statutory restricted accounts balances 3.69  19.10 Dividend paid (6840.12) (5009.70) Income tax on dividend paid (1333.52) (968.84) NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (7137.62) (5465.10) NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  84.07  35.92 OPENING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  72.19  36.27 CLOSING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  156.26  72.19 129ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes: 1.
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Ind AS - 7 “Statements of Cash Flow ”.
2.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash and cash equivalents as above 156.26 72.19 Unrealised gain/(Loss) on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (0.12) ... Cash/export Credit Facilities (Note 19) 0.01 3.60 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 11) 156.15 75.79 Statement of Compliance These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with the relevant presentation requirements of the Companies Act, 2013.
The Company adopted Ind AS from 1st April, 2016.
Up to the year ended 31st March, 2016, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance with the requirements of previous Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which includes Standards notified under the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006.
These are the Company’s first Ind AS financial statements.
The date of transition to Ind AS is 1st April, 2015.
Details of the exceptions and optional exemptions availed by the Company and principal adjustments along with related reconciliations are detailed in Note 31 (First-time Adoption).
Basis of Preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, except for certain items that are measured at fair values, as explained in the accounting policies.
Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Company takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and / or disclosure purposes in these financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 102 – Share-based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 17 – Leases, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in Ind AS 2 – Inventories or value in use in Ind AS 36 – Impairment of Assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period; they are recognised in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Operating Cycle All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 and Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents.
Property, Plant and Equipment – Tangible Assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
For this purpose, cost includes deemed cost which represents the carrying value of property, plant and equipment recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP.
Cost is inclusive of inward freight, duties and taxes and incidental expenses related to acquisition.
In respect of major projects involving construction, related pre-operational expenses form part of the value of assets capitalised.
Expenses capitalised also include applicable borrowing costs for qualifying assets, if any.
All upgradation / enhancements are charged off as revenue expenditure unless they bring similar significant additional benefits.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use which is generally on commissioning.
Items of property, plant and equipment are 1.
Significant Accounting Policies Notes to the Financial Statements 130 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
depreciated in a manner that amortizes the cost (or other amount substituted for cost) of the assets after commissioning, less its residual value, over their useful lives as specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 on a straight line basis.
Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment of the Company are as follows: Buildings 30 – 60 Years Leasehold Improvements Shorter of lease period or  estimated useful lives Plant and Equipment 7 – 25 Years Furniture and Fixtures 8 – 10 Years Vehicles 8 – 10 Years Office Equipment 5 Years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Property, plant and equipment’s residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and changes, if any, are treated as changes in accounting estimate.
Intangible Assets Intangible Assets that the Company controls and from which it expects future economic benefits are capitalised upon acquisition and measured initially: a. for assets acquired in a business combination or by way of a government grant, at fair value on the date of acquisition/grant b. for separately acquired assets, at cost comprising the purchase price (including import duties and non- refundable taxes) and directly attributable costs to prepare the asset for its intended use.
Internally generated assets for which the cost is clearly identifiable are capitalised at cost.
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense when it is incurred.
Development costs are capitalised only after the technical and commercial feasibility of the asset for sale or use has been established.
Thereafter, all directly attributable expenditure incurred to prepare the asset for its intended use are recognised as the cost of such assets.
Internally generated brands, websites and customer lists are not recognised as intangible assets.
The carrying value of intangible assets includes deemed cost which represents the carrying value of intangible assets recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP.
The useful life of an intangible asset is considered finite where the rights to such assets are limited to a specified period of time by contract or law (e.g., patents, licences, trademarks, franchise and servicing rights) or the likelihood of technical, technological obsolescence (e.g., computer software, design, prototypes) or commercial obsolescence (e.g., lesser known brands are those to which adequate marketing support may not be provided).
If, there are no such limitations, the useful life is taken to be indefinite.
Intangible assets that have finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives by the straight line method unless it is practical to reliably determine the pattern of benefits arising from the asset.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not amortized.
All intangible assets are tested for impairment.
Amortization expenses and impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses are taken to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Thus, after initial recognition, an intangible asset is carried at its cost less accumulated amortization and / or impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually to determine if a reset of such useful life is required for assets with finite lives and to confirm that business circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for assets so classified.
Based on such review, the useful life may change or the useful life assessment may change from indefinite to finite.
The impact of such changes is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
Impairment of Assets Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent, the carrying amount of assets or cash generating units exceed their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s net selling price and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset or cash generating unit and from its disposal at the end of its useful life.
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed when there is an indication that the impairment losses Notes to the Financial Statements 131ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 recognised no longer exist or have decreased.
Such reversals are recognised as an increase in carrying amounts of assets to the extent that it does not exceed the carrying amounts that would have been determined (net of amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Inventories Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost is calculated on weighted average method.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing such inventories to its present location and condition and includes, where applicable, appropriate overheads based on normal level of activity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs for completion and sale.
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are identified from time to time and, where necessary, a provision is made for such inventories.
Foreign Currency Transactions The functional and presentation currency of the Company is Indian Rupee.
Transactions in foreign currency are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date.
Gains/ losses arising on settlement as also on translation of monetary items are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in substance, form part of the Company’s net investment in a foreign operation (having a functional currency other than Indian Rupee) are accumulated in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve.
Derivatives and Hedge Accounting Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The resulting gains / losses is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of recognition in profit or loss/inclusion in the initial cost of non-financial asset depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the nature of the hedged item.
The Company complies with the principles of hedge accounting where derivative contracts are designated as hedge instruments.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedge instrument and the hedged item, along with the risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking hedge transaction, which can be a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge.
(i) Fair value hedges Changes in fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the designated portion of hedging instrument and the change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the line item relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
(ii) Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the other comprehensive income and accumulated as ‘Cash Flow Hedging Reserve’.
The gains / losses relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Amounts previously recognised and accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item affects the Statement of Profit and Loss.
However, when the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, such gains / losses are transferred from equity (but not as reclassification adjustment) and included in the initial measurement cost of the non-financial asset.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gains/losses recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is reclassified when the underlying transaction is 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements 132 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
ultimately recognised.
When an underlying transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gains / losses accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are carried at cost less accumulated impairment, if any.
Financial instruments, Financial assets, Financial liabilities and Equity instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value on initial recognition of financial assets or financial liabilities.
Purchase or sale of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date when the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial Assets Recognition: Financial assets include Investments, Trade receivables, Advances, Security Deposits, Cash and cash equivalents.
Such assets are initially recognised at transaction price when the Company becomes party to contractual obligations.
The transaction price includes transaction costs unless the asset is being fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Classification: Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition depending on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on such classification.
Financial assets are classified as those measured at: (a) amortised cost, where the financial assets are held solely for collection of cash flows arising from payments of principal and/or interest.
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI), where the financial assets are held not only for collection of cash flows arising from payments of principal and interest but also from the sale of such assets.
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
(c) fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), where the assets are managed in accordance with an approved investment strategy that triggers purchase and sale decisions based on the fair value of such assets.
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value being recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which they arise.
Trade receivables, Advances, Security Deposits, Cash and cash equivalents etc.
are classified for measurement at amortised cost while investments may fall under any of the aforesaid classes.
However, in respect of particular investments in equity instruments that would otherwise be measured at fair value through profit or loss, an irrevocable election at initial recognition may be made to present subsequent changes in fair value through other comprehensive income.
Impairment: The Company assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) such as investments, trade receivables, advances and security deposits held at amortised cost and financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are tested for impairment based on evidence or information that is available without undue cost or effort.
Expected credit losses are assessed and loss allowances recognised if the credit quality of the financial asset has deteriorated significantly since initial recognition.
Reclassification: When and only when the business model is changed, the Company shall reclassify all affected financial assets prospectively from the reclassification date as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, fair value through profit or loss without restating the previously recognised gains, losses or interest and in terms of the reclassification principles laid down in the Ind AS relating to Financial Instruments.
De-recognition: Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Company has transferred Notes to the Financial Statements 133ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Concomitantly, if the asset is one that is measured at: (a) amortised cost, the gain or loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss; (b) fair value through other comprehensive income, the cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to reserves are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss unless the asset represents an equity investment in which case the cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to reserves is reclassified within equity.
Income Recognition: Interest income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the right to receive dividend is established.
Financial Liabilities Borrowings, trade payables and other financial liabilities are initially recognised at the value of the respective contractual obligations.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any discount or premium on redemption / settlement is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as finance cost over the life of the liability using the effective interest method and adjusted to the liability figure disclosed in the Balance Sheet.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled and on expiry.
Offsetting Financial Instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is included in the Balance Sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Equity Instruments Equity instruments are recognised at the value of the proceeds, net of direct costs of the capital issue.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered, net of returns and discounts to customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and other duties which the Company pays as a principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales tax and value added tax.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, which is mainly upon delivery, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised in the periods in which the services are rendered.
Government Grant The Company may receive government grants that require compliance with certain conditions related to the Company’s operating activities or are provided to the Company by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain qualifying criteria.
Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received, and the Company will comply with the conditions attached to the grant.
Accordingly, government grants: (a) related to or used for assets are included in the Balance Sheet as deferred income and recognised as income over the useful life of the assets.
(b) related to incurring specific expenditures are taken to the Statement of Profit and Loss on the same basis and in the same periods as the expenditures incurred.
(c) by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain qualifying criteria are recognised as they become receivable.
In the unlikely event that a grant previously recognised is ultimately not received, it is treated as a change in estimate and the amount cumulatively recognised is expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Dividend Distribution Dividends paid (including income tax thereon) is recognised in the period in which the interim dividends are approved by the Board of Directors, or in respect of the final dividend when approved by shareholders.
Employee Benefits The Company makes contributions to both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes which are mainly administered through duly constituted and approved Trusts.
Provident Fund contributions are in the nature of defined contribution scheme.
In respect of employees who are 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements 134 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
members of constituted and approved trusts, the Company recognises contribution payable to such trusts as an expense including any shortfall in interest between the amount of interest realised by the investment and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India.
In respect of other employees, provident funds are deposited with the Government and recognised as expense.
The Company makes contribution to defined contribution pension plan.
The contribution payable is recognised as an expense, when an employee renders the related service.
The Company also makes contribution to defined benefit pension and gratuity plan.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Gain or Loss on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The employees of the Company are entitled to compensated leave for which the Company records the liability based on actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit method.
These benefits are unfunded.
Actual disbursements made, under the Workers’ Voluntary Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses.
Employee Share Based Compensation Stock Options are granted to eligible employees in accordance with the ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes (“ITC ESOS”), as may be decided by the Nomination & Compensation Committee.
Eligible employees for this purpose include (a) such employees of the Company including Directors and those on deputation and (b) such employees of the Company’s subsidiary companies including Managing Director / Wholetime Director of a subsidiary.
Under Ind AS, the cost of ITC Stock Options (Stock Options) is recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on the grant date.
In terms of the exemptions, the fair value of unvested Stock Options as on the date of transition have been accounted for as part of Reserves, irrespective of whether they apply to Company employees (including those on deputation) or employees of subsidiary companies.
While the fair value of Stock Options granted and vesting after the transition date are recognised in profit and loss for employees of the Company (other than those out on deputation), the value of Stock Options, net of reimbursements, to employees on deputation and to employees of the wholly owned and other subsidiary companies are considered as capital contribution / investment.
The Company generally seeks reimbursement of the value of Stock Options from such companies, as applicable.
It may, if so recommended by the Corporate Management Committee and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek such reimbursements from: (a) Wholly owned subsidiaries who need to conserve financial capacity to sustain their business and growth plans and to address contingencies that may arise, taking into account the economic and market conditions then prevailing and opportunities and threats in the competitive context.
(b) Other companies not covered under (a) above, who need to conserve financial capacity to sustain their business and growth plans and where the quantum of reimbursement is not material - the materiality threshold being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
Leases Leases are recognised as a finance lease whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Company as a Lessee Assets used under finance leases are recognised as property, plant and equipment in the Balance Sheet for an amount that corresponds to the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease and a liability is recognised for an equivalent amount.
The minimum lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease unless the payments to the lessor are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increases.
Notes to the Financial Statements 135ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Company as a Lessor Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases.
Where the Company is a lessor under an operating lease, the asset is capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its useful economic life.
Payments received under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxes on Income Taxes on income comprises of current taxes and deferred taxes.
Current tax in the Statement of Profit and Loss is provided as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable income for the period using tax rates and tax laws enacted during the period, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and the amounts used for taxation purposes (tax base), at the tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the future tax consequences to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Income tax, in so far as it relates to items disclosed under other comprehensive income or equity, are disclosed separately under other comprehensive income or equity, as applicable.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances related to the same taxation authority.
Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Claims Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts are disclosed after a careful evaluation of the facts and legal aspects of the matter involved.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when, as a result of a past event, the Company has a legal or constructive obligation; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The amount so recognised is a best estimate of the consideration required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
In an event when the time value of money is material, the provision is carried at the present value of the cash flows estimated to settle the obligation.
Operating Segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker (CODM).
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Corporate Management Committee.
Segments are organised based on business which have similar economic characteristics as well as exhibit similarities in nature of products and services offered, the nature of production processes, the type and class of customer and distribution methods.
Segment revenue arising from third party customers is reported on the same basis as revenue in the financial statements.
Inter-segment revenue is reported on the basis of transactions which are primarily market led.
Segment results represent profits before finance charges, unallocated corporate expenses and taxes.
“Unallocated Corporate Expenses” include revenue and expenses that relate to initiatives/costs attributable to the enterprise as a whole and are not attributable to segments.
Financial and Management Information Systems The Company’s Accounting System is designed to unify the Financial and Cost Records and also to comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, to provide financial and cost information appropriate to the businesses and facilitate Internal Control.
1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements 136 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.
Use of estimates and judgements Notes to the Financial Statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the results of operations during the reporting period end.
Although these estimates are based upon management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results could differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
A.  Judgements in applying accounting policies The judgements, apart from those involving estimations (see note below), that the Company has made in the process of applying its accounting policies and that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in these financial statements pertain to useful life of intangible assets.
The Company is required to determine whether its intangible assets have indefinite or finite life which is a subject matter of judgement.
Certain trademarks have been considered of having an indefinite useful life taking into account that there are no technical, technological or commercial risks of obsolescence or limitations under contract or law.
Other trademarks have been amortized over their useful economic life.
Refer notes to the financial statements.
B.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
1.
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets: As described in the significant accounting policies, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at the end of each reporting period.
2.
Fair value measurements and valuation processes: Some of the Company’s assets and liabilities are measured at fair value for financial reporting purposes.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Company uses market-observable data to the extent it is available.
Where Level 1 inputs are not available, the Company engages third party valuers, where required, to perform the valuation.
Information about the valuation techniques and inputs used in determining the fair value of various assets, liabilities and share based payments are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
3.
Actuarial Valuation: The determination of Company’s liability towards defined benefit obligation to employees is made through independent actuarial valuation including determination of amounts to be recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss and in other comprehensive income.
Such valuation depend upon assumptions determined after taking into account inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
Information about such valuation is provided in notes to the financial statements.
4.
Claims, Provisions and Contingent Liabilities: The Company has ongoing litigations with various regulatory authorities and third parties.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made based on management’s assessment of specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
Such accruals are by nature complex and can take number of years to resolve and can involve estimation uncertainty.
Information about such litigations is provided in notes to the financial statements.
137ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017138 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 Buildings 3.24 0.45 2.79 0.23 2.99 0.22 2.77 0.22 3.14 – 3.14 Plant and Equipment 176.88 37.17 139.71 18.60 184.47 18.35 166.12 18.35 129.25 – 129.25 TOTAL 180.12 37.62 142.50 18.83 187.46 18.57 168.89 18.57 132.39 – 132.39 The above includes following assets given on operating lease: 2017 20152016 As at 1st April, 2015 Depreciation Depreciation Accumulated Charge Accumulated Charge Accumulated Particulars Gross Block Depreciation Net Block for the year Gross Block Depreciation Net Block for the year Gross Block Depreciation Net Block Gross Block (` in Crores) As at Withdrawls As at Withdrawls As at 1st April, and 31st March, and 31st March, Particulars 2015 Additions adjustments 2016 Additions adjustments 2017 3A.
Property, plant and equipment Land1 1374.69 163.90 0.25 1538.34 59.19 1.05 1596.48 Buildings 3693.30 157.26 5.76 3844.80 494.65 5.42 4334.03 Leasehold Improvements 24.04 2.92 0.88 26.08 3.39 1.78  27.69 Plant and Equipment 8037.00 642.52 33.50 8646.02 1294.91 40.48 9900.45 Furniture and Fixtures 352.17 41.75 2.21 391.71 53.76 7.61 437.86 Vehicles 73.51 23.65 2.79 94.37 29.30 10.66 113.01 Office Equipment 16.55 3.08 1.97 17.66 5.57 1.73 21.50 Railway Sidings 1.73 – – 1.73 – – 1.73 TOTAL 13572.99 1035.08 47.36 14560.71 1940.77 68.73 16432.75 3B.
Capital work-in-progress  [Refer Note 28] 2010.47 1928.97 1551.02 2388.42 2969.67 1866.76  3491.33 3C.
Intangible Assets (acquired) Trademarks2 333.22 0.04 – 333.26 – – 333.26 Computer Software 51.36 32.68 0.05 83.99 18.92 0.01 102.90 Know How, Business and Commercial Rights 16.77 10.59 – 27.36 – 0.68 26.68 TOTAL 401.35 43.31 0.05 444.61 18.92 0.69 462.84 3D.
Intangible Assets under Development 28.65 44.54 42.44 30.75 32.94 18.00 45.69 Notes to the Financial Statements 139ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Gross Block (` in Crores) Upto On Withdrawls Upto On Withdrawls Upto As at As at As at 1st April, and 31st March, and 31st March, 31st March, 31st March, 1st April, Particulars 2015 For the year adjustments 2016 For the year adjustments 2017 2017 2016 2015 Depreciation and Amortization Net Book Value 1.
Land includes certain lands at Munger with Gross Block - ` 1.16 Crores (2016 - ` 1.16 Crores; 2015 - ` 1.16 Crores) which stood vested with the State of Bihar under the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 for which compensation has not yet been determined.
2.
Certain trademarks with a carrying value of  ` 309.73 Crores (2016 - ` 309.73 Crores; 2015 - ` 309.73 Crores) have been considered of having an indefinite useful life taking into account that there are no technical, technological or commercial risks of obsolescence or li mitations under contract or law.
Other trademarks have been amortized over 10 years.
3.
The amortization expense of intangible assets have been included under ‘Depreciation and amortization expense’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
4.
The amount of expenditures recognised in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment in the course of construction i s ` 73.91 Crores (2016 -  ` 45.26 Crores).
3A.
Property, plant and equipment Land1 –––– – – – 1596.48 1538.34 1374.69   Buildings – 110.16 0.20 109.96 115.73 0.40 225.29 4108.74 3734.84 3693.30 Leasehold Improvements – 6.07 0.22 5.85 4.85 0.99 9.71 17.98 20.23 24.04 Plant and Equipment – 772.58 3.91 768.67 805.42 7.59 1566.50 8333.95 7877.35 8037.00 Furniture and Fixtures – 66.44 0.40 66.04 65.89 2.67 129.26 308.60 325.67 352.17 Vehicles – 15.06 1.53 13.53 15.13 3.57 25.09 87.92 80.84 73.51 Office Equipment – 4.64 0.07 4.57 4.48 1.73 7.32 14.18 13.09 16.55 Railway Sidings – 0.13 – 0.13 0.13 – 0.26 1.47 1.60 1.73 TOTAL – 975.08 6.33 968.75 1011.63 16.95 1963.43 14469.32 13591.96 13572.99 3B.
Capital work-in-progress  [Refer Note 28] –––– – – – 3491.33 2388.42 2010.47 3C.
Intangible Assets (acquired) Trademarks2 – 2.45 – 2.45 2.43 – 4.88 328.38 330.81 333.22 Computer Software – 20.53 – 20.53 20.84 0.01 41.36 61.54 63.46 51.36 Know How, Business and Commercial Rights – 2.62 – 2.62 3.14 0.08 5.68 21.00 24.74 16.77 TOTAL – 25.60 – 25.60 26.41 0.09 51.92 410.92 419.01 401.35 3D.
Intangible Assets under Development –––– – – – 45.69 30.75 28.65 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS In Subsidiaries (at cost unless stated otherwise) Gold Flake Corporation Limited 1,59,98,385 (2016 - 1,59,98,385; 2015 - 1,59,98,385) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  16.00  16.00  16.00 Wills Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 48,85,626) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid – – 4.88 Russell Credit Limited 59,74,54,177 (2016 - 59,74,54,177; 2015 - 59,74,54,177) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  619.29  620.07 619.29 7,54,22,400 (2016 - 7,54,22,400; 2015 - 7,54,22,400) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, ` 6.50 per share paid  39.22 39.22 39.22 ITC Infotech India Limited 8,52,00,000 (2016 - 8,52,00,000; 2015 - 8,52,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  153.93  119.59 85.14 Landbase India Limited 31,70,00,000 (2016 - 31,70,00,000; 2015 -12,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  325.57 326.11 128.57 ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited (in liquidation) 89,99,645 (2016 - 89,99,645; 2015 - 89,99,645) Ordinary Shares of US $ 1.00 each, fully paid [(cost ` 25.58 Crores (2016 - ` 25.58 Crores; 2015 - ` 25.58 Crores), fully impaired)] – –  – BFIL Finance Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 2,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid [cost Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - ` 20.00 Crores, fully impaired)] – –– Surya Nepal Private Limited 1,18,94,400 (2016 - 1,18,94,400; 2015 - 1,18,94,400) Ordinary Shares of Nepalese Rupees 100.00 each, fully paid  10.15  13.39 10.15 Srinivasa Resorts Limited   1,63,20,477 (2016 - 1,63,20,477; 2015 - 1,63,20,477) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  18.53  18.78 18.53 Fortune Park Hotels Limited 4,50,008 (2016 - 4,50,008; 2015 - 4,50,008) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  0.45  4.72 0.45 Bay Islands Hotels Limited 11,875 (2016 - 11,875; 2015 - 11,875) Equity Shares of ` 100.00 each, fully paid  0.12  0.12 0.12 WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited 13,96,42,260 (2016 - 12,19,09,510; 2015 -10,63,08,150) Shares with no par value  641.85  561.36 486.97 King Maker Marketing, Inc. Nil (2016 - 204; 2015 - 204) Shares of Common Stock with no par value –  11.17 10.23 Wimco Limited 18,50,81,193 (2016 -18,50,81,193; 2015 -18,50,81,193) Equity Shares of ` 1.00 each, fully paid  3.26  3.03 2.83 Carried over – 1828.37 – 1733.56 – 1422.38 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017140 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Carried over 2.73 2130.59 5.37 2116.22 2.65 1673.09 INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Technico Pty Limited 1,00,15,502 (2016 - 2,26,06,065; 2015 - 2,26,06,065) Ordinary Shares with no par value [` 16.29 Crores (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil), impaired]  31.88  108.72 108.72 Technico Agri Sciences Limited 3,79,62,800 (2016 - 3,79,62,800; 2015 - Nil) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  121.00  122.84  – ITC Investments & Holdings Limited      45,00,000 (2016 - 45,00,000; 2015 - 45,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  4.50  4.50 4.50 North East Nutrients Private Limited 5,54,80,000 (2016 - 5,54,80,000; 2015 - 4,81,33,333) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  55.48  55.48 48.13 Pavan Poplar Limited  55,10,004 (2016 - 55,10,004; 2015 - 55,10,004) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  (cost ` 5.99 Crores, fully impaired) – – – Prag Agro Farm Limited  1,28,00,020 (2016 - 1,28,00,020; 2015 - 38,00,020) Equity Shares of ` 1.00 each, fully paid  [cost ` 12.82 Crores (2016 - ` 12.82 Crores; 2015 - ` 3.82 Crores), fully impaired] – –– In Associates (at cost unless stated otherwise) International Travel House Limited 2,87,600 (2016 - 2,87,600; 2015 - 2,87,600) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  0.65  3.23 0.65 Gujarat Hotels Limited 17,33,907 (2016 - 17,33,907; 2015 - 17,33,907) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  1.94  2.06 1.94 ATC Limited –  0.63 – In Joint Ventures (at cost unless stated otherwise) Espirit Hotels Private Limited 4,65,09,200 (2016 - 4,65,09,200; 2015 - 4,65,09,200) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  46.51  46.51 46.51 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 90,000 (2016 - 90,000; 2015 - 90,000) Equity Shares of ` 100.00 each, fully paid  0.90  1.43 0.90 Logix Developers Private Limited 77,66,913 (2016 - 77,66,913; 2015 - 77,66,913) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  41.95  41.95 41.95 ITC Essentra Limited  –  0.60  – In Others (at fair value through other comprehensive income) VST Industries Limited 476 (2016 - 476; 2015 - 476) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  0.14  0.08 0.06 Brought forward – 1828.37 – 1733.56 – 1422.38 141ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 1.
Non-current investments Carried over 1115.67 2191.52 988.44 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Hotel Leelaventure Limited 4,99,53,055 (2016 - 4,99,53,055; 2015 - 4,99,53,055) Equity Shares of ` 2.00 each, fully paid 81.42  89.93 93.16 EIH Limited 8,56,21,473 (2016 - 8,56,21,473; 2015 - 8,56,21,473) Equity Shares of ` 2.00 each, fully paid 1031.31  893.03 919.58 Punjab Anand Batteries Limited (in liquidation)   11,86,157 (2016 - 11,86,157; 2015 - 11,86,157) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid - under Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction’s Order of 20.04.1989  –  –– Bihar Hotels Limited 8,00,000 (2016 - 8,00,000; 2015 - 8,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 2.00 each, fully paid  0.04  0.04 0.04 Tourism Finance Corporation of India Limited 25,000 (2016 - 25,000; 2015 - 25,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  0.21  0.11 0.17 Andhra Pradesh Gas Power Corporation Limited 8,04,000 (2016 - 8,04,000; 2015 - 8,04,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  2.32  2.32  2.32 Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited 13,072 (2016 - 13,072; 2015 - 13,072) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  0.01  0.01  0.01 Mirage Advertising and Marketing Limited  12,488 (2016 - 12,488; 2015 - 12,488) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  –  – – Bilaspur Cane Development Corporation Limited 100 (2016 - 100; 2015 - 100) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid (cost ` 1000.00) ...  ...  ... INVESTMENT IN PREFERENCE SHARES In Subsidiaries (at cost unless stated otherwise) Landbase India Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,87,00,000) Redeemable Preference Shares of ` 100.00 each, fully paid  –  –  187.00 WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited 1,36,57,500 (2016-Nil; 2015-Nil) Redeemable Preference Shares of Sri Lankan Rupee 100 each, fully paid  58.55  – – INVESTMENT IN GOVERNMENT OR TRUST SECURITIES (at amortised cost) Government Securities (cost ` 74000.00)  0.01  0.01  0.01 National savings certificates (pledged with various Mandi Samitis) (cost ` 6000.00)  ...  ... ... INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES In Subsidiaries (at cost unless stated otherwise) BFIL Finance Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 15,00,000) 18.5% Non-Convertible Debentures of ` 100.00 each, (renewed at 9% in 2015) [Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - ` 15.00 Crores, fully provided)]  –  –– Brought forward 2.73 2130.59 5.37 2116.22 2.65 1673.09 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017142 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Carried over 2457.83 2191.52 1258.51 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Brought forward 1115.67 2191.52 988.44 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 143ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In Others (at amortised cost) Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited 1,79,870 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.34% (Tranche I Series 1 Bonds) For Category I, II, III Tax Free Tranche I Series 1 Bonds in the nature of Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (16 February 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  18.82  – – 3,50,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.10% For Category I & II Tax Free Bonds Tranche 1 Series - 1 in the nature of Secured Non-Convertible Debentures (05 March 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 37.47  – – 4,300 (2016 - 2,000; 2015 - Nil) 7.07% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series B (01 October 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 441.20  200.00  – 7,00,696 (2016 - 7,00,696; 2015 - Nil) 7.39% (For category I, II & III) Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Tranche I Series 2A (08 February 2031) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 70.07  70.07  – Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 50 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.38% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series P - 021 (15 July 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 50.72  –– 160 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.45% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series P-013 (24 July 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid  162.27 – – 30 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.45% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series O - 009 (08 February 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid  30.36  – – 90 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.50% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series O - 001 (31 August 2020) of `10000000.00 each, fully paid  92.07  – – 800 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.70% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series N - 017 (18 May 2020) of ` 500000.00 each, fully paid 41.01  –– 1,700 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.75% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series N-002 (13 January 2020) of ` 500000.00 each, fully paid  87.33  – – 600 (2016 - Nil; 2015 -Nil) 9.40% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series M - 016 (26 August 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  62.59  – – 2,100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.45% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series M - 015 (21 August 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  218.10 – – 30 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.95% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series Q - 002 (23 September 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid  30.15  –– Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 1.
Non-current investments Carried over 3402.98 2191.52 2305.24 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Brought forward 2457.83 2191.52 1258.51 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017144 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 1,900 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.65% Unsecured Rated Listed Redeemable Senior Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series HDBFB171 (23 October 2018) of ` 500000.00 each, fully paid 95.00  – – IDFC Bank Limited Nil (2016 - 3,000; 2015 - Nil) Zero Coupon Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series IDFC Bank OBB 20/2015 (27 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  –   325.74  – India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited  1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.26% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series V B (23 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  106.47 106.82 – 800 (2016 - 800; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series VI B (30 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  86.52 86.88  – 1,630 (2016 - 1,630; 2015 - Nil) 8.48% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series VII B (05 September 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  176.49 177.23  – 2,50,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.19% For Category I,II,III & IV Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2012-13 (Tranche I Series I) (22 January 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 25.98  – – Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited 2,250 (2016 - 2,000; 2015 - Nil) 7.19% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 99 (31 July 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  226.40 200.00 – 1,250 (2016 - 1,250; 2015 - Nil) 8.48% Tax Free Secured Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds 89th A Series (21 November 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  135.30 135.85  – 130 (2016 - 130; 2015 - Nil) 8.55% Tax Free Secured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 94th A (12 February 2029) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  14.15  14.21  – 5,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.18% (For Categories I,II & III) Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 86 (19 February 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  52.15  – – 2,50,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.00% (For Categories I & II) Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 80 (23 February 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  26.69 – – Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Carried over 3970.78 2191.52 2805.26 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Brought forward 3402.98 2191.52 2305.24 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 145ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.35% Tax Free Secured Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 89 (21 November 2023) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  11.05  – – 70,498 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.07% (For Category I, II & III ) Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 102 (21 December 2025) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  7.40 – – 250 (2016-Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.15% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 100 (21 August 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  26.35  – – 8,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.23% (For Category I, II & III) Tax Free Secured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 91 (18 February 2024) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  88.82  – – LIC Housing Finance Limited 250 (2016 - 250; 2015 - Nil) 8.49% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 249 (28 April 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  24.85 24.81 – Nil (2016 - 30; 2015 - Nil) 8.50% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 187 (13 April 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid –  3.00  – 750 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil)  7.79% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 328 (10 May 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  75.00 – – 3,000 (2016 - 3,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.69% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 257 (26 June 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  300.00  300.00  – 239 (2016 - 239; 2015 - Nil) 8.95% Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Tier II Subordinated Bonds Series III (15 September 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  24.01  24.04 – Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 9.18% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 219 (03 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid –  100.60  – Nil (2016 - 300; 2015 - Nil) 9.29% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 230 Option 1 (16 October 2017)  of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid –  30.29  –    Nil (2016 - 170; 2015 - Nil) 9.80% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche XXVI (22 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  –  17.28  – 100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.30% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 304 Option 2 (15 July 2021) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  10.32 – – Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 1.
Non-current investments Carried over 5159.90 2191.52 3534.82 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Brought forward 3970.78 2191.52 2805.26 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017146    800 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.35% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 273 Option 1 (23 October 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  81.40 – –  750 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.35% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 272 (18 October 2019 with Put Option on 17 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  76.00 – –   250 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.37% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 293 (03 October 2019 with Put Option on 02 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  25.35 – – 700 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.67% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 263 Option 2 (26 August 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  71.75  –– 350 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.75% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 290 Option 1 (21 December 2020 with Put Option on 21 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  36.47 – – 450 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.97% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 231 Option 2 (29 October 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  46.20 – –    700 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.3532% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 224 (19 August 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  72.36 –– National Highways Authority of India 2,600 (2016 - 2,500; 2015 - Nil) 7.11% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series NHAI-IIA (18 September 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  260.50 249.99  – 2,500 (2016 - 2,500; 2015 - Nil) 7.28% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series NHAI-IIB (18 September 2030) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  250.00 250.00  – 8,06,381 (2016 - 4,28,547; 2015 - Nil) 7.14% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series IA (11 January 2026) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  82.72 42.85  – 9,99,943 (2016 - 9,99,943; 2015 - Nil) 7.35% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series IIA (11 January 2031) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid  99.99 99.99  – National Housing Bank 800 (2016 - 800; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% NHB Tax Free Bonds 2028, Series V (30 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  86.38  86.73  – Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Carried over 5515.01 2191.52 4010.65 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Brought forward 5159.90 2191.52 3534.82 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 147ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Power Finance Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.12% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 139-B (22 May 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  – 99.88  – 170 (2016 - 170; 2015 - Nil) 8.29% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 129-B (13 June 2018) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  17.03 17.04  – 500 (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.38% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 131-B (27 April 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  50.10 50.11  – Nil (2016 - 1,500; 2015 - Nil) 9.11% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 115 I (07 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  –  151.04  – Nil (2016 - 379; 2015 - Nil) 9.27% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series- 92-B (21 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 38.37 – 600 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.16% Secured Redeemable Non Convertible Tax Free Bonds Series 136 (17 July 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  63.42  – – Nil (2016 - 150; 2015 - Nil) 9.32% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 117 A (19 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  – 15.19  – 500 (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 107-B (30 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  53.99 54.21 – PNB Housing Finance Limited 600 (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.36% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Note Series XXIV (12 July 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  60.14  49.99 – 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.95% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Promissory Note Series XXIX (18 October 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  100.32 – – 100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.23% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Note Series XXII (09 April 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  10.11  – – Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 1.
Non-current investments Carried over 6098.26 2191.52 4581.77 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Brought forward 5515.01 2191.52 4010.65 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017148 Rural Electrification Corporation Limited 800 (2016 - 800; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 3B (29 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  86.39  86.73 – 50 (2016 - 50; 2015 - Nil) 8.54% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 4B (11 October 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  5.43  5.45  – 250 (2016 - 250; 2015 - Nil) 8.87% Unsecured 7 Year Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable Taxable Bonds - 2020 113th Series (08 March 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  25.34 25.44  – Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 9.40% Unsecured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable Taxable Bonds-2017 Series-108 (Option I) (20 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  – 101.33  – 850 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.17% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Series 5-A (23 July 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  89.64  – – Small Industries Development Bank Of India 1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.28% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Notes Series 7 of 2015-16 (26 February 2019 with Put Option on 27 February 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid  100.00  100.00  – INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (at fair value through profit or loss) HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan 1114D March 2016 (1) - Series-35 12,80,00,000 (2016 - 12,80,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  140.79  128.34  – HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan 1132D February 2016 (1) - Series-35 4,30,00,000 (2016 - 4,30,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  47.43  43.30  – HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan 1107D March 2016 (1) - Series-36 4,00,00,000 (2016 - 4,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  43.97  40.07  – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan I - 1170 Days 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  16.64  15.21  – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan J - 1168 Days 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  11.06  10.11  – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan- Series 78 - Plan N - 1150 Days 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  16.56  15.14  – Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
Brought forward 6098.26 2191.52 4581.77 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 149ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan T - 1130 Days 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  10.96 10.03 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan W - 1135 Days 1,20,00,000 (2016 - 1,20,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  13.15 12.07 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 79 - Plan P - 1104 Days 40,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  4.17 –– Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 190 50,00,000 (2016 - 50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  5.55 5.07 – Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 191 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  16.47 15.06 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 5 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  16.54 15.09 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 12 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  11.03 10.07 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 13 2,00,00,000 (2016 - 2,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  22.06 20.13 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 17 3,50,00,000 (2016 - 3,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  38.41 35.00 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 6 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  11.07 10.10 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXXI - Series 9 1,80,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  18.92 –– UTI Fixed Term Income Fund Series XXIV - VI - 1181 Days 1,20,00,000 (2016 - 1,20,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  13.32 12.16 – UTI Fixed Term Income Fund Series XXIV - VIII - 1184 Days 80,00,000 (2016 - 80,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  8.83 8.05 – UTI Fixed Term Income Fund Series XXV - V - 1100 Days 50,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each  5.25 –– Aggregate amount of quoted and unquoted Investments 6293.99 2191.52 4734.60 2118.60 1015.56 1862.47 TOTAL 8485.51 6853.20 2878.03 Aggregate market value of quoted investments ` 6344.59 Crores  (2016 - ` 4779.57 Crores; 2015 - ` 1045.15 Crores) Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments ` 60.68 Crores (2016 - ` 44.39 Crores; 2015 - ` 70.39 Crores) 5.
Loans  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Current Non-Current 6.
Other financial assets Notes to the Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017150 Loans to related parties (Refer Note 29)   – Secured, considered good –– – – 35.07 – – Doubtful –– – – – 40.95 –– – – 35.07  40.95 Less: Allowance for doubtful loans –– – – – 40.95 –– – – 35.07 – Other Loans Others (Employees, suppliers etc.)
– Unsecured, considered good*3.37 5.84 3.85 8.12 5.02 9.34 TOTAL 3.37 5.84 3.85 8.12 40.09 9.34 * Includes interest bearing loan to a supplier, M/s MD Fresh Vegetable Private Limited  ` 1.50 Crores (2016 - ` 2.00 Crores; 2015 - Nil) carrying interest @ 12% p.a.
for upgrading its infrastructure and enhancement of its factory capacity.
Current port ion of the loan being ` 0.50 Crore (2016 - ` 0.50 Crore; 2015 -  Nil).
Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity –– – 924.75 – 1315.80 Other financial assets Advances 3.96 1.40 17.69 1.40 13.01 2.22 Deposits* 530.35 98.43 27.27 105.03 28.81 63.20 Interest accrued on Loans, Deposits, Investments etc.
314.82 – 250.43 – 139.01 – Other Receivables** 155.78 – 111.83 – 74.75 – TOTAL 1004.91 99.83 407.22 1031.18 255.58 1381.22 * Deposits includes deposits to directors ` 0.07 Crore (2016 - ` 0.07 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.05 crore) (Refer Note 29).
** Others comprise receivables on account of claims, interest, rentals, derivatives designated as hedging instrument etc.
As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 7.
Other assets Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Current Non-Current * Includes receivables on account of export incentives.
151ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements Capital Advances (Refer Note 28) – 1056.48 – 1033.24 – 391.46 Advances other than capital advances Security Deposits – With Statutory Authorities 10.85 861.67 9.00 738.79 9.15 631.36 – Others 6.91 103.57 6.57 43.11 13.29 36.78 Advances to related parties (Refer Note 29) –– 12.97 – 48.48 – Advance Tax (net of provisions) –– – – – 41.50 Other Advances (including advances with  statutory authorities, prepaid expenses, employees etc.)
530.76 648.40 413.65 659.58 395.22 606.54 Other Receivables* 62.05 – 63.96 – 89.75 – TOTAL 610.57 2670.12 506.15 2474.72 555.89 1707.64  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 8.
Inventories* (At lower of cost and net realisable value) Raw materials (including packing materials) 4873.78 4888.81 4404.52 Work-in-progress 172.80 180.51 180.82 Finished goods (manufactured) 2022.75 2744.79 2541.48 Stock-in-trade (goods purchased for resale) 435.08 346.40 352.60 Stores and spares 295.69 292.32 290.10 Intermediates - Tissue paper and Paperboards 63.89 66.99 67.24 TOTAL 7863.99 8519.82 7836.76 The above includes goods in transit as under: Raw materials (including packing materials)89.65 110.82 84.05 Stock-in-trade (goods purchased for resale) 2.86 5.76 0.53 Stores and spares 1.65 3.44 1.76 TOTAL 94.16 120.02 86.34 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes ` 15.06 Crores (2016 - ` 29.80 Crores) in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value.
Further, a sum of ` 0.65 Crore (2016 - ` 2.08 Crores) is in respect of  reversal of such write-downs.
Previous write-downs have been reversed as a result of increased sales prices in certain markets.
Inventories of ` 640.28 Crores (2016 - ` 714.51 Crores; 2015 - ` 592.64 Crores) are expected to be recovered after more than twelve months.
* Also Refer Note 19.
As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 9.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss unless stated otherwise) INVESTMENT IN PREFERENCE SHARES ICICI Bank Limited 310 (2016 - 310; 2015 - 310) Non-Cumulative Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Participative Preference Shares (20 April 2018) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid  277.65 248.76 214.85 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES Export Import Bank of India 300 (2016 - 300; 2015 - 300) 9.15% Unsecured Non-Convertible Bonds Series P-16 (05 September 2022) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 30.92 31.12 31.61  Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - 10,000; 2015 - 10,000) 6.30% Secured Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes 68th ‘A’ Series (08 March 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid – 98.91 95.54 10,00,000 (2016 - 10,00,000; 2015 - 10,00,000) 7.18% Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures 86th Series (19 February 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid       101.98 100.00 93.72 20,00,000 (2016 - 20,00,000; 2015 - 20,00,000) 8.23% Tax Free Secured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 91st (18 February 2024) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 200.00 200.00 199.19 4,35,012 (2016 - 4,35,012; 2015 - 4,35,012) 8.00% Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds 80th Series (23 February 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 43.50  43.50  42.84  LIC Housing Finance Limited Nil (2016 - 2,000; 2015 - Nil) Zero Coupon Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 242 Option 2 (24 February 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 219.06 – National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development 4,100 (2016 - 4,100; 2015 - 4,100) Zero Coupon Unsecured Non-Convertible Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes Series BNB (01 August 2017) 2D of ` 20000.00 each, fully paid 7.96 7.35 6.54 1,41,270 (2016 - 1,41,270; 2015 - 1,41,270) Zero Coupon Unsecured Non-Convertible Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes Series BNB (01 January 2019) of ` 20000.00 each, fully paid 243.86 226.26 197.03 National Highways Authority of India 4,94,476 (2016 - 4,94,476; 2015 - 4,94,476) 8.20% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds (25 January 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid    49.45 49.45 49.20  National Housing Bank 1,03,785 (2016 - 1,03,785; 2015 - 1,03,785) Zero Coupon Unsecured Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes (24 December 2018) of ` 10000.00 each, fully paid 89.67 83.30 72.53 Power Finance Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 450) 9.69% Secured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 113 (02 March 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 46.85 Carried over 767.34 277.65 1058.95 248.76 835.05 214.85 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017152 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 9.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss unless stated otherwise) (contd.)
Carried over 1468.56 520.09 1760.47 388.88 1681.17 214.85 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
1,500 (2016 - 1,500; 2015 - 1,500) 8.09% Secured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series-80-A (25 November 2021) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid 15.48 15.49 14.84 1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - 1,000) 8.01% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 107-A (30 August 2023) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.00 99.95 98.27 450 (2016 - 450; 2015 - 450) 9.32% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 119 B (17 September 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 45.83 46.18 46.52 Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 500) 8.36% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 127 (26 February 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 50.07 1,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,000; 2015 - 1,00,000) 8.20% Secured Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Series - I (01 February 2022) of `1000.00 each, fully paid 10.35 10.39 9.95 12,95,560 (2016 - 12,95,560; 2015 - 12,95,560) 8.18% Secured Tax Free Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds Series 1A (16 November 2023) of ` 1000.00 each,  fully paid 129.56 129.56 128.60 Rural Electrification Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 750) 9.38% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 117th (06 November 2018) of `1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 77.35  Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 400) 8.44% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 127th (04 December 2021) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 40.24  30,00,000 (2016 - 30,00,000; 2015 - 30,00,000) 7.22% Secured Tax Free Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds Tranche 1 Series 1(19 December 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 300.00 299.99 282.01  1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - 1,000) 8.01% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 3A (29 August 2023) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.00 99.96 98.27  INVESTMENT IN CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSITS Nil (2016 - 15,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.17% Export Import Bank of India Certificate of Deposit (10 February 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid – 140.12 – 10,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) IndusInd Bank Limited Certificate of Deposit (31 August 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid 97.34 –– 15,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) IDFC Bank Limited Certificate of Deposit (06 October 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid 145.10 –– Brought forward 767.34 277.65 1058.95 248.76 835.05 214.85 Notes to the Financial Statements 153ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 9.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss unless stated otherwise) (contd.)
Carried over 1468.56 3287.62 1760.47 1145.76 1691.85 1506.08 INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS Axis Liquid Fund  Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 32,301) Units of `  1000.00 each – – 5.00 Axis Short Term Fund 22,61,88,081 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 416.22 –– Axis Treasury Advantage Fund 5,46,967 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of `  1000.00 each 100.98 –– Birla Sun Life Cash Manager Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,19,30,256) Units of ` 100.00 each – – 408.03 Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund 2,68,28,196 (2016 - 94,07,656; 2015 - 5,05,02,285) Units of `  10.00 each 167.79 53.69 52.50 Birla Sun Life Treasury Optimizer Plan  15,45,665 (2016 - 15,45,665; 2015 - 15,45,666) Units of ` 100.00 each 32.51 29.37 26.97 Birla Sun Life Floating Rate Fund - Long Term 1,71,61,769 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 53,43,351) Units of ` 100.00 each 344.35 – 89.53 Birla Sun Life Savings Fund  1,50,00,045 (2016 - 23,45,049; 2015 - 23,45,048) Units of `  100.00 each 479.83 68.68 63.10 DSP BlackRock Liquidity Fund - Institutional Plan  Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,00,106) Units of ` 1000.00 each – – 20.02 DSP BlackRock Short Term Fund 8,80,67,259 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 252.18 ––    DSP BlackRock Ultra Short Term Fund  26,30,57,340 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units  of ` 10.00 each 311.78 –– DHFL Pramerica Ultra Short Term Fund (Formerly known as DWS Ultra Short Term Fund) 5,09,80,716 (2016 - 5,09,80,716; 2015 - 5,09,80,716) Units of `10.00 each 60.40 55.83  51.17 DWS Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 31 Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,00,00,000) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 10.68 DWS Treasury Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 8,24,18,752) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 89.28 HDFC Cash Management Fund - Treasury Advantage Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 2,34,21,163) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 70.21  HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund - Short Term Plan 10,23,22,267 (2016 - 10,23,22,267; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 290.18 267.06 – HDFC High Interest Fund - Short Term Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 5,54,65,988) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 154.66 HDFC High Interest Fund - Dynamic Plan   1,06,18,432 (2016 - 1,06,18,432; 2015 - 1,06,18,417) Units of `10.00 each 62.22 55.64 52.15 HDFC Medium Term Opportunities Fund 13,70,31,285 (2016 - 13,70,31,285; 2015 - 13,70,33,144) Units of `10.00 each 249.09 226.61 208.61 Brought forward 1468.56 520.09 1760.47 388.88 1681.17 214.85 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017154 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 9.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss unless stated otherwise) (contd.)
INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
HDFC Short Term Opportunities Fund  14,47,53,251 (2016 - 14,47,53,251; 2015 - 14,47,53,230) Units of ` 10.00 each 260.38 239.13 220.55 ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund 4,92,90,221 (2016 - 4,92,90,221; 2015 - 4,92,90,221) Units of ` 10.00 each 56.14 50.45 51.75 ICICI Prudential - Flexible Income Plan 53,44,324 (2016 - 53,44,324; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 100.00 each 167.05 153.38 –    ICICI Prudential Blended Plan B  Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 3,86,97,174) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 41.05 ICICI Prudential Dynamic Bond Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 3,59,60,193) Units of`10.00 each – – 57.02 ICICI Prudential Income Opportunities Fund 7,98,55,052 (2016 - 7,98,55,052; 2015 - 7,98,54,771) Units of ` 10.00 each 186.27 168.21 156.10 ICICI Prudential Savings Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 50,35,980) Units of ` 100.00 each – – 105.86 ICICI Prudential Short Term 7,64,50,849 (2016 - 7,64,50,849; 2015 - 7,64,51,068) Units of ` 10.00 each 267.81 241.15 221.63 ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term 22,03,55,476 (2016 - 22,03,55,476; 2015 - 15,36,33,761) Units of ` 10.00 each 350.02 319.22 201.83 IDFC Dynamic Bond Fund Nil (2016 - 4,64,29,475; 2015 - 4,64,29,475) Units of ` 10.00 each –  51.16  56.25 IDFC Corporate Bond Fund 20,53,11,314 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 230.28 ––   IDFC Money Manager Fund - Investment Plan 7,43,04,224 (2016 - 1,22,42,641; 2015 - 1,12,84,393) Units of ` 10.00 each 172.89 12.42 11.89 IDFC Money Manager Fund - Treasury Plan 5,21,99,899 (2016 - 4,22,87,680; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 136.69 102.19 –    IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Short Term 7,02,30,210 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 241.02 ––   JPMorgan India Active Bond Fund  Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 9,68,66,060) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 150.33  JPMorgan India Liquid Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 20,35,37,192) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 215.04 JPMorgan India Treasury Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 5,78,55,112) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 106.59 Kotak Bond Short Term 16,24,19,814 (2016 - 2,49,65,867; 2015 - 2,49,65,867) Units of `  10.00 each  463.19  25.82  26.12 Kotak Liquid Scheme Plan A  Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 17,641) Units of `  1000.00 each – – 5.00 Brought forward 1468.56 3287.62 1760.47 1145.76 1691.85 1506.08 Carried over 1468.56 5819.36 1760.47 2508.89 1691.85 3133.09 Notes to the Financial Statements 155ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 9.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss unless stated otherwise) (contd.)
INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
Kotak Treasury Advantage Fund  17,04,16,740 (2016 - 13,17,66,857; 2015 - 4,76,54,096) Units of `  10.00 each 449.20 320.94 106.67 L&T Short Term Opportunities Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 3,00,07,277) Units of `10.00 each – – 40.54 L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund   Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,62,81,386) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 60.28 Reliance Floating Rate Fund - Short Term Plan 40,11,92,118 (2016 - 38,18,89,185; 2015 - 19,74,70,372) Units of ` 10.00 each 498.44 411.58 258.71  Reliance Liquid Fund - Treasury Plan Nil (2016 - 54,317; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each – 20.02 –    Reliance Medium Term Fund 10,42,77,348 (2016 - 10,42,77,348;  2015 - 12,56,20,295) Units of ` 10.00 each 229.47 209.92 260.78  Reliance Short Term Fund 2,07,06,236 (2016 - 2,07,06,236; 2015 - 20,42,82,694) Units of ` 10.00 each 65.43 59.68 462.10 Reliance Money Manager Fund 6,71,878 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each 152.95 ––    SBI Premier Liquid Fund 7,74,070 (2016 - Nil; 2015-1,13,914) Units of ` 1000.00 each 197.05 – 25.01 Tata Ultra Short Term  12,53,751 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each 311.12 ––    UTI - Short Term Income Fund - Institutional Option Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 5,06,50,712) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 52.56  Current Portion of Non Current Investments (at amortised cost) INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES Export Import Bank of India Nil (2016 - 450; 2015 - Nil) 8.20% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-10-2019 (18 February 2019 with Call/Put Option on 18 February 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 45.00 –  Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.33% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-12-2019 (20 March 2019 with Call/Put Option on 20 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 100.00 – Nil (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 7.825% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-07-2018 (30 November 2018 with Call/Put Option on 15 March 2017) of `1000000.00 each, fully paid – 49.83 – Nil (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.20% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-14-2019 (15 March 2019 with Call/Put Option on 16 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 50.00 – National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Nil (2016-4,000; 2015-Nil) 8.05% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds Series 16 H (04 January 2019 with Call/Put Option on 14 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 400.00 – Carried over 1468.56 7723.02 2405.30 3531.03 1691.85 4399.74 Brought forward 1468.56 5819.36 1760.47 2508.89 1691.85 3133.09 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017156 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 9.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss unless stated otherwise) (contd.)
INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements Brought forward 1468.56 7723.02 2405.30 3531.03 1691.85 4399.74 Power Finance Corporation Limited 1500 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.11% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 115 I (07 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 150.22 –– 150 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.32% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 117A (19 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 15.06 –– 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.12% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 139-B (22 May 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 99.99 –– 379 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.27% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 92-B (21 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 38.04 –– Rural Electrification Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - 2,850; 2015 - Nil) 8.28% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bond Series 138 (04 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 285.00 – 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.40% Unsecured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable Taxable Bonds - 2017 Series -108 (Option I) (20 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.31 –– Small Industries Development Bank Of India Nil (2016 - 2,500; 2015 - Nil) 8.05% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Notes Series 1 of 2015-16 (28 January 2019 with Call/Put Option on 14 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 250.00 – LIC Housing Finance Limited 30 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.50% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible  Debentures Tranche 187 (13 April 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 3.00 –– 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.18% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 219 (03 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.11 –– 300 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.29% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 230 Option 1 (16 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 30.12 –– 170 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.80% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche XXVI (22 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 17.10 –– IDFC Bank Limited 3,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Zero Coupon Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series IDFC Bank OBB 20/2015 (27 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 354.25 –– Aggregate amount of quoted and unquoted Investments 2376.76 7723.02 2940.30 3531.03 1691.85 4399.74 TOTAL 10099.78 6471.33 6091.59 Aggregate market value of quoted investments ` 2380.97 Crores (2016 - ` 2940.81 Crores; 2015 - ` 1691.85 Crores) 157ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017158  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 10.
Trade receivables (Current) Secured, considered good 28.89 27.23 25.06 Unsecured, considered good 2178.61 1659.12 1697.34 Doubtful 96.74 72.60 53.79 Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables 96.74 72.60 53.79 TOTAL 2207.50 1686.35 1722.40 11.
Cash and cash equivalents@ Balances with Banks Current accounts 150.70 67.73 27.65 Cheques, drafts on hand 3.28 5.14 5.60 Cash on hand 2.17 2.92 3.04 TOTAL 156.15 75.79 36.29 @ Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cheques, drafts on hand, cash at bank and deposits with banks with original maturity of 3 months or less.
12.
Other bank balances Earmarked balances 157.68 153.99 134.89 In deposit accounts* 2433.44 5409.42 6101.63 TOTAL 2591.12 5563.41 6236.52 * Represents deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months having remaining maturity of less than 12 months from the Balance Sheet date.
Notes to the Financial Statements 159ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 13.
Equity Share capital As at As at As at As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 1st April, 2015 (No.
of Shares) ( ` in Crores) (No.
of Shares) ( ` in Crores) (No.
of Shares) ( ` in Crores) Authorised Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each 20,00,00,00,000  2000.00  10,00,00,00,000  1000.00  10,00,00,00,000  1000.00 Issued and Subscribed Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each, fully paid 12,14,73,83,071  1214.74  8,04,72,06,991  804.72  8,01,55,19,541  801.55 A) Reconciliation of number of Ordinary Shares outstanding As at beginning of the year 8,04,72,06,991  804.72  8,01,55,19,541  801.55 Add: Issue of Bonus Shares 4,02,66,57,100  402.67   –  – Add: Issue of Shares on exercise of Options 7,35,18,980  7.35   3,16,87,450  3.17 As at end of the year 12,14,73,83,071  1214.74  8,04,72,06,991  804.72 As at As at As at As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 1st April, 2015 (No.
of Shares) % (No.
of Shares) % (No.
of Shares) % Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited 2,97,83,47,320 24.52   1,98,55,64,880  24.68  1,98,55,64,880  24.77 Life Insurance Corporation of India 1,97,50,75,980  16.26  1,15,50,35,797  14.35  1,15,50,35,797  14.41 Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India 1,10,25,91,521  9.08   89,67,42,540  11.14  89,67,24,540  11.19 B) Shareholders holding more than 5% of the Ordinary Shares in the Company C) Ordinary Shares allotted as fully paid pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received in cash during the period of five years immediately preceding 31st March 2017 2016 (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) Shares issued in 2014-15 pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement between Wimco Limited and ITC Limited 87,761  87,761 2017 2016 (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) Bonus Shares issued in 2016-17 4,02,66,57,100 – D) Ordinary Shares allotted as fully paid up Bonus Shares for the period of five years immediately preceding 31st March E) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to the Ordinary Shares The Ordinary Shares of the Company, having par value of ` 1.00 per share, rank pari passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend.
As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each 43,15,59,080 30,12,99,270 26,93,51,410 F) Shares reserved for issue under Options Terms and Conditions of Options Granted Each Option entitles the holder thereof to apply for and be allotted ten Ordinary Shares of the Company of ` 1.00 each upon payment of the exercise price during the exercise period.
The exercise period commences from the date of vesting of the Options and expires at the end of five years from (i) the date of  grant in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (introduced in 2001) and (ii) the date of vesting in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2006 & the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2010.
The vesting period for conversion of Options is as follows: On completion of 12 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 24 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 36 months from the date of grant of the Options : 40% vests The Options have been granted at the ‘market price’ as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
Further details of ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes are provided in Note 27(xii).
Notes to the Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017160  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 14.
Non-current borrowings Unsecured Deferred payment liabilities Sales tax deferment loans  17.99 25.83 38.69 TOTAL 17.99 25.83 38.69 Sales tax deferment loans Interest free deferral period ranging from 10 to 14 years and are repayable by 2025-26.
The scheduled maturity of the Non-current borrowings are summarised as under: Term Loans Deferred Term Loans Deferred Term Loans Deferred Payment Payment Payment Liabilities Liabilities Liabilities * Represents Interest Free Loan from a subsidiary company taken over pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement for demerger of the Non-Engineering Business of Wimco Limited (‘Wimco’) into ITC Limited, repaid in March, 2016.
* Represents dividend amounts either not claimed or kept in abeyance in accordance with Section 126 of the Companies Act, 2013 or such amounts in respect of which Prohibitory/Attachment Orders are on record with the Company.
** Represents amounts which are subject matter of a pending legal dispute with a bank for which the Company has filed a suit.
As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 15.
Other financial liabilities Non-current Others (Includes retention money payable towards property, plant and equipment)  9.21  15.13  7.05 TOTAL  9.21  15.13  7.05 Current Current maturities of long-term debt (Refer Note 14)  7.84  12.86  14.31 Interest accrued  1.65  1.56  1.51 Unpaid dividend*  157.42  153.56  134.50 Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon  …  … … Unpaid matured debentures/bonds and interest accrued thereon**  0.30  0.32  0.32 Others (Consists of payable for property, plant and equipment, derivatives designated as hedging instruments etc.)
617.57  426.41  496.15 TOTAL  784.78  594.71  646.79 Borrowings repayable In the first year (Refer Note 15) – 7.84 – 12.86 2.00* 12.31 Current maturities of long-term debt – 7.84 – 12.86 2.00 12.31 In the second year – 6.86 – 7.84 – 12.86 In the third to fifth year – 5.85 – 12.36 – 17.94 After five years – 5.28 – 5.63 – 7.89 Non-current borrowings – 17.99 – 25.83 – 38.69 Notes to the Financial Statements 161ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 16.
Provisions Provision for employee benefits [Refer Note 27(vi)] Retirement benefits  21.43  85.41   37.33  74.36  51.65  64.04 Other benefits  20.40  45.96  20.27  37.83  23.33  36.68 TOTAL 41.83  131.37  57.60  112.19  74.98  100.72  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Current Non-Current  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 17.
Deferred tax liabilities (Net) Deferred tax liabilities  2416.95  2389.15  2144.96 Less: Deferred tax assets  545.25  521.72  467.74 TOTAL  1871.70  1867.43  1677.22 2016-17 Deferred tax liabilities/assets in relation to: On fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment etc.
1744.15  122.43 – – –  1866.58 On excise duty on closing stock  600.92  (228.68) – – –  372.24 On cash flow hedges  3.40 – (7.18) 5.77 (7.69) (5.70) Other timing differences 40.68 143.15 – – – 183.83 Total deferred tax liabilities 2389.15 36.90 (7.18) 5.77 (7.69) 2416.95 On employees’ separation and retirement etc.
80.10 3.39 3.04 – – 86.53 On provision for doubtful debts/advances  26.05 8.95 – – – 35.00 On State and Central taxes etc.
322.60 13.23 – – – 335.83 Other timing differences 92.97 (5.08) – – – 87.89 Total deferred tax assets 521.72 20.49 3.04 – – 545.25 Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 1867.43 16.41 (10.22) 5.77 (7.69) 1871.70 Recognised Recognised Reclassified Opening in profit Recognised directly to profit Closing Balance or loss in OCI in Equity or loss Balance 2015-16 Deferred tax liabilities/assets in relation to: On fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment etc.
1570.30  173.85 – – – 1744.15 On excise duty on closing stock 513.00 87.92 – – – 600.92 On cash flow hedges 4.20 – (0.65) – (0.15) 3.40 Other timing differences 57.46 (16.78) – – – 40.68 Total deferred tax liabilities 2144.96 244.99 (0.65) – (0.15) 2389.15 On employees’ separation and retirement etc.
83.01 (21.54) 18.63 – – 80.10 On provision for doubtful debts/advances 23.40 2.65 – – –  26.05 On State and Central taxes etc.
312.54 10.06 – – – 322.60 Other timing differences 48.79 44.18 – – – 92.97 Total deferred tax assets 467.74 35.35 18.63 – – 521.72 Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 1677.22 209.64 (19.28) – (0.15) 1867.43 Movement in deferred tax liabilities/assets balances The Company has long term capital losses of ` 74.12 Crores (2016 - ` 295.46 Crores; 2015 - ` 282.24 Crores) for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised.
This loss is due to expire in financial year 2023-24.
(` in Crores) Notes to the Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017162  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 18.
Other liabilities Non-current Deferred revenue arising from Government grant 14.65 –– TOTAL 14.65 –– Current Statutory liabilities 2682.76 2422.60 2334.58 Advances received from customers 580.26 907.60 641.03 Others – Deferred revenue arising from Government grant related to assets 0.79 –– – Others (includes deferred revenue, accruals, customer deposits etc.)
87.34 111.76 81.38 TOTAL 3351.15 3441.96 3056.99 19.
Current borrowings Secured Loans from Banks Cash credit facilities 0.01 3.60 0.02 TOTAL 0.01 3.60 0.02 Cash credit facilities are secured by hypothecation of inventories of the Company, both present and future (Refer Note 8).
20.
Current tax liabilities (Net) Current taxation (net of advance payment) 101.08 28.39 – Fringe benefit tax (net of advance payment) – – 1.55 TOTAL 101.08 28.39 1.55 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 21A.
Revenue from operations Sale of Products 53672.44 50308.94 Sale of Services 1329.25 1273.51 Gross Revenue from sale of products and services* [including excise duty of ` 16022.49 Crores (2016 - ` 15107.18 Crores)] 55001.69 51582.45 Other Operating Revenues# 446.77 362.12 TOTAL 55448.46 51944.57 163ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 *  Net of sales returns and damaged stocks.
# Includes Government grants received of ` 127.01 Crores (2016 - ` 71.92 Crores) on account of Export Promotion Capital Goods, Served from India Scheme, Service Export from India Scheme, Merchandise Export from India Scheme etc.
21B.
Gross revenue from sale of products and services* FMCG – Cigarettes etc.
34001.98  32348.29 – Branded Packaged Food Products 8036.41 7097.49 – Others (Apparel, Education and Stationery Products, Personal Care Products, Safety Matches, Agarbattis etc.)
2462.16 2622.13 Hotels – Hotels Sales/Income from Hotel Services 1329.25 1273.51 Agri Business – Unmanufactured Tobacco 1817.93 1694.19 – Other Agri Products and Commodities (Wheat, Soya, Spices, Coffee, Aqua etc.)
3534.95 2695.15 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging – Paperboards and Paper 3219.57 3275.67 – Printed Materials 599.44 576.02 TOTAL 55001.69 51582.45 *  Net of sales returns and damaged stocks.
Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Employee benefits expense Salaries and wages 1687.15 1546.27 Contribution to Provident and other funds 147.28 129.84 Share based payments to employees 450.32 501.91 Staff welfare expenses 189.06 178.95 2473.81 2356.97 Less: Recoveries made/reimbursements received 29.50 25.38 TOTAL 2444.31 2331.59 24.
Finance costs Interest expense: – On financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 7.42 1.67 – Others 15.53 47.46 TOTAL 22.95 49.13 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017164 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 22.
Other income Interest income 864.58 851.63 Dividend income 248.85 376.90 Other non-operating income 37.62 21.54 Other gains and losses 834.86 519.19 TOTAL 1985.91 1769.26 Interest income comprises interest from: a) Deposits with banks etc.
- carried at amortised cost 320.96 557.90 b) Financial assets mandatorily measured at FVTPL 154.27 135.18 c) Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 388.97 150.67 d) Others (from statutory authorities etc.)
0.38 7.88 TOTAL 864.58 851.63 Dividend income comprises dividend from: a) Equity instruments measured at FVTOCI held at the end of reporting period 0.02  18.86 b) Other investments 248.83 358.04 TOTAL 248.85 376.90 Other gains and losses: Net foreign exchange gain/(loss) 0.49 (14.91) Net gain/(loss) arising on financial assets mandatorily measured at FVTPL* 646.71 542.58 Net gain/(loss) recognised on disposal of subsidiary and return of capital by subsidiary 203.95 (34.48) Impairment of investment in subsidiary companies, reversed - Net (16.29) 26.00 TOTAL 834.86 519.19 * Includes ` 143.53 Crores (2016 - ` 444.96 Crores) being net gain/(loss) on sale of investments.
* Excluding taxes.
# Includes remuneration for professional services rendered by firms of auditors in which some of the partners of the statutory auditors firm are partners  ` 0.91 Crore (2016 - ` 0.53 Crore).
165ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 25.
Other expenses Power and fuel 550.32 541.57 Consumption of stores and spare parts 262.23 248.45 Contract processing charges 821.62 801.44 Rent [Refer Note 27(ix)] 308.68 298.71 Rates and taxes 556.89 628.88 Insurance 55.25 56.31 Repairs – Buildings 63.00 56.72            – Machinery 209.01 185.33            – Others 62.71 50.60 Maintenance and upkeep 184.20 160.94 Outward freight and handling charges 836.95 836.86 Warehousing charges 116.90 129.49 Advertising/Sales promotion 792.44 871.27 Market research 113.44 93.05 Design and product development 49.58 46.41 Hotel reservation/Marketing expenses 31.40 31.62 Retail accessories 202.95 190.41 Brokerage and discount - sales 9.01 8.60 Commission to selling agents 38.69 46.16 Doubtful and bad debts 30.74 22.40 Doubtful and bad advances, loans and deposits 1.25 (9.50) Bank and credit card charges 22.38 22.80 Information technology services 227.08 224.47 Travelling and conveyance 229.90 235.97 Training and development 20.66 19.78 Legal expenses 44.85 33.20 Consultancy/Professional fees 103.06 81.65 Postage, telephone etc.
27.74 26.85 Printing and stationery 17.19 16.78 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment - Net 5.00 45.21 Loss on sale of stores and spare parts - Net 4.54 2.32 Miscellaneous expenses 1090.37 1081.71 TOTAL 7090.03 7086.46 Miscellaneous expenses include : (1) Auditors’ remuneration and expenses* Audit fees 2.65 2.65 Tax audit fees 0.55 0.55 Fees for limited review 0.93 0.93 Fees for other services# 1.99 1.83 Reimbursement of expenses 0.45 0.52 (2) Cost auditors’ fees 0.10 0.09 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 26.
Income tax expenses A.
Amount recognised in profit or loss Current tax Income tax for the year Current tax 5339.68 4948.76 Adjustments/(credits) related to previous years - Net Current tax (54.03) (51.15) Fringe benefit tax – (1.55) Total current tax 5285.65 4896.06 Deferred tax Deferred tax for the year (37.62) 158.49 Adjustments/(credits) related to previous years - Net 54.03 51.15 Total deferred tax 16.41 209.64 TOTAL 5302.06 5105.70 B.
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income The tax (charge)/credit arising on income and expenses recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: Deferred tax On items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 3.04 18.63 Related to designated portion of hedging instruments in cash flow hedges 21.18 – 24.22 18.63 On items that will be reclassified to profit or loss Related to designated portion of hedging instruments in cash flow hedges (6.31) 0.80 TOTAL 17.91 19.43 C. Amount Recognised directly in equity The income tax (charged)/credited directly to equity during the year is as follows: Deferred tax Arising on gains/(losses) of hedging instruments in cash flow hedges transferred to the initial carrying amounts of hedged items 5.77 – TOTAL 5.77 – D. Reconciliation of effective tax rate The income tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: Profit before tax 15502.96 14434.07 Income tax expense calculated @ 34.608% (2016- 34.608%) 5365.26 4995.34 Effect of tax relating to uncertain tax positions 93.90 101.02 Effect of different tax rate on certain items (101.54) 19.70 Effect of income not taxable (89.75) (121.50) Other differences 85.66 112.69 Benefit of previously unrecognised tax loss to reduce current tax expense (41.38) – Benefit of previously unrecognised tax loss to reduce deferred tax expense (10.09) – Total 5302.06 5107.25 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of prior years – (1.55) Income tax recognised in profit or loss 5302.06 5105.70 The tax rate used for the year 2015-16 and 2016-17 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 34.608% (30% + surcharge @ 12% and education cess @ 3%) payable on taxable profits under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017166 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements (i) Earnings per share 2017 2016 Earnings per share has been computed as under: (a) Profit for the year ( ` in Crores) 10200.90 9328.37 (b) Weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding for the purpose of basic earnings per share 12,10,38,51,999 12,05,36,13,518*    (c) Effect of potential Ordinary shares on Employee Stock Options outstanding 7,54,20,442 6,64,08,089* (d) Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in computing diluted earnings per share [(b) + (c)] 12,17,92,72,441 12,12,00,21,607 (e) Earnings per share on profit for the year (Face Value ` 1.00 per share) –  Basic [(a)/(b)] 8.43 7.74                       –  Diluted [(a)/(d)] 8.38 7.70 *After considering Bonus Issue During the year Bonus Shares were allotted on 7th July, 2016 in the ratio of 1:2.
Previous year figures have been restated for the purpose of computation of Earnings per share.
(ii) Expenditure incurred under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities - ` 275.96 Crores (2016 - ` 247.50 Crores) comprising employee benefits expense of ` 6.75 Crores (2016 - ` 7.01 Crores) and other expenses of ` 269.21 Crores (2016 - ` 240.49 Crores) of which ` 16.80 Crores (2016 - ` 17.04 Crores) is accrued for payment as on 31st March, 2017.
Such CSR expenditure of ` 275.96 Crores (2016 - ` 247.50 Crores) excludes ` 11.80 Crores (2016 - ` 11.43 Crores) being the excess of expenditure of salaries of CSR personnel and administrative expenses over the limit imposed of 5% of total CSR expenditure laid down under Rule 4(6) of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 for such expenses.
(iii) Research and Development expenses for the year amount to ` 134.83 Crores (2016 - ` 121.91 Crores).
(iv) Cost of inventory recognised as expense during the year amount to ` 34655.68 Crores (2016 - ` 31908.54 Crores).
(v) Contingent liabilities and commitments : (a)  Contingent liabilities (i) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts ` 688.53 Crores (2016 - ` 581.25 Crores; 2015 - ` 558.25 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 195.17 Crores (2016 - ` 178.47 Crores; 2015 - ` 153.37 Crores).
These comprise: G Excise duty, VAT/sales taxes and other indirect taxes claims disputed by the Company relating to issues of applicability and classification aggregating ` 582.60 Crores (2016 - ` 471.42 Crores; 2015 - ` 450.01 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 185.88 Crores (2016 - ` 159.98 Crores; 2015 - ` 135.58 Crores).
G Local Authority taxes/cess/royalty on property, utilities etc.
claims disputed by the Company relating to issues of applicability and determination aggregating ` 59.42 Crores (2016 - ` 73.36 Crores; 2015 - ` 68.79 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 4.99 Crores (2016 - ` 14.46 Crores; 2015 - ` 13.47 Crores).
G Third party claims arising from disputes relating to contracts aggregating ` 39.04 Crores (2016- ` 29.10 Crores; 2015 - ` 29.19 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 0.36 Crore (2016 - ` 0.25 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.14 Crore).
Notes to the Financial Statements 167ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
G Other matters ` 7.47 Crores (2016 - ` 7.37 Crores; 2015 - ` 10.26 Crores), including interest on other matters, where applicable, estimated to be ` 3.94 Crores (2016 - ` 3.78 Crores; 2015 - ` 4.18 Crores).
It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of cash flows, if any, in respect of the above.
(ii)  Corporate Guarantee given to Yes Bank Limited for credit facility availed by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) outstanding - ` 1.30 Crores (2016 - ` 1.30 Crores; 2015 - ` 1.30 Crores).
(b) Commitments G Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital accounts and not provided for ` 1990.24 Crores (2016 - ` 2039.83 Crores; 2015 - ` 1432.41 Crores).
G Uncalled liability on shares partly paid is ` 26.40 Crores (2016 - ` 26.40 Crores; 2015 - ` 26.40 Crores).
(vi) (a) Defined Benefit Plans/Long Term Compensated Absences : -  Description of Plans The Company makes contributions to both Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution Plans for qualifying employees.
These Plans are administered through approved Trusts, which operate in accordance with the Trust Deeds, Rules and applicable Statutes.
The concerned Trusts are managed by Trustees who provide strategic guidance with regard to the management of their investments and liabilities and also periodically review their performance.
Provident Fund, Pension and Gratuity Benefits are funded and Leave Encashment Benefits are unfunded in nature.
The Defined Benefit Pension Plans are based on employees’ pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Under the Provident Fund, Gratuity and Leave Encashment Schemes, employees are entitled to receive lump sum benefits.
The liabilities arising in the Defined Benefit Schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method at the year end.
The Company makes regular contributions to these Employee Benefit Plans.
Additional contributions are made to these plans as and when required based on actuarial valuation.
Some Group companies also participate in these Plans.
These participating Group companies make contributions to the Plans for their respective employees on a uniform basis and each entity ascertains their obligation through actuarial valuation.
The net Defined benefit cost is recognised by these companies in their respective Financial Statements.
Risk Management The Defined Benefit Plans expose the Company to risk of actuarial deficit arising out of investment risk, interest rate risk an d salary cost inflation risk.
Investment Risks: This may arise from volatility in asset values due to market fluctuations and impairment of assets due to credit losses.
These Plans primarily invest in debt instruments such as Government securities and highly rated corporate bonds – the valuation of which is inversely proportional to the interest rate movements.
Interest Rate Risk: The present value of Defined Benefit Plans liability is determined using the discount rate based on the market yields prevailing at the end of reporting period on Government bonds.
A decrease in yields will increase the fund liabilities and vice-versa.
Salary Cost Inflation Risk: The present value of the Defined Benefit Plan liability is calculated with reference to the future salaries of participants under the Plan.
Increase in salary due to adverse inflationary pressures might lead to higher liabilities.
These Plans have a relatively balanced mix of investments in order to manage the above risks.
The investment strategy is designed based on the interest rate scenario, liquidity needs of the Plans and pattern of investment as prescribed under various statutes.
The Trustees regularly monitor the funding and investments of these Plans.
Risk mitigation systems are in place to ensure that the health of the portfolio is regularly reviewed and investments do not pose any significant risk of impairment.
Periodic audits are conducted to ensure adequacy of internal controls.
Pension obligation of the employees is secured by purchasing annuities thereby de-risking the Plans from future payment obligation.
Notes to the Financial Statements 168 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded I Components of Employer Expense – Recognised in Profit or Loss  1 Current Service Cost 44.66 28.04 5.57 44.34 20.02 4.87  2 Past Service Cost ––– –––  3 Net Interest Cost (5.13) (1.18) 6.36 (6.73) (0.09) 5.77 4 Total expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 39.53 26.86 11.93 37.61 19.93 10.64 – Re-measurements recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 5 Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in Net interest cost) (20.58) (4.44) – 1.41 (2.03) – 6 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions ––– ––– 7 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 32.35 15.66 4.86 (10.22) (3.31) (2.13) 8 Changes in asset ceiling (excluding interest income) ––– ––– 9 Effect of experience adjustments 7.41 (10.59) 3.29 34.40 21.23 14.49 10 Total re-measurements included in Other Comprehensive Income 19.18 0.63 8.15 25.59 15.89 12.36 11 Total defined benefit cost recognised in Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income (4+10)58.71 27.49 20.08 63.20 35.82 23.00 The current service cost and net interest cost for the year pertaining to Pension and Gratuity expenses have been recognised in “Contribution to Provident and other funds” and Leave Encashment in “Salaries and wages” under Note 23.
The remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are included in Other Comprehensive Income.
Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment II Actual Returns 71.46 26.37 – 49.12 22.21 – III Net Asset/(Liability) recognised in Balance Sheet   1 Present Value of Defined Benefit Obligation 722.69 313.11 98.84 627.53 293.99 90.82  2 Fair Value of Plan Assets 716.25 311.55 – 640.50 273.12 –  3 Status [Surplus/(Deficit)] (6.44) (1.56) (98.84) 12.97 (20.87) (90.82) 4 Restrictions on Asset Recognised ––– ––– Notes to the Financial Statements 169ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment IV Change in Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) 1 Present Value of DBO at the beginning of the year 627.53 293.99 90.82 615.05 282.51 80.75 2 Current Service Cost 44.66 28.04 5.57 44.34 20.02 4.87 3 Interest Cost 45.75 20.75 6.36 43.80 20.09 5.77 4 Remeasurement gains/(losses):  a.
Effect of changes in demographic assumptions ––– ––– b.
Effect of changes in financial assumptions 32.35 15.66 4.86 (10.22) (3.31) (2.13) c. Changes in asset ceiling (excluding interest income) ––– ––– d. Effect of experience adjustments 7.41 (10.59) 3.29 34.40 21.23 14.49 5 Curtailment Cost/(Credits) ––– ––– 6 Settlement Cost/(Credits) ––– ––– 7 Liabilities assumed in business combination ––– ––– 8 Exchange difference on foreign plans ––– –––  9 Benefits Paid (35.01) (34.74) (12.06) (99.84) (46.55) (12.93) 10 Present Value of DBO at the end of the year 722.69 313.11 98.84 627.53 293.99 90.82 5 Net Asset/ (Liability) recognised As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015in Balance Sheet – Pension (6.44) – 12.97 – 48.48 – – Gratuity (1.56) – (20.87) – (34.94) – – Leave Encashment (13.43) (85.41) (16.46) (74.36) (16.71) (64.04) Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current V Best Estimate of Employers’ Expected Contribution for the next year As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 – Pension 107.46 25.04 73.52 – Gratuity 18.41 18.60 38.29 Notes to the Financial Statements 170 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment VI  Change in Fair Value of Assets 1 Plan Assets at the beginning of the year 640.50 273.12 – 663.53 247.57 – 2 Asset acquired in Business Combination ––– ––– 3 Interest Income 50.88 21.93 – 50.53 20.18 – 4 Remeasurement Gains/(Losses) on plan assets 20.58 4.44 – (1.41) 2.03 – 5 Actual Company Contributions 39.30 46.80 – 27.69 49.89 – 6 Benefits Paid (35.01) (34.74) – (99.84) (46.55) – 7 Plan Assets at the end of the year 716.25 311.55 – 640.50 273.12 – VII Actuarial Assumptions As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Discount Expected Discount Expected Discount Expected Rate (%) Return Rate (%) Return Rate (%) Return on Plan on Plan on Plan Assets (%) Assets (%) Assets (%) 1 Pension 6.75 7.50 7.50 7.75 7.75 7.75 2 Gratuity 6.75 7.50 7.50 7.75 7.75 7.75 3 Leave Encashment 6.75 – 7.50 – 7.75 – The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuations take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
VIII Major Category of Plan Assets as a % of the Total Plan Assets As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 1 Government Securities/Special Deposit with RBI 27.68% 33.68% 34.57% 2 High Quality Corporate Bonds 19.80% 25.28% 28.05% 3 Insurer Managed Funds* 41.93% 31.88% 26.96% 4 Mutual Funds 2.36% 2.24% 2.72% 5 Cash and Cash Equivalents 5.39% 3.73% 4.49% 6 Term Deposits 2.84% 3.19% 3.21% * In the absence of detailed information regarding plan assets which is funded with Insurance Companies, the composition of each major category of plan assets, the percentage or amount for each category to the fair value of plan assets has not been disclosed.
The fair value Government securities, corporate bonds, mutual funds are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets.
The employee benefit plans do not hold any securities issued by the Company.
Notes to the Financial Statements 171ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
IX Basis used to determine the Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the current portfolio of assets, investment strategy and market scenario.
In order to protect the capital and optimise returns within acceptable risk parameters, the plan assets are well diversified.
XI Sensitivity Analysis The Sensitivity Analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible change of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation and the asset value changes may offset the impact to some extent.
For presenting the sensitivities, the present value of the Defined Benefit Obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the Defined Benefit Obligation presented above.
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in the preparation of the Sensitivity Analysis from previous year.
Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment Encashment X Net Asset/ (Liability) recognised in Balance Sheet (including experience adjustment impact) 1 Present Value of Defined Benefit Obligation 722.69 313.11 98.84 627.53 293.99 90.82 615.05 282.51 80.75 2 Fair Value of Plan Assets 716.25 311.55 – 640.50 273.12 – 663.53 247.57 – 3 Status [Surplus/(Deficit)] (6.44) (1.56) (98.84) 12.97 (20.87) (90.82) 48.48 (34.94) (80.75) 4 Experience Adjustment of Plan Assets [Gain/(Loss)] 20.58 4.44 – (1.41) 2.03 – 19.65 6.29 – 5 Experience Adjustment of obligation [(Gain)/Loss] 7.41 (10.59) 3.29 34.40 21.23 14.49 (54.42) 11.99 (6.06) For the year ended For the year ended As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) ( ` in Crores)  DBO as at 31st March, 2017 DBO as at 31st March, 2016 1 Discount Rate + 100 basis points 1074.55 950.68 2 Discount Rate - 100 basis points 1210.20 1074.74 3 Salary Increase Rate + 1% 1196.49 1066.73 4 Salary Increase Rate – 1% 1076.22 953.76 Notes to the Financial Statements 172 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Maturity Analysis Of The Benefit Payments 1 Year 1 159.35 98.24 2 Year 2 143.80 107.81 3 Year 3 87.94 126.64 4 Year 4 111.05 110.98 5 Year 5 111.82 80.54 6 Next 5 Years 497.13 453.06 (b) Amounts towards Defined Contribution Plans have been recognised under “Contribution to Provident and other funds” in Note 23: ` 80.89 Crores (2016 - ` 72.30 Crores).
(vii) Micro, Small and Medium scale business entities: A sum of ` 38.54 Crores is payable to Micro and Small Enterprises as at 31st March, 2017 (2016 - ` 34.13 Crores; 2015 - ` 24.56 Crores).
The above amount comprise of ` 28.98 Crores (2016 - ` 32.92 Crores; 2015 - ` 21.91 Crores) on account of trade payable and ` 9.56 Crores (2016 - ` 1.21 Crores; 2015 - ` 2.65 Crores) on account of other current liabilities.
There are no Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, to whom the Company owes dues, which are outstanding for more than 45 days during the year and also as at 31st March, 2017.
This information as required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Company.
(viii) Details of Specified Bank Notes (SBN) held and transacted during the period from 8th November, 2016 to 30th December, 201 6 as provided in the Table below:- (` in Crores) 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
Particulars SBNs Other denomination Total notes Closing cash in hand as on 08.11.2016 3.03 1.02 4.05 (+) Permitted receipts 6.79 19.87 26.66 (–) Permitted payments ... 2.45 2.45 (–) Amount deposited in banks 9.82 15.62 25.44 Closing cash in hand as on 30.12.2016 – 2.82 2.82 (ix) The Company’s significant leasing arrangements are in respect of operating leases for land and building premises (residenti al, office, stores, godowns etc.).
These leasing arrangements which are not non-cancellable range between 11 months and 9 years generally, or longer, and are usually renewable by mutual consent on mutually agreeable terms.
The aggregate lease rentals payable are charged as ‘Rent’ under Note 25.
With regard to certain other non-cancellable operating leases for premises, the future minimum rentals are as follows: (x) Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2017 on 17th March, 2017 notifying the amendments to Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ and Ind AS 102, ‘Share-based payment’.
These amendments are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2017.
The Company expects that there will be no material impact on the financial statements resulting from the implementation of these standards.
(xi) Under the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement (JVA), Logix Developers Private Limited (LDPL) was to develop a luxury hotel - cum-service apartment complex.
However, Logix Estates Private Ltd., Noida, the JV partner communicated its intention to explore alternative development plans and did not contribute its share of the cash call made by LDPL in June 2014.
The resultant deadlock has stalled the project.
The Company’s petition, praying for a direction to the JV partner to act in accordance with the Articl es of Association of LDPL and complete the project or for appropriate directions for the company to exit from the JV in terms of the JVA, is pending before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).
The JV partner has also filed a petition before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court for winding up the JV company, which has since been transferred to the NCLT and is pending.
As at As at As at 31st March, 2017  31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Not later than one year 15.88 12.74 18.31 Later than one year and not later than five years 34.97 15.13 6.74 Later than five years – 0.35 0.92 Notes to the Financial Statements 173ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
(xii) Information in respect of Options granted under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes (‘Schemes’): Sl.
ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option No.
Scheme (introduced in 2001) Scheme - 2006 Scheme - 2010 1.
Date of Shareholders’ approval : 17-01-2001 22-01-2007 23-07-2010 2.
Total number of Options : Options equivalent to Options equivalent to Options equivalent to approved under the Schemes 12,27,07,450 Ordinary 37,89,18,503 Ordinary 55,60,44,823 Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each Shares of ` 1.00 each Shares of ` 1.00 each Note: Adjusted for Bonus Shares issued in terms of Shareholders approval.
3.
Vesting Schedule : The vesting period for conversion of Options is as follows: On completion of 12 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 24 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 36 months from the date of grant of the Options : 40% vests 4.
Pricing Formula : The Pricing Formula, as approved by the Shareholders of the Company, is such price, as determined by the Nomination & Compensation Committee, which is no lower than the closing price of the Company’s Share on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘the NSE’) on the date of grant, or the average price of the Company’s Share in the six months preceding the date of grant based on the daily closing price on the NSE, or the ‘market price’ as defined from time to time under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
The Options have been granted at ‘market price’ as defined from time to time under the aforesaid Regulations.
5.
Maximum term of Options granted : 5 years from the date of grant 5 years from the date of vesting 6.
Source of Shares : Primary 7.
Variation in terms of Options : None 8.
Method used for accounting of : share-based payment plans Each Option entitles the holder thereof to apply for and be allotted ten Ordinary Shares of the Company of ` 1.00 each upon payment of the exercise price during the exercise period.
The exercise period commences from the date of vesting of the Options and expires at the end of five years from (i) the date of grant in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (introduced in 2001) and (ii) the date of vesting in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2006 & the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2010.
The above is in addition to the other terms and conditions provided in the table under Serial Nos.
(3) to (5) hereinbefore.
Nature and extent of employee share based payment plans that existed during the period including the general terms and conditions of each plan 9. : The employee compensation cost has been calculated using the fair value method of accounting for Options issued under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes.
The employee compensation cost as per fair value method for the financial year 2016-17 is ` 450.32 Crores (2016 - ` 501.91 Crores) and ` 52.53 Crores (2016 - ` 51.74 Crores) for group entities.
Notes to the Financial Statements 174 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 10. : Weighted average exercise price per Option : ` 2505.93 Weighted average fair value per Option : ` 550.67 Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of Options whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock.
27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
11.
Option movements during the year : : : : : : : : : : As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 No.
of Options No.
of Options Weighted Average Exercise Prices (`) ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (introduced in 2001) Scheme - 2006 Scheme - 2010 Particulars Weighted Average Exercise Prices (`) :12.
Summary of the status of Options :Outstanding at the beginning 3,01,29,927 2,835.55           2,69,35,141 2,609.34 of the year Add: Granted during the year 2,12,65,611 2,088.96 * 69,09,600 3,200.41 (Includes Bonus Options allocated consequent to the Bonus Share issue in 2016-17) Less: Lapsed during the year 8,87,732 2,128.33 * 5,46,069 3,012.09 Less: Exercised during the year 73,51,898 1,451.27 * 31,68,745 1,677.95 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,31,55,908 2,066.94 * 3,01,29,927 2,835.55 Options exercisable at the end of 2,61,58,809 1,897.24 * 1,62,05,121 2,452.64 the year * Adjusted for Bonus Share Issue 1:2 in 2016-17 : : : : : a) Options outstanding at the 1,81,060 35,39,624 2,64,09,243 beginning of the year b) Options granted during the year – 17,04,882 1,95,60,729 (Including Bonus Options allocated consequent to the Bonus Share issue in 2016-17 in the ratio of 1 Bonus Share for every 2 Ordinary Shares) c) Options cancelled and lapsed – 1,03,099 7,84,633 during the year d) Options vested and exercisable – 1,03,618 1,14,39,825 during the year (net of Options lapsed and exercised) e) Options exercised during the year 1,81,060 27,00,607 44,70,231 f) Number of Ordinary Shares of 18,10,600 2,70,06,070 4,47,02,310 ` 1.00 each arising as a result of exercise of Options during  the year g) Options outstanding at the end – 24,40,800 4,07,15,108 of the year h) Options exercisable at the end – 23,18,163 2,38,40,646 of the year i) Money realised by exercise 36.63 256.33 774.00 of the Options during the year (` in Crores) Notes to the Financial Statements 175ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 13. : : : Weighted average share price of Shares arising upon exercise of Options : : : Particulars As at 31st March, 2016 Range of Exercise Prices* (`) No.
of Options Outstanding Range of Exercise Prices (`) Weighted average remaining contractual life 16.
Methodology for determination of expected volatility.
The Options were exercised during the periods permitted under the Schemes, and weighted average share price of Shares arising upon exercise of Options, based on the closing market price on NSE on the date of exercise of Options (i.e.
the date of allotment of shares by the Securityholders Relationship Committee) for the year ended 31st March, 2017 was ` 265.38 (2016 - ` 322.18).
14.
Summary of Options outstanding, scheme-wise: As at 31st March, 2017 No.
of Options Outstanding ITC Employee Stock Option –– – 1,81,060 2023.50 0.40 Scheme (introduced in 2001) ITC Employee Stock Option 24,40,800 726.67 – 2506.00 1.55 35,39,624 948.00 – 3572.00 1.79 Scheme - 2006 ITC Employee Stock Option 4,07,15,108 1349.00 – 2655.00 3.32 2,64,09,243 2023.50 – 3572.00 4.91 Scheme - 2010 * Adjusted for Bonus Share Issue 1 2  in 2016-17 The fair value of each Option is estimated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model.
Weighted average exercise price per Option  : ` 2505.93 Weighted average fair value per Option         :  ` 550.67 The fair value of each Option is estimated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model after applying the following key assumptions on a weighted average basis: (i)    Risk-free interest rate 6.91% (ii)   Expected life 3.29 years (iii)  Expected volatility 25.53% (iv) Expected dividends 2.63% (v) The price of the underlying shares in market at the time of Option grant` 2498.29      (One Option = 10 Ordinary Shares) The volatility used in the Black Scholes Option Pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time.
The period considered for the working is commensurate with the expected life of the Options and is based on the daily volatility of the Company’s stock price on NSE.
The Company has incorporated the early exercise of Options by calculating expected life on past exercise behaviour.
There are no market conditions attached to the grant and vest.
Weighted average remaining contractual life 15.
A description of the method used during the year to estimate the fair values of Options, the weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of Options granted  The significant assumptions used to ascertain the above : 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements 176 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
17.
Options granted to (a) Key managerial personnel As provided below:- : 1 Y. C. Deveshwar Chairman 2,70,000 2 S. Puri Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director 1,35,000 3 N. Anand Executive Director 1,35,000 4 R. Tandon Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer 1,35,000 5 B.
B. Chatterjee Executive Vice President & Company Secretary 40,000 6 C. Dar Group Head - LS&T, Central Projects, EHS and Quality Assurance 40,000 7 S. K. Singh Divisional Chief Executive (PSPD) 40,000 8 S. Sivakumar Group Head - Agri Business 56,250 9 R. Sridhar Head - Corporate Human Resources 25,300 10 B. Sumant President - FMCG 40,000 11 K. S. Suresh General Counsel 40,000 (b)  Senior managerial personnel 12 S. M. Ahmad On deputation 25,300 13 A. Ambasta Head - Social Investments Programme 30,600 14 G. Anand Executive Vice President, Pre-Opening Services (HD) 17,550 15 N. Arif Executive Vice President & Head - Corporate Communications 34,000 16 R. Batra On deputation 25,300 17 S. K. Bezbaroa Executive Vice President - Corporate EHS 25,300 18 A. Chand Executive Vice President - Special Projects 20,700 19 L. C. Chandrasekharan Chief Scientist - Research & Technology Innovation 26,000 20 Saradindu Dutta Head - Corporate Accounts 25,300 21 Supratim Dutta Executive Vice President - Corporate Finance 30,600 22 M. Ganesan Executive Vice President - Finance, Procurement & IT (FD) 30,600 23 S. Ganesh Kumar Chief Operating Officer  - Staples, Snacks & Meals (FD) 30,600 24 S. Guha Executive Vice President - Technical (ITD) 20,700 25 P. Gupta Head - Corporate Taxation 20,700 26 V. Gupta Divisional Chief Executive (LRBD) 15,000 27 D. Haksar Chief Executive - ITC Hotels / WelcomHotels (HD) 20,070 28 S. Kaul Divisional Chief Executive (ITD) 28,950 29 V. Kulkarni Chief Operating Officer (PSPD) 21,280 30 S. Kumar On deputation 17,550 31 H. Malik Divisional Chief Executive (FD) 35,000 32 A. K. Mukerji Corporate Financial Controller 40,000 33 A. R. Noronha Executive Vice President - Projects (HD) 17,550 34 R. Parasuram Head - Corporate Internal Audit 28,950 35 A. Pathak On deputation 25,300 Name Designation No.
of Options granted during the financial year 2016-17 Notes to the Financial Statements 177ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27.
Additional Notes to the Financial Statements  (Contd.)
(b) Senior managerial personnel (contd.)
: None None Abbreviations denote : ITD India Tobacco Division HD Hotels Division PSPD Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division ESPB Education & Stationery Products Business LRBD Lifestyle Retailing Business Division PCPB Personal Care Products Business ABD Agri Business Division PPB Printing & Packaging Business ABD - ILTD Agri Business, India Leaf Tobacco Division LS&T Life Sciences & Technology FD Foods Division TM&D Trade Marketing & Distribution Name Designation No.
of Options granted during the financial year 2016-17 The Optionees were granted Options on 22nd July, 2016 at the exercise price of ` 2506.00 per Option, other than Mr. V. Gupta (Sl.
No.
26) who was granted Options on 27th January, 2017 at the exercise price of ` 2655.00 per Option (c) Any other employee who received a grant on any one year of Options amounting to 5% or more of the Options granted during the year.
(d) Identified employees who were granted Options, during any one year, equal to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) of the Company at the time of grant.
: : Notes to the Financial Statements 178 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 36 A. K. Poddar On deputation 17,600 37 R. Rai Chief Operating Officer (ABD) 25,300 38 V. M. Rajasekharan Executive Vice President & SBU Chief Executive - Matches & Agarbatti 25,300 39 A. K. Rajput Senior Vice President - Corporate Affairs 40,000 40 S. Rangrass Divisional Chief Executive (ABD-ILTD) 35,000 41 A. Roy Head of Supply Chain (TM&D) 21,280 42 C. V. Sarma Executive Vice President - Finance & MIS (PSPD) 25,300 43 R. Senguttuvan Executive Vice President & SBU Chief Executive (PPB) 35,000 44 A. Seth Executive Vice President - Finance & MIS (ITD) 30,600 45 A. Sharma Executive Vice President - Human Resources & Learning Services (HD) 17,550 46 J. Singh Executive Vice President - Finance, Procurement & IT (HD) 21,280 47 S. A. Sule Chief Operating Officer (TM&D) 30,600 48 S. Tyagi Executive Vice President & SBU Chief Executive (ESPB) 20,700 49 K. I. Viswanathan Executive Vice President - Marketing & Commercial (PSPD) 25,300 50 S. Wanchoo Executive Vice President - Marketing (ITD) 20,700 51 A. Zachariah Executive Vice President - Central Projects Organisation 20,700 Bonus Options were allocated during 2016-17 on unvested Options in the same ratio as Bonus Shares (i.e., in the ratio of 1 Bonu s Share for every 2 Ordinary Shares), in accordance with the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Emplo yee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
(xiii)  The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26th May, 2017.
28.
Segment reporting Notes to the Financial Statements (` in Crores) 2017 2016 External  Inter Segment Total External Inter Segment Total 179ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.
Segment Results FMCG - Cigarettes  12513.91  11752.43 FMCG - Others  28.12  101.76 FMCG - Total  12542.03  11854.19 Hotels  110.95  55.69 Agri Business  905.80  933.03 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  965.84  907.62 Segment Total  14524.62  13750.53 Eliminations  41.46  (51.13) Consolidated Total  14566.08  13699.40 Unallocated corporate expenses net of unallocated income  946.47  958.94 Profit before interest etc.
and taxation  13619.61  12740.46 Finance Costs  22.95  49.13 Interest earned on loans and deposits, income from current and non-current investments, profit and loss on sale of investments etc.
- Net  1906.30  1742.74 Profit before tax  15502.96  14434.07 Tax expense  5302.06  5105.70 Profit for the year 10200.90  9,328.37 1.
Segment Revenue - Gross FMCG - Cigarettes  34001.98  –  34001.98  32348.29 –  32348.29 FMCG - Others  10498.57  13.26  10511.83  9719.62  11.55  9731.17 FMCG - Total  44500.55  13.26  44513.81  42067.91  11.55  42079.46 Hotels  1329.25  12.48  1341.73   1273.51  12.66  1286.17 Agri Business  5352.88  2911.67  8264.55  4389.34  3067.54  7456.88 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  3819.01  1543.85  5362.86  3851.69  1476.01  5327.70 Segment Total  55001.69  4481.26  59482.95  51582.45  4567.76  56150.21 Eliminations  (4481.26)  (4567.76) Gross Revenue from sale of products 55001.69 51582.45 and services Segment Segment Segment Segment Segment Segment Assets Liabilities* Assets Liabilities* Assets Liabilities* 3.
Other Information 2017 2016 2015 FMCG - Cigarettes  7994.51  2447.84   7946.13  2644.39  8004.99  2186.41 FMCG - Others  7113.91  1407.21   6090.74  1179.77  4849.14  861.29 FMCG - Total  15108.42  3855.05  14036.87  3824.16  12854.13  3047.70 Hotels**  5082.80  420.62  4820.29  345.39  4654.05  353.09 Agri Business  2991.57  795.88  2968.39  610.35  2650.59  691.75 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  6322.79  623.85  6031.00  510.68  5921.98  496.07 Segment Total  29505.58  5695.40  27856.55  5290.58  26080.75  4588.61 Unallocated Corporate Assets/Liabilities  24710.37  3179.59   22174.73  3084.27  18684.06  2888.37 Total  54215.95  8874.99  50031.28  8374.85  44764.81  7476.98 * Segment Liabilities of FMCG - Cigarettes is before considering  ` 629.83 Crores (2016 - ` 651.54 Crores; 2015 - ` 629.98 Crores) in respect of disputed taxes, the recovery of which has been stayed or where States’ appeals are pending before Courts.
These have been included under ‘Unallocated Corporate Liabilities’.
** Includes ` 541.21 Crores (2016 - ` 541.21 Crores; 2015 - ` 515.44 Crores) towards payment to IFCI Limited and applicable stamp duty for purchase of a five star hotel resort in Goa operating under the name Park Hyatt Goa Resort & Spa and IFCI Limited issued required sale certificate in favour of the Company .
The erstwhile owners of the property thereafter challenged the sale.
By its judgement dated 23.03.2016, the Bombay High Court set aside the sale and directed IFCI Limited to refund the sale consideration to the Company.
The Company and IFCI Limited have approached the Hon’ble Supreme Court against the High Court judgement.
The Hon’ble Supreme Court by its o rder dated 22.04.2016 directed maintenance of status quo and that the amount paid by ITC shall remain with IFCI Limited until further orders.
The matter is pending before th e Hon’ble Supreme Court.
The amount of ` 515.44 Crores and the stamp duty paid in 2015-16 amounting to ` 25.77 Crores, was adjusted in 2015-16 from Capital Work In Progress and reflected in Capital Advances (Refer Note 3B and Note 7).
28.
Segment reporting (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements NOTES : (1) The Company’s corporate strategy aims at creating multiple drivers of growth anchored on its core competencies.
The Company  is currently focused on four business groups : FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Paper and Packaging and Agri Business.
The Company’s organisational structure and governanc e processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them.
The Operating Segments have been reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Corporate Manageme nt Committee, which is the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
(2) The business groups comprise the following : FMCG : Cigarettes – Cigarettes, Cigars etc.
: Others – Branded Packaged Foods Businesses (Staples; Snacks and Meals; Dairy and Beverages; Confections); Apparel;  Education and Stationery Products; Personal Care Products; Safety Matches and Agarbattis.
Hotels – Hoteliering.
Paperboards, Paper and Packaging – Paperboards, Paper including Specialty Paper and Packaging including Flexibles.
Agri Business – Agri commodities such as soya, spices, coffee and leaf tobacco.
(3) The geographical information considered – Sales within India.
for disclosure are : – Sales outside India.
(4) Segment results of ‘FMCG : Others’ are after considering significant business development, brand building and gestation costs of the Branded Packaged Foods businesses and Personal Care Products business.
(5) As stock options are granted under ITC ESOS to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders and also to attra ct and retain talent for the enterprise as a whole, the option value of ITC ESOS do not form part of the segment performance reviewed by the Corporate Management Committee.
(6) The Company is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not receive 10% or more of its revenues from transactions with any single external customer.
(` in Crores) Capital Depreciation Capital Depreciation expenditure and amortization expenditure and amortization 2017 2016 FMCG - Cigarettes  253.49  248.34  218.25 244.84 FMCG - Others  1153.44  236.55  734.19 204.41 FMCG - Total  1406.93 484.89  952.44 449.25 Hotels  398.74  169.01 291.50  187.23 Agri Business  159.44 49.13  128.46 50.63 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  560.63 254.14  349.76 242.52 Segment Total  2525.74 957.17  1722.16 929.63 Unallocated  551.83 80.87  288.74 71.05 Total  3077.57 1038.04  2010.90 1000.68 2017 2016 GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 2017 2016 2015 2.
Non Current Assets – Within India 21087.37 18904.85 17721.10 – Outside India 0.01  0.01  – Total 21087.38 18904.86 17721.10 1.
Revenue from external customers – Within India 51700.52 48302.97 – Outside India 3301.17 3279.48 Total 55001.69 51582.45  180 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Non Cash expenditure Non Cash expenditure other than depreciation other than depreciation FMCG - Cigarettes  3.13  6.73 FMCG - Others  40.14  25.19 FMCG - Total  43.27  31.92 Hotels  10.00  2.21 Agri Business  0.52  1.98 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  22.97  23.54 Segment Total  76.76  59.65 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Related Party Disclosures 1.
ENTERPRISES WHERE CONTROL EXISTS: Subsidiaries: a) Srinivasa Resorts Limited  b) Fortune Park Hotels Limited  c) Bay Islands Hotels Limited  d) WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited, Sri Lanka e) Landbase India Limited f) Russell Credit Limited and its subsidiary Greenacre Holdings Limited g) Technico Pty Limited, Australia and its subsidiaries Technico Technologies Inc., Canada Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia and its subsidiary Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited, China h) Technico Agri Sciences Limited i) Wimco Limited j) Pavan Poplar Limited  k) Prag Agro Farm Limited l) ITC Infotech India Limited and its subsidiaries ITC Infotech Limited, UK ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. and its subsidiaries Pyxis Solutions, LLC , USA (merged with ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. w.e.f.
01.04.2016) Indivate Inc., USA (w.e.f.
18.11.2016) m) Gold Flake Corporation Limited n) ITC Investments & Holdings Limited and its subsidiary MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited o) Surya Nepal Private Limited p) King Maker Marketing, Inc., USA (ceased w.e.f.
16.11.2016) q) North East Nutrients Private Limited The above list does not include ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited, Singapore (in liquidation)  2.
OTHER RELATED PARTIES WITH WHOM THE COMPANY HAD TRANSACTIONS i) Associates & Joint Ventures: Associates a) Gujarat Hotels Limited b) International Travel House Limited – being associates of the Company, and c) Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited, UK – of which the Company is an associate Associates of the Company’s subsidiaries a) Russell Investments Limited b) Divya Management Limited c) Antrang Finance Limited – being associates of Russell Credit Limited, and d) ATC Limited  – being associate of Gold Flake Corporation Limited Joint Ventures a) Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited  b) Espirit Hotels Private Limited  c) Logix Developers Private Limited Joint Venture of the Company’s subsidiary a) ITC Essentra Limited – being joint venture of Gold Flake Corporation Limited Note: King Maker Marketing, Inc. USA (KMM) ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company with effect from 16.11.2016  consequent to divestment of the Company’s entire shareholding in KMM.
181ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 29.
Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements ii) a) Key Management Personnel: Y. C. Deveshwar1                            Chairman & Non-Executive Director S. Puri2 Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director N. Anand Executive Director R. Tandon Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer Z. Alam Non-Executive Director (w.e.f.
26.10.2016) A. Baijal* Non-Executive Director (ceased w.e.f.
30.12.2016) S. Banerjee* Non-Executive Director A. Duggal* Non-Executive Director A. V. Girija Kumar Non-Executive Director (upto conclusion of AGM on 22.07.2016) R. E. Lerwill Non-Executive Director (ceased w.e.f.
22.06.2016) S. B. Mainak Non-Executive Director S. B. Mathur* Non-Executive Director  P. B. Ramanujam* Non-Executive Director  N. Rao* Non-Executive Director (w.e.f.
08.04.2016) S. S. H. Rehman* Non-Executive Director  M. Shankar* Non-Executive Director D.R.
Simpson Non-Executive Director (w.e.f.
27.01.2017) K. Vaidyanath Non-Executive Director (ceased w.e.f.
29.07.2016) 1 Chairman & Non-Executive Director since 05.02.2017, prior to which Mr. Deveshwar was Executive Chairman 2 Appointed also as Chief Executive Officer from 05.02.2017 * Independent Directors Members - Corporate Management Committee Y. C. Deveshwar (ceased as Chairman of CMC w.e.f.
05.02.2017)                 S. Puri (appointed Chairman of CMC w.e.f.
05.02.2017) N. Anand  R. Tandon B.
B. Chatterjee S. Sivakumar  K. S. Suresh  C. Dar R. Sridhar (w.e.f.
01.04.2016) B. Sumant (w.e.f.
01.04.2016) S. K. Singh (w.e.f.
27.01.2017)     b) Relatives of Key Management Personnel: Mrs. B. Deveshwar (wife of Mr. Y. C. Deveshwar) Mrs. R. Tandon (wife of Mr. R. Tandon) iii) Employee Trusts where there is significant influence: a) IATC Provident Fund b) ITC Defined Contribution Pension Fund c) ITC Management Staff Gratuity Fund d) ITC Employees Gratuity Fund e) ITC Gratuity Fund ‘C’ f) ITC Pension Fund g) ILTD Seasonal Employees Pension Fund h) ITC Platinum Jubilee Pension Fund i) Tribeni Tissues Limited Gratuity Fund j) ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Limited Management Staff Pension Fund k) ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Limited Gratuity Fund ‘A’ l) ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Limited Gratuity Fund ‘C’ m) ITC Hotels Limited Employees Superannuation Scheme 182 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 3.
DISCLOSURE OF TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND RELATED PARTIES AND THE STATUS OF OUTSTANDING BALANCES AS AT 31.03.2017 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
(` in Crores) 183ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 # The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash 6 includes transfer of deposit of ` 0.10 Crore, with an Associate in 2015, to a subsidiary during the year pursuant to amalgamation of the Associate with the subsidiary, which was subsequently refunded in 2016-17 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Enterprises where control exists Associates Key Management Personnel Employee Trusts Total Relatives of Key Management Personnel Joint Ventures Subsidiaries 33.
Outstanding Balances # i) Receivables 57.36  48.47 31.46 7.54  0.30 0.87 4.54  2.86 3.62 69.44 51.63 35.95 ii) Advances Given – 12.97 48.48  – 12.97 48.48 iii)  Loans Given – – 76.02 – – 76.02 iv) Deposits Given 6 0.60  0.70 2.60 –  – 0.10 0.07  0.07 0.07  0.30 0.30 0.30 0.97 1.07 3.07 v) Loans Taken – – 2.00 – – 2.00 vi) Advance Taken 98.96  134.02 146.37 98.96 134.02 146.37 vii) Deposits Taken 0.06 0.10 0.10 0.06 0.10 0.10 viii) Payables 6.07  5.30 3.04 5.81 6.13 8.41 0.87  5.92 4.73 8.00  20.87 34.94 20.75 38.22 51.12 ix) Investment in Non-Convertible Debentures – – 15.00 – – 15.00 34.
Impairment of investment in Subsidiaries 25.29  9.00 55.95 25.29 9.00 55.95 35.
Commitments 0.13  0.18 0.18 0.13 0.18 0.18 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Enterprises where control exists Associates Key Management Personnel Employee Trusts Total Relatives of Key Management Personnel Joint Ventures SubsidiariesRELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 1 denotes purchase of unquoted investment from subsidiary at netbook value as at 31st March, 2015of the acquired company; 2 includes sale of unquoted investment, at cost, Nil (2016 -` 4.88 Crores) to Subsidiary; 3 post employement benefits are actuarially determined on overallbasis and hence not separatelyprovided.
Payments made onsettlement of leave liability uponretirement - ` 4.10 Crores (2016 - ` 2.50 Crores) has not been included in the above; 4 includes ` 4.10 Crores (2016 - ` 1.22 Crores) paid/provided for on account of remuneration ofDirectors, which is subject toapproval of the shareholders; 5 The Company grants Stock Options to the Directors, Key ManagementPersonnel (KMP) and otheremployees under its Employee StockOption Schemes at ‘market price’[within the meaning of the Securitiesand Exchange Board of India (ShareBased Employee Benefits)Regulations, 2014].
Since suchoptions are not tradeable, noperquisite or benefit is immediatelyconferred upon an employee by suchgrant.
However,  the Company hasrecorded employee benefits expenseby way of share based payments toemployees, in accordance with IndAS 102, at ` 450.32 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2017 (2016- ` 501.91 Crores), out of which ` 74.05 Crores (2016 - ` 102.71 Crores) is attributable to KMP.
1.
Sale of Goods/Services 322.90 307.18 0.49 0.47 6.88 9.40 330.27  317.05 2.
Purchase of Goods/Services 299.28 173.56 74.88 80.57 252.92 291.55 627.08  545.68 3.
Acquisition cost of Property, Plant and Equipments etc.
1.54 29.06  – 0.37 1.54  29.43 4.
Sale of Property, Plant and Equipments etc./Scraps 0.05 0.27  – … 0.05  0.27 5.
Investments Purchased from Subsidiary 1  – 121.00 –  121.00 6.
Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures 139.80 286.98 139.80  286.98 7.
Redemption of Preference Shares  – 187.00 –  187.00 8.
Value of share based payment 8A.
Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments 35.06 47.27 3.33 1.14 35.06  51.74 8B.
Reimbursement for Share Based Payments for current year 13.20 – 2.89 – 0.96 – 17.05  – 8C.
Reimbursement for Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments for previous year 11.67 – 3.33 – 1.14 – 16.14   – 9.
Sale of Investment 2 – 5.40  –  5.40 10.
Return of Capital by Subsidiary 60.55 – 60.55  – 11.
Interest Income – 0.58 –  0.58 12.
Rent Received 17.54 20.08 0.89 1.04 18.43  21.12 13.
Rent Paid 8.75 8.50 3.74 3.49 0.14 0.14 0.72 0.66 13.35  12.79 14.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation reimbursed 3.87 3.73 5.32 4.17 9.19  7.90 15.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation recovered 18.87 15.11 4.45 3.85 1.53 1.38 24.85  20.34 16.
Contribution to Employees ’ Benefit Plans 127.36 109.04 127.36  109.04 17. Dividend Income 247.98 319.33 0.73 0.73 248.71  320.06 18. Dividend Payments 1687.73 1240.98 3.77 3.33 1691.50 1244.31 19.
Expenses Recovered 15.13 12.01 0.39 0.19 0.32 0.39 15.84  12.59 20.
Expenses Reimbursed 13.27 10.85 0.72 0.60 0.09 0.03 0.03  – 14.11  11.48 21.
Loans Given – 0.20 –  0.20 22.
Receipt towards Loan Repayment  – 43.67 –  43.67 23.
Assignment of Loan to Subsidiary at fair value – 1.13 –  1.13 24.
Adjustment/Payment towards Loan Repayment – 2.00  –  2.00 25.
Advances Given during the year 0.17 – 0.17 – 26.
Adjustment/Receipt towards Refund of Advances 0.17 – 0.17 – 27.
Advance Received during the year 118.61 119.62 118.61  119.62 28.
Adjustment/Payment towards Refund of Advance 153.67 131.97 153.67  131.97 29.
Adjustment/Receipt towards Refund of Deposit 0.10 2.00 0.10  2.00 30.
Deposits Received during the year – … –  … 31.
Adjustment/Payment towards Refund of Deposits 0.04  – 0.04 – 32.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel 3 32A.
– Short term benefits4 37.83 31.66 37.83  31.66 32B.
– Other remuneration 5.05 3.44 5.05  3.44 32C.
– Stock options granted5 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
(` in Crores) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION SUMMARY 2010 2009RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 (Generally in excess of 10% of the total transaction value of the same type) 4.
INFORMATION REGARDING SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS / BALANCES RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 2015 # In accordance with Ind AS-102, the Company has recognised employee benefits expense by way of share based payments [refer Note 29.3], of which ` 74.05 Crores (2016 - ` 102.71 Crores) is attributable to key managerial personnel: Mr. Y.C.
Deveshwar ` 33.34 Crores (2016 - ` 24.91 Crores), Mr. S. Puri ` 5.31 Crores (2016 - ` 3.61 Crores), Mr. N. Anand ` 7.24 Crores (2016 - ` 13.33 Crores), Mr. R. Tandon ` 7.54 Crores (2016 - ` 4.67 Crores) and Mr. B.B.
Chatterjee ` 2.82 Crores (2016 - ` 3.69 Crores).
1 Interest @12% p.a.
for funding its capital expenditure requirements and for general business purposes.
Repayable by 31.03.2016 with a prepayment option.
The maximum indebtedness during the year Nil (2016 - ` 35.07 Crores; 2015 - ` 97.97 Crores).
2 Interest @ 9% p.a.
(w.e.f.
01.04.2014) for meeting working capital requirements  of BFIL Finance Limited ` 47.55 Crores repayable by 31.03.2016.
The company was amalgamated with Russell Credit Limited w.e.f.
01.04.2015 3 The maximum indebtedness during the year Nil (2016 - ` 32.55 Crores; 2015 - ` 32.55 Crores).
4 Interest free loan for business purposes Nil (2016 - ` 8.40 Crores; 2015 - ` 8.40 Crores) taken over pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and interest @ 9% p.a.
for meeting working capital requirement Nil (2016 - ` 0.20 Crore; 2015 - Nil).
The maximum indebtedness during the year Nil (2016 - ` 8.60 Crores; 2015 - ` 8.40 Crores).
5 The maximum indebtedness during the year was ` 0.36 Crore (2016 - ` 0.36 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.12 Crore).
Includes ` 0.24 Crore taken over from Wills Corporation Limited which was amalgamated with Russell Credit Limited w.e.f 01.04.2015.
6 The maximum indebtedness during the year was ` 0.34 Crore (2016 - ` 2.24 Crores; 2015 - ` 2.24 Crores).
Includes ` 0.10 Crore taken over from Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited which was amalgamated with Greenacre Holdings Limited w.e.f .
07.12.2015 1.
Sale of Goods/Services Surya Nepal Private Limited 297.76 273.35 2.
Purchase of Goods/Services ITC Infotech India Limited 147.98 138.45 North East Nutrients Private Limited 138.21 28.51 ITC Essentra Limited 252.60 291.20 International Travel House Limited 54.34 57.99 3.
Acquisition cost of Property, Plant and Equipments etc.
Greenacre Holdings Limited  – 28.22 ITC Infotech India Limited 1.52 0.74 4.
Sale of Property, Plant and Equipments etc./ Scraps ATC Limited 0.05 0.27 5.
Investments Purchased from Subsidiary Technico – Technico Pty Limited  – 121.00 6.
Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited 139.80 73.63 Landbase India Limited – 197.00 7.
Redemption of Preference Shares Landbase India Limited  – 187.00 8.
Value of share based payment 8A.
Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments I3L – ITC Infotech India Limited 34.34 34.45 8B.
Reimbursement for Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments for current period Fortune Park Hotels Limited 3.50 – International Travel House Limited 2.27 – Surya Nepal Private Limited 3.24 – Technico Agri Sciences Limited 1.66 – WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited 2.98 – 8C.
Reimbursement for Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments for previous period Fortune Park Hotels Limited  4.27 – International Travel House Limited 2.58 – Surya Nepal Private Limited  3.24 – Technico Agri Sciences Limited  1.84 – WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited  0.76 – 9.
Sale of Investment Russell Credit Limited  – 5.40 10.
Return of Capital by Subsidiary Technico Pty Limited  60.55 – 11.
Interest Income Surya Nepal Private Limited  – 0.57 12.
Rent Received ITC Infotech India Limited  13.09 15.63 Surya Nepal Private Limited  4.19 4.19 13.
Rent Paid Bay Islands Hotels Limited 1.69 1.46 Landbase India Limited 5.17 5.12 Gujarat Hotels Limited 3.74 3.49 14.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation reimbursed Fortune Park Hotels Limited 2.05 1.35 Bay Islands Hotels Limited 1.30 1.09 Technico Agri Sciences Limited – 0.97 Gujarat Hotels Limited 5.05 3.93 15.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation recovered Srinivasa Resorts Limited 5.83  5.52  Fortune Park Hotels Limited 3.65  3.11 ITC Infotech India Limited 3.33  2.80 16.
Contribution to Employees’ Benefit Plans IATC Provident Fund 25.32  22.95 ITC Defined Contribution Pension Fund 17.81  16.16 ITC Management Staff Gratuity Fund 14.63  13.67 ITC Pension Fund 36.76  19.87 ITC Employees Gratuity Fund 11.00  21.00 17. Dividend Income Russell Credit Limited  –  45.25 Technico Agri Sciences Limited 26.57 – ITC Infotech India Limited  –  76.68 Surya Nepal Private Limited 221.33  176.76 18. Dividend Payments Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited, UK 1687.73 1240.98 19.
Expenses Recovered Srinivasa Resorts Limited 1.68  1.50 Fortune Park Hotels Limited 1.79  1.10 ITC Infotech India Limited 7.45  7.95 Surya Nepal Private Limited 2.60  0.34 20.
Expenses Reimbursed Landbase India Limited  4.82  7.31 Wimco Limited  1.73  1.63 ITC Infotech (USA), Inc.  5.55 – 21.
Loans Given Prag Agro Farm Limited  –  0.20 22.
Receipt towards Loan Repayment Prag Agro Farm Limited  –  8.60 Surya Nepal Private Limited –  35.07 23.
Assignment of Loan to Subsidiary at fair value Russell Credit Limited –  1.13 24.
Adjustment/Payment towards Loan Repayment Pavan Poplar Limited –  2.00 25.
Advances Given during the year North East Nutrients Private Limited  0.17 – 26.
Adjustment/Receipt towards Refund of Advances North East Nutrients Private Limited  0.17 – 27.
Advance Received during the year Surya Nepal Private Limited  118.61  119.62 28.
Adjustment/Payment towards Refund of Advance Surya Nepal Private Limited  153.67  131.97 29.
Adjustment/Receipt towards Refund of Deposit Greenacre Holdings Limited  0.10  2.00 30.
Deposits Received during the year International Travel House Limited –  ... 31.
Adjustment/Payment towards Refund of Deposits International Travel House Limited  0.04 32.
Remuneration to Key Management Personnel # 32A.
Short term benefits Mr. Y.C.
Deveshwar  18.82  13.73 32B.
Other Remuneration Ms. M. Shankar  0.51  0.30 Mr. S. B. Mathur  0.51  0.31 Mr. S. S. H. Rehman  0.51  0.30 33.
Outstanding Balances  (i) Receivables Fortune Park Hotels Limited  8.32 0.36 – Surya Nepal Private Limited  36.28 39.32 20.07 King Maker Marketing, Inc.  – 6.65 7.05 (ii)  Advances Given Employee Trust – Pension Funds – 12.97 48.48 (iii) Loans Given Russell Credit Limited3 –  – 32.55 Prag Agro Farm Limited –  – 8.40   Surya Nepal Private Limited 1 – – 35.07 (iv) Deposits Given Russell Credit Limited5  0.36  0.36 0.12 Greenacre Holdings Limited6  0.24  0.34 2.24 Wills Corporation Limited5 – – 0.24 Classic Infrastructure and Development Limited6 – – 0.10 Mrs. B. Deveshwar  0.30  0.30 0.30 (v) Loans Taken Pavan Poplar Limited4 – – 2.00 (vi) Advance Taken Surya Nepal Private Limited  98.96  134.02 146.37  (vii) Deposits Taken International Travel House Limited  0.06  0.10 0.10   (viii) Payables North East Nutrients Private Limited  4.85  3.79 – ITC Essentra Limited  0.87  5.78 4.53 International Travel House Limited  2.67  3.39 5.22 Employee Trust – Pension Funds  6.44 –– ITC Management Staff Gratuity Fund –  20.87 34.94 (ix) Investment in Non –Convertible Debentures BFIL Finance Limited – – 15.00 34.
Impairment of investments in Subsidiaries BFIL Finance Limited – Debentures and Loan2 –  – 47.55    Prag Agro Farm Limited – Loan – – 8.40 Prag Agro Farm Limited – Equity Shares  9.00 9.00 – Technico Pty Ltd  16.29 –– 35.
Commitments ITC Infotech India Limited  0.13 0.18 0.18 184 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures 1.
Capital Management The Company’s financial strategy aims to support its strategic priorities and provide adequate capital to its businesses for growth and creation of sustainable stakeholder value.
The Company funds its operations through internal accruals.
The Company aims at maintaining a strong capital base largely towards supporting the future growth of its businesses as a going concern.
During the year, the Company issued 7,35,18,980 equity shares of ` 1.00 each amounting to ` 7.35 Crores (2016 – ` 3.17 Crores) towards its equity-settled employee stock options.
The securities premium stood at ` 6432.24 Crores as at 31st March, 2017 (2016 - ` 5685.86 Crores).
2.
Categories of Financial Instruments As at As at As at Particulars Note 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Value Value Value Value Value Value Notes to the Financial Statements 185ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 A.
Financial assets a) Measured at amortised cost i) Cash and cash equivalents 11 156.15 156.15 75.79 75.79 36.29 36.29 ii) Other bank balances 12 2591.12 2591.12 5563.41 5563.41 6236.52 6236.52 iii) Investment in 4,9 5614.35 5643.93 4521.00 4546.53 0.01 0.01 Bonds/Debentures & Government or Trust Securities iv) Loans 5 9.21 8.73 11.97 11.24 49.43 48.24 v) Trade receivables 10 2207.50 2207.50 1686.35 1686.35 1722.40 1722.40 vi) Other financial assets 6 1073.29 1013.56 1411.25 1350.49 1622.19 1604.23 Sub-total 11651.62 11620.99 13269.77 13233.81 9666.84 9647.69 b) Measured at Fair value through OCI i) Equity shares 4 1115.45 1115.45 985.52 985.52 1015.34 1015.34 Sub-total 1115.45 1115.45 985.52 985.52 1015.34 1015.34 c) Measured at Fair value through Profit or Loss i) Investment In Mutual Funds 4,9 7675.11 7675.11 3547.14 3547.14 4195.57 4195.57 ii) Investment in Bonds / 9 1988.65 1988.65 2149.36 2149.36 1896.02 1896.02 Debentures, Certificate of Deposits, Preference Shares Sub-total 9663.76 9663.76 5696.50 5696.50 6091.59 6091.59 d) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not 6 4.95 4.95 13.02 13.02 4.95 4.95 designated as hedging instruments ii) Derivative instruments 6 26.50 26.50 14.13 14.13 9.66 9.66 designated as hedging instruments Sub-total 31.45 31.45 27.15 27.15 14.61 14.61 Total financial assets 22462.28 22431.65 19978.94 19942.98 16788.38 16769.23 (` in Crores) As at As at As at Particulars Note 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Value Value Value Value Value Value   C. Financial risk management objectives The Company has a system-based approach to risk management, anchored to policies and procedures and internal financial controls aimed at ensuring early identification, evaluation and management of key financial risks (such as market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk) that may arise as a consequence of its business operations as well as its investing and financing activitie s. Accordingly, the Company’s risk management framework has the objective of ensuring that such risks are managed within acceptable and approved risk parameters in a disciplined and consistent manner and in compliance with applicable regulation.
It also seeks to drive accountability in this regard.
Liquidity Risk The Company’s Current assets aggregate to ` 24537.39 Crores (2016 - ` 23233.92 Crores; 2015 - ` 22775.12 Crores) including Current investments, Cash and cash equivalents and Other bank balances of ` 12847.05 Crores (2016 - ` 12110.53 Crores; 2015 - ` 12364.40 Crores) against an aggregate Current liability of ` 6830.07 Crores (2016 - ` 6354.27 Crores; 2015 - ` 5653.30 Crores); Non-current liabilities due between one year to three years amounting to ` 18.31 Crores (2016 - ` 29.83 Crores; 2015 - ` 27.75 Crores) and Non-current liability due after three years amounting to ` 8.89 Crores (2016 - ` 11.13 Crores; 2015 - ` 17.99 Crores) on the reporting date.
Further, while the Company’s total equity stands at ` 45340.96 Crores (2016 - ` 41656.43 Crores; 2015 - ` 37287.83 Crores), it has borrowings of ` 18.00 Crores (2016 - ` 29.43 Crores; 2015 - ` 38.71 Crores).
In such circumstances, liquidity risk or the risk that the Company may not be able to settle or meet its obligations as they become due does not exist.
Market Risks The Company is not an active investor in equity markets; it continues to hold certain investments in equity for long term value accretion which are accordingly measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income.
The value of investments in such equity instruments as at 31st March, 2017 is ` 1115.45 Crores (2016 - ` 985.52 Crores; 2015 - ` 1015.34 Crores).
Accordingly, fair value fluctuations arising from market volatility is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
As the Company is virtually debt-free and its deferred payment liabilities do not carry interest, the exposure to interest rate  risk from the perspective of Financial Liabilities is negligible.
Further, treasury activities, focused on managing investments in d ebt instruments, are centralised and administered under a set of approved policies and procedures guided by the tenets of liquidity , safety and returns.
This ensures that investments are only made within acceptable risk parameters after due evaluation.
The Company’s investments are predominantly held in bonds/debentures, fixed deposits and debt mutual funds.
Mark to market movements in respect of the Company’s investments in bonds/debentures that are held at amortised cost are temporary and B.
Financial liabilities a) Measured at amortised cost i) Cash credit facilities 19 0.01 0.01 3.60 3.60 0.02 0.02 ii) Sales tax deferment loans 14,15 25.83 20.23 38.69 30.71 51.00 39.42 iii) Trade payables 2551.22 2551.22 2228.01 2228.01 1872.97 1872.97 iv) Other financial liabilities 15 766.86 765.63 596.98 595.52 640.58 639.69 Sub-total 3343.92 3337.09 2867.28 2857.84 2564.57 2552.10 b) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not 15 0.75 0.75 – – 0.91 0.91 designated as hedging instruments ii) Derivative instruments 15 18.54 18.54 – – 0.04 0.04 designated in hedging instruments Sub-total 19.29 19.29 – – 0.95 0.95 Total financial liabilities 3363.21 3356.38 2867.28 2857.84 2565.52 2553.05 Notes to the Financial Statements 186 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
(` in Crores) As at 31st March, 2017 USD Euro GBP JPY Others Total Financial Assets 329.86  6.96 12.14  0.46 4.63 354.05 Financial Liabilities  53.58 33.91  2.49 23.68 4.16 117.82 As at 31st March, 2016 USD Euro GBP JPY Others Total Financial Assets 371.26 8.19 14.28 0.04 0.80 394.57 Financial Liabilities 29.09 16.86 0.36 11.13 1.93 59.37 As at 1st April, 2015 USD Euro GBP JPY Others Total Financial Assets 334.21 5.06 15.33 – 3.22 357.82 Financial Liabilities 31.40 37.42 0.89 5.09 1.08 75.88 Designated under Hedge As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015Accounting Currency Gross Currency Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell US Dollar Indian Rupee 55.22 71.10 – 97.80 – 92.00 Euro US Dollar 31.76 – –– –– AUD US Dollar 0.09 – –– –– CHF US Dollar 0.57 – –– –– GBP US Dollar 0.11 – –– –– SEK US Dollar 0.73 – –– –– SGD US Dollar 0.09 – –– –– JPY US Dollar 368.95 – –– –– Notes to the Financial Statements 187ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 get recouped through fixed coupon accruals.
Other investments in bonds/debentures are fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss to recognise market volatility, which is not considered to be significant.
Fixed deposits are held with highly rated banks and companies and have a short tenure and are not subject to interest rate volatility.
The Company also invests in mutual fund schemes of leading fund houses.
Such investments are susceptible to market price risk that arise mainly from changes in interest rate which may impact the return and value of such investments.
However, given the relatively short tenure of underlying portfolio of the mutual fund schemes in which the Company has invested, such price risk is not significant.
For select agricultural commodities primarily held for trading, futures contracts are used to hedge price risks till positions in the physical market are matched.
Such activities are managed by the business team within an approved policy framework.
The carrying value of inventories is adjusted to the extent of fair value movement of the risk being hedged.
Such hedges are generally for short time horizons and recognised in profit or loss within the crop cycle and are managed by the business within the approved policy framework.
Accordingly, the Company’s net exposure to commodity price risk is considered to be insignificant.
Foreign currency risk The Company undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currency (mainly US Dollar, Pound Sterling, Euro and Japanese Yen) which are subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, including the Company’s net investments in foreign operations (with a functional currency other than Indian Rupee), are also subject to reinstatement risks.
The carrying amount of foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, are as follows: 30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
The Company uses forward exchange contracts and currency options to hedge its exposures in foreign currency arising from firm commitments and highly probable forecast transactions.
Accordingly, a.
Forward exchange contracts that were outstanding on respective reporting dates: (in Million) The aforesaid hedges have a maturity of less than 1 year from the year end.
(` in Crores) 30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
Notes to the Financial Statements 188 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Currency Cross Currency Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell US Dollar Indian Rupee 3.00 7.00 –– –– b.
Currency options that were outstanding on respective reporting dates: Not designated under Hedge Accounting As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Currency Cross Currency Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell US Dollar Indian Rupee 2.20 35.12 65.75 75.85 18.94 57.80 Euro US Dollar 6.04 – 53.26 – 14.95 – AUD US Dollar –– 1.20 – 0.08 – CAD US Dollar – 0.94 – 0.20 – 1.07 CHF US Dollar 0.28 – 2.70 – 3.41 – GBP US Dollar – 1.68 – 0.90 0.25 0.90 SEK US Dollar 4.25 – 6.93 – 1.21 – SGD US Dollar –– 1.78 – – – KWD US Dollar –– 0.04 – – – JPY US Dollar 272.65 – 699.90 – 172.33 – (in Million) Hedges of foreign currency risk and derivative financial instruments The Company has established risk management policies to hedge the volatility arising from exchange rate fluctuations in respect of firm commitments and highly probable forecast transactions, through foreign exchange forward and options contracts.
The proportion of forecast transactions that are to be hedged is decided based on the size of the forecast transaction and market conditions.
As the counterparty for such transactions are highly rated banks, the risk of their non-performance is considered t o be insignificant.
The Company uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to changes in movement in foreign currency.
Where such derivatives are not designated under hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of such hedges are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company may also designate certain hedges, usually for large transactions, as a cash flow hedge under hedge accounting, with the objective of shielding the exposure from variability in cash flows.
The currency, amount and tenure of such hedges are generally matched to the underlying transaction(s).
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised as cash flow hedging reserve in Other Comprehensive Income.
While the probability of such hedges becoming ineffective is very low, the ineffective portion, if any, is immediately recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
At the beginning of the year 6.42 7.94 Add: Changes in the fair value of effective portion of matured cash flow hedges during the year (3.29) (11.15) Add: Changes in fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash flow hedges (17.38) 9.26 Less: Amounts transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss on occurrence of forecast hedge transactions during the year 21.71 0.43 Less: Amounts transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss due to cash flows no longer expected to occur 0.52 – Less: Amounts transferred to initial cost of non-financial assets (16.65) – Less: Net gain/(loss) transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss on ineffectiveness – – (Less)/Add: Deferred tax 9.10 0.80 At the end of the year (10.73) 6.42 Of the above, balances remaining in cash flow hedge reserve for matured hedging relationships 0.64 0.38 Particulars 2017 2016 Outstanding balance in Cash Flow Hedge As at As at As at Reserve to be subsequently recycled from OCI 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Within one year (10.62) 4.95 7.03 Between one and three years (0.11) 1.47 0.91 Total (10.73) 6.42 7.94 Notes to the Financial Statements 189ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The movement in the cash flow hedging reserve in respect of designated cash flow hedges is summarised below: (` in Crores) Once the hedged transaction materialises, the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve will be included in the initial cost of the non-financial hedged item on its initial recognition or reclassified to profit or loss, as applicable, in the antic ipated timeframes given below: Foreign Currency Sensitivity For every percentage point change in the underlying exchange rate of the outstanding foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, including derivative contracts, holding all other variables constant, the profit before tax for the year ended 31st March, 2017 would change by ` (0.24) Crore (2016 - ` 4.55 Crores) and pre-tax total equity as at 31st March, 2017 would change by  ` 1.11 Crores [2016 - ` (0.72) Crore; 2015 - ` (4.80) Crores].
Credit Risk Company’s deployment in debt instruments are primarily in fixed deposits with highly rated banks and companies; bonds issued by government institutions, public sector undertakings and certificate of deposits issued by highly rated banks.
Of this, investments that are held at amortised cost stood at ` 8705.47 Crores (2016 - ` 11009.16 Crores; 2015 - ` 7552.33 Crores).
With respect to the Company’s investing activities, counter parties are shortlisted and exposure limits determined on the basis of their credit rating (by independent agencies), financial statements and other relevant information.
As these counter parties are Government institutions, public sector undertakings with investment grade credit ratings and taking into account the experience of the Company over time, the counter party risk attached to such assets is considered to be insignificant.
The Company’s customer base is large and diverse limiting the risk arising out of credit concentration.
Further, credit is extended in business interest in accordance with guidelines issued centrally and business-specific credit policies that are consistent w ith (` in Crores) 30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
Expected Loss Provision Particular As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 Opening Balance 80.68 102.32 Add: Provisions made (net) 26.89 (21.18) Less: Utilisation for impairment/de-recognition 1.41 0.46 Effects of foreign exchange fluctuation – – Closing Balance 106.16 80.68 such guidelines.
Exceptions are managed and approved by appropriate authorities, after due consideration of the counterparty’s credentials and financial capacity, trade practices and prevailing business and economic conditions.
The Company’s exposure to trade receivables on the reporting date, net of expected loss provisions, stood at ` 2207.50 Crores (2016 – ` 1686.35 Crores, 2015 - ` 1722.40 Crores).
The Company’s historical experience of collecting receivables and the level of default indicate that credit risk is low and generally uniform across markets; consequently, trade receivables are considered to be a single class of financial assets.
All overdue customer balances are evaluated taking into account the age of the dues, specific credit circumstances, the track record of the counterparty etc.
Loss allowances and impairment is recognised, where considered appropriate by responsible management.
The movement of the expected loss provision (allowance for bad and doubtful loans and receivables etc.)
made by the Company are as under: D. Fair value measurement Fair value hierarchy Fair value of the financial instruments is classified in various fair value hierarchies based on the following three levels: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted price included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e.
a s prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using market approach and valuation techniques which maximize the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates.
If significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
Derivatives are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs such as foreign exchange spot rates and forward rates at the end of the reporting period, yield curves, risk free rate of returns, volatility etc., as applicable.
Level 3: Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the fair value is determined using generally accepted pricing models based on a discounted cash flow analysis, with the most significant inputs being the discount rate that reflects the credit risk of counterparty.
The fair value of trade receivables, trade payables and other Current financial assets and liabilities is considered to be equa l to the carrying amounts of these items due to their short-term nature.
Where such items are Non-current in nature, the same has been classified as Level 3 and fair value determined using discounted cash flow basis.
Similarly, unquoted equity instruments where most recent information to measure fair value is insufficient, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements, cost has been considered as the best estimate of fair value.
There has been no change in the valuation methodology for Level 3 inputs during the year.
The Company has not classified any material financial instruments under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Notes to the Financial Statements 190 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 (` in Crores) Notes to the Financial Statements 191ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
Fair Value As at As at As at Particulars Hierarchy 31st March, 31st March, 1st April, (Level) 2017 2016 2015 Fair Value A.
Financial assets a) Measured at amortised cost i) Investment in Bonds/Debentures & Government or Trust Securities 2 5643.93 4546.53 0.01 ii) Loans* 3 5.36 7.39 8.15 iii) Other Financial assets* 3 40.10 970.42 1363.26   Sub-total 5689.39 5524.34 1371.42 b) Measured at Fair value through OCI i) Equity shares – Quoted 1 1113.08 983.15 1012.97 Sub-total 1113.08 983.15 1012.97 c) Measured at Fair value through Profit or Loss i) Investment in Mutual Funds 1 7675.11 3547.14 4195.57 ii) Investment in Bonds/Debentures, Certificate of Deposits, Preference Shares 2 1988.65 2149.36 1896.02 Sub-total 9663.76 5696.50 6091.59 d) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments 2 4.95 13.02 4.95 ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedging instrument 2 26.50 14.13 9.66 Sub-total 31.45 27.15 14.61 Total financial assets 16497.68 12231.14 8490.59 B.
Financial liabilities a) Measured at amortised cost i) Sales Tax deferment loans*3 12.39 17.85 27.11 ii) Other Financial liabilities* 3 7.98 13.67 6.16 Sub-total 20.37 31.52 33.27 b) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments 2 0.75 – 0.91 ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments 2 18.54 – 0.04 Sub-total 19.29 – 0.95   Total financial liabilities 39.66 31.52 34.22 (` in Crores) *Represents Fair value of Non-current Financial Instruments The following table presents the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: Notes to the Financial Statements 31.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (i) Ind AS 101 (First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards) provides a suitable starting point for accounting in accorda nce with Ind AS and is required to be mandatorily followed by first-time adopters.
The Company has prepared the opening Balance Sheet as per Ind AS as of 1st April, 2015 (the transition date) by: a. recognising all assets and liabilities whose recognition is required by Ind AS, b. not recognising items of assets or liabilities which are not permitted by Ind AS, c. reclassifying items from previous Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to Ind AS as required under Ind AS, and d. applying Ind AS in measurement of recognised assets and liabilities.
(ii) A. Reconciliation of total comprehensive income for the year ended 31st March, 2016 is summarised as follows: (` in Crores) Particulars Notes For the year ended 31/03/2016 Profit After Tax as reported under previous GAAP 9844.71 Impact of measuring investments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) (iv)(c,d) (115.79) Impact of measuring derivative financial instruments, other than those designated as cash flow hedges, at fair value (iv)(e) 8.29 Impact of recognising the cost of the employee stock option scheme at fair value (iii)(e) (501.91) Impact of elimination of amortization of certain trademarks (iii)(f) 31.25 Reclassification of actuarial gains/(losses), arising in respect of employee benefit schemes, to Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) (iv)(f) 53.84 Tax Adjustments 7.98 Profit After Tax as reported under Ind AS 9328.37 Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax) (66.58) Total Comprehensive Income as reported under Ind AS 9261.79 B. Reconciliation of equity as reported under previous GAAP is summarized as follows: As at 01/04/2015 As at 31/03/2016 Particulars Notes (Date of (end of last period Transition) presented under previous GAAP) Equity as reported under previous GAAP 30735.69 32929.00 Dividends not recognised as liability until declared (including tax thereon) (iv)(b) 6029.56 8232.60 Impact of measuring derivative financial instruments, not being cash flow hedges, at fair value (net of tax) (iv)(e) 2.64 8.04 Impact of measuring investments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) or OCI (net of tax) (iv)(c,d) 519.94 414.62 Impact of recognising the cost of the employee stock option schemes in respect of employees of group companies (iii)(e) – 51.74 Impact of elimination of amortization of certain trademarks (net of tax) (iii)(f) – 20.43 Equity as reported under Ind AS 37287.83 41656.43 192 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (Contd.)
iii) Ind AS 101 mandates certain exceptions and allows first-time adopters exemptions from the retrospective application of certain requirements under Ind AS.
The Company has applied the following exemptions in the financial statements: a. Ind AS 103 (Business Combinations) has not been applied retrospectively to business combinations that occurred prior to 1st April, 2015.
Use of this exemption means that in the opening Balance Sheet, goodwill and other assets and liabilities acquired in previous business combinations remain at the previous GAAP carrying values.
b.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were carried in the Balance Sheet prepared in accordance with previous GAAP on 31st March, 2015.
Under Ind AS, the Company has elected to regard such carrying values as deemed cost at the date of transition.
Further, the Company had revalued certain freehold land and buildings based on professional valuation as at 30th June, 1986 and had a balance of ` 52.41 Crores in revaluation reserve on the date of transition.
On transition, such revaluation reserve has been adjusted in retained earnings.
c. Under previous GAAP, the Company accumulated exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in substance, formed part of Company's net investment in non-integral foreign operations in a foreign currency translation reserve.
Such balances are to be recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on disposal of the net investment.
Ind AS allows an entity an option to reset the cumulative translation differences arising on monetary items that exist as of the transition date to zero.
The Company has elected to continue presenting the foreign exchange translation reserve under equity.
d. Under previous GAAP, investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates were stated at cost and provisions made to recognise the decline, other than temporary.
Under Ind AS, the Company has considered their previous GAAP carrying amount as their deemed cost.
e. Under previous GAAP, the cost of options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (ITC ESOS) [equity - settled] was recognised using the intrinsic value method.
Under this method, no expenses were recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as the fair value of the shares on the date of grant equalled the exercise price.
Under Ind AS, the cost of options granted under ITC ESOS is recognised based on the fair value of the options as on the grant date.
In terms of the exemptions, the fair value of unvested options as at the date of transition have been accounted for as part of reserves.
The cost of ITC ESOS applicable to employees of group companies, net of reimbursements, have been considered as capital contribution.
Accordingly, cost of share options totalling ` 677.87 Crores which were granted before and still vesting at 1st April, 2015, have been recognised as a separate component of equity in share option outstanding reserve against retained earnings at 1st April, 2015. f. Under previous GAAP, Trademarks were necessarily amortized.
Under Ind AS, certain trademarks have been determined to be of indefinite useful life.
This has been recognised in the current financial year.
Accordingly, the amortization thereof considered in the previous year has been eliminated.
g. The Company has applied Appendix C of Ind AS 17 (Leases) – ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’ to determine whether an arrangement existing at the transition date contains a lease on the basis of facts and circumstances existing at that date.
h. Under previous GAAP, interest free sales tax deferment loan was carried at cost.
Under Ind AS, such interest free loans have been carried at previous GAAP amount at the date of transition.
(iv) In addition to the above, the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its previous GAAP financial statements, including the Balance Sheet as at 1st April, 2015 and the financial statements as at and for the year ended 31st March, 2016 are detailed below: a.
Under previous GAAP, leasehold properties were presented as fixed assets and amortized over the period of the lease.
Under Ind AS, such properties have been classified as prepayments within non-current assets (current portion presented as other current assets) and have been amortised over the period of the lease, resulting in decrease in property, plant and equipment by ` 224.83 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 204.16 Crores as at 1st April, 2015 and capital work-in-progress (CWIP) by ` 81.66 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 75.02 Crores as at 1st April, 2015 and corresponding increase in other non-Current assets by ` 303.84 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 276.05 Crores as at 1st April, 2015 and in other current assets by ` 2.65 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 3.13 Crores as at 1st April, 2015.
Such reclassification has resulted in decrease in depreciation and amortization expense by ` 2.52 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2016 and corresponding increase in other expenses, but does not affect profit 193ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (Contd.)
before tax and total profit for the year ended 31st March, 2016. b.
Under previous GAAP, dividend payable on equity shares (including the tax thereon) was recognised as a liability in the period to which it relates.
Under Ind AS, dividends (including the tax thereon) to shareholders are recognised when declared by the members in a general meeting.
c. Under previous GAAP, non-current investments were stated at cost.
Where applicable, provision was made to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in valuation of such investments.
Under Ind AS, equity instruments [other than investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates] have been classified as Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) through an irrevocable election at the date of transition.
Investment in Mutual Funds classified as non-current under previous GAAP and carried at cost as on 31st March, 2016, have been measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL).
d. Under previous GAAP, current investments were stated at lower of cost and fair value.
Under Ind AS, these financial assets have been classified as Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) on the date of transition and fair value changes after the date of transition has been recognised in profit or loss.
e. The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as currency forwards, options and exchange traded commodity futures, to hedge its foreign currency risks and commodity price risks, respectively.
Under previous GAAP, the net mark to market losses on the outstanding portfolios of such instruments, other than those designated as cash flow hedges, were recognised in the profit or loss, and the net gain, if any, were ignored.
Under Ind AS, changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss in line with the hedged transaction.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated for hedge accounting are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
f. Under previous GAAP, actuarial gains and losses related to the defined benefit schemes for gratuity and pension plans and liabilities towards employee leave encashment were recognised in profit or loss.
Under Ind AS, the actuarial gains and losses form part of remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability/asset which is recognised in OCI.
Consequently, the tax effect of the same has also been recognised in OCI instead of profit or loss.
g. Under previous GAAP, movements in cash credit facilities, repayable on demand, were reflected in cash flows from financing activities in cash flow statement.
Under Ind AS, such cash credit facilities are included in cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary 194 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on the Standalone Financial Statements 1.
We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial statements of ITC LIMITED  (“the Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2017, and the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements 2.
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with respect to the preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility 3.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
In conducting our audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone Ind AS financial statements are free from material misstatement.
4.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the Company’s preparation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
5.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Opinion 6.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial statements give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 2017, and its profit, total comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of ITC Limited 195ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
302009E) P. R. Ramesh KOLKATA, Partner 26th May, 2017 (Membership No.
70928) Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 7.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit we report, to the extent applicable that: (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our examination of those books.
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31st March, 2017 taken on record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31st March, 2017 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”.
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting.
(g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone Ind AS financial statements in accordance with the generally accepted accounting practice – also refer Note 27 (v) (a) (i) to the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
ii.
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material foreseeable losses.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
iv.
The Company has provided requisite disclosures in the standalone Ind AS financial statements as regards its holding and dealings in Specified Bank Notes as defined in the Notification S.O.
3407(E) dated the 8th November, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance, during the period from 8th November 2016 to 30th December 2016.
Based on audit procedures performed and the representations provided to us by the management we report that the disclosures are in accordance with the books of account maintained by the Company and as produced to us by the Management.
Also refer Note – 27 (viii) to the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
8.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
Independent Auditor’s Report 196 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Annexure - A to the Independent  Auditor’s Report Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of ITC Limited (“the Company”) as of 31st March, 2017 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to (Referred to in paragraph 7 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ of our report of even date) 197ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2017, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
302009E) P. R. Ramesh Kolkata Partner 26th May, 2017 (Membership No.
70928) (i) (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of property, plant and equipment.
(b) The property, plant and equipment were physically verified during the year by the Management in accordance with a regular programme of verification which, in our opinion, provides for physical verification of all the property, plant and equipment at reasonable intervals.
According to the information and explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c) With respect to immovable properties of acquired land and buildings that are freehold, according to the information and explanations given to us and the records examined by us and based on the examination of the registered sale deed / transfer deed / conveyance deed / court orders approving schemes of arrangements/amalgamations provided to us, we report that, the title deeds of such immovable properties are held in the name of the Company as at the balance sheet date.
(ii) As explained to us, the inventories other than material lying with third parties (which have substantially been confirmed) were physically verified during the year by the Management at reasonable intervals and no material discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification.
(iii) The Company has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or other parties covered in the Register maintained under Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the provisions of Sections 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of grant of loans, making investments and providing guarantees and securities, as applicable.
(v) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any deposit during the year and accordingly the question of complying with Sections 73 and 76 of the Companies Act, 2013 does not arise.
In respect of unclaimed deposits, the Company has complied with the provisions of Sections 74 and 75 or any other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
According to the information and explanations given to us, no Order has been passed by the Company Law Board or the National Company Law Tribunal or the Reserve Bank of India or any Court or any other Tribunal on the Company.
Annexure - B to the Independent  Auditor’s Report (Referred to in paragraph 8 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) 198 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 (vi) The maintenance of cost records has been prescribed by the Central Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of specified products of the Company.
For such products, we have broadly reviewed the cost records maintained by the Company pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended, and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed cost records have been made and maintained.
We have, however, not made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii) According to the information and explanations given to us, in respect of statutory dues: (a) The Company has been regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues including Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, Service Tax, Customs Duty, Excise Duty, Value Added Tax, Cess and other material statutory dues applicable to it with the appropriate authorities.
(b) Details of dues of Income-tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, Customs Duty, Excise Duty, and Value Added Tax which have not been deposited as on 31st March, 2017 on account of disputes are given below: Out of the total disputed dues aggregating ` 504.78 Crores as above, ` 406.79 Crores pertain to matters which have been stayed for recovery by the relevant authorities.
Name of Nature of Amount Period to which Forum where dispute statute dues ( ` in Crores) the amount relates is pending Various years covering the period Sales Tax Sales tax 78.96 1987-2017 Appellate Authority – and Value and VAT upto Commissioners’/ Added Tax Revisional authorities level Laws 26.30 1994-2015 Appellate Authority – Tribunal level 231.25 2005-2015 High Court Customs Customs  0.12 2010-2016 Appellate Authority – Act, 1962 duty upto Commissioners’/ Revisional authorities level 0.55 2005-2007 Appellate Authority – Tribunal level Central Excise duty 45.56 1996-2015 Appellate Authority – Excise upto Commissioners’/ Act, 1944 Revisional authorities level 55.44 1973-2015 Appellate Authority – Tribunal level 3.94 2005-2010 High Court Finance Act, Service tax 5.96 2010-2016 Appellate Authority – 1994 upto Commissioners’/ Revisional authorities level 56.70 2003-2014 Appellate Authority – Tribunal level 199ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
302009E) P. R. Ramesh Kolkata Partner 26th May, 2017 (Membership No.
70928) (viii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans or borrowings to financial institutions, banks and government and dues to debenture holders.
(ix) The Company has not raised moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) or term loans and hence reporting under clause (ix) of the Order is not applicable.
(x) To the best of our knowledge and according to the information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the Company and no material fraud on the Company by its officers or employees has been noticed or reported during the year.
(xi) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has paid / provided managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013.
In respect of two directors, aggregate remuneration of ` 4.10 Crores paid/provided during the year, is subject to the approval of the Members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
(xii) The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting under clause (xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us the Company is in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, where applicable, for all transactions with the related parties and the details of related party transactions have been disclosed in the Standalone Ind AS financial statements etc.
as required by the applicable Indian accounting standards.
(xiv) During the year the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures and hence reporting under clause (xiv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, during the year the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or directors of its holding, subsidiary or associate company or person connected with them and hence provisions of Section 192 of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable.
(xvi) The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
200 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Guide to Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates Subsidiaries of ITC Limited Russell Credit Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Investment company.
Its activities are primarily confined to making long term investments in strategic thrust areas for ITC, namely FMCG, Hotels & Tourism, Paper, Paperboards & Packaging, Agri Business and Information Technology.
Subsidiary Greenacre Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, is engaged in property infrastructure maintenance.
Gold Flake Corporation Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business General trading.
Joint Venture ITC Essentra Limited, India, is a 50% joint venture of Gold Flake Corporation Limited with Essentra Filter Products International Limited, UK.
Nature of Business Manufacture and sale of cigarette filter rods.
ITC Investments & Holdings Limited (IIHL) Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Investment company.
Subsidiary IIHL owns 100% of the shareholding of MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited (MRR), which provides estate maintenance services.
Landbase India Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Hospitality, management and operation of golf course and real estate development.
The Company owns the Classic Golf & Country Club, a 27- hole Jack Nicklaus Signature Golf Course.
It also owns a 104 key all suite luxury retreat “ITC Grand Bharat” which is licensed to and operated by ITC Limited.
ITC Infotech India Limited (I3L) Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Information technology services and solutions.
Subsidiaries I3L owns 100% of the shareholding of : ITC Infotech Limited, UK (I2B) and ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. (I2A) ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. owns 100% of Indivate Inc. incorporated as a New Jersey Corporation.
I3L, I2A and I2B are engaged in marketing and sales activities and provide IT services.
Indivate Inc. is engaged in providing business consulting services.
Surya Nepal Private Limited Shareholding 59% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Manufacture and sale of cigarettes and in the business of garments, matches and agarbatti.
Srinivasa Resorts Limited Shareholding 68% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business The Company owns the hotel “ITC Kakatiya” at Hyderabad, for which operating services are rendered by ITC Limited.
Fortune Park Hotels Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business The Company is in the business of operating hotels in the mid-market to upscale segment under its hospitality brands for the same.
It currently operates 46 properties.
Bay Islands Hotels Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business The Company owns the hotel “Fortune Resort Bay Island” at Port Blair, which is licensed to ITC Limited and is operated by Fortune Park Hotels Limited under an Operating and Marketing Services Agreement.
201ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited, Sri Lanka Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business The Company is developing a plot of land in Colombo for a mixed use development project including a luxury hotel.
Wimco Limited Shareholding 98.21% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Wimco Limited is engaged primarily in the manufacture of packaging machinery, viz.
tubefillers, cartoners, conveyor systems etc.
Technico Pty Limited, Australia (Technico) Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business An agri-biotechnology company primarily engaged in rapid multiplication of seed potatoes with TECHNITUBER ® technology.
Subsidiaries Technico has two wholly owned subsidiaries, namely Technico Technologies Inc., Canada and Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia.
Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia, has a wholly owned subsidiary, Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Company Limited, China.
These companies support Technico in the production and commercialisation of seed potato technology in different geographies.
Technico Agri Sciences Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business An agri-biotechnology company primarily engaged in rapid multiplication of seed potatoes with TECHNITUBER ® technology.
North East Nutrients Private Limited Shareholding 76% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business The Company is in the business of manufacture and sale of packaged food products from its food processing facility based in Assam.
Pavan Poplar Limited & Prag Agro Farm Limited Shareholding 100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business The Company is engaged in the business of agro-forestry and other related activities.
Joint Ventures of ITC Limited Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited, where ITC Limited has an ownership interest of 50% (25% held through Russell Credit Limited, a 100% subsidiary of the Company), is a joint venture with Jodhana Heritage Resorts Private Limited.
Nature of Business The joint venture company currently provides Franchise & Marketing Services to 34 hotel properties spread across 12 states with its WelcomHeritage brand portfolio comprising “Legend Hotels”, “Heritage Hotels” and “Nature Resorts”.
Espirit Hotels Private Limited ITC Limited holds 26% in Espirit Hotels Private Limited.
Nature of Business The joint venture company is in the process of developing a luxury hotel complex at Begumpet, Hyderabad.
Logix Developers Private Limited ITC Limited holds 27.90% in Logix Developers Private Limited.
Nature of Business The joint venture company is intended for the purpose of developing a luxury hotel-cum-serviced apartment complex at Noida, UP.
202 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Major Associates of the Group Gujarat Hotels Limited ITC Limited holds 45.78% in Gujarat Hotels Limited.
Nature of Business The Company owns the “WelcomHotel Vadodara” at Vadodara which is operated by ITC Limited under an Operating Licence Agreement.
International Travel House Limited ITC Limited holds 3.60% and Russell Credit Limited, a 100% subsidiary of ITC Limited, holds 45.36%.
Nature of Business Air ticketing, car rentals, inbound outbound tourism, domestic holidays, conferences, events & exhibition management and foreign exchange services for travellers.
Note: The full list of the Group’s Associates appears on page 260.
Principles of Consolidation The Group’s interests in its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) in accordance with the relevant Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Subsidiaries (Ind AS 110) Line by line consolidation of the Statement of Profit and Loss and Balance Sheet is done by aggregating like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The excess / deficit of the cost to ITC Limited of its investments in its subsidiaries over its share of net worth (residual interest in the assets of the subsidiaries after deducting all its liabilities) of the subsidiaries at the date of investment in the subsidiaries are treated as goodwill / capital reserve in the CFS.
The goodwill is disclosed as an asset and capital reserve as a reserve in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the Group as owners and to the non-controlling interest; likewise the non-controlling interests in the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries is identified and presented separately within Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Inter-Company transactions within the Group (both Profit and Loss and Balance Sheet items) are eliminated for arriving at the Group CFS.
CFS is prepared applying uniform accounting policies of ITC Limited to the Group companies.
Associates and Joint Ventures (Ind AS 28) An investment in associate and joint venture is initially recognised at cost on the date of the investment, and is inclusive of any goodwill / capital reserve embedded in the cost.
Only share of net profits / losses of associates / joint ventures is considered in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
The carrying amount of the investment in associates / joint ventures is adjusted by the share of net profits / losses in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
203ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Sl.
No.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Name of the Subsidiary ITC Infotech ITC Infotech ITC Infotech Indivate Inc.* Surya Nepal Technico Pty Company India Limited (USA), Inc. Limited Private Limited Limited The date since when subsidiary 21-Aug-2000 17-Jun-1993 26-Jan-1993 18-Nov-2016 20-Aug-2002 17-Aug-2007 was acquired Financial Year ending on 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 13-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 Reporting Currency Indian US Dollar British Pound US Dollar Nepalese Australian Rupee Rupee Dollar Exchange Rate on the last day of the – 64.8500 80.9023 64.8500 0.6250 49.5775 financial year Share Capital 85.20 118.03 5.55 0.65 126.00 96.63 Reserves & Surplus 349.99 10.52 15.15 (0.60) 482.96 (78.23) Total Assets 521.41 205.62 68.01 0.48 716.00 24.18 Total Liabilities 521.41 205.62 68.01 0.48 716.00 24.18 Investments (excluding Investments made 100.16 – – – 1.60 – in subsidiaries) Turnover 936.16 592.48 299.32 0.51 1799.25 15.14 Profit/(Loss) before tax 40.50 10.67 9.14 (0.60) 659.48 6.97 Provision for tax (22.61) (2.20) 0.35 – (199.20) (0.14) Profit/(Loss) after tax 17.89 8.47 9.49 (0.60) 460.28 6.83 Proposed Dividend – – 12.21 @ ––– % of shareholding 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 59.00 100.00 (` in Crores) Form AOC-1 (Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of Subsidiaries/Associate companies /Joint Ventures Part A: Subsidiaries @ dividend paid during the year * A 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., with effect from 18th November, 2016.
Note: Turnover includes Other income and Other operating revenue.
Profit/(Loss) figures do not include Other Comprehensive Income.
204ITC LimitedREPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Part A: Subsidiaries (Contd.)
(` in Crores) Sl.
No.
7 8 9 10 11 12 Name of the Subsidiary Technico Agri Technico Technico Asia Technico Srinivasa Fortune Park  Company Sciences Technologies Holdings Pty Horticultural Resorts  Hotels Limited Inc. Limited  (Kunming) Co. Limited Limited Limited The date since when 17-Aug-2007 17-Aug-2007 17-Aug-2007 17-Aug-2007 06-Feb-1995 06-Mar-1996 subsidiary was acquired Financial Year ending on 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 Reporting Currency Indian Canadian Dollar Australian Chinese Yuan Indian Indian Rupee Dollar Renminbi Rupee Rupee Exchange Rate on the last day – 48.5925 49.5800 9.4095 – – of the financial year Share Capital 37.96 5.77 18.27 17.89 24.00 0.45 Reserves & Surplus 84.68 (4.28) (13.46) (5.20) 72.75 24.44 Total Assets 152.45 1.97 4.81 13.00 112.09 41.93 Total Liabilities 152.45 1.97 4.81 13.00 112.09 41.93 Investments (excluding Investments 59.05 – – – 19.76 20.13 made in subsidiaries) Turnover 148.60 1.48 – 4.62 54.43 29.53 Profit/(Loss) before tax 17.06 0.23 – (0.20) (2.53) 6.07 Provision for tax (2.54) – – – 1.01 (3.64) Profit/(Loss) after tax 14.52 0.23 – (0.20) (1.52) 2.43 Proposed Dividend –––––– % of shareholding 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 68.00 100.00 205 ITC LimitedREPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Part A: Subsidiaries (Contd.)
(` in Crores) Sl.
No.
13 14 15 16 17 18 Name of the Subsidiary Landbase Bay Islands WelcomHotels Russell Greenacre Wimco Company India  Hotels Lanka Credit Holdings Limited Limited  Limited  (Private) Limited Limited Limited The date since when 09-Sep-2000 08-Mar-1999 04-May-2012 26-Sep-1997 09-Nov-1994 01-Jul-2005 subsidiary was acquired Financial Year ending on 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 Reporting Currency Indian Indian Sri Lankan Indian Indian Indian Rupee Rupee Rupee Rupee Rupee Rupee Exchange Rate on the last day of the – – 0.4253 – – – financial year Share Capital 317.00 0.12 649.43 646.48 42.06 18.85 Reserves & Surplus (96.11) 15.10 (7.93) 161.49 8.98 (16.43) Total Assets 262.19 15.71 656.06 811.54 52.30 10.01 Total Liabilities 262.19 15.71 656.06 811.54 52.30 10.01 Investments (excluding Investments … 1.29 – 127.55 32.22 – made in subsidiaries) Turnover 21.75 1.98 0.24 59.67 6.34 16.17 Profit/(Loss) before tax 2.10 1.73 0.16 48.61 3.30 (0.07) Provision for tax – (0.97) – (14.39) (1.04) – Profit/(Loss) after tax 2.10 0.76 0.16 34.22 2.26 (0.07) Proposed Dividend –––––– % of shareholding 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 98.21 206ITC LimitedREPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Sl.
No.
19 20 21 22 23 24 Name of the Subsidiary Gold Flake ITC MRR Trading North East Prag Agro Pavan Poplar Company Corporation Investments & & Investment Nutrients Farm Limited Limited Limited Holdings Company Private Limited Limited Limited The date since when 29-Jan-1982 17-May-2012 23-Dec-1998 06-Feb-2014 01-Jul-2005 01-Jul-2005 subsidiary was acquired Financial Year ending on 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 Reporting Currency Indian Indian Indian Indian Indian Indian Rupee Rupee Rupee Rupee Rupee Rupee Exchange Rate on the last day ––––– – of the financial year Share Capital 16.00 4.50 0.05 73.00 1.28 5.51 Reserves & Surplus 9.58 0.89 (0.04) (14.28) (0.21) (4.18) Total Assets 25.63 5.39 0.01 141.48 1.09 1.66 Total Liabilities 25.63 5.39 0.01 141.48 1.09 1.66 Investments (excluding Investments 6.01 – – – … – made in subsidiaries) Turnover 3.46 0.07 0.07 138.09 0.05 0.20 Profit/(Loss) before tax 2.80 0.05 ... (1.81) (0.06) (0.29) Provision for tax (0.24) (0.01) ... – … (0.04) Profit/(Loss) after tax 2.56 0.04 … (1.81) (0.06) (0.33) Proposed Dividend –––––– % of shareholding 100.00 100.00 100.00 76.00 100.00 100.00 (` in Crores)Part A: Subsidiaries (Contd.)
Notes: i) Pyxis Solutions, LLC, a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., has been merged with that company with effect from 1st A pril, 2016. ii) The above does not include details of salient features of the financial statement of ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited, Singa pore, (Global), which is under liquidation vide Singapore High Court’s Order dated 30th November, 2007. iii) WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited is yet to commence commercial operations.
iv) King Maker Marketing, Inc. ceased to be a subsidiary with effect from 16th November, 2016. v) Other than the above, there are no subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year.
207 ITC LimitedREPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 208ITC LimitedREPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 * Comprise 55,650 shares fully paid up and 1,39,125 shares partly paid up [Refer Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements ].
$ Share of profit/(loss) has not been considered in accordance with Ind AS 28 - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
Part B: Associates and Joint Ventures Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate companies and Joint Ventures Name of Associates/Joint Ventures Espirit Logix ITC Essentra Maharaja International Russell Gujarat Divya ATC Antrang Hotels Developers Limited Heritage Travel Investments Hotels Management Limited Finance Private Private Resorts House Limited Limited Limited Limited Limited Limited Limited Limited 1.
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 31-Mar-2017 2.
Date on which the Associate or Joint 24-Sept-2010 27-Sept-2011 30-Jun-1994 02-Jul-1997 21-Mar-1982 14-May-1988 12-Sept-1986 23-Nov-2007 18-Jan-1995 21-Jan-2008 Venture was associated or acquired 3.
Shares of Associates/Joint Ventures held by the Company on the year end Number 4,65,09,200 77,66,913 22,50,000 90,000 39,14,233 42,75,435 17,33,907 41,82,915 1,94,775* 43,24,634 Amount of Investment in Associates/ 46.17 30.26 46.67 … 91.91 39.12 13.24 7.22 6.50 4.82 Joint Ventures (` in Crores) Extent of Holding % 26.00 27.90 50.00 50.00 48.96 25.43 45.78 33.33 47.50 33.33 4.
Description of how there is Joint Venture Joint Venture Joint Venture Joint Venture Associate Associate Associate Associate Associate Associate significant influence 5.
Reason why the Associate/Joint Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Venture is not consolidated 6.
Net worth attributable to Shareholding 46.17 6.41 46.26 (0.75) 79.32 13.50 12.09 6.13 6.30 4.73 as per latest audited Balance Sheet (` in Crores) 7.
Profit/(Loss) for the year ( ` in Crores) … (22.75) 9.94 (0.77) 11.17 3.08 3.86 0.20 0.22 0.09 i.
Considered in Consolidation … (6.35) 4.97 – $ 5.47 0.78 1.77 0.07 0.10 0.03 (` in Crores) ii.
Not considered in Consolidation … (16.40) 4.97 (0.77) 5.70 2.30 2.09 0.13 0.12 0.06 (` in Crores) Notes: i) Espirit Hotels Private Limited and Logix Developers Private Limited are yet to commence commercial operations.
ii) Other than the above, there are no Associates or Joint Ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year.
Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary On behalf of the Board Balance Sheet 210 Statement of Profit and Loss 211 Statement of Changes in Equity 212 Cash Flow Statement 214 Notes 216 Auditor’s Report 291 Consolidated Financial Statements 209ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 210 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2017  As at As at As at Note 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 32  are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary ASSETS  Non-current assets   (a) Property, Plant and Equipment 3A  15262.27  14459.36  14370.09  (b) Capital work-in-progress 3B  3684.20  2528.97  2104.83  (c) Goodwill on consolidation  202.53  202.53  207.99  (d) Other Intangible assets 3C  428.68  444.74  423.93  (e) Intangible assets under development 3D  45.69  30.75  28.65   19623.37  17666.35  17135.49  Less: Provision for assets given on lease –  –  1.05   19623.37  17666.35  17134.44  (f) Financial Assets  (i) Investments 4  (a) Investment in Associates  162.81  149.99  163.36  (b) Investment in Joint Ventures  123.10  127.99  127.09   (c) Others  6408.08  4847.83  1122.27   6693.99  5125.81  1412.72   (ii) Loans 5  8.54  12.96  16.47   (iii) Others 6  100.71  6803.24  1038.01  6176.78  1384.01  2813.20  (g) Deferred tax assets (Net) 7  44.95  40.54  36.91  (h) Other non-current assets 8  3202.61  29674.17   2945.71  26829.38  2200.15  22184.70 Current assets  (a) Inventories 9  8671.10  9062.10  8506.70  (b) Biological assets other than bearer plants 10  70.05  67.25  51.18 (c) Financial Assets  (i) Investments 11  10332.39  6621.78  6266.30   (ii) Trade receivables 12  2474.29  1917.18  1978.32   (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 13  333.07  283.59  155.69   (iv) Other Bank Balances 14  2634.33  5779.71  6415.55   (v) Loans 5  6.78  8.07  8.66   (vi) Others 6  1090.02  16870.88  569.43  15179.76  380.86  15205.38  (d) Other current assets 8  657.07  26269.10  553.39  24862.50  599.01  24362.27 TOTAL ASSETS  55943.27  51691.88  46546.97 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES   Equity  (a) Equity Share capital 15  1214.74  804.72  801.55  (b) Other Equity  45198.19  41874.80  37533.19  Attributable to owners of the parent  46412.93  42679.52  38334.74  Non-controlling interests  294.74  46707.67  260.90  42940.42  225.12  38559.86 Liabilities  Non-current liabilities  (a) Financial Liabilities  (i) Borrowings 16  18.40  26.66  39.77   (ii) Other financial liabilities 17  41.21  59.61  46.77  73.43  39.31  79.08  (b) Provisions 18  158.42  135.42  123.67  (c) Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 7  1878.77  1880.00  1688.47  (d) Other non-current liabilities 19  17.79  2114.59  4.15  2093.00  3.36  1894.58 Current liabilities  (a) Financial Liabilities  (i) Borrowings 20  19.11  43.95  184.95   (ii) Trade payables  2659.33  2339.29  1976.94   (iii) Other financial liabilities 17  903.25  3581.69  722.50  3105.74  783.43  2945.32  (b) Other current liabilities 19  3327.46  3396.52  3014.80  (c) Provisions 18  61.16  71.40  89.73  (d) Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 21  150.70  7121.01   84.80  6658.46  42.68  6092.53 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  55943.27  51691.88  46546.97 Note For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) I Revenue From Operations 22A  58731.52  55061.08 II Other Income 23  1761.53  1530.80 III Total Income (I+II)  60493.05  56591.88 IV EXPENSES Cost of materials consumed  11979.03  11168.68 Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  3477.56  2595.20 Changes in inventories of finished goods, Stock-in-Trade, work-in-progress and intermediates  592.57  (195.38) Excise duty  15927.91  15868.98 Employee benefits expense 24  3631.73  3440.97 Finance costs 25  24.30  53.60 Depreciation and amortization expense  1152.79  1077.40 Other expenses 26  7686.81  7731.78 Total expenses (IV)  44472.70  41741.23 V Share of profit of associates and joint ventures  5.97  8.42 VI Profit before tax (III- IV+V)  16026.32  14859.07 VII Tax expense: Current Tax 27  5546.16  5150.37 Deferred Tax 27  2.93  207.84 VIII Profit for the year (VI-VII)  10477.23  9500.86 Other Comprehensive Income A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:         – Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans 28 (vii) (27.19)  (49.09) – Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  139.68  (32.21) – Effective portion of losses on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge  (61.19)  –          – Share of OCI in Associates and Joint Ventures  10.71  (9.69) (ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: 27  23.91  16.94 B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: – Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations  (55.55)  (4.34) – Effective portion of gains / (losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge  18.29  (2.32) (ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 27  (6.31)  0.80 IX Other Comprehensive Income [A (i+ii)+B (i+ii)]  42.35  (79.91) X Total Comprehensive Income for the year (VIII+IX)  10519.58  9420.95 Profit for the year Attributable to: Owners of the parent  10289.44  9344.45 Non-controlling interests  187.79  156.41 Total comprehensive income for the year Attributable to: Owners of the parent  10331.79  9264.54 Non-controlling interests  187.79  156.41 XI Earnings per equity share (Face Value ` 1.00 each): 28 (i) (1) Basic (in `) 8.50 7.75 (2) Diluted (in `) 8.45 7.71 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  for the year ended 31st March, 2017 211ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 32  are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017212 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in Crores) For the year ended 31st March, 2016  801.55 3.17 804.72 For the year ended 31st March, 2017  804.72 410.02 1214.74 Balance at the beginning Changes in equity share Balance at the end of the of the reporting year capital during the year reporting year Capital Reserve Securities Premium Account Special Reserve under Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934 Employees Housing Reserve under Nepal labour laws Subsidy Reserve Share Options Outstanding Account Capital Redemption Reserve Contingency Reserve General Reserve Retained Earnings Equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income Effective portion of Cash Flow Hedges Exchange differences  on translating the financial statementsof  foreign operations Attributable to owners of the parent Non- controlling interests TotalReserves and Surplus Items of other comprehensive income Balance as at 1st April, 2015 5.46 5105.92 74.12 99.08 63.33 0.23 677.87 0.22 363.05 15705.42 14805.95 476.78 7.94 147.82 37533.19 225.12 377 58.31 Profit for the year – – – – – – – – – – 9344.45 – – – 9344.45 156.41 9500.86Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax) – – – – – – – – – – (32.21) (41.84) (1.52) (4.34) (79.91) … (79.91)Total Comprehensive Income for the year – – – – – – – – – – 9312.24 (41.84) (1.52) (4.34) 9264.54 156.41 9420.95 Issue of equity shares under ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme – 528.53 – – – – – – – – – – – – 528.53 – 528.53 Dividend –  Ordinary Dividend – – – – – – – – – – (5009.70) – – – (5009.70) (122.95) (5132.65) Income tax on Dividend paid – – – – – – – – – – (992.74) – – – (992.74) – (992.74)Transfer from retained earnings – – – 9.00 18.24 – – – – 990.00 (1017.24) – – – – – –Recognition of share based payment – – – – – – 553.65 – – – – – – – 553.65 – 553.65Transfer from share option reserve on exercise and lapse – 22.58 – – – – (30.22) – – – 7.64 – – – – – – Share of non-controlling interest on issue of share capital by subsidiary – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 2.32 2.32 Adjustment pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation – – – – – – – – – (52.85) 50.18 – – – (2.67) – (2.67) Balance as at 31st March, 2016 5.46 5657.03 74.12 108.08 81.57 0.23 1201.30 0.22 363.05 16642.57 17156.33 434.94 6.42 143.48 41874.80 260.90 4 2135.70 Profit for the year – – – – – – – – – – 10289.44 – – – 10289.44 187.79 10477.2 3 Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax) – – – – – – – – – – (24.72) 150.65 (28.03) (55.55) 42.35 … 42.35 Total Comprehensive Income for the year – – – – – – – – – – 10264.72 150.65 (28.03) (55.55) 10331.79 187.79 10519.58 B.
Other Equity (` in Crores) Consolidated Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31st March, 2017 Capital Reserve on Consolidation 213ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Consolidated Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31st March, 2017 On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHA TTERJEE Company Secretary Capital Reserve and Capital Reserve on Consolidation:  This Reserve represents the difference between value of the net assets transferred to the Group in the course of business combinations and the consideration paid for such combinations.
Securities Premium Account: This Reserve represents the premium on issue of shares and can be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Special Reserve under Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934:  This Reserve represents profits transferred before declaration of dividend by companies of the Group which are registered with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as Non- Banking Financial Company.
Employees Housing Reserve under Nepal labour laws:  This Reserve represents the amounts set aside for providing employees’ housing as per the provisions of the Nepal Labour Act, 2048.
Subsidy Reserve: This Reserve represents subsidies received from government authorities for capital investment and amounts taken over by the Group consequent to business combinations.
Share Options Outstanding Account: This Reserve relates to stock options granted by the Company to employees under ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes.
This Reserve is transferred to securities premium or retained earnings on exercise or cancellation of vested op tions.
Capital Redemption Reserve: This Reserve has been transferred to the Group in the course of business combinations and can be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Contingency Reserve: This Reserve has been created out of retained earnings, as a matter of prudence, to take care of any unforseen adverse developments in pending legal disputes.
General Reserve: This Reserve is created by an appropriation from one component of equity (generally retained earnings) to another, not being an item of Other Comprehensive Income.
The same can be utilized by the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Com panies Act, 2013.
Retained Earnings: This Reserve represents the cumulative profits of the Group and effects of remeasurement of defined benefit obligations.
This Reserve can be utilized in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income: This Reserve represents the cumulative gains (net of losses) arising on the revaluation of Equity Instruments measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income, net of amounts reclassified, if any, to Retained Earnings when those instruments are disposed of.
Effective portion of Cash Flow Hedges: This Reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated as Cash Flow Hedges.
It will be reclassified to profit or loss or included in the carrying amount of the non-fin ancial asset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy.
Exchange differences  on translating the financial statements of foreign operations: This Reserve contains (a) accumulated balance of foreign exchange differences from translation of the financial statements of the Group’s foreign operations arising at the time  of consolidation of such entities and (b) accumulated foreign exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in substance, form part of th e Group’s net investment in a foreign operation.
Such foreign exchange differences are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
Exchange dif ferences previously accumulated in this Reserve are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & SellsChartered Accountants P R RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 32  are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
The Board of Directors of the Company recommended a dividend of ` 4.75 per share (for the year ended 31st March, 2016 - ordinary dividend  ` 6.50 per share and special dividend ` 2.00 per share) be paid on fully paid equity shares.
This equity dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The total eq uity dividend to be paid is ` 5770.01 Crores (for the year ended 31st March, 2016 - ordinary dividend ` 5230.68 Crores and special dividend ` 1609.44 Crores).
Income tax on proposed dividend being ` 1174.64 Crores (for the year ended 31st March, 2016 - ` 1392.48 Crores).
Capital Reserve Securities Premium Account Special Reserve under Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934 Employees Housing Reserve under Nepal labour laws Subsidy Reserve Share Options Outstanding Account Capital Redemption Reserve Contingency Reserve General Reserve Retained Earnings Equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income Effective portion of Cash Flow Hedges Exchange differences  on translating the financial statementsof  foreign operations Reserves and Surplus Items of other comprehensive income Issue of equity shares under ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme – 1059.61 – – – – – – – – – – – – 1059.61 – 1059.61 Issue of Bonus Shares – (402.67) – – – – – – – – – – – – (402.67) – (402.67) Dividends – Ordinary Dividend – – – – – – – – – – (5230.68) – – – (5230.68) (153.95) (5384.63) – Special Dividend – – – – – – – – – – (1609.44) – – – (1609.44) – (1609.44) Income tax on Dividend paid – – – – – – – – – – (1338.95) – – – (1338.95) – (1338.95) Transfer from retained earnings – – – 6.84 21.29 – – – – 1030.00 (1058.13) – – – – – – Recognition of share based payment – – – – – – 502.85 – – – – – – – 502.85 – 502.85 Transfer from share option reserve on exercise and lapse – 89.44 – – – – (104.44) – – – 15.00 – – – – – – Transfer of capital reserve pursuant todisposal of subsidiary – – (1.45) – – – – – – – 1.45 – – – – – – Transferred to initial carrying amount ofhedged items (net of tax) – – – – – – – – – – – – 10.88 – 10.88 – 10.88 Balance as at 31st March, 2017 5.46 6403.41 72.67 114.92 102.86 0.23 1599.71 0.22 363.05 17672.57 18200.30 585.59 (10.73) 87.93 45198.19 294.74 45492.93 B.
Other Equity (` in Crores) (Contd.)
Capital Reserve on Consolidation Attributable to owners of the parent Non- controlling interests Total 214 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2017 A.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities PROFIT BEFORE TAX 16026.32 14859.07 ADJUSTMENTS FOR : Depreciation and amortization expense 1152.79 1077.40 Share based payments to employees 496.02 548.42 Finance costs 24.30 53.60 Interest Income (903.16) (881.02) Dividend Income (0.14) (59.87) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment - Net 8.87 56.11 Gain recognised on disposal of subsidiary (144.95) – Doubtful and bad debts 34.08 29.33 Doubtful and bad advances, loans and deposits 1.25 0.03 Provision for standard assets – 0.20 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (5.97) (8.42) Net (gain)/loss arising on investments mandatorily measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)(620.71) (537.68) Foreign currency translations and transactions - Net 5.82 (8.77) Impairment of Goodwill on consolidation – 48.20 25.46 294.79 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE WORKING CAPITAL CHANGES 16074.52 15153.86 ADJUSTMENTS FOR : Trade receivables, loans, advances and other assets (869.55) (206.61) Inventories 592.55 (692.53) Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions 321.38 44.38 622.16 (276.98) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 16118.90 14876.88 Income tax paid (5491.59) (5077.84) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 10627.31 9799.04 B.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment, Intangibles etc.
(3121.61) (2347.68) Sale of property, plant and equipment 50.07 7.53 Purchase of current investments etc.
(83402.10) (149155.19) Sale/redemption of current investments etc.
81034.23 150651.05 Purchase of non-current investments (2280.65) (4926.25) Purchase of non-current Investment in subsidiary [Refer Note 28(xii)] – (7.54) Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary - Net 128.96 – Dividend from associates and joint ventures 4.30 4.29 Dividend Income 0.14 59.87 Interest received 756.40 741.06 Investment in bank deposits (original maturity more than 3 months) (1772.05) (5581.42) Redemption / Maturity of bank deposits (original maturity more than 3 months) 5845.67 6631.50 Investment in deposit with housing finance company (500.00) – Loans given – (3.00) Loans realised from associates 1.40 1.40 Loans realised 4.31 3.57 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (3250.93) (3920.81) For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) In terms of our report attached For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants P. R. RAMESH Partner Kolkata, 26th May, 2017 The accompanying notes 1 to 32 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary 215ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes : 1.
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Ind AS - 7 “Statement of Cash Flows”.
2.
During the previous year Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited, an associate of the Group, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Greenacre Holdings Limited, a step down wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on further aquisition of its shares.
Subsequently, in accordance with the Scheme of Amalgamation [Refer Note 28 (xii)], the assets and liabilities of Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited were transferred to the Group with effect from 1st October, 2015, the Appointed Date, at the values stated below: (i) Other liabilities 0.14 (ii) Property, plant and equipment … (iii) Cash and bank balances 0.08 (iv) Deposit accounts 5.10 (v) Other assets 3.61 3.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS : Cash and cash equivalents as above 339.41 264.06 Unrealised gain / (loss) on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (25.45) (24.42) Cash/export credit facilities (Note 20) 19.11 43.95 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 13) 333.07 283.59 C. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 1066.96 531.70 Repayment of non-current borrowings (13.17) (12.73) Proceeds from issue of shares by a subsidiary to minority shareholders – 2.32 Interest paid (25.49) (27.52) Net increase in statutory restricted accounts balances 3.69 19.10 Dividend paid (6994.07) (5132.65) Income tax on dividend paid (1338.95) (992.74) NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (7301.03) (5612.52) NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 75.35 265.71 OPENING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 264.06 (1.73) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ON ACCOUNT OF AMALGAMATION – 0.08 CLOSING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 339.41 264.06 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2017 Statement of Compliance These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with the relevant presentation requirements of the Companies Act, 2013.
The Group adopted Ind AS from 1st April, 2016.
Up to the year ended 31st March, 2016, the Group prepared its financial statements in accordance with the requirements of previous Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which includes Standards notified under the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006.
These are the Group’s first Ind AS financial statements.
The date of transition to Ind AS is 1st April, 2015.
Details of the exceptions and optional exemptions availed by the Group and principal adjustments along with related reconciliations are detailed in Note 32 (First-time Adoption).
Basis of Preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, except for certain items that are measured at fair values, as explained in the accounting policies.
Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 102 – Share-based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 17 – Leases, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in Ind AS 2 – Inventories or value in use in Ind AS 36 – Impairment of Assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period; they are recognised in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Basis of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the share of the total comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Associates are entities over which the Group exercise significant influence but does not control.
An entity/ arrangement in which the Group has the ability to exercise control jointly with one or more uncontrolled entities may be a joint venture (“JV”) or a joint operation (“JO”).
Unlike in a JV where parties have proportionate interests in the assets and liabilities of the JV entity, parties have rights to and obligations towards specified assets and liabilities in a JO.
Control, significant influence and joint control is assessed annually with reference to the voting power (usually arising from equity shareholdings and potential voting rights) and other rights (usually contractual) enjoyed by the Group in its capacity as an investor that provides it the power and consequential ability to direct the investee’s activities and significantly affect the Group’s returns from its investment.
Such assessment requires the exercise of judgement and is disclosed by way of a note to the Financial Statements.
The Group is considered not to be in control of entities where it is unclear as to whether it enjoys such power over the investee.
The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of subsidiaries are aggregated and consolidated, line by line, from the date control is acquired by any Group entity to the date it ceases.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the Group as owners and to the non-controlling interests.
The Group 1.
Significant Accounting Policies Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 216 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
presents the non-controlling interests in the Balance Sheet within equity, separately from the equity of the Group as owners.
The excess of the Group’s investment in a subsidiary over its share in the net worth of such subsidiary on the date control is acquired is treated as goodwill while a deficit is considered as a capital reserve in the CFS.
In case of JO, Group’s share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses are consolidated.
On disposal of the subsidiary, attributable amount on goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss and recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Impairment loss, if any, to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount is charged off to the Statement of Profit and Loss as it arises and is not reversed.
For impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Unit (CGU) or a group of CGUs to which it relates, which is not larger than an operating segment, and is monitored for internal management purposes.
An investment in an associate or a JV is initially recognised at cost on the date of the investment, and inclusive of any goodwill/capital reserve embedded in the cost, in the Balance Sheet.
The proportionate share of the Group in the net profits/losses as also in the other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss and the carrying value of the investment is adjusted by a like amount (referred as ‘equity method’).
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Operating Cycle All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 and Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents.
Property, Plant and Equipment – Tangible Assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
For this purpose, cost includes deemed cost which represents the carrying value of property, plant and equipment recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP.
Cost is inclusive of inward freight, duties and taxes and incidental expenses related to acquisition.
In respect of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements major projects involving construction, related pre-operational expenses form part of the value of assets capitalised.
Expenses capitalised also include applicable borrowing costs for qualifying assets, if any.
All upgradation / enhancements are charged off as revenue expenditure unless they bring similar significant additional benefits.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use which is generally on commissioning.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated in a manner that amortizes the cost (or other amount substituted for cost) of the assets after commissioning, less its residual value, over their useful lives as specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 on a straight line basis.
Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment of the Group are as follows: Buildings 30 – 60 Years Leasehold Improvement Shorter of lease period or estimated useful lives Plant and Equipment 7 – 25 Years Furniture and Fixtures 8 – 10 Years Vehicles 8 – 10 Years Office Equipment 5 Years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Property, plant and equipment’s residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and changes, if any, are treated as changes in accounting estimate.
Goodwill on Consolidation Goodwill arising on consolidation is stated at cost less impairment losses, where applicable.
On disposal of a 217ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 218 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 subsidiary, attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
On acquisition of an associate or joint venture, the goodwill/capital reserve arising from such acquisition is included in the carrying amount of the investment and also disclosed separately.
Impairment loss, if any, to the extent the carrying amount exceed the recoverable amount is charged off to the Statement of Profit and Loss as it arises and is not reversed.
For impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Unit (CGU) or group of CGUs to which it relates, which is not larger than an operating segment, and is monitored for internal management purposes.
Intangible Assets Intangible Assets that the Group controls and from which it expects future economic benefits, are capitalized upon acquisition and measured initially: a. for assets acquired in a business combination or by way of a government grant, at fair value on the date of acquisition / grant b. for separately acquired assets, at cost comprising the purchase price (including import duties and non-refundable taxes) and directly attributable costs to prepare the asset for its intended use.
Internally generated assets for which the cost is clearly identifiable are capitalised at cost.
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense when it is incurred.
Development costs are capitalised only after the technical and commercial feasibility of the asset for sale or use has been established.
Thereafter, all directly attributable expenditure incurred to prepare the asset for its intended use are recognised as the cost of such assets.
Internally generated brands, websites and customer lists are not recognised as intangible assets.
The carrying value of intangible assets includes deemed cost which represents the carrying value of intangible assets recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP.
The useful life of an intangible asset is considered finite where the rights to such assets are limited to a specified period of time by contract or law (e.g.
patents, licences, trademarks, franchise and servicing rights) or the likelihood of technical, technological obsolescence (e.g.
computer software, design, prototypes) or commercial obsolescence (e.g.
lesser known brands are those to which adequate marketing support may not be provided).
If, there are no such limitations, the useful life is taken to be indefinite.
Intangible assets that have finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives by the straight line method unless it is practical to reliably determine the pattern of benefits arising from the asset.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not amortized.
All intangible assets are tested for impairment.
Amortization expenses and impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses are taken to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Thus, after initial recognition, an intangible asset is carried at its cost less accumulated amortization and / or impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually to determine if a reset of such useful life is required for assets with finite lives and to confirm that business circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for assets so classified.
Based on such review, the useful life may change or the useful life assessment may change from indefinite to finite.
The impact of such changes is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
Impairment of Assets Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent, the carrying amount of assets or cash generating units exceed their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s net selling price and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset or cash generating unit and from its disposal at the end of its useful life.
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed when there is an indication that the impairment losses recognised no longer exist or have decreased.
Such reversals are recognised as an increase in carrying amounts of assets to the extent that it does not exceed the carrying amounts that would have been determined (net of amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Inventories Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost is calculated on weighted average method.
1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing such inventories to its present location and condition and includes, where applicable, appropriate overheads based on normal level of activity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs for completion and sale.
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are identified from time to time and, where necessary, a provision is made for such inventories.
Foreign Currency Transactions The presentation currency of the Group is Indian Rupee.
Transactions in foreign currency are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date.
Gains/ losses arising on settlement as also on translation of monetary items are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation (having a functional currency other than Indian Rupee) are accumulated in foreign currency translation reserve.
For the preparation of the consolidated financial statements: (a) assets and liabilities of foreign operations, together with goodwill and fair value adjustments assumed on acquisition thereof, are translated to Indian Rupees at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting period end; (b) income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates prevailing during the period; when exchange rates fluctuate significantly the rates prevailing on the transaction date are used instead.
Differences arising on such translation are accumulated in foreign currency translation reserve and attributed to non- controlling interests proportionately.
On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Group is reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
In relation to a partial disposal, that does not result in losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate exchange differences accumulated in equity is reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Derivatives and Hedge Accounting Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The resulting gains/losses is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of recognition in profit or loss/inclusion in the initial cost of non-financial asset depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the nature of the hedged item.
The Group complies with the principles of hedge accounting where derivative contracts are designated as hedge instruments.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedge instrument and the hedged item, along with the risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking hedge transaction, which can be a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge.
(i) Fair value hedges Changes in fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the designated portion of hedging instrument and the change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the line item relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
(ii) Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the other comprehensive income and accumulated as ‘Cash Flow Hedging Reserve’.
The gains / losses relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Amounts previously recognised and accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item affects the Statement of Profit and Loss.
However, when the hedged item results in the recognition of a non – financial asset, such gains / losses are transferred from equity (but not as Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 219ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 reclassification adjustment) and included in the initial measurement cost of the non – financial asset.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gains/losses recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is reclassified when the underlying transaction is ultimately recognised.
When an underlying transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gains/ losses accumulated in equity is reclassified immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Investment in Associate and Joint Venture Investment in associate and joint venture is accounted for using the ‘equity method’ less accumulated impairment, if any.
Financial Instrument, Financial Assets, Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value on initial recognition of financial assets or financial liabilities.
Purchase or sale of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date when the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial Assets Recognition: Financial assets include investments, trade receivables, advances, security deposits, cash and cash equivalents.
Such assets are initially recognised at transaction price when the Group becomes party to contractual obligations.
The transaction price includes transaction costs unless the asset is being fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Classification:  Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition depending on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on such classification.
Financial assets are classified as those measured at: (a) amortised cost, where the financial assets are held solely for collection of cash flows arising from payments of principal and/or interest.
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income, where the financial assets are held not only for collection of cash flows arising from payments of principal and interest but also from the sale of such assets.
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
(c) fair value through profit or loss, where the assets are managed in accordance with an approved investment strategy that triggers purchase and sale decisions based on the fair value of such assets.
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value being recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which they arise.
Trade receivables, advances, security deposits, cash and cash equivalents etc.
are classified for measurement at amortised cost while investments may fall under any of the aforesaid classes.
However, in respect of particular investments in equity instruments that would otherwise be measured at fair value through profit or loss, an irrevocable election at initial recognition may be made to present subsequent changes in fair value through other comprehensive income.
Impairment: The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) such as investments, trade receivables, advances and security deposits held at amortised cost and financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are tested for impairment based on evidence or information that is available without undue cost or effort.
Expected credit losses are assessed and loss allowances recognised if the credit quality of the financial asset has deteriorated significantly since initial recognition.
Reclassification: When and only when the business model is changed, the Group shall reclassify all affected financial assets prospectively from the reclassification date as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, fair value through profit or loss without restating the previously recognised gains, 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 220 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
losses or interest and in terms of the reclassification principles laid down in the Ind AS relating to Financial Instruments.
De-recognition: Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Concomitantly, if the asset is one that is measured at: (a) amortised cost, the gain or loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss; (b) fair value through other comprehensive income, the cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to reserves are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss unless the asset represents an equity investment in which case the cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to reserves is reclassified within equity.
Income Recognition:  Interest income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the right to receive dividend is established.
Financial Liabilities Borrowings, trade payables and other financial liabilities are initially recognised at the value of the respective contractual obligations.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any discount or premium on redemption/settlement is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as finance cost over the life of the liability using the effective interest method and adjusted to the liability figure disclosed in the Balance Sheet.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled and on expiry.
Offsetting Financial Instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is included in the Balance Sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Equity Instruments Equity instruments are recognised at the value of the proceeds, net of direct costs of the capital issue.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered, net of returns and discounts to customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and other duties which the Group pays as a principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales tax and value added tax.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, which is mainly upon delivery, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised in the periods in which the services are rendered.
Government Grant Group entities may receive government grants that require compliance with certain conditions related to the entity’s operating activities or are provided to the entity by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain qualifying criteria.
Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received, and the Group entity will comply with the conditions attached to the grant.
Accordingly, government grants: (a) related to or used for assets are included in the Balance Sheet as deferred income and recognised as income over the useful life of the assets.
(b) related to incurring specific expenditures are taken to the Statement of Profit and Loss on the same basis and in the same periods as the expenditures incurred.
(c) by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain qualifying criteria are recognised as they become receivable.
In the unlikely event that a grant previously recognised is ultimately not received, it is treated as a change in estimate and the amount cumulatively recognised is expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Dividend Distribution Dividends paid (including income tax thereon) is recognised in the period in which the interim dividends are approved by the Board of Directors, or in respect of the final dividend when approved by shareholders.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 221ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Employee Benefits The Group makes contributions to both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes which are mainly administered through duly constituted and approved Trusts.
Provident Fund contributions are in the nature of defined contribution scheme.
In respect of employees who are members of constituted and approved trusts, the Group recognises contribution payable to such trusts as an expense including any shortfall in interest between the amount of interest realised by the investment and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India.
In respect of other employees, provident funds are deposited with the Government and recognised as expense.
The Group makes contribution to defined contribution pension plan.
The contribution payable is recognised as an expense, when an employee renders the related service.
The Group also makes contribution to defined benefit pension and gratuity plan.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Gain or Loss on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The employees of the Group are entitled to compensated leave for which the Group records the liability based on actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit method.
These benefits are unfunded.
Actual disbursements made, under the Workers’ Voluntary Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses.
Employee Share Based Compensation Stock Options are granted to eligible employees in accordance with the ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes (“ITC ESOS”), as may be decided by the Nomination & Compensation Committee.
Eligible employees for this purpose include employees of the Group entities, their  Directors and those on deputation to joint ventures and associates.
Under Ind AS, the cost of ITC Stock Options (Stock Options) is recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on the grant date.
In terms of the exemptions, the fair value of unvested Stock Options as on the date of transition have been accounted for as part of Reserves.
While the fair value of Stock Options granted and vesting after the transition date are recognised in profit and loss for employees of the Group (other than those out on deputation), the value of Stock Options, net of reimbursements, to employees on deputation are considered as capital contribution/investment.
The Group generally seeks reimbursement of the value of Stock Options from such companies, as applicable.
It may, if so recommended by the Corporate Management Committee and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek such reimbursements from such companies, who need to conserve financial capacity to sustain their business and growth plans and where the quantum of reimbursement is not material - the materiality threshold being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
Leases Leases are recognised as a finance lease whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Group as a Lessee Assets used under finance leases are recognised as property, plant and equipment in the Balance Sheet for an amount that corresponds to the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease and a liability is recognised for an equivalent amount.
The minimum lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease unless the payments to the lessor are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increases.
Group as a Lessor Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases.
Where the Group is a lessor under an operating lease, the asset is capitalised within 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 222 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Significant Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 223ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Taxes on Income Taxes on income comprises of current taxes and deferred taxes.
Current tax in the Statement of Profit and Loss is provided as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable income for the period using tax rates and tax laws enacted during the period, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and the amounts used for taxation purposes (tax base), at the tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the future tax consequences to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Income tax, in so far as it relates to items disclosed under other comprehensive income or equity, are disclosed separately under other comprehensive income or equity, as applicable.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances related to the same taxation authority.
Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Claims Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts are disclosed after a careful evaluation of the facts and legal aspects of the matter involved.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when, as a result of a past event, the Group has a legal or constructive obligation; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The amount so recognised is a best estimate of the consideration required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
In an event when the time value of money is material, the provision is carried at the present value of the cash flows estimated to settle the obligation.
Operating Segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker (CODM).
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Corporate Management Committee.
Segments are organised based on business which have similar economic characteristics as well as exhibit similarities in nature of products and services offered, the nature of production processes, the type and class of customer and distribution methods.
Segment revenue arising from third party customers is reported on the same basis as revenue in the financial statements.
Inter-segment revenue is reported on the basis of transactions which are primarily market led.
Segment results represent profits before finance charges, unallocated corporate expenses and taxes.
“Unallocated Corporate Expenses” include revenue and expenses that relate to initiatives/costs attributable to the enterprise as a whole and are not attributable to segments.
Financial and Management Information Systems The Group’s Accounting System is designed to unify the Financial and Cost Records and also to comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, to provide financial and cost information appropriate to the businesses and facilitate Internal Control.
property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its useful economic life.
Payments received under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
2.
Use of estimates and judgements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 224 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.
Significant influence: The Group assessed whether or not it has significant influence on its investees based on its practical ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, though it is not in control or in joint control of these policies.
Based on such assessment, the Group determined that the entities listed in the notes to the financial statements are the only entities over which the Group has significant influence, and accordingly associates.
3.
Joint Control: (i) The Group holds 50% of the equity share capital of Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited, a company involved in operation of hotel properties.
The Group do not consider that it is able to exercise control over the company as the decisions about relevant activities of the company are made jointly between the Group and the co-venturer (who holds 50% of the equity share capital) and both the parties have rights to the net assets of such arrangement.
(ii) The Group holds 26% of the equity share capital of Espirit Hotels Private Limited, a company involved in development of a luxury hotel complex.
The Group has considered that in view of the shareholder agreement, key decisions about relevant activities of such company are made jointly between the Group and the co-venturer (who holds 74% of the equity share capital) and both the parties have rights to the net assets of such arrangement.
(iii) The Group holds 27.90% of the equity share capital of Logix Developers Private Limited, a company intended for the purpose of developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment complex.
The Group has concluded that the key decisions about relevant activities of such company are made jointly between the Group and the co- venturer (who holds 72.10% of the equity share capital) and both the parties have rights to the net assets of such arrangement.
(iv)The Group holds 50% of the equity share capital of ITC Essentra Limited, a company involved in manufacture and sale of filter rods.
The Group The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the results of operations during the reporting period end.
Although these estimates are based upon management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results could differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
A.  Judgements in applying accounting policies The following are the judgements, apart from those involving estimations (see note below), that the Group have made in the process of applying the accounting policies and that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 1.
Control: The Group assessed whether or not it has control on its investees based on whether, as an investor, it has the power/rights and consequently the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of its investees unilaterally.
In making this judgement, the Group considered the absolute size of its holding, the relative size of and dispersion of other shareholders, and whether any contractual arrangements exist between the Company (and its subsidiaries) and other shareholders of the investees.
Based on this, and in accordance with its Accounting Policy, the Group has determined that the entities listed in the notes to the financial statements are the only entities over which Group has control.
The Company is a settlor for certain trusts, i.e., ITC Sangeet Research Academy, ITC Education Trust and ITC Rural Development Trust.
The Group while considering the nature and insignificant variability of its return has concluded that it does not ‘control’ these trusts.
2.
Use of estimates and judgements (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 225ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 has concluded that the key decisions about relevant activities of such company are made jointly between the Group and the co-venturer (who holds 50% of the equity share capital) and both the parties have rights to the net assets of such arrangement.
4.
Useful life of Intangible Assets: The Group is required to determine whether its intangible assets have indefinite or finite life which is a subject matter of judgement.
Certain trademarks have been considered of having an indefinite useful life taking into account that there are no technical, technological or commercial risks of obsolescence or limitations under contract or law.
Other trademarks have been amortized over their useful economic life.
Refer notes to the financial statements.
B.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
1.
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets: As described in the significant accounting policies, the Group reviews the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at the end of each reporting period.
2.
Fair value measurements and valuation processes: Some of the Group’s assets and liabilities are measured at fair value for financial reporting purposes.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market-observable data to the extent it is available.
Where Level 1 inputs are not available, the Group engages third party valuers, where required, to perform the valuation.
Information about the valuation techniques and inputs used in determining the fair value of various assets, liabilities and share based payments are disclosed in the notes to financial statements.
3.
Actuarial Valuation: The determination of Group’s liability towards defined benefit obligation to employees is made through independent actuarial valuation including determination of amounts to be recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss and in other comprehensive income.
Such valuation depend upon assumptions determined after taking into account inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
Information about such valuation is provided in notes to financial statements.
4.
Claims, Provisions and Contingent Liabilities: The Group has ongoing litigations with various regulatory authorities and third parties.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made based on management’s assessment of specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
Such accruals are by nature complex and can take number of years to resolve and can involve estimation uncertainty.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (` in Crores) Depreciation Depreciation Accumulated Charge Accumulated Charge Accumulated Particulars Gross Block Depreciation Net Block  for the year Gross Block Depreciation Net Block  for the year Gross Block Depreciation Net Block As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 20162017 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Buildings   1.29  0.04 1.25 0.02 1.29  0.02  1.27  0.02  0.89 –   0.89 Plant and Equipment  190.54  41.41 149.13  20.88  198.15 20.32 177.83  20.32 144.25 –   144.25 TOTAL  191.83 41.45 150.38 20.90  199.44 20.34 179.10  20.34 145.14  –    145.14 The above includes following assets given on operating lease: Gross Block Foregin Foregin Acquisition Currency Currency As at Withdrawls through Translation As at Withdrawls Translation As at 1st April, and business Reserve 31st March, and Reserve 31st March, Particulars 2015 Additions adjustments combinations adjustments 2016 Additions adjustments adjustments 2017 3A.
Property, plant and equipment Land1 1477.97 137.59 0.25 – 0.03 1615.34 59.19 1.05 (0.01) 1673.47 Buildings 3978.73 210.89 5.78 – – 4183.84 501.03 5.53 – 4679.34 Leasehold Improvements 36.29 3.67 4.93 – 0.03 35.06 3.48 1.78 – 36.76 Plant and Equipment 8397.36 756.92 42.21 – 0.25 9112.32 1320.99 48.74 (0.32) 10384.25 Furniture and Fixtures 370.47 44.60 2.67 0.07 0.10 412.57 54.65 8.03 (0.09) 459.10 Vehicles 82.56 27.45 2.96 – 0.01 107.06 32.39 11.87 (0.01) 127.57 Office Equipment 24.98 5.30 3.22 0.06 – 27.12 6.52 1.83 (0.03) 31.78 Railway Sidings 1.73 – – – – 1.73 – – – 1.73 TOTAL 14370.09 1186.42 62.02 0.13 0.42 15495.04 1978.25 78.83 (0.46) 17394.00 3B.
Capital work–in–progress [Refer Note 29] 2104.83 2141.77 1714.56 – (3.07) 2528.97 3055.84 1892.15 (8.46) 3684.20 3C.
Other Intangible Assets (acquired) Trademarks2 333.29 0.05 – – 0.01 333.35 0.05 – – 333.40 Computer Software 73.87 43.62 0.05 – 0.03 117.47 20.47 0.10 0.01 137.85 Know How, Business and Commercial Rights 16.77 10.59 – – (0.03) 27.33 – 0.68 – 26.65 TOTAL 423.93 54.26 0.05 – 0.01 478.15 20.52 0.78 0.01 497.90 3D.
Intangible Assets under Development 28.65 44.54 42.44 – – 30.75 32.94 18.00 – 45.69 Provision for assets given on lease GRAND TOTAL 16927.50 3426.99 1819.07 0.13 (2.64) 18532.91 5087.55 1989.76 (8.91) 21621.79 226 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 227ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1.
Land includes certain lands at Munger with Gross Block - ` 1.16 Crores (2016 - ` 1.16 Crores; 2015 - ` 1.16 Crores) which stood vested with the State of Bihar under the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 for which compensation has not yet been determined.
2.
Certain trademarks with a carrying value of ` 309.73 Crores (2016 - ` 309.73 Crores; 2015 - ` 309.73 Crores), have been considered of having an indefinite useful life taking into account that there are no technical, technological or commercial risks of obsolescence or li mitations under contract or law.
Other trademarks have beeing amortized over 10 years.
3.
The amount of expenditures recognised in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment in the course of construction is ` 74.11 Crores (2016 - ` 48.09 Crores).
4.
In respect of assets aggregating Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - ` 5.82 Crores), the primary lease period has expired and balances reflected on this account have been fully realized or provided for.
5.
The amortization expense of intangible assets have been included under ‘Depreciation and amortization expense’ in the Statem ent of Profit and Loss.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (` in Crores) Accumulated Depreciation Foregin Foregin On Currency On Currency Up to Withdrawls Translation Upto Withdrawls Translation Upto As at As at As at 1st April, For the and Reserve 31st March, For the and Reserve 31st March, 31st March, 31st March 1st April, Particulars 2015 year adjustments adjustments 2016 year adjustments adjustments 2017 2017 2016 2015 Net Book Value 3A.
Property, plant and equipment Land1 –– – –– – – – – 1673.47 1615.34 1477.97 Buildings – 117.57 0.20 – 117.37 140.67 0.38 – 257.66 4421.68 4066.47 3978.73 Leasehold Improvements – 9.01 1.22 0.04 7.83 7.05 0.99 (0.03) 13.86 22.90 27.23 36.29 Plant and Equipment – 825.21 4.86 0.15 820.50 874.07 10.53 (0.20) 1683.84 8700.41 8291.82 8397.36 Furniture and Fixtures – 68.85 0.39 0.07 68.53 68.64 2.85 (0.08) 134.24 324.86 344.04 370.47 Vehicles – 16.30 1.55 – 14.75 19.34 3.88 – 30.21 97.36 92.31 82.56 Office Equipment – 6.92 0.34 (0.01) 6.57 6.92 1.82 (0.01) 11.66 20.12 20.55 24.98 Railway Sidings – 0.13 – – 0.13 0.13 – – 0.26 1.47 1.60 1.73 TOTAL – 1043.99 8.56 0.25 1035.68 1116.82 20.45 (0.32) 2131.73 15262.27 14459.36 14370.09 3B.
Capital work–in–progress [Refer Note 29] –– – –– – – – – 3684.20 2528.97 2104.83 3C.
Other Intangible Assets (acquired) Trademarks2 – 2.47 – – 2.47 2.45 – – 4.92 328.48 330.88 333.29 Computer Software – 28.32 – – 28.32 30.38 0.08 – 58.62 79.23 89.15 73.87 Know How, Business and Commercial Rights – 2.62 – – 2.62 3.14 0.08 – 5.68 20.97 24.71 16.77 TOTAL – 33.41 – – 33.41 35.97 0.16 – 69.22 428.68 444.74 423.93 3D.
Intangible Assets under Development –– – –– – – – – 45.69 30.75 28.65 Provision for assets given on lease 1.05 GRAND TOTAL – 1077.40 8.56 0.25 1069.09 1152.79 20.61 (0.32) 2200.95 19420.84 17463.82 16926.45 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017228 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS In Subsidiaries (at cost unless stated otherwise) ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited (in liquidation) 89,99,645 (2016 - 89,99,645; 2015 - 89,99,645) Ordinary Shares of US $ 1.00 each, fully paid (cost ` 25.58 Crores, fully impaired)  –  –– In Associates (carrying amount determined using the equity method of accounting) International Travel House Limited 39,14,233 (2016 - 39,14,233; 2015 - 39,14,233) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 11.89 Crores)   21.87  24.45 21.87  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017  70.04  91.91  66.92  91.37 64.27 86.14 Gujarat Hotels Limited 17,33,907 (2016 - 17,33,907; 2015 - 17,33,907) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 1.16 Crores)  1.94  2.06 1.94  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017  11.30  13.24 10.26  12.32 9.50  11.44 ATC Limited 55,650 (2016 - 55,650; 2015 - 55,650) Equity Shares of ` 100.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (net of capital reserve of ` 0.16 Crore) 0.83 1.46 0.83  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017 1.33 2.16 1.27  2.73 1.21  2.04 1,39,125 (2016 - 1,39,125; 2015 - 1,39,125) Equity Shares of ` 100.00 each, partly paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 0.30 Crore) 2.92 2.92 2.92  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017 1.42 4.34 1.34 4.26 1.24  4.16 Russell Investments Limited 42,75,435 (2016 - 42,75,435; 2015 - 42,75,435) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (net of capital reserve of ` 0.30 Crore) 4.27 4.27  4.27 Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017 34.85 39.12 23.10 27.37 32.09  36.36 Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 54,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 7.78 Crores)  – –  10.40  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2015 ––  – – 0.95  11.35 (Amalgamated with Greenacre Holdings Limited, a wholly owned step down subsidiary of the Company w.e.f.
01.10.2015) Divya Management Limited 41,82,915 (2016 - 41,82,915; 2015 - 41,82,915) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 1.09 Crores) 6.93  6.93 6.93  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017 0.29 7.22 0.22 7.15 0.17  7.10 Carried over 105.15 52.84 103.69 41.51 97.58 61.01 4.
Non-current investments 229ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Carried over 1305.19 180.80 1164.16 174.33 1190.17 192.91 INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Brought forward 105.15 52.84 103.69 41.51 97.58 61.01 Antrang Finance Limited 43,24,634 (2016 - 43,24,634; 2015 - 43,24,634) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 0.10 Crore) 4.40 4.40 4.40 Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses)  upto 31.03.2017 0.42 4.82 0.39 4.79 0.37  4.77 In Joint Ventures (carrying amount determined using the equity method of accounting) Espirit Hotels Private Limited 4,65,09,200 (2016 - 4,65,09,200; 2015 - 4,65,09,200) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  Cost of acquisition 46.17 46.17  46.17  Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto  31.03.2017 … 46.17 … 46.17 46.17 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 90,000 (2016 - 90,000; 2015 - 90,000) Equity Shares of ` 100.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 0.13 Crore) … 0.53 … Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto  31.03.2017 –… –  0.53 … Logix Developers Private Limited 77,66,913 (2016 - 77,66,913; 2015 - 77,66,913) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid Cost of acquisition (including goodwill of ` 23.84 Crores) 42.07 42.07  42.07 Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017 (11.81) 30.26 (5.46) 36.61 42.07 ITC Essentra Limited 22,50,000 (2016 - 22,50,000; 2015 - 22,50,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid  Cost of acquisition 38.85 39.44  38.85 Add/(Less): Group Share of Profits/(Losses) upto 31.03.2017 7.82 46.67 5.24 44.68 38.85 In Others (at fair value through other comprehensive income) VST Industries Limited 476 (2016 - 476; 2015 - 476) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid 0.14 0.08  0.06 Hotel Leelaventure Limited 5,49,80,620 (2016 - 5,49,80,620; 2015 - 5,49,80,620) Equity Shares of ` 2.00 each, fully paid 89.62 98.97 102.54  EIH Limited 9,21,78,024 (2016 - 9,21,78,024; 2015 - 9,21,78,024) Equity Shares of ` 2.00 each, fully paid 1110.28 961.42 989.99  Punjab Anand Batteries Limited (in liquidation)  11,86,157 (2016 - 11,86,157; 2015 - 11,86,157) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid - under Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction’s Order of  20.04.1989 – –– Bihar Hotels Limited 8,00,000 (2016 - 8,00,000; 2015 - 8,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 2.00 each, fully paid 0.04 0.04 0.04 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017230 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Brought forward 1305.19 180.80 1164.16 174.33 1190.17 192.91 INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Tourism Finance Corporation of India Limited 25,000 (2016 - 25,000; 2015 - 25,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid 0.21 0.11  0.17 Lotus Court Private Limited 2 Class G Shares of ` 48000.00 each, fully paid 2.34 2.34  2.34 Adyar Property Holding Company Limited 311 (2016 - 311; 2015 - 311) Equity Shares of ` 100.00 each, partly paid 23.19 23.19  23.19 Andhra Pradesh Gas Power Corporation Limited 8,04,000 (2016 - 8,04,000; 2015 - 8,04,000) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid 2.32 2.32  2.32 Mirage Advertising and Marketing Limited  12,488 (2016 - 12,488; 2015 - 12,488) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid – – – Bilaspur Cane Development Corporation Limited 100 (2016 - 100; 2015 - 100) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid (cost ` 1000.00) … … … Jupiter Township Limited 150 Equity Shares of ` 1.00 each, fully paid (cost ` 150.00) (Prime Golf Ranking Private Limited was amalgamated into Jupiter Township Limited vide Delhi High Court Order dated 30.09.2016.
As per the scheme of amalgamation, every shareholder of Prime Golf Ranking Private Limited were issued one share of Jupter Township Limited, irrespective of holding) … … … Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited 13,072 (2016 - 13,072; 2015 - 13,072) Equity Shares of ` 10.00 each, fully paid 0.01 0.01  0.01 INVESTMENT IN GOVERNMENT OR TRUST SECURITIES (at amortised cost) Government Securities (cost ` 74000.00) 0.01 0.01  0.01 Government Securities - National Savings Certificates (cost ` 10000.00) –  – … National Savings Certificate, fully paid (Deposited with Government Authorities) (cost ` 5000.00, fully impaired)  – – … Kisan Vikas Patra, fully paid (Deposited with Government Authorities) (cost ` 5000.00, fully impaired)  – – … National Saving Certificate pledged at Mandi Samiti (cost ` 16000.00) –  …… 6.5% Bikash Rinpatra, 2075 (Vikram Samvat Calendar Year) 1.60 1.60 1.60 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (at amortised cost) Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited 1,79,870 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.34% (Tranche I Series 1 Bonds) For Category I, II, III Tax Free Tranche I Series 1 Bonds in the nature of Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (16 February 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 18.82  –  – Carried over 1324.22 210.27 1164.27 203.80 1190.34 222.38 231ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Carried over 2742.56 210.27 1434.34 203.80 1190.34 222.38 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
3,50,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.10% For Category I & II Tax Free Bonds Tranche 1 Series - 1 in the nature of Secured Non-Convertible Debentures (05 March 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 37.47  –– 4,300 (2016 - 2,000; 2015 - Nil) 7.07% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series B (01 October 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 441.20 200.00 – 7,00,696 (2016 - 7,00,696; 2015 - Nil) 7.39% (For Category I, II & III) Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Tranche I Series 2A (08 February 2031) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 70.07 70.07 – Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 50 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.38% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series P - 021 (15 July 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 50.72 –– 160 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.45% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series P - 013 (24 July 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 162.27 –– 30 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.45% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series O - 009 (08 February 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 30.36 –– 90 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.50% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series O - 001 (31 August 2020) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 92.07  –– 800 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.70% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series N - 017 (18 May 2020) of ` 500000.00 each, fully paid 41.01 –– 1,700 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.75% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series N - 002 (13 January 2020) of ` 500000.00 each, fully paid 87.33 –– 600 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.40% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series M - 016 (26 August 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 62.59 –– 2,100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.45% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series M - 015 (21 August 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 218.10  –– 30 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.95% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series Q - 002 (23 September 2019) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 30.15 –– ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 1,900 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.65% Unsecured Rated Listed Redeemable Senior Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series HDBFB171 (23 October 2018) of ` 500000.00 each,  fully paid 95.00 –– Brought forward 1324.22 210.27 1164.27 203.80 1190.34 222.38 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017232 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Carried over 3603.76 210.27 2481.07 203.80 1190.34 222.38 IDFC Bank Limited Nil (2016 - 3,000; 2015 - Nil) Zero Coupon Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series IDFC Bank OBB 20/2015 (27 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 325.74 – India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited 1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.26% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series V B (23 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 106.47 106.82 – 800 (2016 - 800; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series VI B (30 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 86.52 86.88 – 1,630 (2016 - 1,630; 2015 - Nil) 8.48% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series VII B (05 September 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 176.49 177.23 – 2,50,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.19% For Category I,II,III & IV Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2012-13 (Tranche I Series I) (22 January 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 25.98 – – Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited 2,250 (2016 - 2,000; 2015 - Nil) 7.19% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 99 (31 July 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 226.40 200.00 – 1,250 (2016 - 1,250; 2015 - Nil) 8.48% Tax Free Secured Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds 89th A Series (21 November 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 135.30 135.85 – 130 (2016 - 130; 2015 - Nil) 8.55% Tax Free Secured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 94th A (12 February 2029) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 14.15 14.21 – 5,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.18% (For Categories I, II & III) Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 86 (19 February 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 52.15 –– 2,50,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.00% (For Categories I & II) Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 80 (23 February 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 26.69 –– 100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.35% Tax Free Secured Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 89 (21 November 2023) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 11.05 –– Brought forward 2742.56 210.27 1434.34 203.80 1190.34 222.38 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
233ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Carried over 4317.91 210.27 2981.09 203.80 1190.34 222.38 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
70,498 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.07% (For Category I, II & III ) Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 102 (21 December 2025) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 7.40 –– 250 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.15% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 100 (21 August 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 26.35 –– 8,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.23% (For Category I, II & III) Tax Free Secured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 91 (18 February 2024) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 88.82 –– LIC Housing Finance Limited 250 (2016 - 250; 2015 - Nil) 8.49% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 249 (28 April 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 24.85 24.81 – Nil (2016 - 30; 2015 - Nil) 8.50% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 187 (13 April 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 3.00 – 750 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.79% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 328 (10 May 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 75.00 –– 3,000 (2016 - 3,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.69% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 257 (26 June 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 300.00 300.00 – 239 (2016 - 239; 2015 - Nil) 8.95% Unsecured Non-Convertible Redeemable Tier II Subordinated Bonds Series III (15 September 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 24.01 24.04 – Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 9.18% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 219 (03 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 100.60 – Nil (2016 - 300; 2015 - Nil) 9.29% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 230 Option 1 (16 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 30.29 – Nil (2016 - 170; 2015 - Nil) 9.80% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche XXVI (22 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 17.28 – 100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.30% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 304 Option 2 (15 July 2021) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 10.32 –– 800 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.35% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 273 Option 1 (23 October 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 81.40 –– 750 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.35% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 272 (18 October 2019 with Put Option on 17 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 76.00 –– Brought forward 3603.76 210.27 2481.07 203.80 1190.34 222.38 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017234 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Carried over 5366.66 210.27 3827.57 203.80 1190.34 222.38 250 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.37% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 293 (03 October 2019 with Put Option on 02 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 25.35 –– 700 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.67% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 263 Option 2 (26 August 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 71.75 –– 350 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.75% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 290 Option 1 (21 December 2020 with Put Option on 21 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 36.47 –– 450 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.97% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 231 Option 2 (29 October 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 46.20 –– 700 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.3532% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 224 (19 August 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 72.36 –– National Highways Authority of India 2,600 (2016 - 2,500; 2015 - Nil) 7.11% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series NHAI-IIA (18 September 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 260.50 249.99 – 2,500 (2016 - 2,500; 2015 - Nil) 7.28% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series NHAI-IIB (18 September 2030) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 250.00 250.00 – 8,06,381 (2016 - 4,28,547; 2015 - Nil) 7.14% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series IA (11 January 2026) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 82.72 42.85 – 9,99,943 (2016 - 9,99,943; 2015 - Nil) 7.35% Secured Redeemable Tax Free Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series IIA (11 January 2031) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 99.99 99.99 – National Housing Bank 800 (2016 - 800; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% NHB Tax Free Bonds 2028, Series V (30 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 86.38 86.73 – Power Finance Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.12% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 139-B (22 May 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 99.88 – 170 (2016 - 170; 2015 - Nil) 8.29% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 129-B (13 June 2018) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 17.03 17.04 – Brought forward 4317.91 210.27 2981.09 203.80 1190.34 222.38 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/ DEBENTURES (Contd.)
235ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Carried over 5821.90 210.27 4304.10 203.80 1190.34 222.38 500 (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.38% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 131-B (27 April 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 50.10 50.11 – Nil (2016 - 1,500; 2015 - Nil) 9.11% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 115 I (07 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 151.04 – Nil (2016 - 379; 2015 - Nil) 9.27% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series-92-B (21 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 38.37 – 600 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.16% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Series 136 (17 July 2025) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 63.42 –– Nil (2016 - 150; 2015 - Nil) 9.32% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 117 A (19 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 15.19 – 500 (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 107 - B (30 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 53.99 54.21 – PNB Housing Finance Limited 600 (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.36% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Note Series XXIV (12 July 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 60.14 49.99 – 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.95% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Promissory Note Series XXIX (18 October 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.32 –– 100 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.23% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Note Series XXII (09 April 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 10.11 –– Rural Electrification Corporation Limited 800 (2016 - 800; 2015 - Nil) 8.46% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 3B (29 August 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 86.39 86.73 – 50 (2016 - 50; 2015 - Nil) 8.54% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 4B (11 October 2028) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 5.43 5.45 – 250 (2016 - 250; 2015 - Nil) 8.87% Unsecured 7 Year Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable Taxable Bonds - 2020 (113th Series) (08 March 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 25.34 25.44 – Brought forward 5366.66 210.27 3827.57 203.80 1190.34 222.38 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017236 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 9.40% Unsecured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable Taxable Bonds-2017 Series-108 (Option I) (20 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 101.33 – 850 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 7.17% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Series 5-A (23 July 2025)  of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 89.64 –– Small Industries Development Bank Of India 1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.28% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Notes Series 7 of 2015-16 (26 February 2019 with Put Option on 27 February 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.00 100.00 – INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (at fair value through profit or loss) Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan - Series LQ (1113 D) Nil (2016 - 50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each – 5.80 – HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan 1114D March 2016 (1) - Series-35 12,80,00,000 (2016 - 12,80,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 140.79 128.34 – HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan 1132D February 2016 (1) - Series-35 4,30,00,000 (2016 - 4,30,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 47.43 43.30 – HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan 1107D March 2016 (1) - Series-36 4,00,00,000 (2016 - 4,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 43.97 40.07 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan I - 1170 Days 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 16.64 15.21 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan J - 1168 Days 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 11.06 10.11 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan- Series 78 - Plan N - 1150 Days 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 16.56 15.14 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan T - 1130 Days 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units  of ` 10.00 each 10.96 10.03 – ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 78 - Plan W - 1135 Days 1,20,00,000 (2016 - 1,20,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 13.15 12.07 – Brought forward 5821.90 210.27 4304.10 203.80 1190.34 222.38 Carried over 6312.10 210.27 4785.50 203.80 1190.34 222.38 237ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 4.
Non-current investments (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 79 - Plan P - 1104 Days 40,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 4.17 –– Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 190 50,00,000 (2016 - 50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 5.55 5.07 – Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 191 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 16.47 15.06 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXVI - Series 31 Nil (2016 - 50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each – 5.78 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 5 1,50,00,000 (2016 - 1,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units  of ` 10.00 each 16.54 15.09 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 12 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 11.03 10.07 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 13 2,00,00,000 (2016 - 2,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 22.06 20.13 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 17 3,50,00,000 (2016 - 3,50,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 38.41 35.00 _ Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXX - Series 6 1,00,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units  of ` 10.00 each 11.07 10.10 – Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXXI - Series 9 1,80,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 18.92 –– UTI Fixed Term Income Fund Series XXIV - VI - 1181 Days 1,20,00,000 (2016 - 1,20,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 13.32 12.16 – UTI Fixed Term Income Fund Series XXIV - VIII - 1184 Days 80,00,000 (2016 - 80,00,000; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 8.83 8.05 – UTI Fixed Term Income Fund Series XXV - V - 1100 Days 50,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 5.25 –– Aggregate amount of quoted and unquoted Investments 6483.72 210.27 4922.01 203.80 1190.34 222.38 TOTAL 6693.99 5125.81 1412.72 Aggregate market value of quoted investments ` 6502.72 Crores (2016 - ` 4929.80 Crores; 2015 - 1215.76 Crores) Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments ` 25.58 Crores (2016 - ` 25.58 Crores; 2015 - ` 25.58 Crores) Brought forward 6312.10 210.27 4785.50 203.80 1190.34 222.38 INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017238 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 6.
Other financial assets Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity – 1.21 – 931.02 – 1320.30 Other financial assets Advances 4.83 1.48 18.39 1.40 17.02 2.29 Deposits* 533.10 98.02 29.19 105.59 31.51 61.42 Interest accrued on Loans, Deposits, Investments etc.
326.67 – 259.67 – 143.64 –    Other Receivables** 225.42 – 262.18 – 188.69 –    TOTAL 1090.02 100.71 569.43 1038.01 380.86 1384.01   * Deposits includes deposits to directors ` 0.07 Crore (2016 - ` 0.07 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.05 Crore) (Refer Note 30).
** Others comprise receivables on account of claims, interest, rentals, derivatives designated as hedging instruments etc.
5.
Loans  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Loans to related parties (Refer Note 30)  – Secured, considered good 1.40 – 1.40 1.40 1.40 2.80 1.40 – 1.40 1.40 1.40 2.80 Other Loans Others (Employees, suppliers etc.)
– Unsecured, considered good 5.38 8.54 6.67 11.56 7.26 13.67  – Doubtful – 0.22 – 0.22 – 0.22 5.38 8.76 6.67 11.78 7.26 13.89 Less: Allowance for doubtful loans – 0.22 – 0.22 – 0.22 5.38 8.54 6.67 11.56 7.26 13.67 TOTAL 6.78 8.54 8.07 12.96 8.66 16.47 239ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 7.
Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 1878.77  1880.00  1688.47 Deferred tax assets (Net) 44.95  40.54  36.91  TOTAL 1833.82  1839.46  1651.56 Movement in deferred tax liabilities/assets balances Acquisitions Recognised Recognised Reclassified through Effect of Opening in profit Recognised directly to profit business foreign Closing Balance or loss in OCI in Equity or loss combination exchange Balance Deferred tax liabilities /assets in relation to: On fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment etc.
1760.55  113.69  –   –  –    (0.03)  –   1874.21 On excise duty on closing stock  600.92  (228.68)  –   –  –    –   –   372.24 On cash flow hedges  3.40  –  (7.18)  5.77  (7.69) –   –   (5.70) On employees’ separation and retirement etc.
–  0.02  (0.02)  –   –   –    –   – Other timing differences  44.55  145.06  –   –   –    (0.15)  0.01  189.47 Total deferred tax liabilities  2409.42  30.09  (7.20)  5.77  (7.69) (0.18) 0.01  2430.22 On fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment etc.
13.07  3.46  –   –   –    –   (0.29)  16.24 On employees’ separation and retirement etc.
99.19  4.59  2.71  –   –    –   (0.13)  106.36 On provision for doubtful debts/advances  33.05  9.48  –   –   –    –   (0.09)  42.44 On state and central taxes etc.
322.60  13.23  –   –   –    –   –   335.83 On unabsorbed tax losses and depreciation  0.64  0.50  –   –   –    –   –   1.14 Other timing differences  99.32  (4.10)  –   –   –    (3.30)  0.02  91.94 Total deferred tax assets before MAT credit entitlement  567.87  27.16  2.71  –   –    (3.30)  (0.49)  593.95 Total deferred tax liabilities  before MAT credit entitlement (Net)  1841.55  2.93  (9.91)  5.77  (7.69)  3.12  0.50  1836.27 Less: MAT credit entitlement  2.09  0.36  –   –   –    –   –   2.45 Total deferred tax liabilities (Net) 1839.46  2.57  (9.91)  5.77  (7.69)  3.12  0.50  1833.82 2016-17 (` in Crores) ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017240 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 8.
Other assets  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Capital Advances (Refer Note 29) –  1133.06  –  1037.31  –  411.36 Advances other than capital advances Security Deposits – With Statutory Authorities  10.85  864.83   9.00 742.63 9.15  632.10 – Others  6.91  109.82  6.57  49.09  13.29  42.22 Advances to related parties (Refer Note 30)  ––  12.98 –  48.48  – Advance Tax (net of provisions)  –  38.57 –  27.56 –  59.48 Fringe Benefit Tax (net of provisions) –  0.02 –  0.02  –  … Other Advances (including advances with statutory authorities, prepaid expenses, employees etc.)
576.63  1051.80  460.79  1085.86  437.92  1053.75 Other Receivables*  62.68  4.51  64.05  3.24  90.17  1.24 TOTAL 657.07  3202.61  553.39  2945.71  599.01  2200.15 * Includes receivables on account of export incentives.
Acquisitions Recognised Recognised Reclassified through Effect of Opening in profit Recognised directly to profit business foreign Closing Balance or loss in OCI in Equity or loss combination exchange Balance2015-16 Deferred tax liabilities/assets in relation to: On fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment etc.
1583.47  177.07  – – – – 0.01 1760.55 On excise duty on closing stock  513.00  87.92  – – – – – 600.92 On cash flow hedges  4.20  –  (0.65)  – (0.15) – – 3.40 Other timing differences  61.44  (16.90)  – – – – 0.01 44.55 Total deferred tax liabilities  2162.11  248.09  (0.65) – (0.15) – 0.02 2409.42 On fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment etc.
5.06  7.86  – – – – 0.15 13.07 On employees’ separation and retirement etc.
104.97  (23.15)  16.94 – – – 0.43 99.19 On provision for doubtful debts/advances  28.70  4.21  – – – – 0.14 33.05 On State and Central taxes etc.
312.54  10.06  – – – – – 322.60 On unabsorbed tax losses and depreciation  2.42  (1.78)  – – – – – 0.64 Other timing differences  56.01  43.05  – – – – 0.26 99.32 Total deferred tax assets  before MAT credit entitlement  509.70 40.25 16.94 0.98 567.87 Total deferred tax liabilities before MAT credit entitlement (Net)  1652.41 207.84 (17.59) – (0.15) – (0.96) 1841.55 Less: MAT credit entitlement 0.85 1.24 – – – – – 2.09 Total deferred tax liabilities (Net) 1651.56 206.60 (17.59) – (0.15) – (0.96) 1839.46 The Group has losses of ` 292.20 Crores (2016 - ` 523.41 Crores; 2015 - ` 473.20 Crores) for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised.
A part of these  losses will expire between financial year 2018-19 to 2031-32.
7.
Deferred tax (contd.)
(` in Crores) 241ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 10.
Biological assets other than bearer plants Balance at the beginning of the year  67.25 51.18 Biological assets acquired during the year  0.77 2.03 Cost Incurred during the year  69.36 73.08 Changes in fair value  27.00 28.33 Transfer of Biological Assets to Inventories  (6.31) (3.77) Biological assets sold during the year  (87.78) (83.68) Effect of foreign exchange translation  (0.24) 0.08 Balance at the end of the year  70.05 67.25 The Group had 1,19,66,076 numbers of TECHNITUBER®  seed potatoes (2016 - 1,24,14,580 numbers; 2015 - 1,35,45,164 numbers).
There were 57605.71 MT of field generated seed potatoes (2016 - 54806.74 MT; 2015 - 42659.00 MT).
During the year, output of agricultural produce (potatoes) is 18050.00 MT (2016 - 7281.00 MT).
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed for acquisition/development of biological assets are ` 0.09 Crore (2016 - ` 0.09 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.57 Crore).
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes ` 15.07 Crores (2016 - ` 29.80 Crores) in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value, and the same has been reduced by ` 0.65 Crore (2016 - ` 2.10 Crores) in respect of the reversal of such write- downs.
Previous write-downs have been reversed as a result of increased sales prices in certain markets.
Inventories of ` 640.28 Crores (2016 - ` 714.51 Crores; 2015 - ` 592.64 Crores) are expected to be recovered after more than twelve months.
* Also Refer Note 20.
(At lower of cost and net realisable value) Stocks and shares  555.00 337.18 458.24 Raw materials (including packing materials)  4984.01 4989.23 4494.17 Work-in-progress  178.16 182.59 186.02 Finished goods (manufactured)  2137.25 2826.52 2639.74 Stock-in-trade (goods purchased for resale)  439.34 351.38 355.17 Stores and spares  313.45 308.21 306.12 Intermediates - Tissue paper and Paperboards  63.89 66.99 67.24 TOTAL 8671.10 9062.10 8506.70 9.
Inventories* The above includes goods in transit as under: Raw materials (including packing materials) 90.12 112.14 84.38 Stock-in-trade (goods purchased for resale)  2.55 5.76 0.53 Stores and spares  1.77 3.59 5.40 TOTAL 94.44 121.49 90.31  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017242 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) Carried over 677.67 277.65 975.65 248.76 715.67 214.85 INVESTMENT IN PREFERENCE SHARES ICICI Bank Limited 310 (2016 - 310; 2015 - 310) Non-Cumulative Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Participative Preference Shares (20 April 2018) of ` 10000000.00 each, fully paid 277.65 248.76 214.85 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES Export Import Bank of India 300 (2016 - 300; 2015 - 300) 9.15% Unsecured Non-Convertible Bonds Series P-16 (05 September 2022) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 30.92 31.12 31.61 Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - 10,000; 2015 - 10,000) 6.30% Secured Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes 68th ‘A’ Series (08 March 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid – 98.91 95.54 10,00,000 (2016 - 10,00,000; 2015 - 10,00,000) 7.18% Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds in the nature of Debentures 86th Series (19 February 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 101.98 100.00 93.72 20,00,000 (2016 - 20,00,000; 2015 - 20,00,000) 8.23% Tax Free Secured Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds Series 91st (18 February 2024) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 200.00 200.00 199.19 4,35,012 (2016 - 4,35,012; 2015 - 4,35,012) 8.00% Tax Free Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable Bonds 80th Series (23 February 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 43.50 43.50 42.84 LIC Housing Finance Limited Nil (2016 - 2,000; 2015 - Nil) Zero Coupon Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 242 Option 2 (24 February 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 219.06 – National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development 4,100 (2016 - 4,100; 2015 - 4,100) Zero Coupon Unsecured Non-Convertible Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes Series BNB (01 August 2017) 2D of ` 20000.00 each, fully paid 7.96 7.35 6.54 1,41,270 (2016 - 1,41,270; 2015 - 1,41,270) Zero Coupon Unsecured Non-Convertible Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes Series BNB (01 January 2019) of ` 20000.00 each, fully paid 243.86 226.26 197.03 National Highways Authority of India 4,94,476 (2016 - 4,94,476; 2015 - 4,94,476) 8.20% Tax Free Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds (25 January 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 49.45 49.45 49.20 243ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
Carried over 1368.56 277.65 1660.51 248.76 1582.90 214.85 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
National Housing Bank 1,03,785 (2016 - 1,03,785; 2015 - 1,03,785) Zero Coupon Unsecured Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the form of Promissory Notes (24 December 2018) of ` 10000.00 each, fully paid 89.67 83.30 72.53 Power Finance Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 450) 9.69% Secured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 113 (02 March 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 46.85 1,500 (2016 - 1,500; 2015 - 1,500) 8.09% Secured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series-80-A (25 November 2021) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid 15.48 15.49 14.84 1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - 1,000) 8.01% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 107-A (30 August 2023) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.00 99.95 98.27 450 (2016 - 450; 2015 - 450) 9.32% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 119 B (17 September 2019) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 45.83 46.18 46.52 Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 500) 8.36% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 127 (26 February 2020) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 50.07 1,00,000 (2016 - 1,00,000; 2015 - 1,00,000) 8.20% Secured Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds Series-I (01 February 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 10.35 10.39 9.95 12,95,560 (2016 - 12,95,560; 2015 - 12,95,560) 8.18% Secured Tax Free Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds Series 1A (16 November 2023) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 129.56 129.56 128.60 Rural Electrification Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 750) 9.38% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 117th (06 November 2018) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 77.35 Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 400) 8.44% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 127th (04 December 2021) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – – 40.24 30,00,000 (2016 - 30,00,000; 2015 - 30,00,000) 7.22% Secured Tax Free Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds Tranche 1 Series 1(19 December 2022) of ` 1000.00 each, fully paid 300.00 299.99 282.01 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 677.67 277.65 975.65 248.76 715.67 214.85 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017244 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
1,000 (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - 1,000) 8.01% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Tax Free Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 3A (29 August 2023) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.00 99.96 98.27 INVESTMENT IN CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSITS Nil (2016 - 15,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.17% Export Import Bank of India Certificate of Deposit (10 February 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid – 140.12 – 10,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) IndusInd Bank Limited Certificate of Deposit (31 August 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid 97.34 –– 15,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) IDFC Bank Limited Certificate of Deposit (06 October 2017) of ` 100000.00 each, fully paid 145.10 –– INVESTMENT IN GOVERNMENT OR TRUST SECURITIES National Saving Certificate pledged at Mandi Samiti (cost ` 13000.00) … …… National Savings Certificates (cost ` 10000.00) … …– Kisan Vikas Patra (cost ` 1000.00) – …– INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS Axis Liquid Fund 28,120 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 32,301) Units of ` 1000.00 each 5.07 – 5.00 Axis Short Term Fund 22,61,88,081 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 416.22 –– Axis Treasury Advantage Fund 5,46,967 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each 100.98 –– Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan - Series LQ (1113 Days) 50,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 6.26 –– Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan - Series LQ (368 Days) Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 50,00,000) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 5.33 Birla Sun Life Cash Manager Nil (2016 - 4,60,214; 2015 - 1,26,84,353) Units of ` 100.00 each – 17.16 433.82 Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund 2,82,03,277 (2016 - 1,07,82,737; 2015 - 5,18,77,366) Units of ` 10.00 each 176.39 61.54 59.71 Birla Sun Life Treasury Optimizer Plan 15,45,665 (2016 - 15,45,665; 2015 - 15,45,666) Units of ` 100.00 each 32.51 29.37 26.97 Birla Sun Life Floating Rate Fund - Long Term 1,73,63,566 (2016 - 2,01,946; 2015 - 55,45,297) Units of ` 100.00 each 348.36 3.68 92.91 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 1368.56 277.65 1660.51 248.76 1582.90 214.85 Carried over 1474.82 1599.62 1760.47 500.63 1686.50 833.26 INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
245ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
Carried over 1474.82 3574.21 1760.47 1421.40 1697.18 1844.12 INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
Birla Sun Life Savings Fund 1,50,00,045 (2016 - 23,45,049; 2015 - 23,45,048) Units of ` 100.00 each 479.83 68.68 63.10 DSP BlackRock Liquidity Fund - Institutional Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,00,106) Units of ` 1000.00 each – – 20.02 DSP BlackRock Short Term Fund 8,80,67,259 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 252.18 –– DSP BlackRock Ultra Short Term Fund 26,30,57,340 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 311.78 –– DHFL Pramerica Ultra Short Term Fund (Formerly known as DWS Ultra Short Term Fund) 5,09,80,716 (2016 - 5,09,80,716; 2015 - 6,74,76,680) Units of ` 10.00 each 60.40 55.83 78.97 DHFL Pramerica Fixed Maturity Plan Series 62 (Formerly known as DWS FMP Series 62) 916 (2016 - 916; 2015 - 916) Units of ` 10.00 each … …… DWS Fixed Maturity Plan - Series 31 Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,00,00,000) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 10.68 DWS Treasury Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 8,24,18,752) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 89.28 Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund Super Institutional Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 8,10,224) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 1.50 Franklin India Treasury Management Account - Super Institutional Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 18,996) Units of ` 1000.00 each – – 3.97 HDFC Liquid Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,43,72,056) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 39.63 HDFC Cash Management Fund - Treasury Advantage Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 2,34,21,163) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 70.21 HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund - Short Term Plan 10,23,22,267 (2016 - 10,23,22,267; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 290.18 267.06 – HDFC High Interest Fund - Short Term Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 5,58,29,541) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 155.67 HDFC High Interest Fund - Dynamic Plan 1,06,18,432 (2016 - 1,06,18,432; 2015 - 1,06,18,417) Units of ` 10.00 each 62.22 55.64 52.15 HDFC Medium Term Opportunities Fund 13,70,31,285 (2016 - 13,70,31,285; 2015 - 13,70,33,144) Units of ` 10.00 each 249.09 226.61 208.61 HDFC Short Term Opportunities Fund 14,94,65,786 (2016 - 14,94,65,786; 2015 - 14,94,65,765) Units of ` 10.00 each 268.91 246.95 227.75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 1474.82 1599.62 1760.47 500.63 1686.50 833.26 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017246 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
ICICI Prudential Liquid Plan Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 6,53,865) Units of ` 100.00 each – – 13.52 ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan Series 72 - 370 Days Plan G 10,00,000 (2016 - 10,00,000; 2015 - 10,00,000) Units of ` 10.00 each 1.29 1.20 1.11 ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund 5,39,16,760 (2016 - 5,39,16,760; 2015 - 5,39,16,760) Units of ` 10.00 each 64.90 58.32 58.96 ICICI Prudential - Flexible Income Plan 53,44,324 (2016 - 53,44,324; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 100.00 each 167.05 153.38 – ICICI Prudential Blended Plan B Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 3,86,97,174) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 41.05 ICICI Prudential Dynamic Bond Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 3,59,60,193) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 57.02 ICICI Prudential Income Opportunities Fund 7,98,55,052 (2016 - 7,98,55,052; 2015 - 7,98,54,771) Units of ` 10.00 each 186.27 168.21 156.10 ICICI Prudential Savings Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 50,35,980) Units of ` 100.00 each – – 105.86 ICICI Prudential Short Term 7,64,50,849 (2016 - 7,64,50,849; 2015 - 7,68,00,364) Units of ` 10.00 each 267.81 241.15 222.65 ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term 22,03,55,476 (2016 - 22,53,87,574; 2015 - 16,18,17,990) Units of ` 10.00 each 358.63 327.07 213.55 ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund 8,80,448 (2016 - 15,646; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 100.00 each 19.76 0.33 – IDFC Dynamic Bond Fund Nil (2016 - 4,64,29,475; 2015 - 4,64,29,475) Units of ` 10.00 each – 51.16 56.25 IDFC Corporate Bond Fund 20,53,11,314 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 230.28 –– IDFC Cash Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 4,531) Units of ` 1000.00 each – – 0.77 IDFC Money Manager Fund - Investment Plan 7,43,04,224 (2016 - 1,22,42,641; 2015 - 1,12,84,393) Units of ` 10.00 each 172.89 12.42 11.89 IDFC Money Manager Fund - Treasury Plan 5,21,99,899 (2016 - 4,22,87,680; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 136.69 102.19 – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 1474.82 3574.21 1760.47 1421.40 1697.18 1844.12 INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
Carried over 1476.11 5178.49 1761.67 2535.63 1698.29 27781.74 247ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
Carried over 1482.41 7559.52 1761.67 3676.41 1703.64 4507.10 INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Short Term 7,02,30,210 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 10.00 each 241.02 –– JPMorgan India Active Bond Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 9,68,66,060) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 150.33 JPMorgan India Liquid Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 20,35,37,192) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 215.04 JPMorgan India Treasury Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 5,78,55,112) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 106.59 Kotak Floater Short Term Nil (2016 - 9,167; 2015 - 4,303) Units of  ` 1000.00 each – 2.28 0.99 Kotak Bond Short Term 16,24,19,814 (2016 - 2,49,65,867; 2015 - 2,49,65,867) Units of ` 10.00 each 463.19 25.82 26.12 Kotak Liquid Scheme Plan A Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 17,641) Units of ` 1000.00 each – – 5.00 Kotak Treasury Advantage Fund 17,04,16,740 (2016 - 13,17,66,857; 2015 - 4,76,54,096) Units of ` 10.00 each 449.20 320.94 106.67 L&T Short Term Opportunities Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 3,00,07,277) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 40.54 L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,62,81,386) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 60.28 Reliance Floating Rate Fund - Short Term Plan 40,11,92,118 (2016 - 38,18,89,185; 2015 - 19,74,70,372) Units of ` 10.00 each 498.44 411.58 258.71 Reliance Liquid Fund - Treasury Plan Nil (2016 - 2,73,025; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each – 100.66 – Reliance Medium Term Fund 10,67,50,776 (2016 - 10,67,50,776; 2015 - 12,80,94,023) Units of ` 10.00 each 238.05 217.77 267.98 Reliance Short Term Fund 2,07,06,236 (2016 - 2,07,06,236; 2015 - 20,42,82,694) Units of ` 10.00 each 65.43 59.68 462.10 Reliance Money Manager Fund 6,71,878 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each 152.95 –– Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund - XXVI - Series 31 (366 Days) 50,00,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 50,00,000) Units of ` 10.00 each 6.30 – 5.35 Reliance Liquidity Fund Nil (2016 - 8986; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each – 2.05 – SBI Premier Liquid Fund 10,71,366 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 1,13,914) Units of ` 1000.00 each 272.75 – 25.01 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 1476.11 5178.49 1761.67 2535.63 1698.29 27781.74 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017248 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
Tata Ultra Short Term 12,53,751 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each 311.12 –– Tata Money Market Fund 1,05,626 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 13,616) Units of ` 1000.00 each 26.99 – 3.00 UTI - Short Term Income Fund - Institutional Option Nil (2016 - Nil; 2015 - 5,06,50,712) Units of ` 10.00 each – – 52.56 UTI - Money Market Fund - Institutional Plan 2,42,908 (2016 - 22,804; 2015 - Nil) Units of ` 1000.00 each 44.15 3.87 – Current Portion of Non Current Investment (at amortised cost) INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES Export Import Bank of India Nil (2016 - 450; 2015 - Nil) 8.20% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-10-2019 (18 February 2019 with Call/Put Option on 18 February 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 45.00 – Nil (2016 - 1,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.33% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-12-2019 (20 March 2019 with Call/Put Option on 20 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 100.00 – Nil (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 7.825% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-07-2018 (30 November 2018 with Call/Put Option on 15 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 49.83 – Nil (2016 - 500; 2015 - Nil) 8.20% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds 2015-16 Series S-14-2019 (15 March 2019 with Call/Put Option on 16 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 50.00 – National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Nil (2016 - 4,000; 2015 - Nil) 8.05% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds Series 16 H (04 January 2019 with Call/Put Option on 14 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 400.00 – Power Finance Corporation Limited 1500 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.11% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 115 I (07 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 150.22 –– 150 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.32% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 117A (19 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 15.06 –– Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 1482.41 7559.52 1761.67 3676.41 1703.64 4507.10 Carried over 1647.69 7941.78 2406.50 3680.28 1703.64 4562.66 INVESTMENT IN MUTUAL FUNDS (Contd.)
249ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted 11.
Current investments (at fair value through profit or loss, unless stated otherwise) (Contd.)
INVESTMENT IN BONDS/DEBENTURES (Contd.)
1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.12% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Taxable Bonds in the nature of Debentures Series 139-B (22 May 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 99.99 –– 379 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.27% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 92-B (21 August 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 38.04 –– Rural Electrification Corporation Limited Nil (2016 - 2,850; 2015 - Nil) 8.28% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Taxable Bonds Series 138 (04 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 285.00 – 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.40% Unsecured Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable Taxable Bonds - 2017 Series -108 (Option I) (20 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.31 –– Small Industries Development Bank of India Nil (2016 - 2,500; 2015 - Nil) 8.05% Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Promissory Notes Series 1 of 2015 -16 (28 January 2019 with Call/Put Option on 14 March 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid – 250.00 – LIC Housing Finance Limited 30 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 8.50% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible  Debentures Tranche 187 (13 April 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 3.00 –– 1,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.18% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 219 (03 July 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 100.11 –– 300 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.29% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 230 Option 1 (16 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 30.12 –– 170 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) 9.80% Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche XXVI (22 October 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 17.10 –– IDFC Bank Limited 3,000 (2016 - Nil; 2015 - Nil) Zero Coupon Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Series IDFC Bank OBB 20/2015 (27 November 2017) of ` 1000000.00 each, fully paid 354.25 –– Aggregate amount of quoted and unquoted Investments 2390.61 7941.78 2941.50 3680.28 1703.64 4562.66 TOTAL 10332.39 6621.78 6266.30 Aggregate market value of quoted investments ` 2394.82 Crores (2016 - ` 2942.01 Crores; 2015 - ` 1703.64 Crores) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Brought forward 1647.69 7941.78 2406.50 3680.28 1703.64 4562.66 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017250 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Secured, considered good  29.14 27.50 25.43 Unsecured, considered good  2445.15 1889.68 1952.89 Doubtful  120.55 95.90 73.73 Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables  120.55 95.90 73.73 TOTAL 2474.29 1917.18 1978.32 12.
Trade receivables (Current) Balances with Banks Current accounts  233.82 135.63 139.76 Deposit accounts  92.31 134.96 7.16 Cheques, drafts on hand  4.65 9.98 5.60 Cash on hand  2.29 3.02 3.17 TOTAL  333.07 283.59  155.69 @ Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cheques, drafts on hand, cash at bank and deposits with banks  with original maturity of 3 months or less.
13.
Cash and cash equivalents @ Earmarked balances  157.68 153.99 134.89 In deposit accounts*  2476.65 5625.72 6280.66 TOTAL 2634.33 5779.71 6415.55 * Represents deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months having remaining maturity of less than 12 months from the Balance Sheet date.
14.
Other bank balances Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 251ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 15.
Equity share capital As at As at As at As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 1st April, 2015 (No.
of Shares) ( ` in Crores) (No.
of Shares) ( ` in Crores) (No.
of Shares) ( ` in Crores) As at As at As at As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 1st April, 2015 (No.
of Shares) % (No.
of Shares) % (No.
of Shares) % B) Shareholders holding more than 5% of the Ordinary Shares in the Company C) Ordinary Shares allotted as fully paid pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received in cash during the period of five years immediately preceding 31st March 2017 2016 (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) Shares issued in 2014-15 pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement between Wimco Limited and ITC Limited 87,761  87,761 2017 2016 (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) D) Ordinary Shares allotted as fully paid up Bonus Shares for the period of five years immediately preceding 31st March As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) (No.
of Shares) Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each 43,15,59,080 30,12,99,270 26,93,51,410 F) Shares reserved for issue under Options Terms and Conditions of Options Granted Each Option entitles the holder thereof to apply for and be allotted ten Ordinary Shares of the Company of ` 1.00 each upon payment of the exercise price during the exercise period.
The exercise period commences from the date of vesting of the Options and expires at the end of five years from (i) the date of  grant in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (introduced in 2001) and (ii) the date of vesting in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2006 & the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2010.
The vesting period for conversion of Options is as follows: On completion of 12 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 24 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 36 months from the date of grant of the Options : 40% vests The Options have been granted at the ‘market price’ as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
Further details of ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes are provided in Note 28 (xiii).
Authorised Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each  20,00,00,00,000 2000.00 10,00,00,00,000 1000.00 10,00,00,00,000 1000.00 Issued and Subscribed Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each, fully paid  12,14,73,83,071 1214.74 8,04,72,06,991 804.72 8,01,55,19,541 801.55 A) Reconciliation of number of Ordinary Shares outstanding As at beginning of the year  8,04,72,06,991 804.72 8,01,55,19,541 801.55 Add: Issue of Bonus Shares  4,02,66,57,100 402.67 –– Add: Issue of Shares on exercise of Options  7,35,18,980 7.35 3,16,87,450 3.17 As at end of the year  12,14,73,83,071 1214.74 8,04,72,06,991 804.72 Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited 2,97,83,47,320 24.52 1,98,55,64,880 24.68 1,98,55,64,880 24.77 Life Insurance Corporation of India 1,97,50,75,980 16.26 1,15,50,35,797 14.35 1,15,50,35,797 14.41 Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India 1,10,25,91,521 9.08 89,67,42,540 11.14 89,67,24,540 11.19 Bonus Shares issued in 2016-17  4,02,66,57,100 – E) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to the Ordinary Shares The Ordinary Shares of the Company, having par value of ` 1.00 per share, rank pari passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017252 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Unsecured  Term loans       – From Others  0.41  0.83  1.08 Deferred payment liabilities     – Sales tax deferment loans  17.99  25.83  38.69 TOTAL 18.40  26.66  39.77 16.
Non-current borrowings Terms of borrowings are as under: Term Loans from Others: Comprise two interest free loans.
One of the loans is repayable by 2017-18 in annual instalments and the other loan stipulates repayment on the basis of 33% (2016 - 50% ; 2015 - 50%) of the net profits earned by a subsidiary or the residual balance, whichever is less.
Sales tax deferment loans: Interest free deferral period ranging from 10 to 14 years and are repayable by 2025-26.
The scheduled maturity of the Non-current borrowings are summarised as under:  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Non-current Others (Consists of retention money payable towards property, plant and equipment, deposits etc.)
41.21  46.77  39.31 TOTAL  41.21  46.77  39.31 Current Current maturities of long-term debt (Refer Note 16)  8.21  13.17  12.73 Interest accrued  1.78  2.07  4.03 Unpaid dividend *  157.42  153.56  134.50 Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon  …  …  … Unpaid matured debentures / bonds and interest accrued thereon **  0.30  0.32  0.33 Others (Consists of payable for property, plant and equipment, derivatives designated as hedging instruments etc.)
735.54  553.38  631.84 TOTAL  903.25  722.50  783.43 * Represents dividend amounts either not claimed or kept in abeyance in accordance with Section 126 of the Companies Act, 2013,  or such amounts in respect of which Prohibitory / Attachment Orders are on record with the Company.
** Represents amounts which are subject matter of a pending legal dispute with a bank for which the Company has filed a suit.
17.
Other financial liabilities Term Loans Deferred Term Loans Deferred Term Loans Deferred Payment Payment Payment Liabilities Liabilities Liabilities Borrowings repayable In the first year (Refer Note 17) 0.37 7.84 0.31 12.86 0.42 12.31 Current maturities of long-term debt 0.37 7.84 0.31 12.86 0.42 12.31 In the second year 0.13 6.86 0.67 7.84 0.52 12.86 In the third to fifth year 0.28 5.85 0.16 12.36 0.56 17.94 After five years – 5.28 – 5.63 – 7.89 Non-current borrowings 0.41 17.99 0.83 25.83 1.08 38.69 253ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 20.
Current borrowings Secured Loans from Banks    Cash credit facilities  1.11 43.95 184.95 Unsecured Loans from related parties (Refer Note 30)  18.00 –– TOTAL 19.11 43.95 184.95 Cash credit facilities are secured by hypothecation of certain property, plant and equipment, investments and current assets, both present and future.
The carrying amounts for hypothecated assets are as under: Property, plant and equipment  341.70 399.29 402.28 Investments  1.60 1.60 1.60 Inventories 8097.07 8697.50 8027.57 18.
Provisions  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Provision for employee benefits [Refer Note 28 (vii)] Retirement benefits  29.97  99.37  40.42  87.36  58.27  78.28 Other benefits  31.19  58.76  30.98  47.77  31.46  45.30 Provision for standard assets  –  0.29   –  0.29  –  0.09 TOTAL 61.16  158.42  71.40  135.42  89.73  123.67  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 19.
Other liabilities Non-current Advances received from customers – 2.12 1.68 Revenue received in advance 3.14 2.03 1.68 Deferred revenue arising from Government grant 14.65 –– TOTAL 17.79 4.15 3.36 Current Statutory liabilities 2732.20 2468.29 2400.70 Advances received from customers 494.82 805.26 524.83 Revenue received in advance 9.79 8.27 3.62 Others  – Deferred revenue arising from Government grant related to assets 0.79 ––  – Others (includes deferred revenue, accruals, customer deposits etc.)
89.86 114.70 85.65 TOTAL 3327.46 3396.52 3014.80 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017254 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) 21.
Current tax liabilities (Net) Current taxation (net of advance payment)  150.70 84.80 41.13 Fringe benefit tax (net of advance payment)  – – 1.55 TOTAL  150.70 84.80 42.68 22B.
Gross revenue from sale of products and services * FMCG – Cigarettes etc.
35877.66  34062.67 – Branded Packaged Food Products  8035.34  7097.43 – Others (Apparel, Education and Stationery Products, Personal Care Products, Safety Matches, Agarbattis etc.)
2488.22  2641.14 Hotels   – Hotels Sales/Income from Hotel Services  1400.35  1343.49 Agri Business – Unmanufactured Tobacco  1664.26  1562.22 – Other Agri Products and Commodities (Wheat, Soya, Spices, Coffee, Aqua etc.)
3649.87  2800.56 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging – Paperboards and Paper  3210.92  3266.30 – Printed Materials  521.71  491.57 Others – Others  1439.62  1407.79 TOTAL  58287.95  54673.17 * Net of sales returns and damaged stocks.
For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 22A.
Revenue from operations Sale of Products  55486.62 51959.60 Sale of Services  2801.33 2713.57 Gross Revenue from sale of products and services* [including excise duty of ` 16564.98 Crores  (2016 - ` 15622.46 Crores)]  58287.95 54673.17 Other Operating Revenues#  443.57 387.91 TOTAL  58731.52  55061.08 *  Net of sales returns and damaged stocks.
# Includes Government grants received of ` 140.90 Crores (2016 - ` 75.20 Crores) on account of Export Promotion Capital Goods, Served from India Scheme, Service Export from India Scheme, Merchandise Export from India Scheme etc.
255ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 23.
Other income Interest income  903.16  881.02 Dividend income  0.14  59.87 Other non-operating income  41.27  42.68 Other gains and losses  816.96  547.23 TOTAL  1761.53  1530.80 Interest income comprises interest from: a) Deposits with Banks etc.
- carried at amortised cost  341.71  574.71 b) Financial assets mandatorily measured at FVTPL 170.69  144.89 c) Other financial assets measured at amortised cost  389.90  153.28 d) Others (from statutory authorities etc.)
0.86  8.14 TOTAL  903.16  881.02 Dividend income comprises dividend from: a) Equity instruments measured at FVTOCI held at the end of reporting period  0.02  20.30 b) Equity instruments measured at FVTOCI derecognised during the period  –  0.10 c) Other investments  0.12  39.47 TOTAL  0.14  59.87 Other gains and losses: Net foreign exchange gain/(loss)  8.39  (5.50) Net gain/(loss) arising on financial assets mandatorily measured at FVTPL*  663.62  552.73 Gain recognised on disposal of subsidiary  144.95 – TOTAL  816.96  547.23 * Includes ` 153.69 Crores (2016 - ` 454.44 Crores) being net gain/(loss) on sale of investments.
24.
Employee benefits expense Salaries and wages  2744.64  2536.27 Contribution to Provident and other funds  212.40  188.30 Share based payments to employees  496.02  548.42 Staff welfare expenses  206.38  194.46  3659.44  3467.45 Less: Recoveries made/reimbursements received  27.71  26.48 TOTAL  3631.73  3440.97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017256 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 25.
Finance costs Interest expense: – On financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  8.77  6.13 – Others  15.53  47.47 TOTAL 24.30  53.60 26.
Other expenses Power and fuel  584.33  571.88 Change in carrying value of biological assets  27.00  28.33 Consumption of stores and spare parts  271.11  254.14 Contract processing charges  858.35  839.60 Rent [Refer Note 28 (ix)]  327.55  314.90 Rates and taxes  569.05  642.54 Insurance  89.98  86.45 Repairs – Buildings  67.55  65.76 – Machinery  224.60  197.99 – Others  66.62  54.69 Maintenance and upkeep  195.67  169.41 Outward freight and handling charges  855.97  852.77 Warehousing charges  131.83  142.72 Advertising/Sales promotion  810.70  894.93 Market research  114.63  93.78 Design and product development  50.80  47.04 Hotel reservation/Marketing expenses  32.61  33.02 Retail accessories  205.12  191.08 Brokerage and discount - sales  9.01  8.74 Commission to selling agents  40.88  46.81 Doubtful and bad debts  34.08  29.33 Doubtful and bad advances, loans and deposits  1.25  0.03 Provision for standard assets – 0.20 Impairment of goodwill on consolidation – 25.46 Bank and credit card charges  24.73  24.53 Information technology services  143.63  148.35 Travelling and conveyance  345.26  357.13 Training and development  25.37  24.75 Legal expenses  49.08  37.89 Consultancy/Professional fees  320.10  280.73 Postage, telephone etc.
39.82  39.94 Printing and stationery  18.35  18.21 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment - Net  8.87  56.11 Loss on sale of stores and spare parts - Net  4.58  2.41 Miscellaneous expenses  1138.33  1150.13 TOTAL  7686.81  7731.78  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 257ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) 27.
Income tax expenses A.
Amount recognised in profit or loss Current tax Income tax for the year  5601.57 5204.36 Adjustments / (credits) related to previous years - Net Current tax  (55.05) (51.20) Fringe benefit tax  – (1.55) MAT credit entitlement  (0.36) (1.24) Total current tax  5546.16 5150.37 Deferred tax Deferred tax for the year  (51.10) 156.69 Adjustments / (credits) related to previous years - Net  54.03 51.15 Total deferred tax  2.93 207.84 TOTAL  5549.09 5358.21 B.
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income The tax (charge)/credit arising on income and expenses recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: Deferred tax On items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss   Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans  2.73 16.94   Related to designated portion of hedging instruments in cash flow hedges  21.18 – 23.91 16.94 On items that will be reclassified to profit or loss   Related to designated portion of hedging instruments in cash flow hedges  (6.31) 0.80 TOTAL  17.60 17.74 C. Amount recognised directly in equity The income tax (charged)/credited directly to equity during the year is as follows: Deferred tax Arising on gains/(losses) of hedging instruments in cash flow hedges transferred to the initial carrying amounts of hedged items  5.77 – TOTAL  5.77 – D. Reconciliation of effective tax rate The income tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: Profit before tax  16026.32 14859.07 Income tax expense calculated @ 34.608% (2016: 34.608%)  5546.39 5142.43 Effect of tax relating to uncertain tax positions  106.28 113.53 Effect of different tax rate on certain items  (48.44) 52.13 Difference in tax rates of subsidiary companies  (41.19) (30.35) Effect of income not taxable  (86.98) (81.59) Other differences  128.86 178.10 Benefit of previously unrecognised tax loss to reduce current tax expense  (43.15) (13.88) Benefit of previously unrecognised tax loss to reduce deferred tax expense  (11.48) (0.56) Total  5550.29 5359.81 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of prior years  (1.20) (1.60) Income tax recognised in profit or loss  5549.09 5358.21 The tax rate used for the year 2015-16 and 2016-17 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 34.608% (30% + surcharge @ 12% and education cess @ 3%) payable on taxable profits under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
258 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (i) Earnings per share: 2017 2016 Earnings per share has been computed as under: (a) Profit for the year ( ` in Crores) 10289.44 9344.45 (b) Weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding 12,10,38,51,999 12,05,36,13,518* for the purpose of basic earnings per share  (c) Effect of potential Ordinary shares on Employee Stock Options 7,54,20,442 6,64,08,089* outstanding (d) Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in computing 12,17,92,72,441 12,12,00,21,607 diluted earnings per share [(b) + (c)] (e) Earnings per share on profit for the year (Face Value ` 1.00 per share) –  Basic [(a)/(b)] ` 8.50 ` 7.75  –  Diluted [(a)/(d)] ` 8.45 ` 7.71 * After considering Bonus Issue During the year Bonus Shares were allotted on 7th July, 2016 in the ratio of 1:2.
Previous year figures have been restated for the purpose of computation of Earnings per share.
(ii) (a) The subsidiaries (which along with ITC Limited, the parent, constitute the Group) considered in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are: Name Country of Percentage Percentage Percentage Incorporation of ownership of ownership of ownership interest as at interest as at interest as at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Srinivasa Resorts Limited India 68 68 68 Fortune Park Hotels Limited India 100 100 100 Bay Islands Hotels Limited India 100 100 100 Surya Nepal Private Limited Nepal 59 59 59 Landbase India Limited India 100 100 100 BFIL Finance Limited* India – – 100 MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Investments & Holdings Limited) India100 100 100 Russell Credit Limited India 100 100 100 Greenacre Holdings Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Russell Credit Limited) India 100 100 100 Wimco Limited India 98.21 98.21 98.21 Prag Agro Farm Limited India 100 100 100 Pavan Poplar Limited India 100 100 100 Technico Agri Sciences Limited (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Limited w.e.f.
22nd March 2016) (previously, a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited ) India100 100 100 Technico Pty Limited Australia 100 100 100 Technico Technologies Inc. (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Canada 100 100 100 Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Australia 100 100 100 259ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
*Amalgamated with Russell Credit Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC Limited) with effect from 1st April, 2015.
ITC Global Holdings Pte.
Limited, Singapore (a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC Limited), in liquidation, has not been considered in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries, considered in the Consolidated Accounts, are drawn upto 31st March other than for Surya Nepal Private Limited where it is upto 13th March, based on the local laws of Nepal where the company is incorporated.
Name Country of Percentage Percentage Percentage Incorporation of ownership of ownership of ownership interest as at interest as at interest as at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited) China100 100 100 ITC Infotech India Limited India 100 100 100 ITC Infotech Limited (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) UK 100 100 100 ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) USA 100 100 100 Pyxis Solutions, LLC (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., merged with that company w.e.f.
1st April, 2016) USA – 100 100 Indivate Inc. (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. w.e.f.
18th November, 2016) USA100 –– Wills Corporation Limited* India – – 100 Gold Flake Corporation Limited India 100 100 100 King Maker Marketing, Inc. (ceased to be a subsidiary w.e.f.
16th November, 2016)  USA – 100 100 WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited Sri Lanka 100 100 100 ITC Investments & Holdings Limited India 100 100 100 North East Nutrients Private Limited India 76 76 76 (b) Interests in Joint Ventures: The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities (incorporated Joint Ventures) are: Name Country of Percentage Percentage Percentage Incorporation of ownership of ownership of ownership interest as at interest as at interest as at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited India 50 50 50 Espirit Hotels Private Limited India 26 26 26 Logix Developers Private Limited India 27.90 27.90 27.90 ITC Essentra Limited (a joint venture of Gold Flake Corporation Limited) India 50 50 50 260 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
* Amalgamated with Greenacre Holdings Limited (a wholly owned step down subsidiary of ITC Limited) with effect from 1st October, 2015.
The financial statements of all Associates, considered in the Consolidated Accounts, are drawn upto 31st March.
(d)  These Consolidated Financial Statements are based, in so far as they relate to amounts included in respect of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures on the audited financial statements prepared for consolidation in accordance with the requirements of Indian Accounting Standard - 110 (Ind AS 110) on “Consolidated Financial Statements”, Indian Accounting Standard - 28 (Ind AS 28) on “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” and Indian Accounting Standard - 111 (Ind AS 111) on “Joint Arrangements” by each of the included entities.
(iii) Expenditure incurred under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities - ` 281.00 Crores (2016 - ` 252.13 Crores) comprising employee benefits expenses of ` 6.75 Crores (2016 - ` 7.01 Crores) and other expenses of ` 274.25 Crores (2016 - ` 245.12 Crores) of which ` 16.80 Crores (2016 - ` 17.04 Crores) is accrued for payment as on 31st March, 2017.
Such CSR expenditure of ` 281.00 Crores (2016 - ` 252.13 Crores) excludes ` 11.80 Crores (2016 - ` 11.43 Crores) being the excess of expenditure of salaries of CSR personnel and administrative expenses over the limit imposed of 5% of total CSR expenditure laid down under Rule 4(6) of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 as applicable to individual entities.
Name Country of Percentage Percentage Percentage Incorporation of ownership of ownership of ownership interest as at interest as at interest as at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Gujarat Hotels Limited India 45.78 45.78 45.78 International Travel House Limited India 48.96 48.96 48.96 Russell Investments Limited India 25.43 25.43 25.43 Divya Management Limited India 33.33 33.33 33.33 Antrang Finance Limited India 33.33 33.33 33.33 ATC Limited India 47.50 47.50 47.50 Classic Infrastructure and Development Limited* India – – 42.35 The Group’s interests in jointly controlled operations: Technico Technologies Inc., Canada has entered into a farming arrangement with Shamrock Seed Potato Farm Limited, Canada for production and sale of Early Generation seed potatoes.
The participating share of Technico Technologies Inc., Canada is 35% (2016 - 35%; 2015 - 35%).
ITC Essentra Limited has aligned its financial year to 31st day of March in accordance with Section 2(41) of the Companies Act, 2013 with effect from financial year 2015-16.
Consequently, the financial statements of all the Joint Ventures, considered in the Consolidated Accounts, are drawn upto 31st March.
(c) Investments in Associates: The Group’s Associates are: 261ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
(iv) Contingent liabilities and commitments: (a) Contingent liabilities: Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts, are ` 775.69 Crores (2016 - ` 665.46 Crores; 2015 - ` 636.54 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 198.28 Crores (2016 - ` 180.57 Crores; 2015 - ` 153.37 Crores), including share of joint venture ` 0.11 Crore (2016 - ` 0.11 Crore; 2015 - Nil) and share of associates ` 0.15 Crore (2016 - ` 0.15 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.16 Crore).
These comprise: • Excise duty, VAT / sales taxes and other indirect taxes claims disputed by the Group relating to issues of applicability and classification aggregating ` 591.98 Crores (2016 - ` 481.58 Crores; 2015 - ` 458.59 Crores), including interest on claims,  where applicable,  estimated to be ` 186.79 Crores (2016 - ` 161.25 Crores; 2015 - ` 135.58 Crores), including share of joint venture ` 0.11 Crore (2016 - ` 0.11 Crore; 2015 - Nil) and share of associates ` 0.12 Crore (2016 - ` 0.12 Crore;  2015 - ` 0.12 Crore).
• Local Authority taxes/cess/royalty on property, utilities etc.
claims disputed by the Group relating to issues of applicability and determination aggregating ` 61.26 Crores (2016 - ` 75.20 Crores; 2015 - ` 68.90 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 4.99 Crores (2016 - ` 14.46 Crores; 2015 - ` 13.47 Crores) including share of associates ` 0.03 Crore (2016 - ` 0.03 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.04 Crore).
• Third party claims arising from disputes relating to contracts aggregating ` 39.12 Crores (2016 - ` 29.16 Crores; 2015 - ` 29.23 Crores), including interest on claims, where applicable, estimated to be ` 0.36 Crore (2016 - ` 0.25 Crore; 2015 - ` 0.14 Crore).
• Other matters aggregating ` 83.33 Crores (2016 - ` 79.52 Crores; 2015 - ` 79.82 Crores), including interest on other matters, where applicable, estimated to be ` 6.14 Crores (2016 - ` 4.61 Crores; 2015 - ` 4.18 Crores).
• In respect of Surya Nepal Private Limited (SNPL), Excise, Income Tax and VAT authorities issued Show Cause Notices (SCNs) and raised demands to recover taxes for different years on theoretical production of cigarettes.
The basis for all these SCNs and demands is an untenable contention by the Revenue Authorities that SNPL could have produced more cigarettes than it has actually produced in a given year, by applying an input-output ratio allegedly submitted by SNPL in the year 1990-91 and, that, SNPL is liable to pay taxes on such cigarettes that could have been theoretically produced and sold.
This, despite the fact that SNPL’s cigarette factory was under ‘physical control’ of the Revenue Authorities and cigarettes produced are duly accounted for and certified as such by the Revenue Authorities.
The above basis of theoretical production has been rejected by the Supreme Court of Nepal vide its orders dated 29th October, 2009 and 1st April, 2010.
In the said order of the Supreme Court of Nepal dated 1st April, 2010, the Excise demands (for the financial years 1998-99 to 2002-03) and Income Tax demands (for the financial year 2001-02) were set aside.
Citing the aforesaid decisions of the Supreme Court of Nepal, the Inland Revenue Department has, on 11th February, 2011 and 12th August, 2013 decided the following administrative review petitions in favour of SNPL relating to theoretical production: (i) Value Added Tax - ` 11.88 Crores [Nepalese Rupee (NRs.)
19.01 Crores] for the financial years 2001-02 and 2007-08.
(ii) Income Tax - ` 3.07 Crores (NRs.
4.91 Crores) for the financial year 2005-06.
SNPL’s counsel appearing in the matter has opined that the verdict of the Supreme Court of Nepal dated 29th October, 2009, which was delivered by a Full Bench of the Supreme Court of Nepal, will add substantial strength to SNPL’s case in all the other matters relating to the issue of theoretical production.
Following is the status of pending demands and Show Cause Notices received from the Revenue Authorities based on similar untenable contention: (i) Excise Demands and Show Cause Notices 1.
Excise demand letter dated 22nd February, 2008 for ` 9.34 Crores (NRs.
14.95 Crores) relating to the financial years 2003-04 to 2005-06.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 2nd April, 2008 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
262 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
2.
Excise demand letter dated 30th November, 2008 for ` 8.03 Crores (NRs.
12.85 Crores) relating to the financial year 2006-07.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 6th January, 2009 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
3.
Show Cause Notice dated 19th January, 2010 seeking to demand ` 12.28 Crores (NRs.
19.65 Crores) by way of Excise Duty for the financial year 2007-08.
SNPL’s writ petition challenging the Notice was admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal.
On 7th March, 2010, Supreme Court of Nepal issued interim order directing Inland Revenue Department not to raise demand, pending final disposal of the writ petition.
(ii) Value Added Tax (VAT) Demands 1.
VAT demand letter dated 8th August, 2007 for ` 3.58 Crores (NRs.
5.72 Crores) relating to the financial year 2002-03.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 12th September, 2007 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
2.
VAT demand letter dated 5th August, 2008 for ` 0.67 Crore (NRs.
1.07 Crores) relating to the financial year 2003-04.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 5th September, 2008 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
3.
VAT demand letter dated 10th July, 2009, for ` 6.69 Crores (NRs.
10.70 Crores) relating to the financial years 2004-05 to 2006-07.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 9th August, 2009 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
(iii)Income Tax Demands 1.
Income Tax demand letter dated 12th August, 2007 for ` 12.26 Crores (NRs.
19.61 Crores) relating to the financial year 2002-03.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 12th September, 2007 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
2.
Income Tax demand letter dated 15th September, 2008 for the financial year 2003-04.
Out of total demand of ` 1.41 Crores (NRs.
2.26 Crores), the basis of the demand for ` 1.19 Crores (NRs.
1.91 Crores) is on theoretical production.
SNPL’s writ petition, challenging the demand, has been admitted by the Supreme Court of Nepal on 8th December, 2008 and it has issued Show Cause Notices to the respondents.
3.
Income Tax demand letter dated 16th October, 2009 for the financial year 2004-05.
Out of a total demand of ` 1.41 Crores (NRs.
2.26 Crores), the basis of the demand for ` 1.35 Crores (NRs.
2.16 Crores) is on theoretical production.
SNPL has filed an administrative review petition before the Director General, Inland Revenue Department on 18th December, 2009.
The Director General without dealing with the issues raised by SNPL, summarily dismissed the petition by an order dated 2nd March, 2010.
SNPL thereafter filed an appeal before the Revenue Tribunal, on 17th June, 2010.
The Revenue Tribunal, vide its order dated 9th July, 2012 (received by SNPL on 2nd November, 2012), has directed Director General, Inland Revenue Department to reassess the case.
The Director General appealed to the Supreme Court of Nepal for admission of the case against the decision of the Revenue Tribunal.
The Supreme Court has admitted the case on 11th March, 2016 and issued notice to SNPL for hearing, which is pending.
SNPL considers that all the demands and show cause notice listed above have no legal or factual basis.
Accordingly, SNPL is of the view that there is no liability that is likely to arise, particularly in the light of the decisions in favour of SNPL by the Supreme Court of Nepal and the Inland Revenue Department.
It is not practicable for the Group to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of cash flows, if any, in respect of the above.
(b) Uncalled liability on shares partly paid is ` 1.25 Crores (2016 - ` 1.25 Crores; 2015 - ` 1.25 Crores).
(c) Corporate Guarantee given to Yes Bank Limited for credit facility availed by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) outstanding - ` 1.30 Crores (2016 - ` 1.30 Crores; 2015 - ` 1.30 Crores).
263ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
(d) Commitments: Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital accounts and not provided for, including share of joint ventures ` 9.47 Crores (2016 - ` 9.49 Crores; 2015 - ` 9.30 Crores), are ` 3026.69 Crores (2016 - ` 2150.26 Crores; 2015 - ` 1626.69 Crores).
(v) Research and Development expenses for the year amount to ` 134.83 Crores (2016 - ` 122.02 Crores).
(vi) Cost of inventory recognised as expense during the year amount to ` 35412.73 Crores (2016 - ` 32622.57 Crores).
(vii)The Group has adopted Indian Accounting Standard 19 (Ind AS 19) on ‘Employee Benefits’.
These Consolidated Financial Statements include the obligations as per requirement of this standard except for those subsidiaries which are incorporated outside India who have determined the valuation/provision for employee benefits as per requirements of their respective countries.
In the opinion of the management, the impact of this deviation is not considered material.
(a) Defined Benefit Plans / Long Term Compensated Absences - As per Actuarial Valuations as on March 31, 2017 and recognised in the financial statements in respect of Employee Benefit Schemes: Description of Plans The Group makes contributions to both Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution Plans for qualifying employees.
These Plans are administered through approved Trusts, which operate in accordance with the Trust Deeds, Rules and applicable Statutes.
The concerned Trusts are managed by Trustees who provide strategic guidance with regard to the management of their investments and liabilities and also periodically review their performance.
Provident Fund and Pension Benefits are funded, Gratuity Benefits are both funded as well unfunded; and Leave Encashment Benefits are unfunded in nature.
The Defined Benefit Pension Plans are based on employees’ pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Under the Provident Fund, Gratuity and Leave Encashment Schemes, employees are entitled to receive lump sum benefits.
The liabilities arising in the Defined Benefit Schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method as at year end.
The Group makes regular contributions to these Employee Benefit Plans.
Additional contributions are made to these plans as and when required based on actuarial valuation.
Risk Management The Defined Benefit Plans expose the Group to risk of actuarial deficit arising out of investment risk, interest rate risk and salary cost inflation risk.
Investment Risks: This may arise from volatility in asset values due to market fluctuations and impairment of assets due to credit losses.
These Plans primarily invest in debt instruments such as Government securities and highly rated corporate bonds – the valuation of which is inversely proportional to the interest rate movements.
Interest Rate Risk: The present value of Defined Benefit Plans liability is determined using the discount rate based on the market yields prevailing at the end of reporting period on Government bonds.
A decrease in yields will increase the fund liabilities and vice-versa.
Salary Cost Inflation Risk: The present value of the Defined Benefit Plan liability is calculated with reference to the future salaries of participants under the Plan.
Increase in salary due to adverse inflationary pressures might lead to higher liabilities.
These Plans have a relatively balanced mix of investments in order to manage the above risks.
The investment strategy is designed based on the interest rate scenario, liquidity needs of the Plans and pattern of investment as prescribed under various Statutes.
The Trustees regularly monitor the funding and investments of these Plans.
Risk mitigation systems are in place to ensure that the health of the portfolio is regularly reviewed and investments do not pose any significant risk of impairment.
Periodic audits are conducted to ensure adequacy of internal controls.
Pension obligation of the employees is secured by purchasing annuities thereby de-risking the Plans from future payment obligation.
264 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment Funded Funded Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded Unfunded Unfunded I Components of Employer Expense - Recognised in Profit or Loss 1 Current Service Cost 46.29 33.51 0.25 8.91 46.62 22.75 0.14 7.21 2 Past Service Cost –– – – – – – (2.07) 3 Net Interest Cost (5.09) (1.31) 0.06 6.91 (6.67) (0.30) 0.10 6.79 4 Total expense recognised in the 41.20 32.20 0.31 15.82 39.95 22.45 0.24 11.93 Statement of Profit and Loss - Re-measurements recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 5 Return on plan assets (excluding (20.45) (4.35) – – 1.49 (1.94) – – amounts included in net interest cost) 6 Effect of changes in demographic – (0.22) – (0.01) – (0.01) – – assumptions 7 Effect of changes in financial 31.73 15.69 0.05 4.86 (9.81) (3.06) (0.02) (1.76) assumptions 8 Changes in asset ceiling –– – – –– – – (excluding interest income) 9 Effect of experience adjustments 9.01 (11.83) (0.03) 2.74 32.02 18.34 0.05 13.79 10 Total re-measurements included in Other Comprehensive Income 20.29 (0.71) 0.02 7.59 23.70 13.33 0.03 12.03 11 Total defined benefit cost 61.49 31.49 0.33 23.41 63.65 35.78 0.27 23.96 recognised in Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income (4+10) The current service cost and net interest cost for the year pertaining to Pension and Gratuity expenses have been recognised in “Contribution to Provident and other funds” and Leave Encashment in “Salaries and wages” under Note 24.
The re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability are included in Other Comprehensive Income.
II Actual Returns 73.45 28.24 – – 51.11 24.31 – –  III Net Asset/(Liability) recognised in Balance Sheet 1 Present Value of Defined 755.94 342.62 0.83 113.09 656.69 320.08 0.57 104.30 Benefit Obligation 2 Fair Value of Plan Assets 745.55 337.59 – – 667.76 299.08 – – 3 Status [Surplus/(Deficit)] (10.39) (5.03) (0.83) (113.09) 11.07 (21.00) (0.57) (104.30) 4 Restrictions on Asset Recognised –– – – –– – – 265ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 V Best Estimate of Employers’ Expected Contribution for the next year – Pension 110.29 27.36 75.01 – Gratuity 28.41 23.25 40.51 For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment Funded Funded Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded Unfunded Unfunded IV Change in Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) 1 Present Value of DBO at the 656.69 320.08 0.57 104.30 643.34 309.48 0.34 95.56 beginning of the year 2 Current Service Cost 46.29 33.51 0.25 8.91 46.62 22.75 0.14 7.21 3 Interest Cost 47.91 22.58 0.06 6.91 45.93 22.07 0.10 6.79 4 Past Service Cost –– – – – – – (2.07) 5 Re-measurement Gains/(Losses): a.
Effect of changes in – (0.22) – (0.01) – (0.01) – – demographic assumptions b.
Effect of changes in 31.73 15.69 0.05 4.86 (9.81) (3.06) (0.02) (1.76) financial assumptions c. Changes in asset ceiling –– – – –– – – (excluding interest income) d. Effect of experience adjustments 9.01 (11.83) (0.03) 2.74 32.02 18.34 0.05 13.79 6 Curtailment Cost / (Credit) –– – – –– – – 7 Settlement Cost / (Credit) –– – – –– – – 8 Liabilities assumed in business combination –– – – –– – – 9 Exchange difference on foreign plans –– – – –– – – 10 Benefits Paid (35.69) (37.19) (0.07) (14.62) (101.41) (49.49) (0.04) (15.22) 11 Present Value of DBO at the end of the year 755.94 342.62 0.83 113.09 656.69 320.08 0.57 104.30 As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Current Non-current Current Non-Current Current  Non-Current 5 Net Asset/ (Liability) recognised in Balance Sheet – Pension (8.01) (2.38) 12.98 (1.91) 48.43 (2.10) – Gratuity (5.09) (0.77) (21.15) (0.42) (38.42) (0.47) – Leave Encashment (16.87) (96.22) (19.27) (85.03) (19.85) (75.71) (` in Crores) 266 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Expected Expected Expected Discount Return on Discount Return on Discount Return on Rate (%) Plan Assets Rate (%) Plan Assets Rate (%) Plan Assets (%) (%) (%) VII Actuarial Assumptions 1 Pension 6.75 7.50 7.50 7.75 7.75 7.75 2 Gratuity 6.75 6.50 – 7.50 7.50 6.15 – 9.00 7.75 5.78 – 9.00 3 Leave Encashment 6.75 – 7.50 – 7.75 – The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuations take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 VIII Major Category of Plan Assets as a % of the Total Plan Assets  1 Government Securities/Special Deposit with RBI 27.75% 33.75% 34.70% 2 High Quality Corporate Bonds 19.89% 25.40% 28.27% 3 Insurer Managed Funds* 41.79% 31.63% 26.61% 4 Mutual Funds 2.38% 2.27% 2.73% 5 Cash and Cash Equivalents 5.35% 3.94% 4.65% 6 Term Deposits 2.84% 3.01% 3.04% * In the absence of detailed information regarding plan assets which is funded with Insurance Companies, the composition of each major category of plan assets, the percentage or amount for each category to the fair value of plan assets has not been disclosed.
The fair value of Government Securities, Corporate Bonds, Mutual Funds are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets.
The employee benefit plans do not hold any securities issued by the participating company.
For the year ended For the year ended 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) Pension Gratuity Leave Pension Gratuity Leave Encashment Encashment Funded Funded Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded Unfunded Unfunded VI Change in Fair Value of Assets 1 Plan Assets at the 667.76 299.08 – – 689.67 270.93 – – beginning of the year 2 Asset acquired in –– – – –– – – Business Combination 3 Interest Income 53.00 23.89 – – 52.60 22.37 – – 4 Re-measurement Gains/(Losses) 20.45 4.35 – – (1.49) 1.94 – – on plan assets 5 Actual Company Contributions 40.03 47.46 – – 28.39 53.33 – – 6 Benefits Paid (35.69) (37.19) – – (101.41) (49.49) – – 7 Plan Assets at the end of the year 745.55 337.59 –– 667.76 299.08 –– 267ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Maturity Analysis of the Benefit Payments (b) Amount towards Defined Contribution Plans have been recognised under “Contribution to Provident and other funds” in Note 24: ` 139.00 Crores (2016 - ` 125.90 Crores).
1 Year 1 172.50 107.96 2 Year 2 154.02 115.17 3 Year 3 97.76 134.56 4 Year 4 121.02 119.14 5 Year 5 121.99 89.46 6 Next 5 Years 532.96 486.69 DBO as at 31st March, 2017 DBO as at 31st March, 2016 1 Discount Rate + 100 basis points 1148.58 1016.09 2 Discount Rate - 100 basis points 1292.20 1147.64 3 Salary Increase Rate + 1% 1278.05 1139.25 4 Salary Increase Rate – 1% 1150.58 1019.46 (` in Crores) IX Basis used to determine the Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the current portfolio of assets, investment strategy and market scenario.
In order to protect the capital and optimise returns within acceptable risk parameters, the plan assets are well diversified.
XI.
Sensitivity Analysis The Sensitivity Analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible change of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation and the asset value changes may offset the impact to some extent.
For presenting the sensitivities, the present value of the Defined Benefit Obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the Defined Benefit Obligation presented above.
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in the preparation of the Sensitivity Analysis from previous year.
For the year ended For the year ended As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Leave Encashment Unfunded Pension Gratuity Pension Gratuity Pension Gratuity Funded Funded   Unfunded Funded Funded Unfunded Funded Funded Unfunded X Net Asset / (Liability) recognised in Balance Sheet (including experience adjustment impact) 1 Present Value of Defined 755.94 342.62 0.83 113.09 656.69 320.08 0.57 104.30 643.34 309.48 0.34 95.56 Benefit Obligation 2 Fair Value of Plan Assets 745.55 337.59 – – 667.76 299.08 – – 689.67 270.93 – – 3 Status [Surplus/(Deficit)] (10.39) (5.03) (0.83) (113.09) 11.07 (21.00) (0.57) (104.30) 46.33 (38.55) (0.34) (95.56) 4 Experience Adjustment of Plan Assets  [Gain/ (Loss)] 20.45 4.35 – – (1.49) 1.94 – – 20.85 6.71 – – 5 Experience Adjustment of obligation  [(Gain)/ Loss] 9.01 (11.83) (0.03) 2.74 32.02 18.34 0.05 13.79 (56.02) 14.86 (0.01) (6.13) Leave Encashment Unfunded Leave Encashment Unfunded 268 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
(ix) The Group's significant leasing arrangements are in respect of operating leases for land and building premises (residential, office, stores, godowns etc.).
These leasing arrangements which are not non-cancellable range between 11 months and 9 years generally, or longer, and are usually renewable by mutual consent on mutually agreeable terms.
The aggregate lease rentals payable are charged as ‘Rent’ under Note 26.
With regard to certain other non-cancellable operating leases for premises, the future minimum rentals are as follows: As at As at As at 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 (` in Crores) (` in Crores) ( ` in Crores) Not later than one year 18.21 16.97 23.03 Later than one year and not later than five years 40.87 21.71 16.51 Later than five years 0.33 0.43 3.18 (viii) Details of Specified Bank Notes (SBNs) held and transacted during the period from 8th November, 2016 to 30th December, 2016 as provided in the table below:- Particulars SBNs Other Denomination Total Notes Closing cash in hand as on 08.11.2016 3.18 1.06 4.24 (+) Permitted receipts 6.78 20.57 27.35 (-) Permitted payments … 2.60 2.60 (-) Amount deposited in banks 9.96 16.13 26.09 Closing cash in hand as on 30.12.2016 – 2.90 2.90 (` in Crores) (x) Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2017 on 17th March, 2017 notifying the amendments to Ind AS 7, 'Statement of cash flows’ and Ind AS 102, 'Share-based payment’.
These amendments are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2017.
The Group expects that there will be no material impact on the financial statements resulting from the implementation of these standards.
(xi) Additional information as required by Paragraph 2 of the General Instructions for Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013: Net Assets Share in Profit or (Loss) Share in Other Share in Total Comprehensive Income Comprehensive Income Name of the Entity As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Net Assets Profit or Other Total (Loss) Comprehensive Comprehensive Income Income Parent ITC Limited 92.73% 43310.96 94.60% 9911.03 165.57% 70.12 94.88% 9981.15 Subsidiaries Indian 1 Russell Credit 1.51% 703.88 0.32% 33.44 22.88% 9.69 0.41% 43.13 Limited 2 Greenacre 0.11% 51.28 0.02% 2.25 (0.14%) (0.06) 0.02% 2.19 Holdings Limited 3 Wimco Limited 0.01% 2.37 ... (0.07) (0.05%) (0.02) ... (0.09) 4 Prag Agro Farm Limited ... 1.07 ... (0.06) – – ... (0.06) 269ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Net Assets Share in Profit or (Loss) Share in Other Share in Total Comprehensive Income Comprehensive Income Name of the Entity As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Net Assets Profit or Other Total (Loss) Comprehensive Comprehensive Income Income Indian 5 Pavan Poplar Limited ... 1.33 ... (0.32) (0.05%) (0.02) ... (0.34) 6 Technico Agri Sciences Limited 0.27% 125.14 0.14% 14.52 (0.09%) (0.04) 0.14% 14.48 7 Srinivasa Resorts Limited 0.14% 67.39 (0.01%) (1.03) 0.02% 0.01 (0.01%) (1.02) 8 Fortune Park Hotels Limited 0.07% 32.95 0.02% 2.44 (0.12%) (0.05) 0.02% 2.39 9 Bay Islands Hotels Limited 0.03% 14.78 0.01% 0.76 – – 0.01% 0.76 10 ITC Infotech India Limited 0.64% 300.00 0.03% 3.65 (20.56%) (8.71) (0.05%) (5.06) 11 Gold Flake Corporation Limited 0.04% 19.63 0.01% 0.53 – – 0.01% 0.53 12 ITC Investments & Holdings Limited 0.01% 5.12 ... 0.05 – – ... 0.05 13 MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited ... 0.01 ... ... – – … … 14 Landbase India Limited 0.48% 222.31 0.02% 2.10 (0.02%) (0.01) 0.02% 2.09 15 North East Nutrients Private Limited 0.22% 100.68 (0.01%) (1.38) (0.02%) (0.01) (0.01%) (1.39) Foreign 1 Technico Pty Limited 0.04% 17.94 0.09% 9.48 (3.80%) (1.61) 0.07% 7.87 2 Technico Technologies Inc. ... 1.01 ... 0.23 – – ... 0.23 3 Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited – – – – – – – – 4 Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited 0.01% 5.07 ... (0.20) – – ... (0.20) 5 WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited 1.38% 645.68 ... 0.17 (88.90%) (37.65) (0.36%) (37.48) 270 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Net Assets Share in Profit or (Loss) Share in Other Share in Total Comprehensive Income Comprehensive Income Name of the Entity As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Consolidated ( ` in Crores) Net Assets Profit or Other Total (Loss) Comprehensive Comprehensive Income Income 6 ITC Infotech Limited 0.09% 42.68 0.09% 9.79 – – 0.09% 9.79 7 ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. 0.34% 156.92 0.24% 25.13 – – 0.24% 25.13 8 Indivate Inc. ... 0.05 (0.01%) (0.60) – – (0.01%) (0.60) 9 Surya Nepal Private Limited 0.64% 298.77 2.59% 271.56 – – 2.58% 271.56 Non-Controlling Interest in all subsidiaries 0.63% 294.74 1.79% 187.79 ... … 1.79% 187.79 Associates Indian 1 International Travel House Limited 0.20% 91.91 0.05% 5.13 (0.83%) (0.35) 0.05% 4.78 2 Gujarat Hotels Limited 0.03% 13.24 0.02% 1.65 – – 0.02% 1.65 3 Russell Investments Limited 0.08% 39.12 0.01% 0.78 25.90% 10.97 0.11% 11.75 4 Divya Management Limited 0.02% 7.22 ... 0.07 – – ... 0.07 5 Antrang Finance Limited 0.01% 4.82 ... 0.03 – – ... 0.03 6 ATC Limited 0.01% 6.50 ... 0.10 0.09% 0.04 ... 0.14 Joint Ventures Indian 1 ITC Essentra Limited 0.10% 46.67 0.04% 4.56 0.12% 0.05 0.04% 4.61 2 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited ... … – – – – – – 3 Espirit Hotels Private Limited 0.10% 46.17 ... … – – ... … 4 Logix Developers Private Limited 0.06% 30.26 (0.06%) (6.35) – – (0.06%) (6.35) Total 100.00% 46707.67 100.00% 10477.23 100.00% 42.35 100.00% 10519.58 271ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Notes: The Subsidiary not considered in the preparation of the above statement is ITC Global Holding Pte.
Limited, Singapore, (‘Global’) a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC Limited, which is under liquidation vide Singapore High Court’s Order dated 30th November, 2007.
Prior to this, Global was under Judicial Management in terms of an Interim Order passed by the Singapore High Court on 8th November, 1996, and confirmed by the Singapore High Court on 6th December, 1996.
(xii) Changes in Group Structure: A.
During the year, King Maker Marketing, Inc. USA (KMM) ceased to be a subsidiary of the Group with effect from 16th November, 2016 consequent to divestment of the Group’s entire shareholding in KMM along with certain related trademarks owned by the Group.
Details of the assets and liabilities which were derecognised are as under: 2017 ` in Crores Current assets 22.58 Non-current assets 8.28 Current liabilities (19.37) Net assets disposed of 11.49 B.
During the previous year ended 31st March, 2016, the following changes in Group Structure have taken place and the same have been appropriately dealt with in the Consolidated Financial Statements: (a) the shares of Wills Corporation Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, were sold to Russell Credit Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Subsequently, in accordance with the Scheme of Amalgamation sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court at Calcutta on 16th February, 2016, the assets and liabilities of Wills Corporation Limited were transferred to Russell Credit Limited with effect from 1st April, 2015, the Appointed Date.
The Scheme became effective on 22nd March, 2016 upon filing of the Order of the Hon’ble High Court with the Registrar of Companies, West Bengal.
Consequent to such filing, the Scheme has been given effect to in these Financial Statements.
(b) the shares of BFIL Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company were sold to Russell Credit Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Subsequently, in accordance with the Scheme of Amalgamation sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court at Calcutta and Bombay on 27th November, 2015 and on 4th May, 2016 respectively, the assets and liabilities of BFIL Finance Limited were transferred to Russell Credit Limited with effect from 1st April, 2015, the Appointed Date.
The Scheme became effective on 16th May, 2016 upon filing of the Order of the Hon’ble High Court with the Registrar of Companies, West Bengal.
Consequent to such filing, the Scheme has been given effect to in these Financial Statements.
(c) Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited, an associate of the Group, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Greenacre Holdings Limited, a step down wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on further acquisition of its shares.
Subsequently, in accordance with the Scheme of Amalgamation as sanctioned by the Hon’ble High Court at Calcutta on 17th March, 2016, the assets and liabilities of Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited were transferred to Greenacre Holdings Limited with effect from 1st October, 2015, the Appointed Date.
The Scheme became effective on 5th April, 2016 upon filing of the Order of the Hon’ble High Court with the Registrar of Companies, West Bengal.
Consequent to such filing, the Scheme has been given effect to in these Financial Statements.
272 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
(xiii) Information in respect of Options granted under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes (‘Schemes’): Sl.
ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option No.
Scheme (introduced in 2001) Scheme - 2006 Scheme - 2010 1.
Date of Shareholders’ approval : 17-01-2001 22-01-2007 23-07-2010 2.
Total number of Options : Options equivalent to Options equivalent to Options equivalent to approved under the Schemes 12,27,07,450 Ordinary 37,89,18,503 Ordinary 55,60,44,823 Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each Shares of ` 1.00 each Shares of ` 1.00 each Note: Adjusted for Bonus Shares issued in terms of Shareholders approval.
3.
Vesting Schedule : The vesting period for conversion of Options is as follows: On completion of 12 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 24 months from the date of grant of the Options : 30% vests On completion of 36 months from the date of grant of the Options : 40% vests 4.
Pricing Formula : The Pricing Formula, as approved by the Shareholders of the Company, is such price, as determined by the Nomination & Compensation Committee, which is no lower than the closing price of the Company’s Share on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘the NSE’) on the date of grant, or the average price of the Company’s Share in the six months preceding the date of grant based on the daily closing price on the NSE, or the ‘market price’ as defined from time to time under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
The Options have been granted at ‘market price’ as defined from time to time under the aforesaid Regulations.
5.
Maximum term of Options granted : 5 years from the date of grant 5 years from the date of vesting 6.
Source of Shares : Primary 7.
Variation in terms of Options : None 8.
Method used for accounting of : The employee compensation cost has been calculated using the fair value method of accounting share-based payment plans  for Options issued under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes.
The total fair value cost for the the financial year 2016-17 is ` 502.85 Crores (2016- ` 553.65 Crores), out of which, ` 496.02 Crores (2016 - ` 548.42 Crores) relate to employee benefits expense, ` 2.98 Crores (2016 - ` 0.76 Crore) to property, plant and equipment and ` 3.85 Crores (2016 - ` 4.47 Crores) to group entities.
Nature and extent of employee share based payment plans that existed during the period including the general terms and conditions of each plan.
9. : Each Option entitles the holder thereof to apply for and be allotted ten Ordinary Shares of the Company of ` 1.00 each upon payment of the exercise price during the exercise period.
The exercise period commences from the date of vesting of the Options and expires at the end of five years from (i) the date of grant in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (introduced in 2001) and (ii) the date of vesting in respect of Options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2006 & the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme - 2010.
The above is in addition to the other terms and conditions provided in the table under Serial Nos.
(3) to (5) hereinbefore.
Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of Options whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock.
10. : Weighted average exercise price per Option: ` 2505.93 Weighted average fair value per Option: ` 550.67 273ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Sl.
ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option ITC Employee Stock Option No.
Scheme (introduced in 2001) Scheme - 2006 Scheme - 2010 a) Options outstanding at the : 1,81,060 35,39,624 2,64,09,243 beginning of the year b) Options granted during the year : – 17,04,882 1,95,60,729 (Including Bonus Options allocated consequent to the Bonus Share issue in 2016-17 in the ratio of 1 Bonus Share for every 2 Ordinary Shares) c) Options cancelled and lapsed : – 1,03,099 7,84,633 during the year d) Options vested and exercisable : – 1,03,618 1,14,39,825 during the year (net of Options lapsed and exercised) e) Options exercised during the year : 1,81,060 27,00,607 44,70,231 f) Number of Ordinary Shares of : 18,10,600 2,70,06,070 4,47,02,310 ` 1.00 each arising as a result of exercise of Options during  the year g) Options outstanding at the end : – 24,40,800 4,07,15,108 of the year h) Options exercisable at the end : – 23,18,163 2,38,40,646 of the year i) Money realised by exercise : 36.63 256.33 774.00 of the Options during the year (` in Crores) 11.
Option movements during the year : As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 No.
of Options No.
of Options Weighted Average Exercise Prices (`) Particulars Weighted Average Exercise Prices (`) :12.
Summary of the status of Options :Outstanding at the beginning 3,01,29,927 2835.55 2,69,35,141 2609.34 of the year Add: Granted during the year 2,12,65,611 2088.96 * 69,09,600 3200.41 (Includes Bonus Options allocated consequent to the Bonus Share issue in 2016-17) Less: Lapsed during the year 8,87,732 2128.33 * 5,46,069 3012.09 Less: Exercised during the year 73,51,898 1451.27 * 31,68,745 1677.95 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,31,55,908 2066.94 * 3,01,29,927 2835.55 Options exercisable at the end of 2,61,58,809 1897.24 * 1,62,05,121 2452.64 the year * Adjusted for Bonus Share Issue 1:2 in 2016-17 : : : : : 274 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Additional Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
13. : : : Weighted average share price of Shares arising upon exercise of Options : : : Particulars As at 31st March, 2016 Range of Exercise Prices* (`) No.
of Options Outstanding Range of Exercise Prices (`) Weighted Average remaining contractual life 16.
Methodology for determination of expected volatility.
The Options were exercised during the periods permitted under the Schemes, and weighted average share price of Shares arising upon exercise of Options, based on the closing market price on NSE on the date of exercise of Options (i.e.
the date of allotment of shares by the Securityholders Relationship Committee) for the year ended 31st March, 2017 was ` 265.38 (2016 - ` 322.18).
14.
Summary of Options outstanding, scheme-wise: As at 31st March, 2017 No.
of Options Outstanding ITC Employee Stock Option –– – 1,81,060 2023.50 0.40 Scheme (introduced in 2001) ITC Employee Stock Option 24,40,800 726.67 – 2506.00 1.55 35,39,624 948.00 – 3572.00 1.79 Scheme - 2006 ITC Employee Stock Option 4,07,15,108 1349.00 – 2655.00 3.32 2,64,09,243 2023.50 – 3572.00 4.91 Scheme - 2010 * Adjusted for Bonus Share Issue 1:2   in 2016-17 The fair value of each Option is estimated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model.
Weighted average exercise price per Option : ` 2505.93 Weighted average fair value per Option : ` 550.67 The fair value of each Option is estimated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model after applying the following key assumptions on a weighted average basis: (i)    Risk-free interest rate 6.91% (ii)   Expected life 3.29 years (iii)  Expected volatility 25.53% (iv)  Expected dividends 2.63% (v) The price of the underlying shares in market at the time of Option grant` 2498.29      (One Option = 10 Ordinary Shares) The volatility used in the Black Scholes Option Pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time.
The period considered for the working is commensurate with the expected life of the Options and is based on the daily volatility of the Company’s stock price on NSE.
The Company has incorporated the early exercise of Options by calculating expected life on past exercise behaviour.
There are no market conditions attached to the grant and vest.
Weighted Average remaining contractual life 15.
A description of the method used during the year to estimate the fair values of Options, the weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of Options granted.
The significant assumptions used to ascertain the above.
: Bonus Options were allocated during 2016-17 on unvested Options in the same ratio as Bonus Shares (i.e., in the ratio of 1 Bonus Share for every 2 Ordinary Shares), in accordance with the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
(xiv) Movement in ‘Exchange differences on translating the financial statements of foreign operations’ includes reclassification  from other comprehensive income to profit or loss of ` 9.36 Crores (2016 - Nil) on account of disposal of a subsidiary and return of capital by a subsidiary.
(xv) The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26th May, 2017.
275ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements * Segment Liabilities of FMCG - Cigarettes is before considering ` 629.83 Crores (2016 - ` 651.54 Crores; 2015 - ` 629.98 Crores) in respect of disputed taxes, the recovery of which has been stayed or where States’ appeals are pending before Courts.
These have been included under ‘Unallocated Corporate Liabilities’.
**Includes ` 541.21 Crores (2016 - ` 541.21 Crores; 2015 - ` 515.44 Crores) towards payment to IFCI Limited and applicable stamp duty for purchase of a five star hotel resort in Goa opera ting under the name Park Hyatt Goa Resort & Spa and IFCI Limited issued required sale certificate in favour of the Company.
The erstwhile owners of the property thereafter challenged the sale.
By its judgement dated 23.03.2016, the Bombay High Court set aside the sale and directed IFCI Limited to refund the sale considera tion to the Company.
The Company and IFCI Limited have approached the Hon’ble Supreme Court against the High Court judgement.
The Hon’ble Supreme Court by its order dated 22.04.2016 directed maintenance of status quo and that the amount paid by ITC shall remain with IFCI Limited until further orders.
The matter is pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.
The am ount of ` 515.44 Crores and the stamp duty paid in 2015-16 amounting to ` 25.77 Crores, was adjusted in 2015-16 from Capital Work In Progress and reflected in Capital Advances (Refer Note 3B and Note 8).
(` in Crores) 2017 2016 External  Inter Segment Total External Inter Segment Total 1.
Segment Revenue - Gross FMCG - Cigarettes  35877.66  –  35877.66 34062.67 –  34062.67 FMCG - Others  10523.56 13.90  10537.46  9738.57  12.07  9750.64 FMCG - Total  46401.22  13.90  46415.12 43801.24  12.07  43813.31 Hotels  1400.35  14.04  1414.39  1343.49  13.94  1357.43 Agri Business  5314.13  3070.73  8384.86 4362.78  3199.96  7562.74 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  3732.63  1630.23  5362.86  3757.87  1569.83  5327.70 Others  1439.62  74.06  1513.68 1407.79  133.36  1541.15 Segment Total  58287.95  4802.96  63090.91  54673.17  4929.16  59602.33 Eliminations  (4802.96)  (4929.16) Gross Revenue from sale of products and services  58287.95  54673.17 2.
Segment Results FMCG - Cigarettes  13203.70  12348.08 FMCG - Others  26.15  88.71 FMCG - Total  13229.85  12436.79 Hotels  117.12  61.61 Agri Business  926.32 950.88 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  965.84 907.62 Others  102.71  127.11 Segment Total  15341.84  14484.01 Eliminations  41.46  (51.13) Consolidated Total  15383.30  14432.88 Unallocated corporate expenses net of unallocated income  1007.60  1001.49 Profit before interest etc.
and taxation  14375.70  13431.39 Finance Costs  24.30  53.60 Interest earned on loans and deposits, income from current and non current investments, profit and loss on sale of investments etc.
- Net  1668.95  1472.86 Share of net profit of associates & joint ventures  5.97 8.42 Profit before tax  16026.32  14859.07 Tax expense  5549.09  5358.21 Profit for the year  10477.23  9500.86 Segment reporting29.
3.
Other Information 2017 2016 2015 Segment Assets Segment Liabilities* Segment Assets Segment Liabilities* Segment Assets* SegmentLiabilities* FMCG - Cigarettes  8573.92 2561.31  8531.08  2754.52 8647.38  2301.36 FMCG - Others  7257.61 1411.58  6238.11 1186.92 4922.38  870.90 FMCG - Total  15831.53 3972.89  14769.19  3941.44 13569.76  3172.26 Hotels**  5849.59 446.94 5470.24 363.99 5225.95 369.74 Agri Business  3255.76 723.60 3231.28 519.41 2878.75 601.72 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging  6313.82 623.85 6020.39 510.39 5919.52  495.68 Others  771.74 209.52 809.90 218.79 855.40  223.17 Segment Total  32022.44  5976.80  30301.00 5554.02 28449.38  4862.57 Unallocated Corporate Assets / Liabilities  23920.83  3258.80   21390.88 3197.44 18097.59 3124.54 Total  55943.27 9235.60  51691.88 8751.46 46546.97  7987.11 276 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FMCG - Cigarettes 3.42 6.76 FMCG - Others 40.14 25.19 FMCG - Total 43.56 31.95 Hotels 11.30 4.21 Agri Business 0.52 2.12 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging 22.97 23.54 Others 5.67 41.22 Segment Total 84.02 103.04 Non Cash expenditure Non Cash expenditure other than depreciation other than depreciation Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Segment reporting (Contd.)
NOTES: (1) The Group’s corporate strategy aims at creating multiple drivers of growth anchored on its core competencies.
The Group is c urrently focused on four business groups : FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Paper and Packaging and Agri Business.
The Group’s organisational structure and governance processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them.
The Operating Segments have been reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Corporate Manageme nt Committee, which is the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
(2) The business groups comprise the following : FMCG : Cigarettes – Cigarettes, Cigars etc.
: Others – Branded Packaged Foods Businesses (Staples; Snacks and Meals; Dairy and Beverages; Confections); Apparel; Education and  Stationery Products; Personal Care Products; Safety Matches and Agarbattis.
Hotels – Hoteliering.
Paperboards, Paper and Packaging – Paperboards, Paper including Specialty Paper and Packaging including Flexibles.
Agri Business – Agri commodities such as soya, spices, coffee and leaf tobacco.
Others – Information Technology services etc.
(3) The Group companies have been included in segment classification as follows: FMCG : Cigarettes – Surya Nepal Private Limited.
: Others – Surya Nepal Private Limited and North East Nutrients Private Limited.
Hotels – Srinivasa Resorts Limited, Fortune Park Hotels Limited, Bay Islands Hotels Limited and WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limi ted.
Agri Business – Technico Agri Sciences Limited, Technico Pty Limited and its subsidiaries Technico Technologies Inc., along with its jointly controlled operation with Shamrock Seed Potato Farm Limited, Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited and Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited.
Others – ITC Infotech India Limited and its subsidiaries ITC Infotech Limited, ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. and Indivate Inc., Russel l Credit Limited and its subsidiary Greenacre Holdings Limited, Wimco Limited, Pavan Poplar Limited, Prag Agro Farm Limited, ITC Investments & Holdings Limited and  its subsidiary MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited, Landbase India Limited and Gold Flake Corporation Limited.
(4) The geographical information considered for disclosure are : – Sales within India – Sales outside India (5) Segment results of ‘FMCG : Others’ are after considering significant business development, brand building and gestation costs of the Branded Packaged Foods businesses and Personal Care Products business.
(6) As stock options are granted under ITC ESOS to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders and also to attra ct and retain talent for the Group as a whole, the option value of ITC ESOS do not form part of the segment performance reviewed by the Corporate Management Committee.
(7) The Group is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not receive 10% or more of  its revenues from transactions with any single external customer.
GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 2017 2016 1.
Revenue from external customers – Within India 51796.82 48606.30 – Outside India 6491.13 6066.87 Total 58287.95 54673.17 2017 2016 2015 2.
Non Current Assets – Within India 21816.13 19638.05 18385.10 – Outside India 1009.85 974.01 949.49 Total 22825.98 20612.06 19334.59 (` in Crores) 2017 2016 Capital Depreciation and Capital Depreciation and expenditure amortization expenditure amortization FMCG - Cigarettes 262.35 305.15 256.05 280.48 FMCG - Others 1157.41 246.08 814.71 208.49 FMCG - Total 1419.76 551.23 1070.76 488.97 Hotels 472.19 172.31 384.18 190.07 Agri Business 160.63 50.42 130.38 51.84 Paperboards, Paper and Packaging 560.63 254.14 349.76 242.52 Others 10.46 28.53 28.16 28.60 Segment Total 2623.67 1056.63 1963.24 1002.00 Unallocated 553.76 96.16 290.32 75.40 Total 3177.43 1152.79 2253.56 1077.40 277ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.
Related Party Disclosures 1.
OTHER RELATED PARTIES WITH WHOM THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES HAD TRANSACTIONS: i) Associates & Joint Ventures: Associates a) Gujarat Hotels Limited b) Russell Investments Limited c) ATC Limited d) International Travel House Limited e) Divya Management Limited f) Antrang Finance Limited – being associates of the Group g) Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited, UK – of which the Company is an associate Joint Ventures a) Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited b) Espirit Hotels Private Limited c) Logix Developers Private Limited d) ITC Essentra Limited ii) a) Key Management Personnel (KMP): Y. C. Deveshwar1 Chairman & Non-Executive Director S. Puri2 Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director N. Anand Executive Director R. Tandon Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer Z. Alam Non-Executive Director (w.e.f.
26.10.2016) A. Baijal* Non-Executive Director (ceased w.e.f.
30.12.2016) S. Banerjee* Non-Executive Director A. Duggal* Non-Executive Director A. V. Girija Kumar Non-Executive Director (upto conclusion of AGM on 22.07.2016) R. E. Lerwill Non-Executive Director (ceased w.e.f.
22.06.2016) S. B. Mainak Non-Executive Director S. B. Mathur* Non-Executive Director P. B. Ramanujam* Non-Executive Director N. Rao* Non-Executive Director (w.e.f.
08.04.2016) S. S. H. Rehman* Non-Executive Director M. Shankar* Non-Executive Director D.R.
Simpson Non-Executive Director (w.e.f.
27.01.2017) K. Vaidyanath Non-Executive Director (ceased w.e.f.
29.07.2016) 1 Chairman & Non-Executive Director since 05.02.2017, prior to which Mr. Deveshwar was Executive Chairman 2 Appointed also as Chief Executive Officer from 05.02.2017 * Independent Directors Members - Corporate Management Committee Y. C. Deveshwar (ceased as Chairman of CMC w.e.f.
05.02.2017) S. Puri (appointed Chairman of CMC w.e.f.
05.02.2017) N. Anand R. Tandon B.
B. Chatterjee S. Sivakumar K. S. Suresh C. Dar R. Sridhar (w.e.f.
01.04.2016) B. Sumant (w.e.f.
01.04.2016) S. K. Singh (w.e.f.
27.01.2017)     b) Relatives of Key Management Personnel: Mrs. B. Deveshwar (wife of Mr. Y. C. Deveshwar) Mrs. R. Tandon (wife of Mr. R. Tandon) iii) Employee Trusts where there is significant influence: a) IATC Provident Fund b) ITC Defined Contribution Pension Fund c) ITC Management Staff Gratuity Fund d) ITC Employees Gratuity Fund e) ITC Gratuity Fund ‘C’ f) ITC Pension Fund g) ILTD Seasonal Employees Pension Fund h) ITC Platinum Jubilee Pension Fund i) Tribeni Tissues Limited Gratuity Fund j) ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Limited Management Staff Pension Fund k) ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Limited Gratuity Fund ‘A’ l) ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Limited Gratuity Fund ‘C’ m) ITC Hotels Limited Employees Superannuation Scheme n) Greenacre Holdings Limited Provident Fund o) Greenacre Holdings Limited Gratuity Fund 278 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.
DISCLOSURE OF TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN THE GROUP AND RELATED PARTIES AND THE STATUS OF OUTSTANDING BALANCES AS AT 31.03.2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.
Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
(` in Crores) 1  post employment benefits are actuarially determined on overall basis and hence not separately provided.
Payments made on sett lement of leave liability upon retirement - ` 4.10 Crores (2016 - ` 2.50 Crores) has not been included in the above; 2  includes ` 4.10 Crores (2016 - ` 1.22 Crores) paid/provided for on account of remuneration of Directors, which is subject to approval of the shareholders; 3  The Company grants Stock Options to the Directors, Key Management Personnel (KMP) and other employees under its Employee Stoc k Option Schemes at ‘market price’ [within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014].
Since such options are not tradeable, no perquisite or benefit is immediately conferred upon an employee by such grant.
However,  the Company has recorded employee benefits expense by way of share based payments to employees, in accordance with In d AS 102, at ` 496.02 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2017 (2016 - ` 548.42 Crores), out of which ` 74.05 Crores (2016 - ` 102.71 Crores) is attributable to KMP.
Associates TotalJoint Ventures Key Management Personnel Employee Trusts Relatives of Key Management PersonnelRELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1.
Sale of Goods/Services 2.88 2.57 6.88 9.40 9.76 11.97 2.
Purchase of Goods/Services 105.56 111.79 252.97 291.67 358.53 403.46 3.
Acquisition cost of Property, Plant and Equipments etc.
– 0.37 – 0.37 4.
Sale of Property, Plant and Equipments etc./Scraps 0.05 0.27 – … 0.05 0.27 5.
Value of share based payment 5A.
Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments – 3.33 – 1.14 – 4.47 5B.
Reimbursement for Share Based Payments for current year 2.89 – 0.96 – 3.85 – 5C.
Reimbursement for Capital Contribution for Share Based Payments for previous year 3.33 – 1.14 – 4.47 – 6.
Interest Income 0.24 0.42 0.24 0.42 7.
Interest Paid 0.43 – 0.43 – 8.
Rent Received 1.03 1.17 1.03 1.17 9.
Rent Paid 3.74 3.49 0.14 0.14 0.72 0.66 4.60 4.29 10.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation reimbursed 5.32 4.17 5.32 4.17 11.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation recovered 4.45 3.85 1.53 1.38 5.98 5.23 12.
Contribution to Employees’ Benefit Plans 128.18 113.03 128.18 113.03 13. Dividend Income 2.27 2.27 2.03 2.02 4.30 4.29 14. Dividend Payments 1687.73 1240.98 3.77 3.33 1691.50 1244.31 15.
Expenses Recovered 0.39 0.19 0.33 0.39 0.72 0.58 16.
Expenses Reimbursed 0.73 0.61 0.09 0.03 0.03 – 0.85 0.64 17.
Receipt towards Loan Repayment 1.40 1.40 1.40 1.40 18.
Loans Taken 18.00 – 18.00 –    19.
Deposits Received during the year – … – … 20.
Adjustment/Payment towards Refund of Deposits 0.04 – 0.04 – 21.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel 1 21A.
– Short term benefits 2 37.83 31.66 37.83 31.66 21B.
– Other remuneration 5.05 3.44 5.05 3.44 21C.
– Stock options granted 3 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 22.
Outstanding Balances # i) Receivables 7.58 0.39 1.00 4.54 2.86 3.62 12.12 3.25 4.62 ii) Advances Given – 12.98 48.48 – 12.98 48.48 iii) Loans Given 1.40 2.80 4.20 1.40 2.80 4.20 iv) Deposits Given4 – – 0.10 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.37 0.37 0.47 v) Loans Taken 18.00 –– 18.00 ––   vi) Deposits Taken 0.62 0.67 0.67 0.62 0.67 0.67 vii) Payables 9.31 9.87 13.74 0.87 5.92 4.75 8.00 22.50 40.28 18.18 38.29 58.77 # The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash 4 includes transfer of deposit of ` 0.10 Crore, with an Associate in 2015, to a subsidiary during the year pursuant to amalgamation of the Associate with the subsidiary, which was subsequently refunded in 2016-17 Associates Joint Ventures Key Management Relatives of Key Employee Trusts TotalPersonnel Management Personnel 279ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 (` in Crores) 30.
Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
3.
INFORMATION REGARDING SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS / BALANCES (Generally in excess of 10% of the total transaction value of the same type) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 2015RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SUMMARY 2017 2016 22.
Outstanding Balances i) Receivables ATC Limited 2.21 0.11 0.78 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 3.32 2.73 3.33 International Travel House Limited 5.20 –– ITC Essentra Limited 1.22 –– ii) Advances Given Employees Trust - Pension Funds – 12.98 48.48 iii) Loans Given ATC Limited 1.40 2.80 4.20 iv) Loans Taken Russell Investments Limited 18.00 –– v) Deposits Given Mr. Y. C. Deveshwar 0.05 0.05 0.05 Mrs. B. Deveshwar 0.30 0.30 0.30 Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited# – – 0.10 vi) Deposits Taken International Travel House Limited 0.63 0.67 0.67 vii) Payables Employees Trust - Gratuity Funds 1.56 20.59 38.12 Employee Trust - Pension Funds 6.44 –– International Travel House Limited 6.16 7.14 10.55 ITC Essentra Limited 0.87 5.78 4.56 1.
Sale of Goods/Services International Travel House Limited 2.77 2.47 ITC Essentra Limited 6.88 9.30 2.
Purchase of Goods/Services International Travel House Limited 85.02 89.21 ITC Essentra Limited 252.65 291.32  3.
Acquisition cost of Property, Plant and Equipments etc.
Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited – 0.37  4.
Sale of Property, Plant and Equipments etc./ Scraps ATC Limited 0.05 0.27  5.
Value of share based payment 5A.
Capital Contribution for Share Based  ATC Limited 0.63 – International Travel House Limited 2.58 – 5B.
Reimbursement for Capital Contribution for Share Based Payment for current period Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 0.44 – International Travel House Limited 2.27 – ITC Essentra Limited 0.52 – ATC Limited 0.57 – 5C.
Reimbursement for Capital Contribution for Share Based Payment for previous period Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 0.53 – International Travel House Limited 2.58 – ITC Essentra Limited 0.60 – ATC Limited 0.63 –    6.
Interest Income ATC Limited 0.24 0.42 7.
Interest Paid Russell Investments Limited 0.43 – 8.
Rent Received International Travel House Limited 1.02 1.17 9.
Rent Paid Gujarat Hotels Limited 3.74 3.49 Mrs. B. Deveshwar 0.72 0.66 10.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation reimbursed Gujarat Hotels Limited 5.05 3.93 ^In accordance with Ind AS-102, the Company has recognised employee benefits expense by way of share based payments [refer Note 30.2], of which ` 74.05 Crores (2016 - ` 102.71 Crores) is attributable to key managerial personnel: Mr. Y.C.
Deveshwar ` 33.34 Crores (2016 - ` 24.91 Crores), Mr. S. Puri ` 5.31 Crores (2016 - ` 3.61 Crores), Mr. N. Anand ` 7.24 Crores (2016 - ` 13.33 Crores), Mr. R. Tandon ` 7.54 Crores (2016 - ` 4.67 Crores) and Mr. B.B.
Chatterjee ` 2.82 Crores (2016 - ` 3.69 Crores).
# ` 0.10 Crore denotes deposits given to Classic Infrastructure & Development Limited which was amalgamated with Greenacre Holdings Limited w.e.f .01.10.2015.
The maximum indebtedness during the year Nil (2016 - Nil;2015  -  ` 0.10 Crore).
11.
Remuneration of Managers on Deputation recovered International Travel House Limited 2.02 1.54 ATC Limited 1.81 1.88 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 0.96 0.95 Gujarat Hotels Limited 0.62 – 12.
Contribution to Employees’ Benefit Plans IATC Provident Fund 25.32 22.95 ITC Defined Contribution Pension Fund 17.81 16.16 ITC Pension Fund 37.49 20.58 ITC Management Staff Gratuity Fund 14.63 16.81 ITC Employees Gratuity Fund 11.00 21.00 13. Dividend Income Gujarat Hotels Limited 0.61 0.61 International Travel House Limited 1.66 1.66 ITC Essentra Limited 2.03 2.02 14. Dividend Payments Tobacco Manufacturers (India) Limited, UK 1687.73 1240.98 15.
Expenses Recovered International Travel House Limited 0.36 0.18 Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited 0.29 0.35 16.
Expenses Reimbursed Gujarat Hotels Limited 0.09 0.06 International Travel House Limited 0.03 0.17 ATC Limited 0.62 0.38 17.
Receipt towards Loan Repayment ATC Limited 1.40 1.40 18.
Loans Taken Russell Investments Limited 18.00 – 19.
Deposit Received during the year International Travel House Limited – … 20.
Adjustment / Payment towards Refund of Deposit International Travel House Limited 0.04 – 21.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel ^ 21A.
Short term benefits Mr. Y.C.
Deveshwar 18.82 13.73 21B.
Other RemunerationMs.
M. Shankar 0.51 0.30 Mr. S. B. Mathur 0.51 0.31 Mr. S. S. H. Rehman 0.51 0.30 280 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures A.
Capital Management The Group’s financial strategy aims to support its strategic priorities and provide adequate capital to its businesses for grow th and creation of sustainable stakeholder value.
The Group funds its operations through internal accruals.
The Group aims at maintaining a strong capital base largely towards supporting the future growth of its businesses as a going concern.
During the year, the Group issued 7,35,18,980 equity shares of ` 1.00 each amounting to ` 7.35 Crores (2016 - ` 3.17 Crores) towards its equity-settled employee stock options.
The securities premium stood at ` 6403.41 Crores as at 31st March, 2017 (2016 - ` 5657.03 Crores).
B.
Categories of Financial Instruments As at As at As atParticulars Note 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Value Value Value Value Value Value A.
Financial assets a) Measured at amortised cost i) Cash and cash equivalents 13 333.07 333.07 283.59 283.59 155.69 155.69 ii) Other bank balances 14 2634.33 2634.33 5779.71 5779.71 6415.55 6415.55 iii) Investment in Bonds/ Debentures & Government or Trust Securities 4, 11 5615.95 5645.53 4522.60 4548.13 1.61 1.61  iv) Loans  5 15.32 14.74 21.03 20.11 25.13 23.70 v) Trade receivables 12 2474.29 2474.29 1917.18 1917.18 1978.32 1978.32  vi) Other financial assets 6 1157.63 1097.90 1579.38 1518.59 1744.78 1726.76  Sub - total 12230.59 12199.86 14103.49 14067.31 10321.08 10301.63 b) Measured at Fair value through OCI  i) Equity shares 4 1228.15 1228.15 1088.48 1088.48 1120.66 1120.66  Sub - total 1228.15 1228.15 1088.48 1088.48 1120.66 1120.66 c) Measured at Fair value through Profit or Loss  i) Investment in Mutual Funds 4, 11 7907.72 7907.72 3709.18 3709.18 4370.28 4370.28  ii) Investment in Bonds / Debentures, Certificate of Deposits, Preference Shares 11 1988.65 1988.65 2149.36 2149.36 1896.02 1896.02 Sub - total 9896.37 9896.37 5858.54 5858.54 6266.30 6266.30 d) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments 6 6.60 6.60 13.93 13.93 10.43 10.43 ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments 6 26.50 26.50 14.13 14.13 9.66 9.66 Sub - total 33.10 33.10 28.06 28.06 20.09 20.09 Total financial assets 23388.21 23357.48 21078.57 21042.39 17728.13 17708.68 (` in Crores) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 281ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 C. Financial risk management objectives Entities comprising the Group has put in place risk management systems as applicable to the respective operations.
The following explains the objective and processes of the Company, being the largest component of the Group: The Company has a system- based approach to risk management, anchored to policies and procedures and internal financial controls aimed at ensuring early identification, evaluation and management of key financial risks (such as market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk) that may arise as a consequence of its business operations as well as its investing and financing activities.
Accordingly, the Company’s risk management framework has the objective of ensuring that such risks are managed within acceptable and approved risk parameters in a disciplined and consistent manner and in compliance with applicable regulation.
It also seeks to drive accountability in t his regard.
Liquidity Risk The Group’s Current assets aggregate to ` 26269.10 Crores (2016 – ` 24862.50 Crores; 2015 – ` 24362.27 Crores) including Current Investments, Cash and cash equivalents and Other Bank Balances of ` 13299.79 Crores (2016 – ` 12685.08 Crores; 2015 – ` 12837.54 Crores) against an aggregate Current liability of ` 7121.01 Crores (2016 – ` 6658.46 Crores; 2015 – ` 6092.53 Crores); Non-current liabilities due between one year to three years amounting to ` 50.72 Crores (2016 – ` 62.30 Crores; 2015 – ` 61.09 Crores) and Non-current liability due after three years amounting to ` 8.89 Crores (2016 – ` 11.13 Crores; 2015 – ` 17.99 Crores) on the reporting date.
Further, while the Group’s total equity stands at ` 46707.67 Crores (2016 – ` 42940.42 Crores; 2015 – ` 38559.86 Crores), it has borrowings of ` 37.51 Crores (2016 – ` 70.61 Crores; 2015 – ` 224.72 Crores).
In such circumstances, liquidity risk or the risk that the Group may not be able to settle or meet its obligations as they become due does not exist.
Market Risks The Group is not an active investor in equity markets; it continues to hold certain investments in equity for long term value accretion which are accordingly measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income.
The value of investments in such equity instruments as at 31st March, 2017 is ` 1228.15 Crores (2016 - ` 1088.48 Crores; 2015 - ` 1120.66 Crores).
Accordingly, fair value fluctuations arising from market volatility is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
As the Group is virtually debt-free and its deferred payment liabilities do not carry interest, the exposure to interest rate r isk from the perspective of Financial Liabilities is negligible.
31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
As at As at As atParticulars Note 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Value Value Value Value Value Value B.
Financial liabilities       a) Measured at amortised cost       i) Cash credit facilities & loans 20 19.89 19.89 45.09 45.09 186.45 186.45  ii) Sales tax deferment loans 16, 20 25.83 20.23 38.69 30.71 51.00 39.42  iii) Trade payables 2659.33 2659.33 2339.29 2339.29 1976.94 1976.94  iv) Other financial liabilities 15 916.72 915.49 755.20 753.74 808.42 807.53  Sub - total 3621.77 3614.94 3178.27 3168.83 3022.81 3010.34 b) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments 15 0.99 0.99 0.90 0.90 1.55 1.55 ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments 15 18.54 18.54 – – 0.04 0.04 Sub - total 19.53 19.53 0.90 0.90 1.59 1.59  Total financial liabilities 3641.30 3634.47 3179.17 3169.73 3024.40 3011.93 (` in Crores) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 282 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The Group’s investments are predominantly held in bonds/debentures, fixed deposits and debt mutual funds.
Mark to market movements in respect of the Group’s investments in bonds/debentures that are held at amortised cost are temporary and get recouped through fixed coupon accruals.
Other investments in bonds / debentures are fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss to recognise market volatility, which is not considered to be significant.
Fixed deposits are held with highly rated banks and companies and have a short tenure and are not subject to interest rate volatility.
The Group also invests in mutual fund schemes of leading fund houses.
Such investments are susceptible to market price risk that arise mainly from changes in interest rate which may impact the return and value of such investments.
However, given the relatively short tenure of underlying portfolio of the mutual fund schemes in which the Group has invested, such price risk is not significant.
For select agricultural commodities primarily held for trading, futures contracts are used to hedge price risks till positions in the physical market are matched.
The carrying value of inventories is adjusted to the extent of fair value movement of the risk being hedged.
Such hedges are generally for short time horizons and recognised in profit or loss within the crop cycle and are managed by the business within the approved policy framework.
Accordingly, the Group’s net exposure to commodity price risk is considered to be insignificant.
Foreign currency risk The Group undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currency (mainly US Dollar, Pound Sterling, Euro and Japanese Yen) which are subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, including the Group’s net investments in foreign operations (with a functional currency other than Indian Rupee), are also subject to reinstatement risks.
The carrying amount of foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, are as follows: (` in Crores) The Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency options to hedge its exposures in foreign currency arising from firm commitments and highly probable forecast transactions.
Accordingly, a.
Forward exchange contracts that were outstanding on respective reporting dates: (in Million) As at 31st March, 2017 USD Euro GBP JPY Others Total Financial Assets 587.27 40.28 74.80 0.46 39.50 742.31 Financial Liabilities 90.73 34.56 21.12 23.68 17.69 187.78 As at 31st March, 2016 USD EURO GBP JPY Others Total Financial Assets 746.25 67.71 75.96 0.04 29.53 919.49 Financial Liabilities 78.17 20.16 18.26 11.13 9.44 137.16 As at 1st April, 2015 USD EURO GBP JPY Others Total Financial Assets 598.97 81.51 82.12 – 23.39 785.99 Financial Liabilities 55.61 42.35 24.60 5.09 7.62 135.27 Designated under Hedge As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Accounting Currency Gross Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Currency US Dollar Indian Rupee 55.22 71.10 – 97.80 – 92.00 Euro US Dollar 31.76 – ––– – AUD US Dollar 0.09 – ––– – CHF US Dollar 0.57 – ––– – GBP US Dollar 0.11 – ––– – SEK US Dollar 0.73 – ––– – SGD US Dollar 0.09 – ––– – JPY US Dollar 368.95 – ––– – The aforesaid hedges have a maturity of less than 1 year from the year end.
31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
283ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
(in Million) Hedges of foreign currency risk and derivative financial instruments Each entity comprising the Group manages its own currency risk.
Within the Group, derivate instrument are largely entered into by the Company.
The Company has established risk management policies to hedge the volatility arising from exchange rate fluctuations in respect of firm commitments and highly probable forecast transactions, through foreign exchange forward and options contracts.
The proportion of forecast transactions that are to be hedged is decided based on the size of the forecast transaction and market conditions.
As the counterparty for such transactions are highly rated banks, the risk of their non- performance is considered to be insignificant.
The Company uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to changes in movement in foreign currency.
Where such derivatives are not designated under hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of such hedges are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company may also designate certain hedges, usually for large transactions, as a cash flow hedge under hedge accounting, with the objective of shielding the exposure from variability in cash flows.
The currency, amount and tenure of such hedges are generally matched to the underlying transaction(s).
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised as cash flow hedging reserve in Other Comprehensive Income.
While the probability of such hedges becoming ineffective is very low, the ineffective portion, if any, is immediately recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
b.
Currency options that were outstanding on respective reporting dates: Currency Cross Currency Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell US Dollar Indian Rupee 3.00 7.00 –– –– Not designated under Hedge Accounting As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 1st April, 2015 Currency Cross Currency Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell US Dollar Indian Rupee 2.20 52.34 67.25 90.85 18.94 86.60 Euro US Dollar 6.04 2.37 53.26 2.65 14.95 13.70 AUD US Dollar – 0.29 1.20 0.38 0.55 0.50 CAD US Dollar – 0.94 – 0.20 – 1.07 CHF US Dollar 0.28 – 2.70 – 3.41 – GBP US Dollar – 4.24 – 1.70 0.25 2.68 SEK US Dollar 4.25 0.85 6.93 – 1.21 – SGD US Dollar –– 1.78 – – – KWD US Dollar –– 0.04 – – – JPY US Dollar 272.65 – 699.90 – 172.33 – DKK US Dollar 0.40 – – – 12.50 – ZAR US Dollar – 6.80 – 8.13 – 1.86 NOK US Dollar 0.60 – 0.90 – 2.80 – Euro Indian Rupee –– – – 0.05 – USD Nepalese Rupee 0.57 – 1.38 – – – Euro Nepalese Rupee 0.42 – 0.30 – 3.86 – GBP Nepalese Rupee –– – – 0.22 – 284 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Foreign Currency Sensitivity For every percentage point change in the underlying exchange rate of the outstanding foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, including derivative contracts, holding all other variables constant, the profit before tax for the year ended 31s t March, 2017 would change by ` 2.65 Crores (2016 - ` 7.52 Crores) and pre-tax total equity as at 31st March, 2017 would change by ` 4.00 Crores (2016 - ` 2.25 Crores; 2015 - ` 1.72 Crores).
Credit Risk Each entity comprising the Group manages its own credit risk.
The following explains the processes followed by the Company, being the largest component of the Group, to manage its credit risk: Company’s deployment in debt instruments are primarily in fixed deposits with highly rated banks and companies; bonds issued by government institutions, public sector undertakings and certificate of deposits issued by highly rated banks.
As these counter parties are Government institutions, public sector undertakings with investment grade credit ratings and taking into account the experience of the Company over time, the counter party risk attached to such assets is considered to be insignificant.
31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
At the beginning of the year 6.42 7.94 Add: Changes in the fair value of effective portion of matured cash flow hedges during the year (3.29) (11.15) Add: Changes in fair value of effective portion of outstanding cash flow hedges (17.38) 9.26 Less: Amounts transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss on occurrence of forecast hedge transactions during the year 21.71 0.43 Less: Amounts transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss due to cash flows no longer expected to occur 0.52 – Less: Amounts transferred to initial cost of non-financial assets (16.65) – Less: Net gain/(loss) transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss on ineffectiveness – – (Less) / Add: Deferred tax 9.10 0.80 At the end of the year (10.73) 6.42 Of the above, balances remaining in cash flow hedge reserve for matured hedging relationships 0.64 0.38 Particulars 2017 2016 The movement in the cash flow hedging reserve in respect of designated cash flow hedges is summarised below: (` in Crores) Once the hedged transaction materialises, the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve will be included in the initial cost of the non-financial hedged item on its initial recognition or reclassified to profit or loss, as applicable, in the antic ipated timeframes given below: Outstanding balance in Cash Flow Hedge As at As at As at Reserve to be subsequently recycled from OCI 31st March, 2017 31st March, 2016 1st April, 2015 Within one year  (10.62)  4.95  7.03 Between one and three years  (0.11)  1.47  0.91 Total  (10.73)  6.42  7.94 (` in Crores) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 285ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The Group’s investments that are held at amortised cost stood at ` 8751.49 Crores (2016 - ` 11233.34 Crores; 2015 - ` 7737.46 Crores).
The Company’s customer base is large and diverse limiting the risk arising out of credit concentration.
Further, credit is extended in business interest in accordance with guidelines issued centrally and business-specific credit policies that are consistent w ith such guidelines.
Exceptions are managed and approved by appropriate authorities, after due consideration of the counterparty’s credentials and financial capacity, trade practices and prevailing business and economic conditions.
The Company’s historical experience of collecting receivables and the level of default indicate that credit risk is low and generally uniform across markets; consequently, trade receivables are considered to be a single class of financial assets.
The Group’s exposure to trade receivables on the reporting date, net of expected loss provisions, stood at ` 2474.29 Crores (2016 -1917.18 Crores, 2015 - ` 1978.32 Crores).
The movement of the expected loss provision (allowance for bad and doubtful loans and receivables etc.)
made by the Group are as under: 31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
Expected Loss Provision Particular As at 31st March, 2017 As at 31st March, 2016 Opening Balance 103.77  80.47 Add: Provisions made (net)  29.37  26.18 Less: Utilisation for impairment/de-recognition 2.84  3.80 Effects of foreign exchange fluctuation (0.53)  0.92 Closing Balance  129.77  103.77 (` in Crores) D. Fair value measurement Fair value hierarchy Fair value of the financial instruments is classified in various fair value hierarchies based on the following three levels: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted price included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e.
a s prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using market approach and valuation techniques which maximize the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates.
If significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
Derivatives are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs such as foreign exchange spot rates and forward rates at the end of the reporting period, yield curves, risk free rate of returns, volatility etc., as applicable.
Level 3: Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the fair value is determined using generally accepted pricing models based on a discounted cash flow analysis, with the most significant inputs being the discount rate that reflects the credit risk of counterparty.
The fair value of trade receivables, trade payables and other Current financial assets and liabilities is considered to be equa l to the carrying amounts of these items due to their short – term nature.
Where such items are Non-current in nature, the same has been classified as Level 3 and fair value determined using discounted cash flow basis.
Similarly, unquoted equity instruments where most recent information to measure fair value is insufficient, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements, cost has been considered as the best estimate of fair value.
There has been no change in the valuation methodology for Level 3 inputs during the year.
The Company has not classified any material financial instruments under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
286 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 31.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
Fair Value As at As at As at Particulars Hierarchy 31st March, 31st March, 1st April, (Level)  2017 2016 2015 Fair Value A.
Financial assets a) Measured at amortised cost i) Investment in Bonds / Debentures & Government or Trust Securities 2 5645.53 4548.13 1.61  ii) Loans* 3 7.96 12.04 15.04  iii) Other Financial assets* 3 40.98 977.22 1365.99  Sub – total 5694.47 5537.39 1382.64 b) Measured at Fair value through OCI  i) Equity shares – Quoted 1 1200.25 1060.58 1092.76  Sub – total 1200.25 1060.58 1092.76 c) Measured at Fair value through Profit or Loss  i) Investment in Mutual Funds 1 7907.32 3709.18 4370.28  ii) Investment in Bonds / Debentures, Certificate of Deposits, Preference Shares 2 1988.65 2149.36 1896.02  Sub – total 9896.37 5858.54 6266.30 d) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative  instruments not designated as hedging instruments 2 6.60 13.93 10.43 ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedging instrument 2 26.50 14.13 9.66 Sub – total 33.10 28.06 20.09  Total financial assets 16824.19 12484.57 8761.79 B.
Financial liabilities a) Measured at amortised cost  i) Sales tax deferment loans* 3 12.39 17.85 27.11  ii) Other Financial liabilities* 3 39.98 45.31 38.24  Sub – total 52.37 63.16 65.35 b) Derivatives measured at fair value i) Derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments 2 0.99 0.90 1.55  ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments 2 18.54 - 0.04 Sub – total 19.53 0.90 1.59  Total financial liabilities 71.90 64.06 66.94 *Represents Fair value of Non-current Financial Instruments (` in Crores) The following table presents the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and measured at amortised cost basis: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 287ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 (i) Ind AS 101 (First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards) provides a suitable starting point for accounting in accordance with Ind AS and is required to be mandatorily followed by first-time adopters.
The Group has prepared the opening Balance Sheet as per Ind AS as of 1st April, 2015 (the transition date) by: a. recognising all assets and liabilities whose recognition is required by Ind AS, b. not recognising items of assets or liabilities which are not permitted by Ind AS, c. reclassifying items from previous Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to Ind AS as required under Ind AS, and d. applying Ind AS in measurement of recognised assets and liabilities.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 32.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (ii) A. Reconciliation of total comprehensive income for the year ended 31st March, 2016 is summarised as follows: (` in Crores) Particulars Notes Year ended 31/03/2016 Profit After Tax as reported under previous GAAP  10069.45 Impact of measuring investments at Fair Value through Profit or  Loss (FVTPL) (iv)(c,d) (112.81) Impact of measuring derivative financial instruments, other than those designated as cash flow hedges, at fair value (iv)(e) 3.44 Impact of recognising the cost of the employee stock option scheme at fair value (iii)(e) (548.42) Impact of elimination of amortization of certain trademarks (iii)(f) 31.25 Reclassification of actuarial gains / (losses), arising in respect of employee benefit schemes, to Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) (iv)(f) 49.09 Others (2.50) Tax Adjustments  11.36 Profit After Tax as reported under Ind AS  9500.86 Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax)  (79.91) Total Comprehensive Income as reported under Ind AS  9420.95 288 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 B. Reconciliation of equity as reported under previous GAAP is summarized as follows: As at 01/04/2015 As at 31/03/2016 Particulars Notes (Date of (end of last period Transition) presented under previous GAAP) Equity as reported under previous GAAP attributable to: ITC Limited 31735.49 33964.41 Non-controlling interests 225.11 262.33 Total 31960.60 34226.74 Dividends not recognised as liability until declared (including tax thereon) (iv)(b) 6029.56 8232.60 Impact of measuring derivative financial instruments, not being cash flow hedges, at fair value (net of tax) (iv)(e) 5.82 8.04 Impact of measuring investments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) or OCI (net of tax) (iv)(c,d) 537.88 433.18 Impact of recognising the cost of the employee stock option scheme in respect of employees of group companies (iii)(e) – 5.22 Impact of elimination of amortization of certain trademarks (net of tax) (iii)(f) – 20.43 Others 26.00 14.21 Equity as reported under Ind AS attributable to: ITC Limited 38334.74 42679.52 Non-controlling interests 225.12 260.90 Total 38559.86 42940.42 b.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were carried in the Balance Sheet prepared in accordance with previous GAAP on 31st March, 2015.
Under Ind AS, the Group has elected to regard such carrying values as deemed cost at the date of transition.
Further, the Group had revalued certain freehold land and buildings based on professional valuation as at 30th June, 1986 and had a balance of ` 56.93 Crores in revaluation reserve on the date of transition.
On transition such revaluation reserve has been adjusted in retained earnings.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 32.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (Contd.)
(iii) Ind AS 101 mandates certain exceptions and allows first-time adopters exemptions from the retrospective application of certain requirements under Ind AS.
The Group has applied the following exemptions in the consolidated financial statements: a. Ind AS 103 (Business Combinations) has not been applied retrospectively to business combinations that occurred prior to 1st April, 2015.
Use of this exemption means that in the opening Balance Sheet, goodwill and other assets and liabilities acquired in previous business combinations remain at the previous GAAP carrying values.
289ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 32.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (Contd.)
c. Under previous GAAP, the Group accumulated exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in substance, formed part of Group’s net investment in non-integral foreign operations in a foreign currency translation reserve.
Such balances are to be recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on disposal of the net investment.
Ind AS allows an entity an option to reset the cumulative translation differences arising on monetary items that exist as of the transition date to zero.
The Group has elected to continue presenting the foreign exchange translation reserve under equity.
d. Under previous GAAP, investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates were stated at cost and provisions made to recognise the decline, other than temporary.
Under Ind AS, the Group has considered their previous GAAP carrying amount as their deemed cost.
e. Under previous GAAP, the cost of options granted under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme (ITC ESOS) [equity - settled] was recognised using the intrinsic value method.
Under this method, no expenses were recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as the fair value of the shares on the date of grant equalled the exercise price.
Under Ind AS, the cost of options granted under ITC ESOS is recognised based on the fair value of the options as on the grant date.
In terms of the exemptions, the fair value of unvested options as at the date of transition have been accounted for as part of reserves.
The cost of ITC ESOS applicable to employees of group companies, net of reimbursements, have been considered as capital contribution.
Accordingly, cost of share options totalling ` 677.87 Crores which were granted before and still vesting at 1st April, 2015, have been recognised as a separate component of equity in share option outstanding reserve against retained earnings at 1st April, 2015. f. Under previous GAAP, Trademarks were necessarily amortized.
Under Ind AS, certain trademarks have been determined to be of indefinite useful life.
This has been recognised in the current financial year.
Accordingly, the amortization thereof considered in the previous year has been eliminated.
g. The Group has applied Appendix C of Ind AS 17 (Leases) – ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’ to determine whether an arrangement existing at the transition date contains a lease on the basis of facts and circumstances existing at that date.
h. Under previous GAAP, interest free sales tax deferment loan was carried at cost.
Under Ind AS, such interest free loans have been carried at previous GAAP amount at the date of transition.
(iv) In addition to the above, the principal adjustments made by the Group in restating its previous GAAP financial statements, including the Balance Sheet as at 1st April, 2015 and the financial statements as at and for the year ended 31st March, 2016 are detailed below: a.
Under previous GAAP, leasehold properties were presented as fixed assets and amortized over the period of the lease.
Under Ind AS, such properties have been classified as prepayments within non- current assets (current portion presented as other current assets) and have been amortized over the period of the lease, resulting in decrease in property, plant and equipment by ` 227.82 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 207.22 Crores as at 1st April, 2015 and capital work-in-progress (CWIP) by ` 501.65 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 512.98 Crores as at 1st April, 2015 and corresponding increase in other non-current assets by ` 726.77 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 717.01 Crores as at 1st April, 2015 and in other current assets by ` 2.70 Crores as at 31st March, 2016 and by ` 3.19 Crores as at 1st April, 2015.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 290 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 32.
First-time Adoption of Ind AS (Contd.)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Such reclassification has resulted in decrease in depreciation and amortization expense by ` 2.58 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2016 and corresponding increase in other expenses, but does not affect profit before tax and total profit for the year ended 31st March, 2016. b.
Under previous GAAP, dividend payable on equity shares (including the tax thereon) was recognised as a liability in the period to which it relates.
Under Ind AS, dividends (including the tax thereon) to shareholders are recognised when declared by the members in a general meeting.
c. Under previous GAAP, non-current investments were stated at cost.
Where applicable, provision was made to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in valuation of such investments.
Under Ind AS, equity instruments [other than investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates] have been classified as Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) through an irrevocable election at the date of transition.
Further, under previous GAAP, joint ventures were consolidated using ‘proportionate consolidation’ method.
Under Ind AS, joint ventures have been accounted using ‘equity method’.
Investment in Mutual Funds classified as non-current under previous GAAP and carried at cost as on 31st March, 2016, have been measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL).
d. Under previous GAAP, current investments were stated at lower of cost and fair value.
Under Ind AS, these financial assets have been classified as Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) on the date of transition and fair value changes after the date of transition has been recognised in profit or loss.
e. The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as currency forwards, options and exchange traded commodity futures, to hedge its foreign currency risks and commodity price risks, respectively.
Under previous GAAP, the net mark to market losses on the outstanding portfolios of such instruments, other than those designated as cash flow hedges, were recognised in the profit or loss, and the net gain, if any, were ignored.
Under Ind AS, changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss in line with the hedged transaction.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated for hedge accounting are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
f. Under previous GAAP, actuarial gains and losses related to the defined benefit schemes for gratuity and pension plans and liabilities towards employee leave encashment were recognised in profit or loss.
Under Ind AS, the actuarial gains and losses form part of remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset which is recognised in OCI.
Consequently, the tax effect of the same has also been recognised in OCI instead of profit or loss.
g. Under previous GAAP, movements in cash credit facilities, repayable on demand, were reflected in cash flows from financing activities in cash flow statement.
Under Ind AS, such cash credit facilities are included in cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
On behalf of the Board Y. C. DEVESHWAR Chairman S. PURI Chief Executive Officer & Director R. TANDON Director & Chief Financial Officer B.
B. CHATTERJEE Company Secretary 291ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Report on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements 1.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial statements of ITC LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “the Parent”) and its subsidiaries (the Parent and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates and its joint ventures, comprising of the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2017, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including other comprehensive income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, for the year then ended, and a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated Ind AS financial statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements 2.
The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of these consolidated Ind AS financial statements in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and statement of changes in equity of the Group including its associates and joint ventures in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and  its joint ventures are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and its associates and its joint ventures and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the Directors of the Parent, as aforesaid.
Auditor’s Responsibility 3.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
In conducting our audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
4.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated Ind AS financial statements are free from material misstatement.
5.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the Parent’s preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the Parent’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
6.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in paragraph 8(a) of the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
Opinion 7.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries, associates and joint venture referred to in the Other Matters paragraph, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of ITC Limited 292 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its associates and its joint ventures as at 31st March, 2017, and their consolidated profit, consolidated total comprehensive income, their consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Other Matters 8.
(a) We did not audit the financial statements of sixteen subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of ` 1843.36 Crores as at 31st March, 2017, total revenues of ` 2216.57 Crores and net cash outflows amounting to ` 100.56 Crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
The consolidated Ind AS financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of ` 17.62 Crores for the year ended 31st March, 2017, as considered in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, in respect of six associates and one joint venture, whose financial statements have not been audited by us.
These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint venture and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint venture and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
Certain of these subsidiaries are located outside India whose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and which have been audited by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries.
The Company’s management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries from accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India.
We have audited these conversion adjustments made by the Company’s management.
Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiaries is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion adjustments prepared by the management of the Company and audited by us.
(b) The comparative financial information for the year ended 31st March, 2016 and the transition date opening balance sheet as at 1st April, 2015 in respect of sixteen subsidiaries, six associates and one joint venture included in this consolidated Ind AS financial statements prepared in accordance with the Ind AS have been audited by other auditors and have been relied upon by us.
Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial statements above, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 9.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint venture company incorporated in India, referred in the Other Matters paragraph above we report, to the extent applicable, that: a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors.
c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Parent as on 31st March, 2017 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Parent and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint Independent Auditor’s Report 293ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
302009E) P. R. Ramesh KOLKATA, Partner 26th May, 2017 (Membership No.
70928) venture companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, its associate companies and  joint venture companies incorporated in India is disqualified as on 31st March, 2017 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”, which is based on the auditor’s reports of the Parent, subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India.
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Parent’s, subsidiary company’s, associate company’s and joint venture company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: i) The consolidated Ind AS financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial position of the Group, its associates and joint ventures in accordance with the generally accepted accounting practice – also refer Note 28(iv)(a) to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
ii) The Group, its associates and joint ventures did not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts.
iii) There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Parent and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint venture companies incorporated in India.
iv) The Parent has provided requisite disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements as regards the holding and dealings in Specified Bank Notes as defined in the Notification S.O.
3407(E) dated the 8th November, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance, during the period from 8th November, 2016 to 30th December, 2016 of the Group entities as applicable.
Based on audit procedures performed and the representations provided to us by the management we report that the disclosures are in accordance with the relevant books of accounts maintained by those entities for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements and as produced to us and the other auditors by the Management of the respective Group entities.
Also refer Note 28(viii) to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
Independent Auditor’s Report Annexure - A to the Independent  Auditor’s Report Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 31st March, 2017, we have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of ITC Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The respective Boards of Directors of the Parent, its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Parent, its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and its joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint venture, which are companies incorporated in India, in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls system over financial reporting of the Parent, its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and its joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance (Referred to in paragraph 9(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) 294 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 For Deloitte Haskins & Sells Chartered Accountants (Firm’s Registration No.
302009E) P. R. Ramesh Kolkata Partner 26th May, 2017 (Membership No.
70928) with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In  our opinion to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the other auditors referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, the Parent, its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31st March, 2017, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over financial reporting insofar as it relates to seven subsidiary companies, six associate companies and one joint venture, which are companies incorporated in India, is based solely on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
295ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Ten Years at a Glance Standalone Operating Results 2008 - 2017 296 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 * Including Dividend Distribution Tax.
** Based on number of shares outstanding at the year end; reflects the impact of Corporate Actions.
*** Based on year end closing prices, quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange.
@ To facilitate like to like comparison, adjusted for 1:1 Bonus Issue in 2011 and 1:2 Bonus Issue in 2017.
$ 2016 & 2017 as per Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS); previous GAAP for earlier years.
(` in Crores) Year ending 31st March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 $ 2017$ TOTAL INCOME 21879 23594 26814 31399 36046 43044 48176 51932 53714 57434 Excise duty on sales 7320 7447 8046 9360 10073 12204 13830 13882 15107 16022 PBDIT5015 5393 6689 7993 9674 11566 13562 15017 15484 16564 Depreciation & amortization 439 549 609 656 699 795 900 962 1001 1038 PBIT 4576 4844 6080 7337 8975 10771 12662 14055 14483 15526 PBT 4572 4826 6015 7268 8898 10684 12659 13998 14434 15503 Tax 1452 1562 1954 2280 2736 3266 3874 4390 5106 5302 PAT3120 3264 4061 4988 6162 7418 8785 9608 9328 10201 Proposed Dividends * 1543 1634 4453 4002 4089 4853 5583 6030 8233 6945  - Ordinary Dividend 1543 1634 2004 2518 4089 4853 5583 6030 6296 6945  - Special Dividend 2449 1484 1937 Earnings Per Share Actual (`) ** 8.28 8.65 10.64 6.45 7.88 9.39 11.05 11.99 11.59 8.40 Adjusted (`) @ 2.76 2.88 3.55 4.30 5.25 6.26 7.36 7.99 7.73 8.40 Dividend Per Share Actual - Ordinary (`) ** 3.50 3.70 4.50 2.80 4.50 5.25 6.00 6.25 6.50 4.75 Actual - Special (`) ** 5.50 1.65 2.00 Adjusted - Ordinary (`) @ 1.17 1.23 1.50 1.87 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.17 4.33 4.75 Adjusted - Special (`) @ 1.83 1.10 1.33 Market Capitalisation *** 77765 69751 100476 140408 177360 244245 280708 260864 263989 340673 *To facilitate like to like comparison, adjusted for 1:1 Bonus Issue in 2011 and 1:2 Bonus Issue in 2017.
Equity includes impact of : 2011 – 1:1 Bonus Issue (` 383 Crores) and 2017 - 1:2 Bonus Issue (` 403 Crores).
2015 –  87,761 Ordinary Shares of ` 1.00 each issued  pursuant to Scheme of Amalgamation of Non-Engineering Business of WIMCO Limited with the Company.
Note : Figures for the periods prior to 2011 have been broadly re-classified/re-arranged/ re-grouped, wherever material, as per revised Schedule VI to the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956 in order to facilitate like to like comparison.#2016 & 2017 as per Ind AS; previous GAAP for earlier years.
Standalone Equity, Liabilities and Assets 2008 - 2017 (` in Crores) Year Ending 31st March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 # 2017# Equity Share capital 377 378 382 774 782 790 795 802 805 1215 Other equity 11681 13357 13682 15179 18010 21498 25467 29934 40851 44126 Shareholders’ funds 12058 13735 14064 15953 18792 22288 26262 30736 41656 45341 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 91 91 92 87 77 66 51 39 26 18 Deferred tax liabilities (Net) 545 867 785 802 873 1204 1297 1632 1867 1872 Non-current liabilities (others) 90 95 45 115 120 129 115 108 127 155 Current liabilities Borrowings 92 62 2 2 … … 4 … Proposed dividend (including tax) 1543 1634 4453 4002 4089 4853 5583 6030 Current liabilities (others) 2830 3000 3566 4473 5035 5477 5921 5651 6351 6830 Total Equity and Liabilities 17249 19484 23005 25434 28988 34017 39229 44196 50031 54216 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets (including capital work-in-progress and intangible assets under development) 7296 8486 9152 9678 11376 12697 14309 16293 16430 18417 Non-current investments 846 892 1357 1563 1953 2001 2512 2442 6853 8486 Non-current assets (others) 859 1117 882 1146 1196 1728 1480 1506 3515 2776 Current assets Current investments 2089 1945 4370 3991 4363 5059 6311 5964 6471 10100 Cash and cash equivalents and Other bank balances 570 1031 1126 2243 2819 3615 3289 7589 5639 2747 Current assets (others) 5589 6013 6118 6813 7281 8917 11328 10402 11123 11690 Total Assets 17249 19484 23005 25434 28988 34017 39229 44196 50031 54216 Net Worth Per Share (`) * 10.67 12.13 12.28 13.74 16.02 18.80 22.01 25.56 34.51 37.33 Financial Highlights ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 I The Directors present the Business Responsibility Report of the Company for the financial year ended on 31st March,  2017, pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f ) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
The Company also publishes annually, a comprehensive Sustainability Report, based on the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) guidelines.
The details on the aspects discussed in this Report are available in the Company’s Sustainability Report.
The Company’s  Board approved Sustainability Policies, ITC Code of Conduct and the Sustainability Report are available on the  Company’s website — www.itcportal.com.
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)  of the Company: L16005WB1910PLC001985 2.
Name of the Company: ITC Limited 3.
Address of the Registered Office: Virginia House, 37 Jawahar Lal Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071 4.
Website: www.itcportal.com 5.
E-mail ID: enduringvalue@itc.in 6.
Financial Year reported: 2016-17 7.
Key products / services: Businesses Products / Services FMCG: Branded Packaged Foods Businesses (Staples; Snacks and Meals;  Dairy and Beverages; Confections); Apparel; Education and Stationery  Products; Personal Care Products; Safety Matches and Agarbattis;  Cigarettes, Cigars etc.
Hotels: Hoteliering.
Paperboards, Paper & Packaging: Paperboards, Paper including Specialty Paper & Packaging including  Flexibles.
Agri Business: Agri-commodities such as soya, spices, coffee and leaf tobacco.
8.
Locations where business  activities undertaken by the  Company The Company’s businesses and operations are spread across the  country.
Details of plant locations, hotels owned / operated by the  Company, are provided in the section, ‘Shareholder Information’ , in the  Report and Accounts.
9.
Markets served by the Company: ITC’s products and services have a national presence and several  products are exported.
10.
Subsidiary companies and their BR  initiatives: The Company has 24 subsidiaries, including 9 subsidiaries outside  India.
The subsidiary companies  define their own initiatives based on  their specific context and have access to information and expertise  residing  with the parent company.
General Information Business Responsibility Report ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report II 1.
Paid up Capital (As on 31.03.2017): H 1,214.74 crores 2.
Total Turnover: H  55,001.69 crores 3.
Total Profit after taxes: H  10,200.90 crores 4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): H  275.96 crores As percentage of Profit after taxes:  2.71% List of CSR activities in which expenditure has been incurred: Areas listed under Schedule  VII to the Companies Act, 2013  ITC’s interventions (including through  Trusts established by the Company) (i) Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting health  care including preventive health care and sanitation including  contribution to the Swach Bharat Kosh set-up by the Central  Government for the promotion of sanitation and making  available safe drinking water.
Health & Sanitation, Drinking Water and  Eradication of Poverty (ii) Promoting education, including special education and  employment enhancing vocation skills specially among children,  women, elderly, and the differently abled and livelihood  enhancement projects.
Education, Vocational Training, Livestock  Development and Livelihood generation (iii) Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up  homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old  age homes, day care centres and such other facilities for senior  citizens and measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially  and economically backward groups.
Women Empowerment (iv) Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance,  protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry,  conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of soil,  air and water including contribution to the Clean Ganga Fund  set up by the Central Government for rejuvenation of   River Ganga.
Environment Sustainability, Soil &  Moisture Conservation and Wasteland  Development (v) Protection of national heritage, art and  culture, including  restoration of buildings and sites of historical importance  and works of art, setting up public libraries, promotion and  development of traditional arts and handicrafts.
Protection of national heritage,   art and  culture (vi) Rural Development Projects.
Agri Development  Financial Details ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report ITC’s sustainability initiatives are inspired by the opportunity  to serve larger national priorities through a Triple Bottom  Line contribution.
It is the Company’s deep conviction that  businesses possess the transformative capacity to create  far larger societal value by leveraging their entrepreneurial  vitality, creativity and innovative capacity.
This Vision is  manifest in the unique models fashioned by the Company to  enable the creation of large scale sustainable livelihoods and  the augmentation of natural resources.
This Triple Bottom  Line commitment of the Company to simultaneously build  economic, social and environmental capital has spurred  innovation to orchestrate a symphony of efforts that address  some of the most challenging societal issues including  widespread poverty and environmental degradation.
These concerted efforts of the Company over several  years have led to the creation of sustainable livelihoods for  around 6 million people, many of whom represent the most  disadvantaged in society.
While the Company’s pioneering work in empowering rural  India is a global exemplar, it has also spearheaded several  initiatives to achieve new benchmarks in environmental  excellence.
Recognising that climate change is a threat that  particularly makes rural communities extremely vulnerable,  the Company has adopted a low carbon growth strategy.
This encompasses large scale afforestation, increasing use  of renewable energy and a continuous quest to maximise  natural resource efficiencies across all its operations.
ITC  is the only company of comparable dimensions in the  world to be carbon positive for 12 years, water positive for  15 years and solid waste recycling positive for 10 years.
Its  environmental stewardship is also reflected in its luxury  hotels being “Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design” (LEED®) Platinum Certified and the increasing share  of renewable energy usage in the Company’s total energy  consumption, which presently stands at over 48%.
Business Responsibility Policies and  Guidelines The Company has aligned its policies and guidelines  with the principles enunciated under the Business  Responsibility Reporting framework on social,  environmental and economic responsibilities of business.
The context of the BR principles is embodied in the  Sustainability Policies and Code of Conduct adopted  by the Company, implementation of which is ensured  through well-established systems and processes across all  its businesses.
Reporting on Sustainability Initiatives For the past 13 years, the Company has published  Sustainability Reports encapsulating its performance  across the three dimensions of the Triple Bottom Line.
ITC Sustainability Report 2016 meeting the G4 guidelines  of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), ‘In Accordance  - Comprehensive’ category was also third party assured  at the highest criteria of ‘reasonable assurance’ as per  the International Standard on Assurance Engagements  (ISAE) 3000.
The 14th Sustainability Report covering the  sustainability performance for the financial year ended  on 31st March 2017 and prepared in accordance with the  GRI G4 Guidelines, will be available shortly.
In addition,  the Report and Accounts 2017 of the Company provides a  review of the Company’s Triple Bottom Line performance.
ITC Code of Conduct Freedom of Association Life-cycle Sustainability Diversity and Equal Opportunity Stakeholder Engagement Prohibition of Child Labour and Prevention of Forced Labour at the Workplace Responsible Advocacy Human Rights consideration of stakeholders beyond the Workplace Product Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Responsible Sourcing Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability Policies and ITC Code of Conduct aligned with   Business Responsibility Principles III Commitment to Sustainable   and Inclusive Growth ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report IV Sl.
No.
BRR Principle Section in BR Report Page Details in ITC  Sustainability  Report 1.
Businesses should conduct and govern  themselves with Ethics, Transparency and  Accountability Corporate Governance for Ethics,  Transparency and Accountability V √ 2.
Businesses should provide goods and  services that are safe and contribute to  sustainability throughout their life-cycle Sustainability of Products &  Services across Life-cycle VI √ 3.
Businesses should promote the well-being  of all employees Employee Well-being VIII √ 4.
Businesses should respect the interests of,  and be responsive towards all stakeholders,  especially those who are disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalised Stakeholder Engagement XI √ 5.
Businesses should respect and promote  human rights Human Rights XI √ 6.
Businesses should respect, protect, and  make efforts to restore the environment Protection and Restoration of the  Environment XII √ 7.
Businesses, when engaged in influencing  public and regulatory policy, should do so  in a responsible manner Responsible Advocacy XIII √ 8.
Businesses should support inclusive growth  and equitable development Supporting Inclusive Growth and  Equitable Development XIV √ 9.
Businesses should engage with and  provide value to their customers and  consumers in a responsible manner Providing Value to Customers  and Consumers XVI √ Business Responsibility Report Index on  Social, Environmental & Economic Issues ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report V A Board approved policy provides the framework for   ITC’s corporate governance philosophy, which is  anchored on the values of trusteeship, transparency,  ethical corporate citizenship, empowerment, control and  accountability.
ITC believes that since large corporations  employ societal and environmental resources,  governance processes must ensure that they are utilised  in a manner that meets stakeholders’ aspirations and  societal expectations.
ITC embeds sustainability principles  in its business strategies, and coupled with corporate  governance processes, seeks to ensure superior   Triple Bottom Line performance.
The practice of Corporate Governance in ITC takes place  at three interlinked levels: Strategic  supervision by the Board of Directors Strategic  management by the Corporate Management  Committee headed by the Chief  Executive Officer of the Company Executive  management by the Divisional Chief Executive  assisted by the Divisional  Management Committee The three-tier governance structure ensures that:   a) Strategic supervision (on behalf of the shareholders),  being free from involvement in the task of strategic  management of the Company, can be conducted  by the Board of Directors with objectivity, thereby  sharpening accountability of management; b) Strategic management of the Company, uncluttered  by the day-to-day tasks of executive management,  remains focused and energised; and c) Executive management of the divisional business   free from collective strategic responsibilities for   ITC as a whole, gets focused on enhancing the   quality, efficiency and effectiveness of   its business.
ITC’s governance framework enjoins the highest  standards of ethical and responsible conduct of business  to create value for stakeholders.
For more details on ITC’s governance structure, please  refer to the section, ‘Report on Corporate Governance’ ,   in the Report and Accounts.
Strategic Supervision of Business  Responsibility Practices The role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee is,   inter alia, to review, monitor and provide strategic  direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability  practices towards fulfilling its triple bottom line  objectives.
The Committee seeks to guide the Company  in integrating its social and environmental objectives  with its business strategies and assists in crafting unique  models to support creation of sustainable livelihoods.
The Committee formulates & monitors the CSR Policy  and recommends to the Board the annual CSR Plan of the  Company in terms of the Companies Act, 2013.
The CSR and Sustainability Committee presently  comprises the Chairman of the Company and five other  Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent  Directors.
The Chairman of the Company is the   Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary is  the Secretary to the Committee.
The names of the   members of this Committee and the number of   meetings held during the year are provided in the   Report and Accounts.
The Sustainability Compliance Review Committee (SCRC)  constituted by the Corporate Management Committee  presently comprises one member of the Corporate  Management Committee (as Chairman) and six senior  members of management.
The role of the Committee,  inter alia, includes monitoring and evaluating compliance  with the Sustainability Policies of the Company and  placing a quarterly report thereon for review by the  Corporate Management Committee.
During the year, three meetings of the SCRC were held to  review the sustainability performance of the Company.
Principle 1: Corporate Governance for  Ethics, Transparency and Accountability ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report VI The Company’s strategic intent to create enduring value  by investing in new engines of growth is powered by its  strong and competitive capabilities in R&D, innovation  & technology and an array of institutional strengths  including deep consumer insights, brand building  capability, trade marketing and distribution infrastructure,  focus on quality and world-class manufacturing practices,  strong rural linkages and outstanding human resources.
The Company endeavours to embed the principles of  sustainability, as far as practicable, into the various stages  of product or service life-cycle, including procurement  of raw material/service, manufacturing of product or  delivery of service, transportation of raw materials and  finished goods, and disposal by consumers.
Policies on  ‘Life-cycle Sustainability’ and ‘Responsible Sourcing’ detail  the Company’s approach in this respect.
Some of these elements are discussed briefly below: Maximising Resource Efficiency The Company has been continuously improving on  resource use efficiencies, especially that of common  resources such as water and energy.
Life-cycle Assessment  studies have been carried out for some of the Company’s  products for identifying additional opportunities to  continuously reduce environmental impacts across the  value chain.
Resource efficiency is integrated into product  and process design and is a critical component in the  creation of physical infrastructure, operations, logistics and  waste management.
The Company’s concerted efforts in optimising resource  use efficiency, for instance, are evident across businesses  including the Company’s most resource-intensive  business, the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division,  where continuous improvements in energy and water  usage, have made it amongst the most efficient within  the sector.
Similarly, the Company’s Hotels Division has  also demonstrated high levels of resource efficiency  by achieving the LEED® (Leadership in Energy and  Environmental Design) certification at the highest Platinum  level for all its luxury properties.
Several of the Company’s  factories and office complexes have also received the  Green Factory certification from Indian Green Building  Council (IGBC), the LEED® certification from US Green  Building Council (USGBC) and Bureau of Energy Efficiency’s  (BEE) star ratings.
In order to continually reduce the  Company’s environmental footprint, green attributes are  integrated in all new constructions and are also being  incorporated into existing hotels, manufacturing units,  warehouses and office complexes during retrofits.
Principle 2: Sustainability of Products &  Services across Life-cycle ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report VII Sustainable Consumption  The Company has crafted extensive strategies to ensure  sustainable consumption of energy, water and other  resources in its businesses.
Even though Paperboards  and Specialty Papers Division accounts for over 89%  of total energy consumption and nearly 92% of total  water intake of the Company, it is an acknowledged  leader in low-carbon operations as well as in resource  usage efficiency.
This has been achieved by continuously  reducing specific energy consumption, increasing share  of renewable energy sources, afforestation and recycling  internal and post-consumer waste.
The Centre for Science  and Environment, New Delhi, credited this business  division with the lowest specific energy performance in  the Indian Paper and Paperboard sector (Challenge of the  New Balance, CSE, 2010).
In 2016-17, the specific water  intake (water withdrawn per unit of product or service)  at the Bhadrachalam unit was 38.1% below the standard  proposed by the National Productivity Council for   large-scale integrated pulp and paper mills.
The Hotels Division pioneered the concept of   ‘Responsible Luxury’ and created design interventions,  which have enabled optimisation in the usage of energy  and water.
The LEED® Platinum certification for the luxury  hotels of the Company makes ‘ITC Hotels’ the greenest  luxury hotel chain in the world.
The Company has laid down comprehensive guidelines  on waste management for all its units, which cover  hazardous as well as non-hazardous waste and  monitoring of performance for each unit, is carried out on  a regular basis.
Beyond Boundaries Vendors/service providers and large outsourced  manufacturing facilities are encouraged to adopt  management practices detailed under the international  standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and  ITC’s Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)  Guidelines.
Contract manufacturing agreements provide  for compliance with accepted standards on issues related  to EHS, human rights and labour practices.
Most of the  outsourced manufacturing units of the Foods Business  are HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point)  certified and are working towards improvement in energy  efficiency.
These interventions are some of the examples  of the Company’s sustainability practices being adopted  by its supply chain network partners.
In order to strengthen sustainable procurement  processes, Policies on ‘Responsible Sourcing’ and   ‘Human Rights Consideration of Stakeholders beyond the  Workplace’ have been adopted to address issues of labour  practices, human rights, bribery, corruption, occupational  health, safety and environment.
The Company works in close partnership with small-scale  units in businesses such as Safety Matches and Education  and Stationery Products.
These partnerships have  significantly enhanced the competitiveness of a number  of units in these sectors.
Responsible Sourcing The Company endeavours to integrate sustainability in  the procurement process for its products and services  ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report VIII across its diversified business portfolio.
The Policy on  ‘Responsible Sourcing’ encourages resource efficiency  in the supply chain which together with the ‘Code of  Conduct for Vendors and Service Providers’ provide  guidance to supply chain members and partners to adopt  sustainable practices.
Recognising that poverty in rural India also gets  accentuated by inadequate access to knowledge,  information, price discovery, quality agricultural inputs  and markets, the Company has devised unique models  for farmer empowerment.
These interventions not only  support sustainable agriculture and enhance productivity,  but also contribute to substantial livelihood creation.
The Company’s globally acknowledged ITC e-Choupal  initiative has transformed rural communities into vibrant  economic organisations by leveraging information  technology to provide real-time information on weather,  market prices, agricultural best practices, etc.
It also  provides customised extension services and training  through ‘Choupal Pradarshan Khets’ (demonstration  farms).
Farmers have been empowered through the  establishment of integrated rural services hubs called  ‘Choupal Saagars’ .
The e-Choupal system has enabled  efficient sourcing and raised rural incomes.
The Company  promotes environmentally sustainable farm practices  such as zero tilling, micro-irrigation and watershed  development.
In addition, the Company promotes  large-scale afforestation through its Social Forestry  programmes.
Customised extension services, knowledge  of silvicultural practices, and bio-diversity enhancement  enrich the farmers’ capacity whilst augmenting natural  capital.
The farmers are free to transact at will and sell to  whoever they choose, though the Company stands as a  willing buyer.
ITC human resource management systems and  processes are designed to enhance employee capability,  engagement, vitality and well-being so as to ensure  that our employees add superior value – value which  will help our businesses stay ahead of competition and  simultaneously work towards enabling the Company  to achieve its ambitious growth plans.
From frontline  managers to business leaders, ITC has made significant  investments in developing 25,883 employees across  the organisational spectrum – including 2,298 female  employees – all geared to galvanise the organisation and  enhance its capability and agility, proactively manage  change and win in the market.
Focusing on creating  a work environment conducive to delivering winning  performance, the two critical anchors of ITC’s work culture  are fostering quality talent and caring for the well-being  of all employees.
Specific elements of the Company’s work  practices and culture are directed by the management  approach articulated in Board-approved Policies on  ‘Diversity and Equal Opportunity’ , ‘Freedom of Association’  and ‘Environment, Health and Safety’ , among others.
As a result of our unique employee centric policies,  the latest Randstad Brand Research Survey findings  have recognised ITC Limited as India’s most attractive  employer in the FMCG sector.
ITC also ranked among  the top 10 companies that MBA students in India want  to work with, according to an employer branding  survey conducted by Universum Global.
In the 2016 Employee engagement survey  ‘iEngage’ ,  93% of ITC employees said that they were proud   to work with ITC – a score that is amongst the   highest globally.
Principle 3: Employee Well-being ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report IX Diversity and Equal Opportunity ITC’s Policy on ‘Diversity and Equal Opportunity’ is  premised on its fundamental belief that diversity at  the workplace creates an environment conducive  to engagement, alignment, innovation and high  performance.
The Policy provides for diversity and equal  opportunities to all employees across the Company,  based on merit and ability.
It also ensures a work  environment that is free from any form of discrimination  among employees based on caste, religion, disability,  gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, ancestry, marital  status or affiliation with a political, religious or union  organisation or majority/minority group.
In FY 2016-17  there were no cases of discriminatory employment.
ITC has instituted suitable processes and mechanisms to  effectively address employee grievances.
The Grievance  Redressal Procedure is intended to facilitate open and  structured discussions on grievances related to labour  practices and human rights to ensure that these are dealt  with in a fair and just manner.
Enabling a Gender Friendly  Workplace As a good corporate citizen, ITC is committed to a  gender friendly workplace.
It seeks to enhance equal  opportunities for men and women, prevent/stop/redress  sexual harassment at the workplace and institute good  employment practices.
ITC has established suitable  processes and mechanisms to ensure issues such as  sexual harassment, if any, are effectively addressed.
Maintaining an open door for reportees, ITC encourages  employees to report any harassment concerns and  is responsive to complaints about harassment or any  other unwelcome and offensive conduct.
An Internal  Complaints Committee has been constituted in all  units to enquire into complaints and recommend  appropriate action, wherever required.
ITC demands,  demonstrates and promotes professional behaviour and  respectful treatment of all employees.
During the year, no  complaints of sexual harassment were received.
To sensitise employees and enhance awareness, ITC  has set up an e-learning portal on prevention of sexual  harassment which is accessible to all ITC employees.
Supporting the Differently Abled  A firm advocate of opening up employment  opportunities for people with disabilities, ITC’s Hotels  Division has proactively created awareness amongst  various organisations.
Two comprehensive handbooks  prepared by the Division continue to guide industry  action in this endeavour – ‘ITC Hotels Disability Handbook  for Industry’ and ‘A Guide to Universal Design in Built  Environments: A Guide for Creating Accessible Building  Infrastructure for Persons with Disability’ .
Currently there  are 74 differently abled employees working in ITC, the  majority of whom are employed by the Hotels Division.
Good Labour Practices ITC’s 10 Board-approved Sustainability Policies continue  to guide ITC’s unflinching commitment to good labour  practices.
It is ensured that no person below the age  of eighteen years is employed by ITC and forced or  compulsory labour is prohibited in all units.
ITC does not engage vendors and suppliers who resort to  using child and/or forced labour.
In 2016-17, approximately  21,000 employees from 1,527 service providers were  engaged across ITC.
All service providers have signed   ITC’s Code of Conduct for Vendors and Service Providers  which details labour practices expected of them.
Non-compliance with the Code results in termination of  contracts.
The Company had no cases of child or forced  labour in 2016-17.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report X The Company respects the dignity of the individual and  the freedom of employees to lawfully organise themselves  into interest groups, independent of supervision by the  management and to ensure that employees are not  discriminated against for exercising this freedom in a lawful  manner and one which is consistent with ITC’s core values.
In the year under report 10,664 employees of the Company  were member of unions.
There were no cases of violation of  freedom of association.
Ensuring High Quality of Life Employee health and well-being is a vital area of care  and concern for the Company.
This is ensured through  regular medical check-ups and other benefits provided  in accordance with medical needs.
In addition, most  units have a wellness centre and a resident doctor.
The  Company’s Agri Business Division – ILTD, encourages  employees to take individualised health objectives  based on Body Mass Index (BMI) as well as strength  and endurance tests.
ITC’s TM&D organisation conducts  ‘Parenting Workshops’ to address essential needs centred  on child care, nurturing and development.
The Company also offers best-in-class accommodation,  guest houses, transit flats and holiday home facilities to  most of its employees and their families across locations.
Well-being of Employees at ITC’s  Manufacturing Units Employee Well-being, one of the four constituents of  the Company’s overall employee relation framework,  ‘Good ER’ (Employee Relations), is addressed through the  following initiatives: Skill Enhancement ITC conducts exhaustive capability building programmes  at the employee level and appropriate apprenticeship  programmes at the community level.
Skill building  programmes on technical and other aspects such as  behaviour, emotions, cultural appreciation, relaxation, etc.
are regularly undertaken by units.
Employee Engagement  Several ITC units periodically conduct employee  engagement surveys.
At these surveys, employees are  encouraged to share their views about the workplace.
Units also regularly conduct sports programmes,  scholarships to meritorious children of employees, as  well as recreational events that encourage the creative  talents of both employees and their families.
In some  units employees of service providers are also invited to  participate in these events.
Enabling Physical and Mental/Spiritual Well-being Periodic health/medical camps, awareness programmes  on a healthy lifestyle, stress management and  development of wellness plans are organised across  units.
Regular Yoga sessions are held at several units.
Opportunities are also provided for employees to  volunteer for a variety of social programmes.
‘5S@Home’ –  a programme initiated by ITC’s Foods Business (Haridwar  Unit) – encourages its employees to draw learnings from  work and apply these in different aspects of improvement  both within their family and society at large.
Enhancing Employability Employee Skill Development Programme (UDAAN): ITC  Foods Business launched a skills upgradation programme  at Ranjangaon to provide growth opportunities to  workmen in the upcoming Integrated Consumer Goods  Manufacturing and Logistics facility.
Customised training  curricula have been developed for employees across  each skill set to build their capabilities and develop their  abilities, thereby equipping them with the necessary skills  to succeed and prosper.
The Gurukul: ITC’s state-of-the-art technical training facility  located in Ranjangaon − is a significant contributor in the  Company’s skilling journey.
This training institute offers  both short term (1 to 2 weeks) and integrated long term   (1 year) programmes to enhance shop floor skills.
Gurukul was conferred the ‘Best Corporate University  Award, ’ instituted by Leapvault in partnership with the  Tata Institute of Social Sciences.
Learning and Development  Learning and development is a critical business  priority for ITC, geared towards enhancing capability,  strengthening the leadership pipeline and fostering  employee engagement.
Five capability platforms relevant  to making businesses future-ready have been identified  – Strategic, Value Chain, Leadership, Innovation and  Human Resources Development.
These platforms are also  designed to reinforce organisational systems to facilitate  speedy and competitively superior responses to market  opportunities.
In 2016-17, 104,423 person-days of formal  training were provided to employees at various levels.
WELCOMCARE: A confidential counselling service  offered by ITC Hotels to its employees, Welcomcare  enables them to avail of professional help in a safe  and secure environment in dealing with issues like  developing coping skills to meet life challenges,  making important decisions or exploring new  avenues for change and growth.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report XI The Company has Policies on Human Rights applicable  to its employees and its value chains.
The Policies and  their implementation are directed towards adherence  to applicable laws and to uphold the spirit of human  rights, as enshrined in existing international standards  such as the Universal Declaration and the Fundamental  Human Rights Conventions of the International Labour  Organisation (ILO).
The Company continued to work  towards strengthening and introducing systems to ensure  sound implementation of ITC’s Sustainability Policies  specifically with respect to Human Rights and decent  work place.
The Company has in place a Code of Conduct for  vendors and service providers across Businesses and a  Grievance Redressal Procedure to address concerns, if any,  pertaining to Human Rights and decent labour practices  for its employees.
Vendors and Service Providers across  Businesses have voluntarily accepted and adopted the  Company’s ‘Code of Conduct for Vendors and Service  Providers’ , which requires compliance with applicable  laws relating to, inter alia, human rights, environmental  conservation, and quality of products and services.
The  Company has been approached by some of the Vendors  and Service Providers seeking the Company’s assistance  in organising training workshops for educating, creating  awareness and building their capacity on human rights and  decent labour practices.
In furtherance of these requests,  the Company proposes to identify experts who shall  conduct workshops from time to time throughout the year.
With a view to build awareness and educate employees  on the Company’s Sustainability Policies including Policies  on Human Rights and ITC’s Code of Conduct, IT enabled  programmes continued to be rolled out across business  divisions.
The Policy on Stakeholder Engagement provides the  approach for identifying and engaging with stakeholders  that include shareholders, customers, employees,   farmers, suppliers, communities, civil society, media and  the government.
The Company believes that an effective stakeholder  engagement process is necessary for achieving its  sustainability goal of inclusive growth.
Accordingly, it  anchors its stakeholder engagement on the following  principles:   a) Materiality – Prioritised consideration of the   economic, environmental and social impacts  identified to be important to the organisation as   well as its stakeholders.
b) Completeness – Understanding key concerns of  stakeholders and their expectations.
c) Responsiveness – Responding coherently and  transparently to such issues and concerns.
The Company has put in place systems and procedures  to identify, prioritise and address the needs and concerns  of its stakeholders across businesses and units in a  continuous, consistent and systematic manner.
It has implemented mechanisms to facilitate effective  dialogues with all stakeholders across businesses, identify  material concerns and their resolution in an equitable  and transparent manner.
These measures have helped  the Company develop strong relationships, which have  withstood the test of time.
The Company’s collaborative partnerships with  communities are manifest in its programmes such  as watershed development, social forestry, animal  husbandry services and women empowerment.
These  initiatives augment the natural resource base of the  nation and create sustainable rural livelihoods.
Principle 5: Human Rights Principle 4: Stakeholder Engagement ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report XII The Company is a global exemplar in environmental  sustainability and takes pride in being carbon positive,  water positive and solid waste recycling positive for many  years.
The Company has contributed to environmental  stewardship by not only ensuring efficient use of resources  but also by augmenting precious natural resources.
The Policies on ‘Life-cycle Sustainability’ , ‘Environment,  Health and Safety’ and ‘Responsible Sourcing’ provide  the necessary direction towards climate change  mitigation and adaptation efforts as well as natural  resource replenishment initiatives.
Such efforts include  implementation of a low carbon growth strategy across  its businesses, integrated soil and water conservation  programmes and the creation of large-scale sustainable  livelihoods amongst the marginalised sections of society.
The Company has sought to align with the NAPCC  (National Action Plan on Climate Change) of the  Government of India to respond to the challenges  emerging from the threat of climate change.
Some of the  measures implemented include continual improvement in  specific energy consumption (energy consumed per unit of  product or service), enhanced use of renewable energy and  expansion of forestry projects to improve the Company’s  positive carbon footprint.
The Company has also computed its Greenhouse Gas  inventory in line with the ISO 14064 standard, which has  been assured at the highest ‘Reasonable Level’ as per the  ISAE 3410 standard, by a third-party assurance provider.
Sustainable Solid Waste  Management The Company has initiated measures across business  units to ensure waste minimisation, segregation at source  and recycling.
For the past 10 years, the Company has  been recycling over 98% of solid waste generated by  its units and during the year, over 99% was recycled.
In addition, around 1,15,000 MT of externally sourced  post-consumer waste paper, was used as raw material,  enabling the Company to achieve a positive solid waste  recycling footprint.
Water Management Stewardship  The Company has undertaken several water conservation  and harvesting initiatives to enhance its positive water  footprint.
These include continual improvement in  specific water intake, adoption of benchmarked practices  and rainwater harvesting both within the Company’s  premises and in the catchment areas of its operations.
These initiatives not only lower fresh water intake but  also maximise groundwater recharge, reduce run-off and  provide precious water to farmers.
Most of the Company’s  units have achieved reduction in their specific water intake  and maximised treated effluents reuse.
Carrying forward the Company’s extensive work on  integrated watershed management, programs are now  underway to achieve water security for all stakeholders  within defined catchment area for manufacturing units  located in high water stress areas.
Based on extensive  studies that include water accounting and detailed   hydro-geological studies, implementation of necessary  initiatives to address both demand and supply side issues  have already been rolled out.
These include improvement  of water usage efficiencies by all stakeholders including the  farming community, augmenting groundwater recharge,  enhancing surface storage through the rejuvenation and  interlinking of existing water bodies, etc.
The Company will  progressively cover more units under this initiative.
Cleaner Production Methods,  Use of Energy Efficient  and Environment-friendly  Technologies The Company is a pioneer in the green buildings  movement, which commenced with the establishment of  the ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon in 2004, now one of the  Principle 6: Protection and Restoration  of the Environment ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report XIII highest LEED® Platinum certified buildings in the world.
ITC Grand Chola, the 600-key super-premium luxury hotel  complex in Chennai, which is amongst the world’s largest  LEED® Platinum certified green hotel, has also secured  a 5 Star Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment  (GRIHA) rating, the highest national rating for green  buildings in India.
Other large infrastructure investments,  such as the ITC Green Centre at Manesar (LEED® Platinum  certified) and the upcoming ITC Green Centre at  Bengaluru (pre-certified for LEED® Platinum) continue  to demonstrate the Company’s commitment to green  buildings.
The data centre at Bengaluru, ITC Sankhya is  the first data centre in the World to receive the LEED®  Platinum certification by USGBC.
Totally 22 buildings of  the Company have achieved Platinum certification by  USGBC/IGBC.
The Company has also pioneered the manufacture of  Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp & paper/paperboards  in India and taken further steps towards cleaner  production by introducing ‘Ozone bleaching’ technology,  another first in the country.
The Company continues to  invest in reducing air emission levels through adoption  of cleaner technologies/fuels, monitoring of combustion  efficiencies and investments in state-of-the-art pollution  control equipment, such as plasma filters, electrostatic  precipitators, etc.
Its units monitor significant air emission  parameters, such as Particulate Matter (PM), Nitrogen  Oxides (NOx) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) to ensure  compliance with Company standards that are more  stringent than regulatory requirements.
The Company  has made a commitment to reduce dependence on  energy from fossil fuels by progressively moving towards  meeting 50% of its total energy requirements from  renewable sources by 2020.
In order to meet this goal, the  Company has developed a strategic approach and plans  that focus on both energy conservation and renewable  energy investments.
Implementation of Environment,  Health & Safety Management  Systems In pursuit of its EHS Policy commitments, the Company  has established management systems, certified by  accredited agencies in line with international standards  like ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Within the purview of  certified management systems, contingency plans are  developed and implemented to prevent, mitigate and  control environmental disasters.
An integrated sustainability database management  system implemented across the Company ensures  monitoring and reviewing of sustainability performance  through defined key performance indicators.
Standard operating procedures are in place to define,  collate and support audits of data for ensuring accuracy  and verifiability.
Furthermore, the Company has focused on  institutionalising safety as a value-led concept by  inculcating a sense of ownership at all levels and driving  behavioural change towards creation of a safety culture.
In line with this, behavioural based safety initiatives and  custom-made risk based training programmes have  been implemented at several units which has resulted in  improved safety performance.
In 2016-17, 20,926   person-days of training, was provided to employees on  EHS related matters.
The Policy on Responsible Advocacy provides the  framework for the necessary interface with Government/  Regulatory Authorities on matters concerning the various  sectors in which the Company operates.
The Company  works with apex industry institutions that are engaged in  policy advocacy, like the Confederation of Indian Industry,  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and  Industry, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry  of India and various other forums including regional  Chambers of Commerce.
The Company’s engagement  with the relevant authorities is guided by the values of  commitment, integrity, transparency and the need to  balance interests of diverse stakeholders.
The Company, for its social development projects,  organises meetings with the local administration and  State Governments to seek their participation and  involvement.
Their expert advice and counsel are also  sought and approvals obtained, where required, for  the planned interventions.
The Company also engages  in public-private-partnerships (PPP) with the State  Governments for such projects.
Principle 7: Responsible Advocacy ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report XIV ITC’s Strategic Stakeholders In social sector, the two most important stakeholders of  ITC are:  Rural communities with whom the Company’s agri- businesses have forged long and enduring partnerships  through crop development and procurement activities.
Communities residing in close proximity to our  manufacturing units, situated in urban and semi-rural  locations.
The stakeholder communities face the challenge of  securing sustainable livelihoods, which is addressed  through the Company’s two-pronged approach: Horizon 1: Making today’s dominant source(s) of  livelihoods sustainable; and Horizon 2: Creating capabilities for wealth generation  and employment for tomorrow.
The two horizon strategy has necessitated an integrated  approach to development involving several interventions  which are summarised below.
All programmes are  implemented through a mix of national and grass-root  level Programme Implementation Agencies (PIAs).
Performance 2016-17 Coverage The projects promoted under the Social Investments  Programme were spread over 182 districts of 26 States/ Union Territories.
Interventions Horizon 1 - Making today’s Livelihoods Sustainable  Social Forestry: This programme is designed to  promote livelihoods through plantations by providing  financial, technical and marketing support to farmers.
In  2016-17, the programme greened 38,916 acres in   19 districts and 6 States.
Out of this, the area under   Agro-forestry was 21,553 acres.
Watershed Development: The programme’s long  term objective is to champion water security for all  stakeholders in order to minimise risks to livelihoods  arising from unexpected weather episodes.
Implemented  in 45 districts covering 12 States, 136,190 acres of  watershed area was achieved in 2016-17.
2,101 water  harvesting structures constructed during the year  creating 34.05 lakh kilolitres of fresh rain water   harvesting potential.
Principle 8: Supporting Inclusive Growth  and Equitable Development ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report  Animal Husbandry: 223 Cattle development centres,   in 7 States, were functional during the year for   rendering animal husbandry services with the aim of  increasing productivity of milch cattle and thereby  household incomes.
2.28 lakh artificial inseminations  were conducted leading to live births of over   1.01 lakh cross-bred progenies.
Improved Agricultural Practices: This initiative  attempts to de-risk farmers from erratic weather events  through the promotion of climate smart agriculture in  order to stabilise farm incomes.
During 2016-17,   1,280 Farmer Field Schools (FFS) disseminated advanced  agri-practices covering over 1.50 lakh acres under  different crops.
326 Agri Business Centres (ABCs) delivered  extension services, arranged agri-credit linkages and  established collective input procurement and agricultural  equipment on hire.
Women’s Economic Empowerment: This initiative  provided a range of gainful employment opportunities  to poor women supported with capacity building  and financial assistance by way of loans and grants.
During 2016-17, 10,200 ultra-poor women, in the core  catchments had access to sustainable sources of income  through non-farm livelihood options.
Horizon 2 - Creating Future Capabilities  Education: The education programme provides  children from weaker sections access to education with  focus on improved learning outcomes.
Operational in  19 districts of 11 States, during the year, the programme  covered 49,392 children and 160 government primary  schools were provided infrastructure support.
Vocational Training: This programme provides  training in market linked skills to youth to enable them to  compete in the job market.
12,338 youth were enrolled  for training under different courses during the year of  which 35% were female and 39% belonged to the   SC/ST communities.
The programme is operational in   29 districts of 17 States.
Sanitation: To achieve the objective of zero open  defecation, 8,550 Individual Household Toilets  (IHHT) were constructed in 22 districts of 14 States in  collaboration with the respective state governments.
In addition to construction, equal focus was given to  XV ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report As an organisation which upholds and makes significant  efforts to ensure good governance, the Company  complies with all relevant laws of the land.
The Company’s  uncompromising commitment to providing world-class  products and services to customers is supported by its  concern for the safety of its customers/consumers.
The  Company’s overall approach on this vital aspect is guided  by its Policy on ‘Product Responsibility’ .
Product Responsibility The Company is committed to providing products  and services that offer best-in-class quality and user  experience.
With a continually growing portfolio of  businesses that use agri/farm products, the Company  endeavours to use sustainably sourced ingredients.
The Company adopts stringent hygiene standards,  benchmarked manufacturing practices and robust quality  assurance systems for its products and the declared  product shelf-life is determined based on independently  validated studies.
Marketing Communication All businesses of the Company comply with all regulations  and relevant voluntary codes concerning marketing  communications, including advertising, promotion and  sponsorship.
The Company’s communications are aimed at  enabling customers to make informed purchase decisions.
The Company also makes efforts to educate customers on  responsible usage of its products and services.
In addition, the Company’s businesses have a dedicated  consumer response cell to respond to customer  queries and feedback on products so as to be able to  continuously improve upon its products and services.
Responsiveness to Customers A well-established system is in place for dealing with  customer feedback.
Consumers are provided multiple  options to connect with the Company through email,  telephone, website, social media, feedback forms, etc.
awareness campaigns to create demand and drive  behavioural change.
The consequential benefits include  reduction in absenteeism from work due to health   related issues, thus leading to higher or stable earnings  for the beneficiaries.
Solid Waste Management (SWM): ITC’s waste  recycling programme, ‘WOW – Well Being Out of Waste’  helps in the creation of a clean and green environment  through awareness and education of citizens on source  segregation and recycling of dry waste.
It also promotes  sustainable livelihoods for rag-pickers and waste- collectors.
During the year, in addition to Hyderabad,  Coimbatore, Chennai and Bengaluru, the programme  was expanded to Delhi, Tirupati and Muzaffarpur.
The  quantum of dry waste collected was 33,982 MTs from  417 wards.
The programme covers over 64 lakh citizens,  25 lakh school children and 2,000 Corporates.
It creates  sustainable livelihoods for 13,500 rag-pickers and waste  collectors by propagating source segregation and  facilitating effective collection in collaboration with  municipal corporations.
It has also created over 60 social  entrepreneurs who are involved in maximising value  capture from the dry waste collected.
In addition, another  programme on solid waste management under the  Mission Sunhera Kal initiative has spread to 10 districts of  7 States covering 61,200 households and collected   6,033 MT of waste during the year.
This programme  focuses on home composting in addition to recycling of  dry waste.
In 2016-17, under this programme, 4,161 MT  wet waste was composted and 459 MT of dry waste  recycled, and only 23% of the total waste sent to landfill.
XVI Principle 9: Providing Value to Customers  and Consumers ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Responsibility Report ITC Infotech is a specialised global full service technology  solutions provider, led by Business and Technology  Consulting.
ITC Infotech’s Digitaligence@work infuses  technology with domain, data, design, and differentiated  delivery to significantly enhance experience and  efficiency, enabling clients to differentiate and disrupt  their business The company provides solutions to enterprises in   Supply Chain based industries (CPG, Retail,  Manufacturing, Hi-Tech) and Services (Banking, Financial  Services and Insurance, Airline, Hospitality) through a  combination of traditional and newer business models,   as a long-term sustainable partner.
The company is powered by a growing portfolio of  specialized solutions addressing critical business  challenges, including: Industry 4.0 solutions (Product  Lifecycle Management (PLM), Internet-of-Things (IoT) and  Embedded), Customer Value Management, Loyalty,   Trade Marketing & Distribution, Supply Chain  Optimisation, Data Engineering and Analytics,   Digital Banking solutions, Product Engineering Services,  Cloud migration and Digital Agriculture solutions.
ITC Infotech’s long term strategy to create a future-ready  business is being acknowledged by the industry, leading  analysts and advisors.
ITC Infotech was featured as a  global ‘Leader’ in the archetype ‘Enabling Digital’ by   ISG (Information Services Group) in their ISG Insights  Index (i3) for ADM. ISG defines companies who are  ‘Enabling Digital’ as: “These are very customer-centric  companies that are trying to create a competitive  advantage enabled through emerging technologies” .
ISG is the world’s leading global technology research   and advisory firm and a trusted business partner to   more than 700 clients, including 75 of the top 100  enterprises in the world.
Digitaligence@work Digitaligence@work, ITC Infotech’s differentiated  competitive positioning, looks at digital disruption  through the lens of a three point continuum of  Information, Insights and Interactions.
Digitaligence@ work co-creates intelligence for clients by integrating  diverse data sets.
Through the use of sophisticated  analytics, this information is further simplified into  actionable insights, with diagnostic, predictive  & prescriptive analytics.
Going one step further,  Digitaligence@work uses insights gleaned from  various sources of information to design interactions  – improving efficiencies, while significantly enhancing  experiences.
In the Digital era, the only way to stay competitive  and sustain growth is by differentiating or disrupting.
Digitaligence@work helps ITC Infotech’s clients do  exactly this: re-envision the future.
ITC Infotech ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Update Collaborating for Success ITC Infotech won the Aecus Innovation Awards 2016 for  providing an innovative customer experience solution to  Holland & Barrett, UK’s leading health retailer.
ITC Infotech & British American Tobacco were finalists in  the category ‘Collaboration’ for the 2016 Paragon Awards  Europe by ISG – for demonstrating ground-breaking and  inspirational approaches to sourcing.
Unique Talent Management  Practices ITC Infotech won the Asia Pacific HRM Congress Awards  2016, presented by Times Ascent, in the categories of  ‘Managing health at work’ and ‘Talent management and  its impact on employee engagement’ .
These awards  reflect ITC Infotech’s efforts towards creating a   workplace which fosters innovation and recognises &  rewards excellence.
Being adjudged winner across Asia Pacific is a validation  of the company’s Talent Management practices &  initiatives as one of the best – not just in the technology  industry, but across industries.
ITC Infotech also won the ‘Best HR Tech Solution of the  Year’ in the Disruptive Tech & Innovation Awards 2016   for its homegrown ‘Enterprise Collaboration Platform’ ,  which powers the company’s intranet.
Being Future Ready ITC Infotech is committed to ensuring future-readiness  of the company and of the Indian IT industry.
As part of  this commitment to create a talent pool of technology  enthusiasts, ITC Infotech hosted NASSCOM’s TechNgage  - ‘Celebrating Technology & Technologists’ , at its global  headquarters in Bengaluru.
NASSCOM’s TechNgage is  an annual initiative to further enhance technology skills  available within the country by providing a platform to  recognize highly skilled people, in an effort to help India  become the hub of innovation and to enthuse Indian  technologists to continuously evolve and become   ‘World Class Techies’ .
The second edition of ITC Infotech’s annual technology  innovation & co-creation platform iTech, set a new  benchmark for Augmented Reality & Virtual Reality   (AR/VR) in 2016.
The event concluded with ITC Infotech  hosting a unique Startup ‘Showcase’ session, where  shortlisted startups were provided the opportunity to  directly present their solutions to ITC Infotech’s biggest  global customers, as well as the business division heads  from ITC.
The panel of judges consisted of business  leaders from ITC Infotech’s partners and global clients,  such as KONE, Microsoft, PTC and SAP Labs along with  senior leaders from ITC’s businesses.
ITC Infotech believes in promoting innovation and  fostering a culture of entrepreneurship in the ecosystem.
iTech 2016 was a step towards nurturing entrepreneurs  and start-ups in creating the technologies of the future.
“ITC Infotech’s DNA of driving efficiency and   experience through technology, and creating   sustainable partnerships form the cornerstone of our  success” , according to ITC Infotech MD & CEO,   Ms Sushma Rajagopalan.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Business Update The CII–ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable  Development (CESD), established by ITC in 2006  in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian  Industry (CII), continues with its endeavours to  promote sustainable business practices among Indian  enterprises.
It is steered by its Advisory Council, led by  Mr Y C Deveshwar, Chairman, ITC Limited, and comprises  members from industry, civil society and institutions,  which provides strategic direction to the organisation.
The 11th edition of CII-ITC CESD’s flagship programme,  the Sustainability Summit, was held on September  14-15, 2016 in New Delhi with focus on some of the key  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and on building  our national competitiveness.
Key dignitaries included  late Mr Anil Madhav Dave, the then Union Minister for  Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Mr Piyush  Goyal, Union Minister for Power, New & Renewable  Energy, Coal and Mines, Mr Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI  Aayog and Mr. Yuri Afanasiev, UN Resident Coordinator  & UNDP Resident Representative in India.
The Summit  was attended by over 56 speakers and 400 participants  representing businesses, civil society, central and  state governments, technocrats, academia, media and  sustainability consultants.
The CII-ITC Sustainability Awards recognise and reward  outstanding contributions by corporates to sustainable  development in the country.
In the last 11 years, these  Awards have set benchmarks for excellence in sustainable  business in India.
In 2016, 96 companies applied for  the Awards in the Corporate and Domain Excellence  categories.
Awards were declared at a ceremony on   December 5, 2016 in Delhi, recognising 23 winners for  excellence in sustainable business.
Mr Prakash Javadekar,  Union Minister for Human Resources presented the  Awards to the winners.
CII-ITC CESD, in partnership with NITI Aayog, launched  an initiative for improving the air quality in NCR on  November 17, 2016 in New Delhi.
The initiative was  inaugurated by Mr. Suresh P Prabhu, Union Minister  for Railways, and Mr. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog.
It  completed the 44-month project on greening Indian  retailers’ supply chain and facilitating resource efficient  practices within the retailer’s operation.
Some of the  outcomes of the project include increased energy  efficiency and reduced operational costs of retail stores.
The NGO assessment framework and methodology  was also finalised after putting it to pilot test.
It is now  available for companies in India to use.
The framework is  uniquely designed to identify capacities and capabilities  of the assessee, and accordingly provide guidance to  the sponsoring company if it should work with that  implementing agency.
CII-ITC CESD undertook several consultancy assignments  with large and small Indian firms to design sustainability  management frameworks, develop business  responsibility reports, devise carbon neutral strategies,  undertake accounting of greenhouse gases, develop  sustainability reports and undertake biodiversity  assessments.
It is currently assisting the Delhi Metro Rail  Corporation (DMRC) on design and implementation of  Energy Management Systems.
The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), which was  established in 1977, continues to be a true embodiment  of ITC’s sustained commitment to a priceless national  heritage.
The Company’s pledge towards ensuring  enduring excellence in Classical Music education has  helped ITC SRA adhere to the age-old ‘Guru-Shishya  Parampara’ .
The Academy has eminent musicians  imparting quality Hindustani classical music to its  scholars.
Its list of Gurus includes living legends like  Padma Vibhushan Vidushi Girija Devi, Padma Bhushan  Buddhadev Dasgupta, Padma Shri Ulhas Kashalkar,  Padma Shri Ajoy Chakrabarty and Pandit Uday Bhawalkar.
The focus of the Academy is on nurturing exceptionally  gifted students, carefully hand-picked across India,   who receive full scholarships to reside and pursue   music education in the Academy’s campus.
This has  provided opportunities to young talent to train under   the tutelage of the country’s most distinguished   stalwarts and has helped create the next generation of  musical masters.
ITC Sangeet Research Academy CII-ITC Centre of Excellence  for Sustainable Development ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Creating Enduring Institutions  ITC has won the prestigious Porter Prize 2017 for   ‘Excellence in Corporate Governance and Integration’ and  for its exemplary contribution in ‘Creating Shared Value’ .
Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred Lifetime  Achievement Awards 2016 by leading media organisations,  CNBC TV18 and Business Standard.
Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred the   prestigious Banga Bibhushan award, the highest civilian  honour instituted by the Government of West Bengal.
ITC has been named India’s ‘Buzziest’ Corporate brand in a  survey conducted by Afaqs!, a leading media portal.
Several of ITC’s FMCG brands - Sunfeast, Bingo!, Yippee!,  Vivel, Engage, Fiama and Savlon also featured in the  honours’ list in their respective categories.
ITC Limited became the 1st company to win the India Today  Safaigiri Corporate Trailblazor Award 2016.
ITC Limited won two “ASSOCHAM Waste Management  Excellence Awards 2017” in the ‘Best Corporate Initiative  in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ and ‘Best Outreach Strategy in  Waste Management’ categories.
ITC Grand Bharat, Gurgaon, has been ranked No 1 Resort in  Asia by the Conde Nast Traveler USA Readers’ Choice Awards  2016, for the second consecutive year.
The ITC Green Centre in Manesar has once again been  awarded Platinum Rating under Leadership in Energy and  Environmental Design (LEED®) for ‘Existing Building Operation  and Maintenance’ by ‘US Green Building Council (USGBC)’ .
ITC Limited won the Intel AIM Corporate Responsibility  Award, 2016, accorded by the Asian Institute of  Management-RVR CSR Center and the Asia Inc Forum.
ITC was adjudged the ‘Best in Supply Chain Sustainability’ at  the Asian Corporate Sustainability Summit 2016.
ITC’s Packaging and Printing Business was declared the ‘Green  Printing Company of the Year 2016’ by PrintWeek India.
ITC’s Paperboards Unit in Bhadrachalam has become  the first integrated Pulp and Paper Unit to receive the  prestigious CII GreenCo Platinum Rating.
ITC won the FICCI Water Awards 2016 in the Community  Initiatives by Industry category.
Also won FICCI CSR Award  2016 for Environment Sustainability and Health, Water &  Sanitation programmes.
ITC’s Sankhya Data Centre, Bengaluru became the first data  centre in the world to get LEED® Platinum Certification  from the US Green Building Council (2016).
ITC was ranked as ‘India’s Most Admired Company’ in a  survey conducted by Fortune India magazine and   Hay Group (2014).
Harvard Business Review ranked ITC Chairman   Mr Y C Deveshwar  as the 7th  Best Performing CEO in  the World in its January-February 2013 edition.
He was  also ranked among the Most Valuable CEOs of India by  Businessworld.
ITC was presented the World Business and Development  Award at the Rio+20 UN Summit for its Social and Farm  Forestry initiative (2012).
ITC was presented the AIM Asian CSR Award by the  Asian Forum on Corporate Social Responsibility (AFCSR),  in recognition of its contribution to the creation of  sustainable livelihoods and fostering economic growth in  rural communities in India (2012).
Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar  was conferred the   Padma Bhushan by the Government of India (2011).
All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels were accorded   LEED® Platinum certification, making ITC Hotels the  ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the World’ (2011).
ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at  Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and Tribeni were   FSC Chain of Custody certified (2011).
Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar  was conferred the Global  Leadership Award by the US India Business Council of the   US Chamber of Commerce in 2010.
He was awarded the  SAM/ SPG Sustainability Leadership Award in 2007.
ITC was conferred the National Award for Excellence  in Corporate Governance by the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India (2007).
ITC was the 1st  Indian Company and 2nd  in the world to  win the Development Gateway Award for its trail- blazing  e-Choupal initiative (2005).
Major Awards 2016-17 Major Awards Over The Years ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Awards & Accolades ITC is the only enterprise in the world of comparable dimensions to be Carbon Positive, Water Positive and Solid Waste Recycling Positive.
ITC’s businesses and value chains support around 6 million sustainable livelihoods The Hibrite Paper used in this Report and Safire Graphik Board used for the Cover are manufactured  by ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division using cutting-edge environmental technologies.
The  Ozone bleached ECF pulp used in these products has been produced from renewable plantations under  ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry programmes, making them the greenest offering in the paper industry.
Processed at   Stylo Media Pvt.
Ltd., Kolkata   and printed at   CDC Printers Pvt.
Ltd., Kolkata ITC: Transforming Lives   and Landscapes ITC’s  e-Choupal   Empowering  4 million  farmers ITC’s  Watershed  Development  Programme Providing Soil  & Moisture  conservation to  over 7,76,000  acres of  drylands ITC’s Women  Empowerment  Initiative  Creating  nearly 55,000   sustainable  livelihoods for  women ITC’s Skilling  & Vocational  Training  Initiative Nearly 44,000  youth trained ITC’s  Afforestation  Programme  Greening more  than 6,20,000  acres ITC’s Livestock  Development  Initiative Providing animal  husbandry  services for  15,00,000 milch  animals ITC’s Primary  Education  Initiative Benefitting  over 5,00,000   children ITC’s Health  & Sanitation  Programme Nearly 24,000   low-cost  sanitary units  constructed