ANNUAL REPORT 2017-18 MAKING SUSTAINABLE LIVING COMMONPLACE THIS ANNUAL REPORT 2017-18 OF HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED (HUL) IS MADE UP OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT,  WHICH INCLUDES REPORT OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS, MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS; AND THE  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT, THE   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS; NOTES AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  AS REQUIRED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (‘THE ACT’) AND THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF  INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 (‘LISTING REGULATIONS’).
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Statements in this Annual Report, particularly those that relate to Management Discussion and Analysis, describing the Company’s  objectives, projections, estimates and expectations, may constitute ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of applicable laws  and regulations.
Although the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, the actual results might differ.
CONTENTS The terms ‘HUL ’, ‘the Company’, ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ refer to   Hindustan Unilever Limited.
Our Strategic Report, pages 1 to  65, contains information about us, how we create value for our  stakeholders and how we run our business.
It includes our strategy,  business model, market outlook and key performance indicators.
The Report of Board of Directors and Management Discussion and  Analysis; includes details of our performance under each of the  strategic pillar as well as our approach to sustainability and risk.
Our Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of Report of  Board of Directors, pages 46 to 65, contains an analysis of steps  taken in the area of Corporate Governance including information as  required under the Listing Regulations.
Our Financial Statements  and Notes are on pages 66 to 169.
The Strategic Report and    Financial Statements have been approved by the Board of Directors  of the Company.
OVERVIEW – About us  ..................................................................................... 1 – Chairman’s Statement  .............................................................. 2 – Board of Directors ...................................................................... 3 – Management Committee  .......................................................... 4 – Our Performance  ....................................................................... 5   Financial Performance  .......................................................... 6   Unilever Sustainable Living Plan ........................................... 7 – The Changing World  .................................................................. 8 – Our Value Creation Model  ......................................................... 9 – Our Strategy  ............................................................................. 10 REPORTS – Report of Board of Directors and Management Discussion    and Analysis ................................................................................... 11   Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility ............. 32   Business Responsibility Report ........................................... 37 – Corporate Governance Report  ................................................ 46 – Secretarial Audit Report  .......................................................... 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Standalone Financial Statements – Economic Value Added  .............................................................66 – Independent Auditors’ Report  ................................................. 68 – Balance Sheet  .......................................................................... 74 – Statement of Profit and Loss  .................................................. 76 – Statement of Changes in Equity  .............................................. 78 – Statement of Cash Flows  ........................................................ 79 – Notes  ........................................................................................ 81 Consolidated Financial Statements – Independent Auditors’ Report  ............................................... 121 – Consolidated Balance Sheet  ................................................. 124 – Statement of Consolidated Profit and Loss  ......................... 126 – Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  ..................... 128 – Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  ............................... 130 – Notes  ...................................................................................... 132 – Form AOC-1 ............................................................................ 169 Others – Awards and Recognition  ........................................................ 170  – Corporate Information  .......................................................... 171 Notice of Annual General Meeting ................................... 172  Profile of Directors (seeking re-appointment) ............. 177 Proxy Form  ONLINE You can find more information about Hindustan Unilever Limited online at www.hul.co.in  For further information on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) visit www.hul.co.in/sustainable-living  Annual Report 2017-18 along with other related documents can be downloaded at   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/annual-reports/hul-annual-report-related-documents.html Overview Reports   Financial Statements 1 ABOUT US AT A GLANCE HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED (HUL) IS INDIA’S  LARGEST FAST-MOVING CONSUMER GOODS COMPANY  WITH A HERITAGE OF OVER 80 YEARS.
NINE OUT OF  TEN INDIAN HOUSEHOLDS USE OUR PRODUCTS  EVERYDAY TO FEEL GOOD, LOOK GOOD AND GET MORE  OUT OF LIFE; GIVING US A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO  BUILD A BRIGHTER FUTURE.
Each of our categories – Home Care, Personal Care, Foods  and Refreshments – includes a portfolio of brands that serves  consumers across the length and breadth of India.
With over 40  brands spanning 20 distinct categories including soaps, detergents,  shampoos, skincare, toothpastes, deodorants, cosmetics, tea,  coffee, packaged foods, ice cream, frozen desserts, water and  air purifiers, the Company is part of the daily life of millions of  consumers.
Our portfolio includes leading brands such as Lux,  Lifebuoy, Surf excel, Rin, Wheel, Fair & Lovely, Pond’s, Vaseline,  Lakmé, Dove, Clinic Plus, Sunsilk, Pepsodent, Closeup, Axe, Brooke  Bond, BRU, Knorr, Kissan, Kwality Wall’s and Pureit.
Our products  are available in over seven million outlets across India.
Nearly 900 suppliers work with our supply chain that spans   28 of our own factories and several others that manufacture on our  behalf.
Our products are stocked in warehouses dotted across the  country and delivered to 3,500 customers.
HUL has around 18,000 employees working across 28 factories  and 9 offices and creates employment opportunities for several  thousand more across its value chain – from smallholder farmers,  who provide raw materials to the distribution partners who take the  products to customers and consumers.
Your Company has a clear and compelling strategy that focuses on  Winning with Brands and Innovation, Winning in the Marketplace,  Winning through Continuous Improvement and Winning with  People.
This is underpinned by the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan  (USLP) that sets our vision to increase the size of the business,  whilst decoupling it with our environmental footprint and increasing  our positive social impact.
Over the years, HUL has been driving the virtuous cycle of growth,  which has been resulting in consistent, competitive, profitable and  responsible growth for us.
Our continuous effort to re-invent the  organisation and stay ahead of the curve by constantly innovating  helps us drive scale.
Meeting consumer needs enables us to  increase our footprint and drive higher volume growth.
With higher  volume growth, we are able to get benefits from scale, efficiencies  and we invest the savings behind our products and brands which  thereby results in the virtuous cycle.
To harness the opportunities of the changing world, your Company  had implemented a transformational programme, Connected  4 Growth (C4G), in the organisation.
This has led to faster   decision-making, localised and swifter innovation and increased  speed to market, which is driving business performance.
OUR PURPOSE   HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED HAS A CLEAR  PURPOSE – TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE LIVING  COMMONPLACE.
WE BELIEVE THIS IS THE BEST WAY  TO DELIVER LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE GROWTH.
As the pace of change accelerates, we are creating a stronger,  simpler and more agile business.
However volatile and uncertain  the world becomes, we believe managing for the long-term is the  best way for us to grow.
We are well placed to deliver long-term  value through our strategy and the USLP.
These are supported by a  transformational change agenda, which combines our own actions  with a stakeholder approach to external advocacy and public policy.
The USLP is a value driver in its own right.
Our commitment  to the USLP’s three big global goals of improving health and   well-being of more than 1 billion people globally by 2020, halving  our environmental footprint by 2030, and enhancing livelihoods  for millions across the globe by 2020 has delivered growth for the  business.
The success of our sustainable living brands is driven  by the growing consumer demand for brands that have purpose at  their core.
The USLP also drives cost efficiency through reduced waste, energy  and packaging.
It lowers risks in our supply chain by securing a  sustainable flow of critical raw materials.
It also increases trust in  our business particularly among consumers, employees, investors  and regulators.
In India, to address the challenge of depleting water resources,  in 2010 we created a not-for-profit organisation, Hindustan  Unilever Foundation, which along with its partners creates water  conservation potential and enhances water-dependent livelihoods.
We work in partnership with the Government and other  organisations to drive transformational change across society  with initiatives to help realise the USLP goals, thus creating more  opportunities for women and enhancing livelihoods, promoting  health and well-being, and championing sustainable agriculture.
These are opportunities to grow our business by addressing unmet  challenges while alleviating major social and environmental issues.
Find out more about our performance under the USLP on pages 7 and 32 to 36.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 1 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited 2 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 1 2 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, Dear Shareholders, It gives me great pleasure to share with you an update on the  performance of your Company for the year 2017-18.
It was a  transformative year with the introduction of the Goods and  Services Tax (GST), an important development that has created a  single national market and will benefit both consumers as well  as the industry including the Consumer Goods sector.
While  trade conditions remained volatile during early implementation,  they have since stabilised and there is a gradual improvement in  overall demand.
In this challenging business environment, your Company  delivered a strong performance.
Our ‘Winning in Many Indias’  (WiMi) and ‘Connected 4 Growth’ (C4G) initiatives have made us  more agile, customer centric and responsive to the diverse and  rapidly evolving marketplace.
Our 4G model of growth - consistent,  competitive, profitable and responsible, continues to serve us  well and 2017-18 was the seventh consecutive year of both  topline growth and margin improvement.
In the year under review, our Domestic Consumer business on  comparable basis, grew by 12% driven by an underlying volume  growth of 6%.
EBITDA margin on a comparable basis, expanded  by 155 bps.
Profit after tax before exceptional items grew by  21% to ` 5,135 crores and Net Profit at ` 5,237 crores was up  17%.
The strong track record of cash generation was sustained.
The Board of Directors have proposed a final dividend of   ` 12 per share, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the  Annual General Meeting.
Together with an interim dividend of   ` 8 per share, the total dividend for the financial year ended   31st March, 2018 amounts to ` 20 per share.
Each of our businesses and functions played an important  role in delivering these strong results.
In Home Care, we  accelerated our growth momentum and further strengthened  our competitive position.
Surf excel delivered another year  of outstanding performance driven by volume growth and  premiumisation.
Rin detergent bar was upgraded using a patented  ‘smart-foam’ technology that saves up to two buckets of water in  every washing cycle, and is being extended to key markets after  a successful test launch in Maharashtra.
We also continued to  innovate and invest behind nascent categories like Household  Care and Fabric Conditioners with excellent results.
In Personal Care, both Personal Products and Personal Wash  delivered strong growth.
We continued to strengthen our core  portfolio through innovations, lead market development in  segments of the future and stepped up our presence in the fast- growing ‘naturals’ segment.
Hair Care sustained its strong growth  momentum, several new innovations were launched in premium  Skin Care and Lakmé became the latest brand to cross the ` 1,000  crore mark.
In Naturals, Indulekha Hair Oil delivered excellent  results and the brand was extended to shampoos, ‘LEVER ayush’  was launched and rapidly rolled out nationally, and several ‘natural’  variants were launched as an extension to our core brands.
Our Foods business performed well with continued focus on strong  brand and market building initiatives.
Innovations such as the  Knorr Italian ‘Margherita’ and ‘Cheese and Herbs’ variants were  introduced in select geographies and are ready for expansion.
In Refreshments, we reclaimed market leadership in tea by  differentially leveraging our portfolio of brands across the country.
Coffee continued its premiumisation initiatives with BRU, while  innovative launches and geographical expansion boosted our  fast-growing Ice Creams and Frozen Desserts business.
Our sales and distribution system, with an unrivalled national  presence across traditional and modern trade channels, remains  a key competitive advantage.
We continued to expand our direct  coverage and leverage technology and intelligent analytics  to significantly enhance our customer service and on-shelf  availability.
The Company also continued to make significant  investments in building capabilities to win in channels of the  future and substantial progress is being made particularly in the  fast-growing e-commerce channel.
Our world-class supply chain continued its relentless focus on  driving quality, customer service and cost effectiveness across  the value chain.
Customer service levels reached upwards of  95% while savings in costs and cash were at a record high, which  helped the business to invest behind growth and still deliver a  healthy margin improvement.
We remain committed to the Unilever Sustainable Living  Plan (USLP) to drive growth and at the same time, create a  positive social impact.
We continued with our initiatives in the  areas of hygiene, sanitation and safe drinking water and over   140 million people have benefitted from the Lifebuoy  Handwashing Programme, Domex Toilet Academy and Pureit  safe drinking water.
Through our Swachh Aadat curriculum, we  reached out to students in over 1,200 primary schools to teach  them hygienic habits of washing hands with soap, adopting safe  drinking water practices and using clean toilets.
In line with our USLP goals, we took significant steps to  further reduce waste, water consumption, energy usage and  CO2 emissions in our factories and offices.
We increased the  renewable energy share in our manufacturing to 36% with a  clear objective of improving it even further through increased  utilisation of traditional biofuels like agricultural waste.
To address the challenges of depleting water resources,  Hindustan Unilever Foundation, along with its partners, have  created a water conservation potential of over 450 billion litres.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 3 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited BOARD OF DIRECTORS We are in a rapidly changing world where burgeoning digital  connectivity and ubiquity of data is reshaping the value creation  model across industries.
We continue to lead the digital  transformation with significant investments in advanced data  analytics, automation, robotics and artificial intelligence across  the whole value chain.
We are collaborating with experts,  cultivating an entrepreneurial mindset in our employees and  driving transformative experiments to unlock value in our journey  from mass marketing to massive customisation.
Overall, it was another year of sustained high performance  with considerable achievements across our business.
None  of this would have been possible without the dedication and  determination of our people.
Our employee engagement scores  continued to be at a record high and we once again emerged  as the employer of choice amongst leading business school  students across the country.
I have had the good fortune and privilege to serve this great  Company as a Chairman for the last thirteen years.
As I bid  farewell, I would like to thank each and every employee and those  working with us across the value chain for their commitment  and service to the Company.
I would also like to thank the Board  of Directors for their unstinted support throughout my tenure.
Most importantly, I would like to thank you, our shareholders,  for your overwhelming trust and confidence that helped to  uncompromisingly pursue an agenda that was in the long-term  interest of the Company.
It’s my pleasure to pass on the baton to Sanjiv Mehta.
I am  confident that under his leadership and your support, the  Company will reach even greater heights.
Best Regards, Harish Manwani Chairman 1.
Mr. Harish Manwani    Chairman 2.
Mr. Sanjiv Mehta     Managing Director and   Chief Executive Officer 3.
Mr. Srinivas Phatak     Executive Director, Finance & IT   and Chief Financial Officer 4.
Mr. Pradeep Banerjee     Executive Director, Supply Chain 5.
Mr. Dev Bajpai     Executive Director,   Legal & Corporate Affairs and   Company Secretary 6.
Mr. Aditya Narayan    Independent Director 7.
Mr. S. Ramadorai    Independent Director 8.
Mr. O. P. Bhatt    Independent Director 9.
Dr. Sanjiv Misra    Independent Director 10.
Ms. Kalpana Morparia    Independent Director 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Overview Reports   Financial Statements 3 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited 4 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 1.
Mr. Sanjiv Mehta   Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 2.
Mr. Srinivas Phatak   Executive Director, Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer 3.
Mr. Pradeep Banerjee   Executive Director, Supply Chain 4.
Mr. Dev Bajpai   Executive Director, Legal & Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary 5.
Ms. Geetu Verma   Executive Director, Foods 6.
Mr. B. P. Biddappa   Executive Director, Human Resources 7.
Ms. Priya Nair   Executive Director, Home Care 8.
Mr. Sandeep Kohli   Executive Director, Personal Care 9.
Mr. Sudhir Sitapati   Executive Director, Refreshments 10.
Mr. Srinandan Sundaram   Executive Director, Sales and Customer Development 5 17 9 8 4 6 10 2 3 4 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Overview Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited OUR PERFORMANCE THE BENEFITS THAT OUR STRATEGY DELIVERS, TRANSLATE INTO GROWTH-ORIENTED PERFORMANCE FOR  SHAREHOLDERS AND SOCIETY AT LARGE BETTER LIVELIHOODS   2017 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING   2017 HEALTH AND WELL-BEING  2017 ~80,000 52% >140 54% REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS  2017-18 K 35,218 crores Comparable Domestic Consumer  business grew 12% with 6%  underlying volume growth in a  challenging environment Reduction in CO2  emissions (kg/tonne  of production) in our  manufacturing operations  compared to 2008  baseline2016: 49% 2016: 72,000 Shakti Entrepreneurs empowered 2016: 46% Tea sourced from sustainable sources for  Unilever brands 2016: >130 million People reached through our Water, Sanitation and  Hygiene (WASH) initiatives Reduction in water  consumption (m3/tonne  of production) in our  manufacturing operations  compared to 2008  baseline2016: 53% Reduction in total waste  (kg/tonne of production)  generated from factories  compared to 2008  baseline 2016: 45% EBITDA  2017-18 K 7,276 crores Comparable Earning Before  Interest Tax Depreciation and  Amortisation (EBITDA) improved  by 155 bps EPS (BASIC)  2017-18 K 24.20 Last year’s basic EPS:  ` 20.75 per share CASH FROM OPERATIONS  2017-18 K 8,000+ crores Cash from operations was  up ` 1,369 crores over the  previous year MANUFACTURING 2017 55% 2017 54% 2017 million SEGMENT PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL SEGMENTAL  REVENUE (%) SEGMENTAL  PROFITS (%)   Personal Care 47   Home Care  33   Refreshments 15   Foods  3   Others  2   Personal Care 61   Home Care  25   Refreshments  13   Foods  1   Others  0 Overview Reports   Financial Statements 5 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited 6 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STANDALONE (` crores) Statement of Profit & Loss Account IND AS 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Sales (including excise duty)  32,929  33,895  34,619 Other Income  1,126  1,118  1,168 Interest  (15)  (22)  (20) Profit Before Taxation @  5,977  6,155  7,347 Profit After Taxation @  4,116  4,247  5,135 Earnings Per Share of ` 1 19.12 20.75  24.20 Dividend Per Share of ` 1 16.00 17.00 20.00 @  Before Exceptional / Extraordinary items Balance Sheet IND AS 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets  3,300  4,227  4,572 Investments  2,780  3,779  3,111 Cash and Other Bank Balances  2,759  1,671  3,373 Net Assets (Current and Non-current)  (2,560)  (3,187)  (3,981)  6,279  6,490  7,075 Share Capital  216  216  216 Other Equity  6,063  6,274  6,859  6,279  6,490  7,075 Key Ratios and EVA IND AS 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 EBITDA (% of Gross Sales) 17.5 17.8 21.0 Fixed Asset Turnover (No.
of Turnover) 10.0 8.0 7.6 PAT@ / Gross Sales (%) 12.5 12.5 14.8 Return On Capital Employed (%) 105.8 105.9 118.9 Return On Net Worth (%) 72.8 76.6 84.5 Economic Value Added (EVA) (` crores) 3,438 3,498 4,258 @  Before Exceptional / Extraordinary items Others IND AS 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 HUL Share Price on BSE (` Per Share of ` 1)*  870  910  1,336 Market Capitalisation (` crores)  188,154  196,902  289,159 Contribution to Exchequer (` crores)  8,856  9,249 7,283 * Based on year-end closing prices quoted on BSE Limited.
For information on 10 Years record of Financial Performance is available at Company's website at https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/ annual-reports/hul-annual-report-related-documents.html.
Financial Performance Overview Reports   Financial Statements 7 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN IMPROVING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING  REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS HEALTH AND  HYGIENE TARGET  By 2020, Unilever  will help more than a  billion people globally  to improve their  health and hygiene.
This will help reduce  the incidence of life  threatening diseases  like diarrhoea.
PERFORMANCE  In India, over 140  million people were  reached by December  2017 through  programmes on  handwashing, safe  drinking water and  sanitation.
FAIRNESS IN THE  WORKPLACE  TARGET  By 2020, Unilever  will advance human  rights across global  operations and  extended supply chain.
PERFORMANCE  HUL continued to  embed human rights  with a focus on eight  salient human rights  issues identified by  Unilever which are  documented in the  2015 Human Rights  Report.
NUTRITION   TARGET  By 2020, Unilever will  double the proportion  of its portfolio across  the globe, that meets  the highest nutritional  standards, based on  globally recognised  dietary guidelines.
This  will help hundreds of  millions of people to  achieve a healthier  diet.
PERFORMANCE  47% of HUL ’s Foods  and Refreshments  portfolio met the  highest nutritional  standards in 2017,  based on globally  recognised dietary  guidelines.
OPPORTUNITIES  FOR WOMEN   TARGET  By 2020, Unilever   will empower five  million women across  the globe.
PERFORMANCE  HUL ’s Shakti  programme  empowered nearly  80,000 Shakti  Entrepreneurs by  December 2017.
INCLUSIVE  BUSINESS   TARGET  By 2020, Unilever will  have a positive impact  on the lives of 5.5  million people across  the world.
PERFORMANCE  HUL has positively  impacted over   1.7 million people  through Project  Prabhat initiatives  across 30 locations.
These initiatives  focus on enhancing  livelihoods, water  conservation, health  and hygiene.
GREENHOUSE GASES TARGET  Halve the greenhouse gas  impact of Unilever’s products  across the lifecycle by 2030.
PERFORMANCE  CO2 emissions (kg / tonne  of production) in HUL ’s  manufacturing operations  reduced by 54% compared to  2008 baseline.
WATER   TARGET  By 2020, water abstraction  by Unilever's global factory  network will be at or below  2008 baseline despite  significantly higher volumes.
PERFORMANCE  Water consumption (in   m3 / tonne of production)  in HUL ’s manufacturing  operations reduced by 55%  compared to 2008 baseline.
WASTE   TARGET  By 2020, total waste sent for  disposal globally, will be at or  below 2008 baseline despite  significantly higher volumes.
PERFORMANCE  Total waste generated   (kg / tonne of production)  from HUL ’s factories reduced  by 54% over 2008 baseline.
SUSTAINABLE SOURCING TARGET  By 2020, Unilever will source  100% of its agricultural  raw materials for global  operations, sustainably.
PERFORMANCE  In India, a total of 52% of tea  sourced for Unilever’s brands  is from sustainable sources.
99% of paper and board used  for packing HUL ’s products is  from sustainable sources.
By 2020, Unilever will help more than a billion  people take action to improve their health and   well-being.
By 2020, Unilever will enhance the livelihoods of millions of people as it grows  its business.
By 2030, Unilever’s goal is to halve the environmental footprint of the making and use of its products as it grows its business.
Our USLP commitments and targets are subject to internal verification.
For details of the definitions and reporting periods used in  the preparation of these commitments and targets, see our Sustainable Living Section at www.hul.co.in/sustainable-living.
8 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 THE CHANGING WORLD  THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT IS CHANGING AT A  PACE, FASTER THAN EVER.
In India, favourable demographics, rise in incomes, growing  awareness due to technology, easier access to products and  services and changing lifestyles are contributing to major shifts  in consumer behaviour and offering immense potential for the   Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) industry.
This presents  significant opportunities and headroom for growth for your  Company.
Your Company has the benefit of a large portfolio that straddles the  economic pyramid with brands that have a strong presence across  the mass, popular and premium ranges in most categories.
Our  brands are driven by a social purpose, making them more relevant  to the millennial consumers.
To harness the opportunities in India,  your Company is making significant investments in the categories  of the future.
Your Company is also developing and evolving newer and faster  methods such as the Connected 4 Growth (C4G) business model,  which provides the resilience and agility that today’s trading  environment demands.
This has helped your Company create  a business that is more consumer and customer-centric, faster,  more efficient and empowered to enable faster decision-making.
Given below are some of the key changes that are taking place in  the world around us and how your Company is preparing itself to  turn them into opportunities.
TECHNOLOGICAL REVOLUTION  The adoption of digital technology continues to impact every walk  of life.
A decade ago, few had the privilege of owning a mobile  phone while today nearly half a billion Indians own smartphones.
Earlier, shopping was a 'real time' activity, while today with the  new age consumers who are seeking convenience, e-commerce  is growing at a rapid speed.
Digital shopping is being powered by  mobile devices.
With the penetration of mobile internet increasing,  digital platforms and social media websites are becoming the new  marketplace.
Your Company believes it is well placed to capture the opportunities  of the technological revolution, and the unprecedented explosion  in data, which are transforming our markets and the way we work.
We need to continue driving this critical agenda, which is why we  are investing heavily in digital, experimenting with a range of new  business models and embarking on an organisation wide digital  transformation programme.
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS  With the advent of technology and rapid urbanisation, we see  changes in a number of areas, notably in consumer preferences,  route-to-market channels, media and brand communication and  the competitive landscape.
Consumers are taking radically different  paths when purchasing brands, often combining both offline and  online channels where influencers are a growing force.
Younger  consumers are prioritising meaning over materialism, demanding  brands with a point of view and more authenticity, transparency and  sustainability.
Your Company understands the changing needs of the fast-moving  world and believes that businesses that help the people and the planet  thrive, will succeed in the future.
We are continuously developing  our purpose-driven brands.
Through technology, we are addressing  the needs of the new-age consumer – be it in manufacturing,   route-to-market or marketing.
We are building capabilities towards  mass customisation and precision marketing to appeal to the  consumers.
As a business, we are constantly keeping an eye on the  future, adapting and evolving to stay one step ahead.
ENVIRONMENTAL BACKDROP  The business case for sustainability is being increasingly accepted.
There is also growing evidence that consumers are favourably  inclined towards brands and companies that have a compelling  agenda on sustainability.
We are taking direct action to address the  environmental challenges within our value chain.
One of our three  big USLP goals aims to halve the environmental footprint in the  making and use of our products by 2030.
Through the Hindustan  Unilever Foundation, we have created a water conservation  potential of 450 billion litres till date.
For further details, refer to the USLP section on Page 32.
ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT The business environment for FMCG companies has been challenging  over the last three years.
Although India continues to be one of  the fastest growing large economies in the world, the year under  review was far from normal for the industry.
Structural changes  like demonetisation and transformative changes like the Goods and  Services Tax (GST) have had an impact on the FMCG sector.
The year witnessed the implementation of GST across the  country on 1st July, 2017, followed by the second round of tax slab  reductions implemented by the Government in November.
This was  a year of uncertainty in the market and hence, there was a cautious  sentiment in trade.
While your Company was swift and smooth in  transitioning to the new tax regime, given the backdrop of this large  transition that the country underwent, the operating environment  for your Company during the year remained challenging.
Your Company’s performance for the year 2017-18 has to be viewed  in the context of the aforesaid economic and market environment.
The Changing World Overview Reports   Financial Statements 9 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL YOUR COMPANY HAS A PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL  THAT SUPPORTS LONG-TERM, COMPOUNDING  GROWTH AND SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION.
Our business activities span a complex value chain.
Starting with  consumer insights, we track changing consumer sentiments  through active analysis of consumer and customer trends,  leveraging our People Data Centre.
With close collaboration  between marketing and Research and Development (R&D), we use  our insights to support innovations and product development.
We work closely with suppliers of goods, services and raw  materials to assist in product development, which helps us create  differentiated and value-added products.
Our products are then distributed via a large network of stores,  from large supermarkets, hypermarkets, wholesalers and   cash-and-carry to small convenience stores, as well as other   fast-growing channels such as e-commerce and out-of-home.
This  is done through thousands of customers who help distribute our  products across the channels.
We are one of the biggest advertisers in India, based on media  spend.
Alongside more conventional advertising, we create an  increasing amount of tailored content to market our brands, using  digital channels that are better targeted and more personalised.
Underlying our value chain is a set of defining strengths which  set us apart from our competitors: our portfolio of brands, deep  distribution capability through ever more complex channels, and a  talent pool of purpose-driven and values-led employees.
Our strategy harnesses these strengths to deliver competitive top  and bottom line growth.
Sustainable value creation also means  investing for the long-term, which is why the USLP is at the heart  of our business model and our Vision is to grow our business,  whilst decoupling our environmental footprint from our growth and  increasing our positive social impact.
Our strategy and business model enable us to deliver growth that is  consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible.
PURPOSEFUL PEOPLE 18,000 talented people who contribute their  skill and purpose to our business  Pages 15 and16 NATURAL RESOURCES Renewable and non-renewable materials  and ingredients for our products.
Pages 14 and 43 FINANCIAL RESOURCES Equity and other equity.
Pages 96 to 97 INTANGIBLE ASSETS R & D capabilities and intellectual  property such as brands / trademarks and   know-how.
Page 88 TANGIBLE ASSETS Physical assets such as manufacturing,  logistics, office facilities and stock.
Page 87 STAKEHOLDERS & PARTNERS Relationships with governments and other  organisations to drive change.
Page 42 WHAT WE DEPEND ON HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE WE CREATE OUR PURPOSE To Make Sustainable Living Commonplace OUR VISION To grow our business, whilst decoupling our  environmental footprint from our growth and  increasing our positive social impact, delivered  through the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan: Improving health & well-being  Reducing environmental impact Enhancing livelihood OUR STRATEGY To deliver long-term compounding growth and  sustainable value creation by: CONSUMER BENEFITS We sell products that help people to  feel good, look good and get more out  of life.
Pages 11 to 13 TOP & BOTTOM LINE  GROWTH We deliver consistent, competitive,  profitable and responsible growth  Page 5 IMPROVED HEALTH &  WELL-BEING We are helping hundreds of millions  of people take action to improve their  health & well-being.
Pages 33 and 34 REDUCED  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We are working to halve the  environmental footprint of the making  and use of our products as we grow  our business.
Page 34 ENHANCED LIVELIHOOD We are enhancing the livelihood of  millions of people as we grow our  business.
Pages 34 and 35 Winning  with  Brands and  Innovation Winning  in the  Marketplace Winning  through  Continuous  Improvement Winning  with People Supported by categories: Personal Care:  Pages 11 and 12 Home Care:  Page 12 Foods:  Page 12  Refreshments:  Pages 12 and 13 Page 10 Page 10 Page 10 Page 10 OUR STRATEGY GROWING THE CORE, EVOLVING THE PORTFOLIO AND DEVELOPING CHANNELS ARE AT THE HEART OF OUR  STRATEGY TO DELIVER LONG-TERM, COMPOUNDING GROWTH AND SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION.
Underpinning the Compass is the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan  (USLP), which is our differentiator.
While growing our business,  we deliver social and environmental benefits throughout our  value chain, which in turn enables us to improve lives and provide  opportunities to people, everywhere.
Consumer preferences are changing.
They are taking newer paths  for purchasing brands and increasingly seeking brands that are   purpose-driven and which they can trust.
Our Sustainable Living  brands are a key differentiator in this regard.
We are continuously  building brands with purpose.
We are constantly innovating across our portfolio to address the  unmet needs of our consumers.
We are focused on strengthening  the core, entering new segments and speeding up innovation  cycles.
We are evolving the ways in which we reach our consumers.
With rapid digitisation and changing consumer preferences, we  are customising brand messages for different communication  channels – traditional and digital.
We are developing new markets  for our brands through on-ground sampling as well as marketing  our ‘trial packs’.
To capitalise on the growing trend of ‘naturals’, we have built a strong  portfolio of brands and products.
We are constantly evaluating and  innovating our ‘naturals’ portfolio to win in the future.
We are constantly aligning our products, processes and strategies  to the changing market conditions to stay ahead of competition.
We focus on business competitiveness through consumer and  customer centricity, a robust savings programme and service  excellence to ensure availability of our products.
We continue to improve on-shelf consumer relevant quality  standards, thereby enhancing overall consumer experience.
‘Delighting consumers everyday’ is central to how we drive quality  in our products.
Through sharper financial discipline governing overhead spending,  and our zero-based budgeting approach, we are reducing cost  as well as uncovering new and innovative ways of working.
We  have an enterprise-wide savings programme, driven through   cross-functional teams of brand building, R&D, supply chain   and finance.
Our customer service level has reached upwards of 95%.
We are  focusing on improving the capability of our distributors so that  service to the retail trade can be improved.
To win in the marketplace, we have a robust Customer  Development agenda.
We work with customers to understand  consumer demand, focus on fulfilling the demand and tirelessly  create new demand through market development.
This is driven  by the ‘Winning In Many Indias’ (WiMi) strategy that allows us to  get closer to customers and consumers by providing tailor-made  products across categories and geographies.
As far as demand capture is concerned, our focus has been on  driving quality of coverage and increasing the assortment using  data-centric and analytical approach.
With respect to demand  fulfilment, process and technology interventions have been used  for improving service and efficiencies.
For demand-generation,  our strategy encompasses winning in traditional trade, winning  in ‘route-to-market’ as well as winning in emerging channels like  modern trade and e-commerce.
Our People are our biggest strength.
They are driven by purpose  and are fully empowered to excel in our fast-changing market.
We continuously strive to develop the right capabilities and skills  needed for different ways of working and new entrepreneurial  leadership qualities.
To strengthen the People’s agenda through the C4G initiative, we  are creating a more flexible and agile mindset in the organisation.
It involves more collaboration, experimentation through   test-and-learn, embracing failure to gain insight and an obsession  with customers and consumers.
An ‘owner’s mindset’ empowers  our people to take responsibility for delivering business results.
They are empowered and provided with the resources to develop  innovations with speed.
Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain  the most talented individuals.
We motivate and inspire them   with a mission and a purpose that resonates with the   long-term aims and the values of the Company.
HUL retained the  'No.
1 Employer of Choice' amongst key business schools for the  seventh year in a row.
We have been driving employee well-being through several  initiatives focused on the four aspects of well-being – Physical,  Mental, Emotional and Purposeful.
Our people agenda focuses on  creating a balanced and inclusive workforce.
This focus not only  underpins the Company’s longstanding values, especially tolerance  and respect, but also guarantees the diversity of thought and ideas  on which our business depends.
Read more on Page 18  Read more on Page 19  Read more on Page 19  Read more on Page 16 WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION  WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT  WINNING IN THE MARKETPLACE  WINNING WITH PEOPLE Binding our strategy together are our Compass pillars which define  how we win with consumers.
They are: • Winning with Brands and Innovation  • Winning in the Marketplace  • Winning through Continuous Improvement  • Winning with People 10 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Our Strategy Against the backdrop of the external environment discussed earlier, our value creation model and our strategy, your Board of Directors is  pleased to share with you the Business Performance under each of its strategic pillars along with the Audited Financial Statements for  the financial year ended 31st March, 2018.
WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION Our consumers are at the heart of our value creation model and strategy.
We meet the needs of our consumers through our four categories  spanning 40 brands, most of which are household names.
The key thrust areas for your Company under this strategic pillar  of Winning with Brands and Innovation are building brands with  purpose, innovating across the portfolio and market development.
To make the business future ready, we have implemented the  Winning In Many Indias (WiMi) strategy that resulted in creating  14 Consumer Clusters and the Country Category Business Teams  (CCBTs), which are multi-functional business units consisting of  marketing, R&D, customer development, finance and supply chain  resources.
Through WiMi and CCBTs, your Company is crafting  sharper strategies and rolling out innovations at a much faster  pace.
Personal Care  Your Company is focusing on key strategic thrusts to further  strengthen its leadership in the Indian Personal Care market, by   strengthening the core brands, accelerating premiumisation of the  portfolio, market development and scaling up play in ‘naturals’.
The penetration and consumption of most of the categories in  which your Company operates have a healthy headroom to grow,  indicating the potential in the Personal Care market in India.
Skin Care saw healthy growth across segments including face  care, face cleansing, hand and body.
Growth of core brands in Skin  Care was driven by a successful re-launch of Fair & Lovely.
The  talcum powder business grew ahead of the market with refreshed  communication and focused relevance building.
Skin Cleansing had a good year, with Lifebuoy, Lux, Pears and  Dove growing strongly.
Lifebuoy continued its mission of changing  handwashing habits across the nation and Lux held its second  edition of the ‘Lux Golden Rose Awards’, the only award to celebrate  and recognise best women actors.
Dove and Pears led the growth  at the premium end of the market.
In Haircare, your Company launched various new products in the  core portfolio of every brand to meet its growth ambition.
Several  innovations were delivered in the ‘naturals’ space.
Two new variants  of TRESemmé, namely, ‘TRESemmé Botanique Detox and Restore’  and ‘TRESemmé Botanique Nourish and Replenish’ were also  launched.
A new variant for Dove called ‘Environmental Defence’  was launched to protect hair damage caused due to pollution.
The re-shaping of the Oral Care market resulted in headwinds to  your Company’s Oral Care business.
Closeup was re-launched  in 2017 with a refreshed proposition and communication as well  as high scale media deployment.
Pepsodent had a refreshed  communication to build relevance of the germ protection  proposition, with focus on ‘sweet loving’ eating habits.
Your  Company, through LEVER ayush, has forayed into the ‘naturals'  segment in Oral Care.
Lakmé had a milestone year and entered the list of your Company’s  ` 1,000 crores brands.
Growth was broad-based, with all   sub-ranges (Core, 9to5, Absolute) delivering strong growth.
Lakmé  continued to lead trends in the market with new ranges like Lakmé  Absolute Argan Oil range.
The brand also hosted the marquee   Lakmé Fashion Week.
J2,000+ CRORE BRANDS J1,000+ CRORE BRANDS J500+ CRORE BRANDS REPORT OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS and Management Discussion and Analysis Overview Reports   Financial Statements 11 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited In Deodorants, the Axe brand performed well, and a new mini format  of Axe Ticket was launched.
Rexona, our leading anti-perspirant  brand, has shown encouraging results during initial launch.
Your Company has a comprehensive ‘naturals’ strategy to ensure  it is able to leverage this growing trend.
The Company is building  a master brand LEVER ayush across multiple categories like oral  care, haircare, skin care and more.
The brand strives to make  ancient ayurvedic wisdom accessible to solve modern day beauty  problems.
LEVER ayush consists of a wide range of products across  toothpaste, soaps, handwashes, shampoos and face wash, with  each segment offering varied solutions.
LEVER ayush works with  one of the premier Ayurvedic Institutes, Arya Vaidya Pharmacy, to  make products that use the right ingredients to make the product  effective.
Your Company is also building specialist 'naturals' brands  like Indulekha and Citra.
Indulekha has delivered impressive  performance in the oil format and has now been extended into  shampoos, with a unique product formulation and distinctive  packaging.
The third leg of the ‘naturals’ strategy involves launching various  natural variants within its existing portfolio of products like  TRESemmé Botanique, Clinic Plus Ayurveda, FAL Ayurvedic care,  Closeup Nature Boost and Nature Rush.
Home Care Your Company’s Home Care business sustained its competitive,  profitable growth agenda during the year.
Your Company’s  fabric wash business has delivered strong and comprehensive  performance on the back of continuing the premiumisation  thrust with Surf excel and regaining growth in the mass segment  led by Wheel.
In the emerging segments of machines and fabric  conditioning, Surf excel matic liquid and Comfort fabric conditioner  built momentum and reached more consumer homes.
Surf excel  hand wash and matic powders were re-engineered for optimised  delivery of fabric whiteness.
Sunlight powder was re-launched  with improved performance on cleaning.
Wheel powder was   re-launched with malodour masking benefits on fabrics delivered  through fragrance technology.
Rin bar was re-launched with  improved performance on cleaning and fragrance attributes.
Rin  Matic liquid for Top Load washing machines was launched.
In Household Care, Vim led the market development for dishwash  through category adoption of Vim bar in rural India and by  upgrading existing bar consumers to the liquid format.
During the  year, Vim bar also launched its value-added variant Vim Anti-Smell  (with Pudina) to start upgrading existing bar users to a higher value  benefit of removal of strong leftover smells from clean vessels.
Vim  liquid was re-engineered to deliver better value to our consumers.
Domex launched India’s first low-cost toilet cleaning powder.
Domex toilet rim blocks too were re-launched via e-commerce.
Pureit continued to strengthen its presence in the fast-growing  Reverse Osmosis (RO) business.
Launch of the low-priced mineral  RO range complemented the existing range well and has further  opened the segment by providing consumers a quality range of RO  water purifiers at an affordable price.
Your Company also launched  the new Pureit air purifier range to provide effective solutions to the  growing concern around air pollution.
Foods  Your Company’s Foods business presents sustainable opportunities  for future growth given low household penetration.
Consumers are  looking for taste, freshness and differentiated offerings that satiate  their need for experimentation and time saving.
The preference  for international cuisines is rising and higher disposable incomes  squarely translate to higher share of wallet for packaged foods,  leading to a virtuous cycle of growth.
The Foods business will continue to focus on volume growth in core  categories, while successfully landing innovations which will be  critical to tap into a fast re-shaping landscape of packaged foods.
During the year, the Foods business embarked on several new  initiatives and launches, notably the launch of new Knorr Italian  Margherita and Cheese & Herbs variant of noodles.
This launch  in select geographies adds to the noodles portfolio and comes as  an addition to Knorr’s flagship Soupy noodles which has a loyal  consumer base.
Your Company also launched two new variants  of Premium International soups – Italian Mushroom and Mexican  Tomato Corn.
Under the food solutions channel, the Company  introduced seven different Masala variants.
Knorr noodles tied up  with Carnival cinemas to provide a great snacking experience for  moviegoers.
Kissan re-launched its Sweet & Spicy range of ketchups to cater to  the evolving palate of new-age consumers.
Kissan entered into a  partnership with INOX to provide consumers with the experience of  a new Sweet & Spicy range at every INOX movie hall in the country,   a unique tie-up to distribute samples at the ‘moment of consumption’.
The year also saw the launch of one new variant of premium jam,  Kissan Tropical blast and new packs of Kissan Mixed Fruit jams.
Kissan Ketchup and sauces were re-launched during the year.
Kissan also launched its first ever engagement platform in 2017.
In an endeavour to help make the sometimes-daunting task of  packing tiffin easier, Kissan, true to its ethos, is on a journey via  its ‘Kissan Tiffin Timetable’ channel to create 200 recipes for 200  schooldays.
The recipes are co-created with India’s leading recipe  platform, India Food Network, and presented by an assortment  of renowned trained chefs, home chefs and food bloggers.
The initiative was recognised by the Indian Food Forum with a  ‘Golden Spoon Award’ as the best marketing activation for 2017.
Refreshments  The Refreshments business of your Company, comprising iconic  brands like Taj Mahal, Red Label, Lipton, BRU and Kwality Wall's,  had a good year.
It delivered strong and broad-based volume-led  growth across Tea, Coffee and Ice Cream.
The business continued  to drive the reach through increase in direct distribution.
Tea  continued to deliver robust, volume-led growth as all the key  brands continued to grow and delight millions of consumers with  their superior taste.
Your Company initiated the launch of 13 new  premium variants of Taj Mahal for gifting on the e-commerce  channel.
Brooke Bond Red Label and 3 Roses Natural Care Tea, with  its differentiated immunity benefit from goodness of ayurvedic  ingredients, continued to delight consumers.
In Taaza, small packs  and low unit packs were re-launched.
12 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Brooke Bond Taj Mahal was re-launched with superior product and  packaging.
Your Company continues to promote healthy lifestyle  through green tea.
During the year, your Company launched a new variant of   BRU Coffee in select geographies.
It continues to leverage   state-of-the-art roasting and extraction technologies to deliver  superior instant coffee products.
For the first time, your Company  launched beaten coffee and new masala tea premix in the Out of  Home vending channel.
The Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert business saw competitive  growth during the year.
New innovations in Cornetto and sticks  range have done well and received good consumer feedback.
Your Company launched the Cornetto Red Velvet variant, Oreo  variant, Kwality Wall's Sandwich and Cloud Bite.
In Paddle Pop,  your Company launched two new exciting variants, namely, dragon  popper and mango and strawberry zaps.
To cater to the health  conscious consumers, your Company introduced Cornetto Mini in  reduced portion size and in multipack.
Brands with Purpose  Our sustainable living brands are those that take action to make  sustainable living commonplace in a way that is relevant to the  product, good for society and motivating to consumers.
We are constantly endeavouring to build brands with purpose.
By  December 2017, Lifebuoy reached over 67 million people through  Lifebuoy Handwashing Programme in India.
Dove worked with  partners such as Fountainhead and World Association of Girl  Guides and Girl Scouts to build the self-esteem of thousands of  young girls in India.
The Fair & Lovely Foundation, through relevant online courses,  continued its journey of empowering women to become   self-reliant.
The programme has seen high degree of participation  with nearly two lakhs women.
Rin introduced the new Rin detergent bar with patented   ‘smart-foam’ technology that saves up to two buckets of water  in every washing cycle.
Surf excel launched its #Haar KoHarao  campaign to make children future-ready by helping them   ‘Learn from Failure’.
Domex launched India’s first toilet cleaning powder in a test market.
The innovation caters to the bottom of the pyramid consumers for  whom the powder provides an effective and affordable solution  for cleaning the toilet and removing malodour.
Given the initial  success, the brand is extending this innovation to new markets  in 2018.
Domex also continued with its purpose by adopting   400 villages in Andhra Pradesh to make them Open Defecation Free  through behaviour change with on-ground interventions.
Till 2017, Pureit provided over 83 billion litres of safe drinking water  to consumers across India and continues to make progress towards  its ambition of providing safe drinking water to millions.
The brand  is leveraging its partnership with Micro-Finance Institutions to  reach the poorest of the poor.
Sustainable sourcing protects the planet while increasing farmer  incomes.
Each tomato that goes into the making of Kissan ketchup  is grown by a farmer in the most sustainable way.
Staying steady on the progress as part of the ‘Reducing salt’  commitment under the USLP, three key variants of Kissan ketchup  now meet sodium benchmarks of 5g salt intake per day.
The launch  of these variants with reduced sodium in a competitive market  serves as a testimony that we are progressing steadfastly towards  our USLP commitments by providing consumers a variety of options  from our portfolio that not only appeal to their taste buds but also  contribute positively towards their health and well-being.
As per the latest statistics by World Food Programme (WFP),   815 million people, or one in nine of the global population still goes  to bed hungry.
India is home to a quarter of undernourished people  worldwide, making the country a key focus for tackling hunger on  a global scale.
In 2017, to mark the occasion of World Food Day,  Knorr gave food lovers the opportunity to turn a virtual food post  into a real meal for someone in need.
On 16th October, 2017,  each time our #ShareTheMeal post was shared or re-tweeted on  Facebook and Twitter, Knorr Global donated the equivalent of one  meal via the WFP, up to a total of 1.5 million meals, and Knorr India  donated 50,000 meals via Akshaya Patra.
Your Company follows global principles of responsible food and  beverage marketing and is also a signatory of the India Policy  on Marketing Communications to Children.
In accordance, HUL  pledges to advertise products to children under the age of 12 that  meet common ‘Food & Beverage Alliance of India’ nutrition criteria.
Your Company continues to collaborate with Confederation of  Indian Industry (CII) and Food Safety Authority of India to run  ‘CII-HUL Initiative on Food Safety Sciences’, to propagate science  based culture in food safety.
This initiative aims to accomplish a  food operations regime in India that embodies the principles of  food safety sciences and is positioned on risk based food safety  approaches.
WINNING IN THE MARKETPLACE  The Customer Development ecosystem of your Company  encompasses capturing the demand, fulfilment of demand and  generation of demand.
Your Company leads market development by  growing new channels with a focus on execution through its Perfect  Stores programme.
Your Company works with customers, such as  large retail chains, to generate insights about those who visit their  stores through technology that creates detailed shopper profiles.
Key thrust areas under this strategic pillar are WiMi, increasing your  Company’s effective coverage and becoming the partner of choice  across channels.
WiMi is an agenda that allows your Company to  get closer to customers and consumers by providing tailor-made  products across categories and geographies.
It has been a year of strengthening the WiMi thinking across  markets, embedding it into your Company’s ways of working.
This  has helped the Company move the needle on quality of servicing  and in-market execution by getting closer to the customers and  consumers.
Our supply chain’s capability to offer cluster-specific  promotion and formulation is helping the Company get closer to a  diverse set of consumers and address their needs and aspirations.
This approach has strengthened your Company’s connect with them  across geographical clusters and will be a source of competitive  advantage for years to come.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 13 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited As far as demand capturing is concerned, the focus of your  Company has been on driving quality of coverage and increasing  the assortment using data-centric and analytical approach.
With  respect to demand fulfilment, process and technology interventions  have been used for improving service and efficiencies.
For demand  generation, the strategy of your Company encompasses winning  in traditional trade in both open and closed formats, winning in  ‘route-to-market’ as well as winning in emerging channels like  modern trade and e-commerce.
In a rapidly changing world, leveraging technology and data-led  decision-making continue to be a big thrust for your Company.
HUL  has been a thought leader in the area of big data and analytics as  a tool to drive sustainable growth.
The Company uses intelligent  analytics at the backend to deliver better on-shelf availability in  stores.
Your Company continues to invest and experiment in this  dynamic space to ensure it retains the edge in the marketplace.
In traditional trade, the focus has been on optimal servicing with  appropriate beat lengths and in improving in-store visibility.
In  ‘route-to-market’, your Company has been driving the distribution of  the market development portfolio through differentiated investment  patterns.
The call centres set up for retailers have helped many  of your Company’s traditional trade customers reach out directly  to us.
The calls received from retail outlets provide useful insights  and help the Company understand issues and opportunities in the  marketplace better and address them effectively.
In Modern Trade, the foundation of your Company’s success is  based on collaborative planning with key customers.
Your Company  has also significantly improved investments in ‘assisted selling’.
Building ‘brands in store’ remains a key thrust in this channel and  has yielded good results.
This has translated into healthy growth  during the year on the back of growing brand penetration.
The e-commerce space is growing exponentially in India.
Your  Company has made significant investments in capability building,  and is committed to being the best FMCG player in this channel.
A specialised team is working closely with all key e-commerce  partners to create competitive advantage for the business and is  scaling up at a rapid pace.
Your Company continues to focus on and drive ‘Project Shakti’, the  initiative aimed at empowering women, enhancing livelihoods and  building opportunities for small-scale entrepreneurs in rural India.
Your Company now has nearly 80,000 Shakti Entrepreneurs (Shakti  Ammas) across India who make a respectable living by distributing  HUL products.
WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT  Your Company is constantly aligning its products, processes and  strategies to the changing market conditions to stay ahead of  competition.
The key thrust areas under the strategic pillar of  continuous improvement are achieving profitable growth, improving  customer service and quality, and building back-end capabilities to  improve our processes.
Your Company’s Supply Chain agenda focuses on building business  competitiveness through consumer and customer-centricity,  creating value through cost saving, customer service excellence  ensuring availability of product, ‘partner to win’ programme  with suppliers and driving the sustainability agenda in  manufacturing.
Your Company continued to improve on-shelf consumer relevant  quality standards, thereby enhancing overall consumer experience.
‘Delighting consumers everyday’ is core to how we drive quality in  our products.
During the year, on-shelf quality was improved by  20% over the previous year.
With a robust funnel of savings programme, your Company  continued on its path of delivering consistent end-to-end cost  savings.
Cash delivery was achieved with the help of IT tools  resulting in optimising and maximising of cash flows.
Your Company  has brought down inventory holding by two days.
It continues to  progress on the world-class manufacturing journey and this covers  25% of production cost perimeter.
Factories started delivering >10%  cost savings on perimeter by eliminating non- value-added activities.
The service delivery standards improved steadily with Customer-Case  Fill-On-Time (CCFOT) upwards of 95%.
This was achieved by  developing a segmented approach and having a clear roadmap  developed for category, geography and channels.
IT has continued  to play a pivotal role in driving both growth and efficiency for the  business.
IT solutions for transport management have helped  optimise logistics costs and improved demand planning, while  forecasting solutions have enabled a leaner supply chain.
Your Company has increased its renewable energy share to 36%, in  line with the USLP commitments.
This was achieved by converting  agricultural process waste from our operations into fuel, besides  increasing utilisation of traditional biofuels like agriwaste.
Your  Company expanded installation of specialised burners to utilise  heavy vegetable oil residue from operations as fuel, substituting  furnace oil.
This increase in renewable energy usage and reduction  in specific energy consumption has also contributed to CO2 reduction  in your Company’s manufacturing operations by 54% compared to  2008 baseline.
All factories and warehouses continue to maintain   ‘zero non-hazardous waste to landfill sites’ status.
Waste segregation  and pre-processing facilities have been provided at all locations to  improve recyclability and reduce total waste quantities.
Increase  in harvested rainwater utilisation in processes, reuse of treated  effluent water, reduction of water losses from boilers and cooling  tower blow-down, process water requirement optimisations, etc.
have all contributed to reduction of water usage in manufacturing by  55% compared to 2008 baseline.
For further details on the steps taken by the Company on conservation  of energy, water and reduction of waste, please refer to the Business  Responsibility Report which forms part of this Annual Report.
Technology Absorption Your Company continues to derive sustainable benefit from the  strong foundation and long tradition of R&D at Unilever, which  differentiates it from others.
New products, processes and  benefits flow from work done in various Unilever R&D centres  across the globe, including India.
The Unilever R&D labs in  Mumbai and Bengaluru work closely with the business to create  exciting innovations that help us win with our consumers.
With   world-class facilities, and a superior science and technology  culture, Unilever attracts the best talent to provide a significant  technology differentiation to its products and processes.
14 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors The R&D programmes, undertaken by Unilever globally, are focused  on the development of breakthrough and proprietary technologies  with innovative consumer propositions.
The global R&D team  comprises highly qualified scientists and technologists working in  the areas of Home Care, Personal Care, Foods, Refreshments and  Water Purification and critical functional capability teams in the  areas of Regulatory, Clinicals, Digital R&D, Product & Environment  Safety and Open Innovation.
Your Company has an existing Technical Collaboration Agreement  (TCA) and a Trade Mark License Agreement (TMLA) with Unilever  which was entered into in 2012.
The TCA provides for payment of  royalty on net sales of specific products manufactured by your  Company, with technical know-how provided by Unilever.
The TMLA  provides for the payment of trademark royalty as a percentage of  net sales on specific brands where Unilever owns the trademark  in India.
The pace of innovations and the scope of services have  expanded over the years.
Unilever’s global resources are providing  greater expertise and superior innovations.
Your Company is  enjoying the benefits of an increasing stream of new products and  innovations, backed by technology and know-how from Unilever.
This has helped in bringing to the Indian consumers bigger, better  and faster innovations.
Your Company maintains strong and healthy interactions with  Unilever through a well-coordinated management exchange  programme, which includes setting out governing guidelines  pertaining to identifying areas of research, agreeing timelines,  resource requirements, scientific research based on hypothesis  testing and experimentation.
This leads to new, improved  and alternative technologies, supporting the development of   launch-ready product formulations based on research, and  introducing them to markets.
Your Company continuously imports  technology from Unilever under the TCA, which is fully absorbed.
The benefits derived by your Company through technology  absorption and R&D have been detailed in the section Winning with  Brands and Innovation earlier in this report.
Your Company also receives continuous support and guidance  from Unilever to drive functional excellence in marketing, supply  management, media buying and IT, among others, which help  your Company build capabilities, remain competitive and further  step-up its overall business performance.
Unilever is committed  to ensuring that the support in terms of new products, innovations,  technologies and services is commensurate with the needs of your  Company and enables it to win in the marketplace.
The details of expenditure on R&D at the Company’s in-house  facilities, eligible for a weighted deduction under Section 35(2AB)  of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for the year ended 31st March, 2018,  are as follows: Capital Expenditure : ` 5 crores Revenue Expenditure : ` 23 crores Finance & IT The Goods and Services Tax (GST) was one of the biggest indirect tax  reforms in the history of independent India.
Your Company, along  with 10,000+ vendors and 3,500+ distributors, transitioned swiftly  and smoothly to the GST regime on 1st July, 2017.
The transition  began within a few minutes post-midnight across several  locations and your Company was servicing distributors from   Day One.
This was made possible by meticulous planning and  flawless execution by a cross-functional team.
The impact of  GST was outlined on various processes in the areas of customer  development, supply chain, procurement, payment processing  and accounting.
Almost all the IT systems needed to be rewired  and were tracked rigorously to ensure they landed on time  in full.
Securing >95% registrations of our ecosystem and  conducting extensive training across multiple locations were key  to a smooth transition.
Price change actions across categories were landed to ensure  the benefits were passed on to consumers from the first day, well  ahead of competition.
Effective 15th November, 2017, GST rates were reduced for some  of our categories from 28% to 18%.
While the implementation  of this was done, due to paucity of time, it was not possible to  immediately pass on the benefit of these rate reductions on some  of the pipeline stocks to the end consumers.
An estimated value  of ` 124 crores has been proactively disclosed to the authorities  on this count and we have offered to pay this amount suo motu to  the Government.
This amount is not recognised as revenue and is  accounted as a liability as on 31st March, 2018.
In addition to the above, we have also offered ` 36 crores towards  additional realisation which would have been made by Company’s  distributors on the closing stocks at point of transition.
This is  only a pass through and has no impact on Company’s financials.
The finance function of your Company continues to assist in driving  superior performance of the business, pioneer thought leadership  and stewardship.
During the year, your Company’s finance team completed a  big transformational project that enabled centralisation and  simplification of the accounting and control processes.
Future  Finance is a transformative programme that has been initiated  this year that will change the way the finance team functions and  partners business in your Company.
A core component of this  change is the Finance Excellence Team (FET) which has been  organised around core performance management processes  such as forecasting, budgeting and planning, as well as providing  decision support in key areas.
FET will focus on specific core  business processes and decision support topics, enabling   the team to develop deeper expertise and greater subject   matter knowledge.
During the year, your Company started monitoring and reporting  controls through Livewire, a comprehensive analytics tool  that tracks compliance with internal controls framework  established by the management.
The controls dashboard allows  the management to perform thematic analysis of its control  health across different processes and activities, time periods  and responsibility centres.
This will enable the management  to proactively protect value through implementation of a robust  control environment.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 15 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited WINNING WITH PEOPLE  Great Brands and Great People are our biggest assets.
Sustainable,  profitable growth can only be achieved in an organisation which  focuses on a performance culture and where employees are  engaged and empowered to be the best they can be.
To compete in a fast-changing world that is impacted by  digitisation and increased competition, we have created  an organisation that’s faster, simpler, more consumer and   customer-centric and future-proofed through our business  transformation programme Connected 4 Growth (C4G).
In order  to propel the C4G transformation, your Company identified new  behaviours as a key to winning in the market – Empowerment,  Collaboration & Experimentation.
We are creating an organisation  and culture where our employees are empowered to act like  entrepreneurs and business owners.
HUL retained the 'No.
1 Employer of Choice' amongst key business  schools for the seventh year in a row.
HUL continues to be the  ‘Dream Employer’ and is also the top company considered for  application by B-School students.
The Facebook ‘Unilever Diaries’  page has over 5 lakhs fans and helps us deepen our engagement  with students, as well strengthens our brand image among them.
Driven by the ‘leaders build leaders’ philosophy, we have sustained  an environment where people get big responsibility early in their  career and are also able to constantly experiment.
Our flagship  management trainee programme, the Unilever Future Leaders  Programme (UFLP), has been the training ground for many  inspiring leaders across HUL and Unilever, and provides extensive  cross-functional experience through live projects and assignments.
Our thrust is on building an agile and inclusive organisation that  celebrates differences and leverages diversity.
Apart from enabling  infrastructure and work practices such as maternity and paternity  support programme, flexible work arrangements towards creating  an inclusive culture, we are constantly evaluating various employee  support requirements.
Employee well-being is of utmost importance to us.
We focus  on four aspects of well-being – Physical, Mental, Emotional  and Purposeful.
An Employee Assistance Programme called   ‘Reach Out’, a telephonic counselling programme which has   round-the-clock access, has provided timely help to some employees.
At HUL, we believe that purpose is at the heart of what energises  people.
In line with this thinking, we kickstarted the Discover Your  Purpose (DYP) journey with the intent to ignite passion and purpose  in our employees.
Our mission is to protect and enhance the well-being of our  employees, visitors and partners.
A safe work environment is non- negotiable, for which we follow global safety standards in all our  units.
Our safety practices ensure all possible safety hazards are  identified and eliminated, not only at the workplace but also during  employee travel.
We promote ‘Beyond Work Safety’ as part of our  holistic safety culture to improve safety beyond work.
Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) Details of the shares issued under Employee Stock Option  Plan (ESOP), as also the disclosures in compliance with SEBI   (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, are uploaded  on the website of the Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/annual-reports/hul-annual-report-related-documents.
html.
No employee has been issued share options during the year,  equal to or exceeding one per cent of the issued capital of the  Company at the time of grant.
Pursuant to the approval of the Members at the Annual General  Meeting held on 23rd July, 2012, the Company adopted the   ‘2012 HUL Performance Share Scheme’.
In accordance with the  terms of the Performance Share Plan, employees are eligible  for award of conditional rights to receive equity shares of the  Company at the face value of ` 1/- each.
These awards will vest  only on the achievement of certain performance criteria measured  over a period of three years.
The Company confirms that the 2012   HUL Performance Share Scheme complies with the provisions of  SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
Under this plan, eligible Managers were given Conditional  Performance Grant of shares of Unilever and the Company in  the ratio of 67:33, to mirror your Company’s shareholding, where  Unilever held 67% shareholding.
During the year, 160 employees  were awarded conditional rights to receive 70,267 equity shares at  the face value of ` 1/- each.
It comprises conditional grants made to  eligible managers covering performance period from 2017 to 2018  and from 2018 to 2020.
The employees of the Company are eligible for Unilever PLC  (the ‘holding Company’) share awards namely, the Management   Co-Investment Plan (MCIP), the Global Performance Share Plan  (GPSP) and the SHARES Plan.
The MCIP scheme has two sets of  eligibilities – for Managers, it allows eligible employees to invest  up to 20% of their annual bonus and for eligible senior leaders to  invest up to 100% of their annual bonus in the shares of the holding  Company and to receive a corresponding award of performance  related shares.
Under GPSP, eligible employees receive annual  awards of the holding Company’s shares.
The awards under   GPSP and MCIP plans vest after 3-4 years up to 200% of grant level,  depending on the satisfaction of the performance metrics.
Under  the SHARES Plan, eligible employees can invest in the shares of the  holding Company for specified amount and after three years, one  share is granted to the employees for every three shares invested,  subject to the fulfilment of conditions of the scheme.
The holding  Company charges the Company for the grant of shares to the  Company’s employees based on the market value of the shares on  the exercise date.
Disclosures with respect to the remuneration of Directors  and employees as required under Section 197 of the Act and   Rule 5 (1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration  of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (Rules) have been  appended as Annexure to this report.
Details of employee  remuneration as required under provisions of Section 197 of  the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Rules  are available at the Registered Office of the Company during  working hours, 21 days before the Annual General Meeting  and shall be made available to any shareholder on request.
Such details are also available on your Company’s website   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/annual-reports/hul- annual-report-related-documents.html.
PERFORMANCE OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURE The summary of performance of the subsidiary and joint venture  companies is provided below: Unilever India Exports Limited Unilever India Exports Limited (UIEL) is a 100% subsidiary of your  Company and is engaged in FMCG exports business.
The focus  16 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors of the FMCG exports operation is two-fold: to develop overseas  markets by driving distribution of brands, such as Kissan, BRU,  Brooke Bond, Lakmé, Pears and to effectively provide cross-border  sourcing of FMCG products to other Unilever companies across the  world.
This year was a challenging one for the Company in view of  disruption in its key export markets.
However, key brands continued  to perform well in focus markets.
Lakme Lever Private Limited Lakme Lever Private Limited (LLPL), is a 100% subsidiary of the  Company and has over 350 owned / managed and franchisee salons.
In a market witnessing lower discretionary spends, LLPL continued  to expand its salons business in key markets.
The 'Runway Rewards'  programme continued its successful journey into the second year  and combined with attractive thematic promotion campaigns like  Good Hair Day, Happy New You and Fall Collection helped drive  footfall growth.
Effective use of digital media and strong advocacy  amongst customers has helped increased customer loyalty.
The  boost in confidence is clearly evidenced in the increasing average  bill value.
Your Company will continue to support LLPL to drive  growth in this attractive market opportunity.
LLPL also operates a manufacturing unit at Gandhidham which  carries out job work operations for your Company manufacturing  toilet soaps, bathing bars and detergent bars.
Unilever Nepal Limited Unilever Nepal Limited (UNL), a subsidiary of your Company, is  engaged in manufacturing, marketing and sale of detergents, toilet  soaps, personal products and laundry soaps in Nepal.
In 2017,   UNL completed 25 glorious years in the country.
During the year, UNL continued robust growth in sales which  was broad based across all categories.
UNL has maintained its   bottom-line performance, driven by mix, judicious price management  and by leveraging on the current manufacturing capability.
UNL brands continue to be market leaders in all the categories they  operate in.
Hindustan Unilever Foundation Hindustan Unilever Foundation (HUF) is a not-for-profit Company  that anchors water management related community development  and sustainability initiatives of HUL.
HUF operates the ‘Water for Public Good’ programme, with a  specific focus on water conservation, building local community  institutions to govern water resources and enhancing farm  based livelihoods through adoption of judicious water practices.
The Foundation’s programmes reach out to 2,400 villages in   57 districts across India in partnership with 20 NGOs and multiple  co-funders.
HUF also supports several knowledge initiatives in  water conservation and governance.
By the end of year, the cumulative and collective achievements  through partnered programme of HUF include:  •  Water Conservation: More than 450 billion litres of water  conservation potential created.
•  Crop Yield:  Additional agriculture production of over 6.5 lakhs  tonnes has been generated.
•  Livelihoods:  More than 50 lakhs person days of employment  have been created though water conservation and increased  agriculture production.
The cumulative impact of HUF supported projects has been  independently assured.
Other Subsidiaries Pond’s Exports Limited is a subsidiary of the Company which was  engaged in leather business and has since discontinued operations.
Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives is a subsidiary of the  Company which is not-for-profit subsidiary of the Company and had  launched a hand washing behaviour change programme in the state  of Bihar that aims to reduce diarrhoea and pneumonia in children  under the age of five years.
Similar handwashing programme is  now being driven by your Company directly.
Daverashola Estates Private Limited is a subsidiary of the  Company which has been exploring opportunities to enter into  appropriate business activities.
Jamnagar Properties Private Limited is a subsidiary of the  Company.
The litigation over the land of the Company is now  over and accordingly, the Company has initiated the process of  surrendering the land.
Levers Associated Trust Limited, Levindra Trust Limited and  Hindlever Trust Limited, subsidiaries of the Company, act as  trustees of the employee benefits trusts of the Company.
Joint Venture Kimberly-Clark Lever Private Limited Kimberly-Clark Lever Private Limited (KCLL) was a joint venture  between your Company and Kimberly-Clark Corporation (KCC),  USA, with infant care diapers as its primary product category sold  under the brand Huggies and feminine care products sold under  the brand Kotex.
In line with your Company’s decision to focus on its core business,  the Company has divested its stake in KCLL during the year and  accordingly the joint venture has ceased to exist.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Companies  Act, 2013, a statement containing salient features of financial  statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint venture companies  in Form AOC 1 is attached herewith.
The separate audited financial  statements in respect of each of the subsidiary companies  shall be kept open for inspection at the Registered Office of the  Company during working hours for a period of 21 days before  the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Your Company will also  make available these documents upon request by any member  of the Company interested in obtaining the same.
The separate  audited financial statements in respect of each of the subsidiary  companies are also available on the website of your Company at   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/annual-reports/hul- annual-report-related-documents.html.
Your Company has not made any downstream investments in  subsidiaries or joint venture during the year.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 17 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited OPPORTUNITIES & RISKS Our success as an organisation depends on our ability to identify opportunities and leverage them while mitigating the risks that arise while  conducting our business.
Your Company has an elaborate risk management procedure, which is based on three pillars: Business Risk Assessment, Operational  Controls Assessment and Policy Compliance Processes.
Major risks identified by the businesses and functions are systematically  addressed through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
The Company has set up a Risk Management Committee to monitor the risks  and their mitigating actions and the key risks are also discussed at the Audit Committee.
Some of the opportunities for the business of your Company and key identified risks along with the steps taken by your Company to mitigate  them are presented below.
Strategy Opportunity Details Winning with  Brands and  Innovation Premiumisation and Market Development With changing population demographics, higher spending capacity  of consumers and wider reach of products, there is increasing scope  of premiumisation of our products.
We constantly innovate to meet  needs of all our consumers.
Most of the categories in which your  Company operates in are under-penetrated and therefore your  Company continuously invests in market development.
Winning in the  Marketplace Winning in Channels of future Winning in traditional trade and ‘route-to-market’ continues to be  important for your Company.
However, winning in emerging channels  like e-commerce and modern trade will be the differentiator for  your Company.
Investments in strengthening our capabilities in  the channels of the future while digitalising our distribution in the  traditional trade would be the key thrusts.
Winning in the  Marketplace and  Winning through  Continuous  Improvement Leveraging Big Data Your Company has been a thought leader in using big data and  analytics as a tool to drive sustainable growth.
The Company  uses intelligent analytics at the backend to deliver better on-shelf  availability in stores.
Services like order management, shipment  planning, tendering, tracking and monitoring can be improved with  building backend capabilities.
Winning in the  Marketplace and  Winning through  Continuous  Improvement Sharper and Richer Execution Our continued and relentless focus on flawless execution across  the value chain is a key differentiator and a growth driver for the  Company.
We will continue to leverage this opportunity by making  appropriate investments.
Strategy Description of Risk Details Brand Preference Winning with  Brands and  Innovation Your Company’s success depends on the  value and relevance of its brands and  products to consumers and on our ability to  innovate and remain competitive.
Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours  are changing more rapidly than ever.
Your  Company’s ability to identify and respond to  these changes is vital to business success.
We are dependent on creating innovative  products that continue to meet the needs of  consumers and getting these new products to  market with speed.
If we are unable to innovate  effectively, sales or margins could be materially  adversely affected.
Your Company monitors external market trends and collates  consumer, customer and shopper insights to develop category and  brand strategies.
Our R&D function actively searches for ways to translate the  trends in consumer preference and taste into new technologies for  incorporation into future products.
Our innovation management  process converts category strategies into projects which deliver  new products to market.
We develop product ideas both in-house  and with selected partners to enable us to respond to rapidly  changing consumer trends with speed.
Your Company has access to Unilever’s global resources that  provide greater expertise and superior innovations, backed by  technology and know-how from Unilever.
This helps your Company  bring bigger, better and faster innovations to its consumers.
18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Strategy Description of Risk Details Technological change is disrupting our  traditional brand communication models.
Our ability to develop and deploy the right  communication, both in terms of messaging  content and medium is critical to the continued  strength of our brands.
Our brand communication strategies are designed to optimise  digital communication opportunities.
We develop and customise  brand messaging content specifically for each of our chosen  communication channels (both traditional and digital) to ensure  that our brand messages reach our target consumers.
Legal and Regulatory Winning in the  Marketplace Compliance with laws and regulations  is an essential part of your Company’s  business operations.
We are subject to  laws and regulations in diverse areas as  product safety, product claims, trademarks,  copyright, patents, competition, employee  health and safety, the environment,  corporate governance, listing and  disclosure, employment and taxes.
Frequent changes in legal and regulatory  regime and introduction of newer  regulations with multiple authorities  regulating same areas lead to complexity in  compliance.
We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and  regulations.
The relevant teams are responsible for setting detailed  standards and ensuring that all employees are aware of and comply  with regulations and laws specific and relevant to their roles.
Our legal and regulatory specialists are closely engaged in monitoring  and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable assurance that  we remain aware of and in line with all relevant laws and legal  obligations.
Your Company has institutionalised the mechanism to monitor  changes in legislation, both existing and proposed.
The Company  proactively engages with the Government and regulators to develop a  regulatory framework which is in the best interest of the consumers  and other stakeholders including Industry.
Systems and Information Winning through  Continuous  Improvement Your Company’s operations are increasingly  dependent on IT systems and the  management of information.
Increasing digital interactions with  customers, suppliers and consumers  place even greater emphasis on the need  for secure and reliable IT systems and  infrastructure, and careful management of  the information that is in our possession.
The cyber-attack threat of unauthorised  access and misuse of sensitive information  or disruption to operations continues to  increase.
To reduce the impact of external cyber-attacks impacting our  business, we have firewalls and threat monitoring systems in place,  complete with immediate response capabilities to mitigate identified  threats.
We also maintain a global system for the control and reporting of  access to our critical IT systems.
This is supported by an annual  programme of testing of access controls.
We have policies covering the protection of both business and personal  information, as well as the use of IT systems and applications by  our employees.
Our employees are trained to understand these  requirements.
We also have a set of IT security standards and closely  monitor their operation to protect our systems and information.
We have standardised ways of hosting information on our public  websites and have systems to monitor compliance with appropriate  privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN (USLP) Your Company’s vision is to accelerate growth in the business,  while reducing environmental footprint and increasing positive  social impact.
This vision has been codified in the USLP launched in  2010, which is your Company’s blueprint for achieving sustainable  growth.
By spurring innovation, strengthening the supply chain,  lowering costs, reducing risks and building trust, sustainability is  creating value for your Company as well as the society.
Your Company has made good progress on the three USLP big  goals to be achieved globally: to help more than a billion people  take action to improve their health and well-being, to halve the  environmental footprint of the making and use of the products and  to enhance the livelihoods of millions of people, while growing the  business.
Detailed information on the progress of your Company’s  USLP initiatives and CSR activities are available in the Annual Report  on CSR and Business Responsibility Report which is appended as  an Annexure to this Annual Report.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 19 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited FINANCIAL REVIEW (STANDALONE) Results (` crores) For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017  Sales (including excise duty) 34,619 33,895 EBITDA 7,276 6,047 Profit before exceptional items and tax 7,347 6,155 Profit for the year 5,237 4,490 a)  According to the requirements of SEBI (Li  sting Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, revenue for the year  ended 31st March, 2017 was reported inclusive of excise duty.
Goods and Services Tax (“GST”) has been implemented with effect from  1st July, 2017 which replaces Excise Duty and other input taxes.
As per Ind AS 18, the revenue for the year ended 31st March, 2018 is  reported net of GST.
b)  In compliance with IND AS 20 on Government Grants, the amount of budgetary support under Goods and Services Tax, GST Refunds,  to be received from the Government of India in relation to the existing eligible units under the different Industrial Promotion Schemes  have been recognised as “Other Operating Income”.
In past periods these credits were netted off from the excise cost reported in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
c) Comparable sales growth and comparable EBITDA margin improvement for FY 2017-18 has been arrived at by adjusting:  i.
Excise Duty, other net input taxes from reported sales of FY 2016-17, and  ii.
GST Refunds to the reported sales of FY 2017-18. d)  In view of the accounting impact as shared in note (a) to (c) above, while the reported Net Sales grew by 2% during the year, comparable  Domestic Consumer Sales grew by 12% during the year.
The reported EBITDA margin expansion was 320 bps for the year while  comparable EBITDA margin expansion was at 155 bps.
Category-Wise Turnover (` crores) For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017  Sales Others* Sales Others* Home Care 11,464 165 11,123 223 Personal Care 16,132 332 16,078 226 Foods 1,147 18 1,102 22 Refreshments 5,181 44 4,795 53 Others (including Exports, Infant and Feminine Care) 695 26 797 22 TOTAL 34,619 585 33,895 546 *Others include service income from operations, relevant to the respective businesses.
Summarised Profit and Loss Account (` crores) For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017  Sale of products (including excise duty) 34,619 33,895 Other operating income 599 592 REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 35,218 34,487 Operating Costs 27,942 28,440 Profit Before Depreciation, Interest, Tax (PBDIT) 7,276 6,047 Depreciation 478 396 Profit Before Interest & Tax (PBIT) 6,798 5,651 Other Income (net of finance costs) 549 504 Profit before exceptional items 7,347 6,155 Exceptional items (62) 241 Profit Before Tax (PBT) 7,285 6,396 Taxation 2,048 1,906 Profit for the year 5,237 4,490 Basic EPS (`) 24.20 20.75 20 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors There were no material changes and commitments affecting the  financial position of the Company which occurred between the end  of the financial year to which this financial statement relate on the  date of this report.
Capital Expenditure during the year was at ` 853 crores   (` 1,372 crores in the previous year).
During the year, your Company did not accept any public deposits  under Chapter V of Companies Act, 2013.
Your Company manages cash and cash flow processes assiduously,  involving all parts of the business.
There was a net cash surplus  of ` 3,373 crores (2016-17: ` 1,671 crores), as on 31st March, 2018.
The Company’s low debt equity ratio provides ample scope for  gearing the Balance Sheet, should the need arise.
Foreign Exchange  transactions are fully covered with strict limits placed on the amount  of uncovered exposure, if any, at any point in time.
There are no  materially significant uncovered exchange rate risks in the context  of Company’s imports and exports.
The Company accounts for   mark-to-market gains or losses every quarter end, are in line with the  requirements of Ind AS 21.
The details of foreign exchange earnings and  outgo as required under Section 134 of the Companies Act.
2013 and  Rule 8(3) of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are mentioned below: (` crores) For the  Year ended 31st March,  2018 For the  Year ended 31st March,  2017  Foreign Exchange earnings 387 541 Foreign Exchange outgo 1,285 1,214 Dividend Your Directors are pleased to recommend a Final Dividend of   ` 12/- per equity share of face value of ` 1/- each for the year ended   31st March, 2018.
The Interim Dividend of ` 8/- per equity share  was paid on 14th November, 2017.
The Final Dividend, subject to the approval of Members at the Annual  General Meeting on Friday, 29th June, 2018, will be paid on or after  Wednesday, 4th July, 2018, to the Members whose names appear in the  Register of Members, as on the Book Closure dates, i.e.
from Saturday,  23rd June, 2018, to Friday, 29th June, 2018 (both days inclusive).
The total dividend for the financial year, including the proposed  Final Dividend, amounts to ` 20/- per equity share and will absorb   ` 5,177 crores, including Dividend Distribution Tax of ` 848 crore.
Unpaid / Unclaimed Dividend In terms of the provisions of Investor Education and Protection  Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 /  Investor Education and Protection Fund (Awareness and Protection  of Investors) Rules, 2001, ` 4.01 crores of unpaid / unclaimed  dividends were transferred during the year to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund.
Scheme of Arrangement Subsequent to the approval of the Members at the Court Convened  Meeting held on 30th June, 2016, to the Scheme of Arrangement for  transfer of the balance of ` 2,187 crores standing to the credit of the  General Reserves to the Profit and Loss Account, your Company had  filed the petition for sanction of the Scheme of Arrangement with  the Hon’ble High Court of Mumbai.
Upon the Scheme becoming  effective, the amount so transferred is proposed to be distributed  to the Members from time to time, by the Board of Directors, at its  sole discretion, in such manner, quantum and at such time, as the  Board of Directors may decide.
The Scheme is currently pending  with National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for sanction.
Particulars of Loan, Guarantee or Investments Details of loans, guarantee or investments made by your Company  under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, during the financial  year 2017-18 are appended as an Annexure to this report.
Risk and Internal Adequacy The Company’s internal control systems are commensurate  with the nature of its business and the size and complexity of its  operations.
These are routinely tested and certified by Statutory  as well as Internal Auditors and cover all offices, factories and  key business areas.
Significant audit observations and follow up  actions thereon are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit  Committee reviews adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s  internal control environment and monitors the implementation of  audit recommendations, including those relating to strengthening  of the Company’s risk management policies and systems.
GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND BUSINESS INTEGRITY The Legal function of the Company continues to be a valued business  partner that provides solutions to protect your Company and  enable it to win in the volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous  environment.
Through its focus on creating ‘value with values’,  the function provides strategic business partnership in the areas  including product claims, legislative changes, combatting unfair  competition, business integrity and governance.
As the markets continue to be disrupted with newer technologies and  ever-evolving consumer preferences, the need to have a framework  around data security and privacy is paramount.
Your Company continues  to ensure it has an appropriate framework and safeguards for data  privacy of its stakeholders with enhanced legal and security standards.
Your Company is of the view that the menace of counterfeits can  be effectively addressed if enforcement actions are supplemented  with building awareness amongst the consumers of tomorrow.
One  of the key activities undertaken by your Company in this direction  is propagating intellectual property awareness, particularly  among school students.
Your Company believes it is important to  educate students on intellectual property, and build awareness  and understanding of the subject so that students start respecting  intellectual property rights from a young age.
Return on Net Worth, Return on Capital Employed and Earnings Per Share (EPS) for the last four years and for the year ended   31st March, 2018, are given below: Particulars 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Return on Net Worth (%) 104.10 99.50 72.80 76.70 84.50 Return on Capital Employed (%) 130.20 127.70 105.80 105.90 118.90 Basic EPS (after exceptional items) (`) 17.88 19.95 19.12 20.75 24.20 Overview Reports   Financial Statements 21 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited The Legal and Communications functions of your Company work with  leading industry associations, national and regional regulators and  key opinion formers to develop a progressive regulatory environment  in the best interest of all stakeholders.
Business Integrity  Under its pillar of Business Integrity, your Company communicates  its Code of Business Principles (Code) and Code Policies internally  and externally.
All Company employees are required to undertake  mandatory annual training on our Code and Code Policies via online  training modules as well as take an annual business integrity pledge.
Our Code and Code Policies extend through our entire value chain  including our employees, contractors and third parties.
During  the year, we closed 101 incidents across all areas of our Code and  Code Policies, with 70 confirmed breaches.
During the year, we  terminated the employment of 18 employees as a consequence of  such breaches.
The Company also requires its third-party business  partners to adhere to business principles consistent with its own.
These expectations are set out in our Responsible Sourcing Policy  (RSP) and Responsible Business Partner Policy (RBPP), which  underpin our third-party compliance programme.
Corporate Governance Maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance has been  fundamental to the business of your Company since its inception.
A  separate report on Corporate Governance is provided together with  a Certificate from the Statutory Auditors of the Company regarding  compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated  under Listing Regulations.
A Certificate of the CEO and CFO of the  Company in terms of Listing Regulations, inter alia, confirming the  correctness of the financial statements and cash flow statements,  adequacy of the internal control measures and reporting of matters  to the Audit Committee, is also annexed.
The extract of annual return in Form MGT-9 as required under  Section 92(3) of the Companies Act and Rule 12 of the Companies   (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 is appended as an  Annexure to this Annual Report.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace As per the requirement of the Sexual Harassment of Women  at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013   (‘POSH Act’) and Rules made thereunder, your Company has  constituted Internal Committees (IC).
While maintaining the highest  governance norms, the Company has appointed external independent  persons who worked in this area and have the requisite experience in  handling such matters, as Chairpersons of each of the Committees.
During the year, four complaints with allegations of sexual harassment  were received by the Company and they were investigated and resolved  as per the provisions of the POSH Act.
To build awareness in this area,  the Company has been conducting induction / refresher programmes  in the organisation on a continuous basis.
Update on Kodaikanal Soil Remediation Your Company had informed the Members about the   long-standing dispute with the former workers association of the  former factory in Kodaikanal wherein a Memorandum of Settlement  was signed with the association, bringing this long-standing matter  to an end.
On the other issue pertaining to soil remediation on the  premises of the former factory of your Company, the soil remediation  trials have been concluded.
The Company is committed to commence   full-scale soil remediation at the factory site at the earliest.
Related Party Transactions In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing  Regulations, your Company has formulated a Policy on Related Party  Transactions which is also available on the Company’s website at  https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/corporate-governance/ .
The Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, approval and  disclosure processes are in place for all transactions between the  Company and Related Parties.
All Related Party Transactions are placed before the Audit Committee  for review and approval.
Prior omnibus approval is obtained for Related  Party Transactions on a quarterly basis for transactions which are of  repetitive nature and / or entered in the Ordinary Course of Business  and are at Arm’s Length.
All Related Party Transactions are subjected  to independent review by a reputed accounting firm to establish  compliance with the requirements of Related Party Transactions under  the Companies Act, 2013, and Listing Regulations.
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in  Ordinary Course of the Business and at Arm’s Length basis.
No  Material Related Party Transactions, i.e.
transactions exceeding  10% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited  financial statement, were entered during the year by your Company.
Accordingly, the disclosure of Related Party Transactions as required  under Section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013, in Form AOC-2  is not applicable.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL  PERSONNEL Mr. Harish Manwani, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, has  decided to retire and will not seek re-appointment at the forthcoming  Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The Board places on record its  deep sense of gratitude and appreciation for the leadership and  direction provided by Mr. Manwani, first as the Executive Director  and thereafter, as the Non-Executive Chairman for the past   13 years.
The Board has decided to appoint Mr. Sanjiv Mehta,  presently the Managing Director and CEO of the Company, as the  Chairman of the Board of Directors in succession to Mr. Manwani  from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The Board, while  taking the above decision, took note of SEBI’s amendments to the  Listing Regulations, announced on 28th March, 2018, to accept the  recommendation of the Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance  to separate the positions of the Chairman and the Managing  Director, effective April 2020, for top 500 Companies by market  capitalisation.
Considering this, the Board decided that the current  tenure of Mr. Mehta as the Chairman shall be till March 2020.
The  Company shall ensure compliance with the new requirement of  separation of the positions of Chairman and the Managing Director  by April 2020.
The present term of appointment of Mr. Mehta as the  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer is valid up to   9th October, 2018.
The Board has, subject to the approval of the  Members in the forthcoming AGM, approved the re-appointment  of Mr. Mehta as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer for  another period of five years, post completion of his present term.
During the year, Mr. P. B. Balaji resigned as Executive Director  (Finance & IT) and Chief Financial Officer with effect from   13th November, 2017, for pursuing external opportunities.
The Board  places on record its deep appreciation for the outstanding contribution  made by Mr. Balaji.
Mr. Srinivas Phatak was appointed as an Additional  Director on the Company’s Board and the Executive Director (Finance  & IT) and Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1st December,  2017, succeeding Mr. Balaji, after obtaining requisite approvals of the  Members, through Postal Ballot and the Central Government.
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Independent  Directors have been appointed for a period of five years and shall  not be liable to retire by rotation.
The Independent Directors of  your Company have given the certificate of independence to your  Company stating that they meet the criteria of independence as  22 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors mentioned under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013.
All other Directors, except the Managing Director, will retire at  the ensuing Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer  themselves for re-election.
The details of training and familiarisation programme and Annual  Board Evaluation process for Directors have been provided under the  Corporate Governance Report.
The policy on Director’s appointment  and remuneration including criteria for determining qualifications,  positive attributes, independence of Director, and also remuneration  for key managerial personnel and other employees, forms part of   the Corporate Governance Report of this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The day-to-day management of the Company is vested with  the Management Committee, which is subjected to the overall  superintendence and control of the Board.
The Management  Committee is headed by the Chief Executive Officer and has  Functional / Business Heads as its members.
During the year,   Mr. Srinivas Phatak was appointed as Executive Director,   (Finance & IT) and CFO and member of Management Committee of  the Company in succession to Mr. P. B. Balaji.
AUDITORS M/s.
BSR & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants were appointed as  Statutory Auditors of your Company at the Annual General Meeting  held on 30th June, 2014, for a term of five consecutive years.
As  per the provisions of Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013, the  appointment of Auditors is required to be ratified by Members at  every Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companies Amendment Act, 2017,  enforced on 7th May, 2018 by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the  appointment of Statutory Auditors is not required to be ratified at  every Annual General Meeting.
The Report given by the Auditors on the financial statement of the  Company is part of this Report.
There has been no qualification,  reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer given by the Auditors in  their Report.
M/s.
RA & Co., Cost Accountants carried out the cost audit for  applicable businesses during the year.
The Board of Directors have  appointed M/s.
RA & Co., Cost Accountants as Cost Auditors for the  financial year 2018-19.
OUTLOOK From a fundamental and medium-term perspective, FMCG markets  continue to offer sizeable headroom for growth by increasing  penetration as well as consumption.
Secular trends of young  population, growing affluence, rising urbanisation and burgeoning  digital connectivity will increase awareness and drive premiumisation.
India continues to be one of the fastest growing economies  in the world and this is expected to continue in financial year   2018-19, as per the latest economic survey.
With GST having been  successfully implemented, trade conditions have stabilised and  we are witnessing a gradual improvement in demand.
We expect  government spending plans such as increases to Minimum  Support Price (MSP), provision of health insurance, etc.
to bolster  rural development and drive consumption.
Normal monsoon, as  forecasted, will help the overall economy.
Crude oil led inflation, emerging global events and disruptions, if  any, from state elections are potential headwinds which need to be  managed carefully.
Your Company, with its brands, talent and investment in  capabilities, is well placed to leverage the FMCG opportunity.
Your Company’s strategy to lead market development while  keeping the sustainable living plan its core, will enable it to create   long-term value for all stakeholders.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors confirm that: • In the preparation of the Annual Accounts, the applicable  accounting standards have been followed and that no material  departures have been made from the same; • They have selected such accounting policies and applied them  consistently and made judgements and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the  state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year  and of the profits of the Company for that period; • They have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance  of adequate accounting records in accordance with the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding the  assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud  and other irregularities; • They have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern  basis; • They have laid down internal financial controls for the Company  and such internal financial controls are adequate and operating  effectively; and • They have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with  the provisions of all applicable laws and such systems are  adequate and operating effectively APPRECIATIONS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Your Directors place on record their deep appreciation to employees  at all levels for their hard work, dedication and commitment.
The  enthusiasm and unstinting efforts of the employees have enabled  the Company to remain an industry leader.
Your Directors would also like to acknowledge the excellent contribution  by Unilever to your Company in providing the latest innovations,  technological improvements and marketing inputs across almost  all categories in which it operates.
This has enabled the Company  to provide higher levels of consumer delight through continuous  improvement in existing products, and introduction of new products.
The Board places on record its appreciation for the support and  co-operation your Company has been receiving from its suppliers,  distributors, retailers, business partners and others associated with  it as its trading partners.
Your Company looks upon them as partners  in its progress and has shared with them the rewards of growth.
It  will be your Company’s endeavour to build and nurture strong  links with the trade based on mutuality of benefits, respect for and  co-operation with each other, consistent with consumer interests.
Your Directors also take this opportunity to thank all Shareholders,  Clients, Vendors, Banks, Government and Regulatory Authorities  and Stock Exchanges, for their continued support.
On behalf of the Board Harish Manwani Chairman Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 (DIN: 00045160) Overview Reports   Financial Statements 23 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annexure to the Directors’ Report Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197 of Companies  Act, 2013 and Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 i.
Ratio of the remuneration of each Executive Director to the median remuneration of the Employees of the Company for the financial  year 2017-18, the percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Director  and Company Secretary during the financial year 2017-18.
Sr.  No.
Name of Director/KMP Designation Ratio of remuneration of  each Director to median  remuneration of Employees Percentage  increase in  Remuneration 1 Sanjiv Mehta Managing Director & CEO 170.01  Refer Note iv.
2 P. B. Balaji# Executive Director, Finance & IT and CFO 47.70 3 Srinivas Phatak# Executive Director, Finance & IT and CFO 27.26 4 Pradeep Banerjee Executive Director, Supply Chain 48.29 5 Dev Bajpai Executive Director, Legal and Corporate  Affairs and Company Secretary 52.86  #    Mr. P. B.Balaji ceased to be Executive Director, Finance & IT and CFO w.e.f.
13th November, 2017 and Mr. Srinivas Phatak appointed as an Executive Director,  Finance & IT and CFO w.e.f.
1st December, 2017 ii.
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of Employees for the financial year was 4.7%.
iii.
The Company has 5,725* permanent Employees on the rolls of Company as on 31st March, 2018. iv.
Average percentage increase made in the salaries of Employees other than the managerial personnel in the financial year was 9.4%.
In line with the changes made to the Reward Policy in 2017, approved by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, increases in  managerial remuneration will be made later during the financial year 2018–19.
The average increase every year is an outcome of  Company’s market competitiveness as against its peer group companies.
In keeping with our reward philosophy and benchmarking  results, the increase this year reflect the market practice.
v. It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid during the year is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
Note:  a)  The Non-Executive Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees / commission as per the statutory provisions and within the  limits approved by the Members.
The details of remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Corporate Governance  Report and is governed by the Differential Remuneration Policy, as detailed in the said report.
The ratio of remuneration and  percentage increase for Non-Executive Directors Remuneration is therefore not considered for the purpose above.
b)  Percentage increase in remuneration indicates annual target total compensation increases, as approved by the Nomination and  Remuneration Committee of the Company during the financial year 2017-18.  c) Employees for the purpose above includes all employees excluding employees governed under collective bargaining.
* Includes employees working for Hindustan Unilever Limited.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments AMOUNT OUTSTANDING AS AT 31ST MARCH, 2018  (` crores) Particulars Amount Loans given 226 Guarantee given 8 Investments made 3,111 LOAN, GUARANTEE AND INVESTMENTS MADE DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017-18 Name of Entity  Relation Amount  (In crores) Particulars of loan,  guarantee and  investments Purpose for which the loans,  guarantee and investments  are proposed to be utilised Lakme Lever Private Limited  Subsidiary 43 Loan Business purpose Unilever India Exports Limited Subsidiary 140 Loan Business purpose Mutual Funds# - -230 Investments Cash Management # For details refer to Note 6 of Notes to the financial statement.
On behalf of the Board  Harish Manwani  Chairman Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 (DIN: 00045160) 24 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Form No.
MGT-9 (As on the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2018)  [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS i) CIN : L15140MH1933PLC002030  ii) Registration Date : 17th October, 1933 iii) Name of the Company : Hindustan Unilever Limited  iv) Category / Sub-Category of the Company : Public Company / Subsidiary of Foreign Company limited by shares  v) Address of the Registered Office and contact  details  : Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 099.
Tel : 022 39832285/39832452  E-mail : levercare.shareholder@unilever.com   Website : www.
hul.co.in  vi) Whether listed company : Yes  vii) Name, Address and contact details of  Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any  : M/s.
Karvy Computershare Private Limited,  Unit : Hindustan Unilever Limited, Karvy Selenium   Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial District,   Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500 032  Phone : +91 - 40 - 67161500, 67162222  Fax : +91 - 40 - 23431551  Toll Free No.
: 1800-345-4001  E-mail : einward.ris@karvy.com  Website : www.karvy.com  II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY (Activities contributing 10% or more of the turnover) Sr.   No.
Name and Description of Products NIC Code of the Product % to total turnover   of the Company 1 Soaps 20231 30.00% 2 Detergents 20233 19.32% 3 Cosmetics & Toiletries 20237 16.21% Annexure to the Directors’ Report Extract of Annual Return Overview Reports   Financial Statements 25 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES Sr.  No.
Name and address of the Company CIN/GLN % of shares held Holding Company [Section 2(46)] 1 Unilever PLC  Port Sunlight, Wirral, Merseyside CH624ZD N.A.
51.48 2 Brooke Bond Group Limited # N.A.
4.93 3 Unilever Overseas Holdings AG Hinterbergstrasse 28, Postfach 5364, 6330 Cham 2, Switzerland N.A.
3.18 4 Unilever UK & CN Holdings Limited # N.A.
2.78 5 Brooke Bond South India Estates Limited # N.A.
2.44 6 Brooke Bond Assam Estates Limited # N.A.
1.52 7 Unilever Overseas Holdings B V # N.A.
0.87 Subsidiary Companies [Section 2(87)(ii)] 1 Unilever India Exports Limited * U51900MH1963PLC012667 100 2 Pond’s Exports Limited * U24246MH1981PLC261125 90 3 Lakme Lever Private Limited Shree Niwas House, 1st Floor, H. Somani Marg, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001 U24247MH2008PTC188539 100 4 Unilever Nepal Limited Basamadi V.D.C.
– 5, P.O.
Box-11, Hetauda, Dist.
Makwanpur, Nepal N.A.
80 5 Daverashola Estates Private Limited * U15200MH2004PTC149035 100 6 Jamnagar Properties Private Limited * U70101MH2006PTC165144 100 7 Levers Associated Trust Limited * U74999MH1946PLC005403 100 8 Levindra Trust Limited * U67120MH1946PLC005402 100 9 Hindlever Trust Limited * U65990MH1958PLC011060 100 10 Hindustan Unilever Foundation * U93090MH2010NPL201468 76 11 Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives* U93090MH2010NPL208544 100 Associate Company [Section 2(6)] 1 Kimberly-Clark Lever Private Limited$   Gat No.934-937, Villagesanaswadi, Taluka - Shirur, Pune – 412 208 U74999PN1994PTC081290 50 # Registered Office at Unilever House, 100 Victoria, Embankment, London EC4Y0DY.
* Registered Office at Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400 099.
$ Joint Venture with Kimberly-Clark Lever Private Limited ceased w.e.f.
29th September, 2017.
26 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EQUITY) i) Category-wise Shareholding Category of Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the beginning of the year No.
of Shares held at the end of the year % Change  during the  year Demat Physical Total % of Total  Shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  Shares A. Promoters 1.
Indian - - - - - - - - - 2.
Foreign  - Bodies Corporates 1,45,44,12,858 - 1,45,44,12,858 67.20 1,45,44,12,858 - 1,45,44,12,858 67.19 -0.01 TOTAL PROMOTER SHAREHOLDING (A) 1,45,44,12,858 - 1,45,44,12,858 67.20 1,45,44,12,858 - 1,45,44,12,858 67.19 -0.01 B.
Public Shareholding 1.
Institutions  - Mutual Funds 3,83,86,030 49,284 3,84,35,314 1.78 3,54,84,654 39,244 3,55,23,898 1.64 -0.14  - Alternate Investment Funds - - - - 5,48,333 - 5,48,333 0.03 0.03  - Banks / Financial Institutions 69,90,335 1,28,710 71,19,045 0.33 1,59,47,050 1,28,190 1,60,75,240 0.74 0.41  - State Government - 20 20 - - 20 20 - -  - Insurance Companies 7,68,50,946 9,500 7,68,60,446 3.55 9,60,91,021 9,500 9,61,00,521 4.44 0.89  - Foreign Portfolio Investors 28,70,05,513 37,450 28,70,42,963 13.26 27,19,32,775 28,460 27,19,61,235 12.56 -0.70 Sub-total (B)(1) 40,92,32,824 2,24,964 40,94,57,788 18.92 42,00,03,833 2,05,414 42,02,09,247 19.41 0.49 2.
Non-Institutions  - Bodies Corporates   i) Indian 2,73,12,657 4,36,164 2,77,48,821 1.28 2,52,30,800 3,42,730 2,55,73,530 1.18 -0.10   ii) Overseas 3,600 - 3,600 - 500 - 500 - -  - Individuals   i)  Individual shareholders  holding nominal share capital  up to ` 1 lakh 20,72,49,418 4,57,70,440 25,30,19,858 11.69 20,16,67,651 3,96,20,319 24,12,87,970 11.15 -0.54   ii)  Individual shareholders  holding nominal share capital  in excess of ` 1 lakh 40,29,793 7,10,350 47,40,143 0.22 39,95,743 7,10,350 47,06,093 0.22 -  - Others   i) Trust 47,41,677 - 47,41,677 0.22 51,98,117 - 51,98,117 0.24 0.02   ii) Non Resident Indians 79,47,612 4,14,170 83,61,782 0.38 84,74,763 3,84,640 88,59,403 0.41 0.03   iii) Foreign Nationals 23,689 3,120 26,809 - 35,669 120 35,789 - -   iv) Foreign Banks 7,720 - 7,720 - 6,220 - 6,220 - -   v) Directors & their Relatives 1,20,783 - 1,20,783 0.01 1,25,178 - 1,25,178 0.01 -   vi) Clearing Members 17,07,800 - 17,07,800 0.08 10,21,418 - 10,21,418 0.05 -0.03   vii) Qualified Foreign Investor - - - - 10,868 - 10,868 - -   viii) IEPF - - - - 30,81,586 - 30,81,586 0.14 0.14 Sub-total (B)(2):- 25,31,44,749 4,73,34,244 30,04,78,993 13.88 24,88,48,513 4,10,58,159 28,99,06,672 13.39 -0.48 TOTAL PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING (B)=(B)(1) +(B)(2) 66,23,77,573 4,75,59,208 70,99,36,781 32.80 66,88,52,346 4,12,63,573 71,01,15,919 32.81 0.01 C.  Shares held by Custodian for   GDRs & ADRs - - - - - - - - - GRAND TOTAL (A+B+C) 211,67,90,431 4,75,59,208 216,43,49,639 100.00 212,32,65,204 4,12,63,573 216,45,28,777 100.00 - Overview Reports   Financial Statements 27 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited ii)  Shareholding of Promoters Sr.  No.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning   of the year Shareholding at the end   of the year % change  in the  shareholding  during the  year No.
of Shares % of  Shares  total  of the  Company % of Shares  Pledged/  Encumbered  to total  shares No.
of Shares % of  Shares  total  of the  Company % of Shares  Pledged/  Encumbered  to total  shares 1 Unilever PLC 1,11,43,70,148 51.49 - 1,11,43,70,148 51.48 - -0.01 2 Brooke Bond Group  Limited 10,67,39,460 4.93 - 10,67,39,460 4.93 - - 3 Unilever Overseas  Holdings AG 6,87,84,320 3.18 - 6,87,84,320 3.18 - - 4 Unilever UK & CN  Holdings Limited 6,00,86,250 2.78 - 6,00,86,250 2.78 - - 5 Brooke Bond South  India Estates Limited 5,27,47,200 2.43 - 5,27,47,200 2.44* - - 6 Brooke Bond Assam  Estates Limited 3,28,20,480 1.52 - 3,28,20,480 1.52 - - 7 Unilever Overseas  Holdings BV 1,88,65,000 0.87 - 1,88,65,000 0.87 - - TOTAL 1,45,44,12,858 67.20 - 1,45,44,12,858 67.19* - -0.01 * Percentage rounded off.
iii) Change in Promoters’ Shareholding   There are no changes in the Promoter’s shareholding during the Financial Year 2017-18.
The percentage change in the Promoters’  holding is due to increase in the paid-up share capital of the Company.
iv)  Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs) as  on 31st March, 2018: Sr.  No.
Name of Shareholders Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 1 Life Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 3,58,90,707 1.66 3,58,90,707 1.66 Bought during the year 3,08,59,365 1.42 6,67,50,072 3.08 Sold during the year - - 6,67,50,072 3.08 At the end of the year 6,67,50,072 3.08 6,67,50,072 3.08 2 Life Insurance Corporation of India P&GS FUND At the beginning of the year 43,19,378 0.20 43,19,378 0.20 Bought during the year 98,32,755 0.45 1,41,52,133 0.65 Sold during the year - 1,41,52,133 0.65 At the end of the year 1,41,52,133 0.65 1,41,52,133 0.65 3 Nomura India Investment Fund Mother Fund At the beginning of the year 14,42,691 0.07 14,42,691 0.07 Bought during the year 1,12,49,774 0.52 1,26,92,465  0.59 Sold during the year - - 1,26,92,465  0.59 At the end of the year 1,26,92,465  0.59  1,26,92,465  0.59 4 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund A Series At the beginning of the year 1,14,07,516 0.53 1,14,07,516  0.53 Bought during the year 10,24,471  0.05 1,24,31,987  0.58 Sold during the year 6,35,784  0.03 1,17,96,203  0.55 At the end of the year 1,17,96,203 0.55 1,17,96,203  0.55 5 The New India Assurance Company limited At the beginning of the year 1,39,66,974 0.65 1,39,66,974 0.65 Bought during the year - - 1,39,66,974 0.65 Sold during the year 22,72,456 0.11 1,16,94,518 0.54 At the end of the year 1,16,94,518 0.54 1,16,94,518 0.54 28 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Sr.  No.
Name of Shareholders Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the Company 6 Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund At the beginning of the year 86,48,155 0.40 86,48,155 0.40 Bought during the year 10,01,754 0.05 96,49,909 0.45 Sold during the year 1,42,184 0.01 95,07,725 0.44 At the end of the year 95,07,725 0.44 95,07,725 0.44 7 General Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 1,01,85,940 0.47 1,01,85,940 0.47 Bought during the year - - 1,01,85,940 0.47 Sold during the year 10,25,000 0.05 91,60,940 0.42 At the end of the year 91,60,940 0.42 91,60,940 0.42 8 Ishares India Index Mauritius Company At the beginning of the year 78,58,602 0.36 78,58,602 0.36 Bought during the year 4,93,615 0.03 83,52,217 0.39 Sold during the year 8,20,744 0.04 75,31,473 0.35 At the end of the year 75,31,473 0.35 75,31,473 0.35 9 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds At the beginning of the year 1,06,97,584 0.49 1,06,97,584 0.49 Bought during the year 19,278 0.00 1,07,16,862 0.49 Sold during the year 41,19,799 0.19 65,97,063 0.30 At the end of the year 65,97,063 0.30 65,97,063 0.30 10 Stiching Depositary APG Emerging Markets Equity Pool At the beginning of the year 52,27,202 0.24 52,27,202 0.24 Bought during the year 24,74,801 0.11 77,02,003 0.35 Sold during the year 13,22,211 0.06 63,79,792 0.29 At the end of the year 63,79,792 0.29 63,79,792 0.29 Notes: • The above information is based on the weekly beneficiary position received from Depositories.
•  The date-wise increase or decrease in shareholding of the top ten shareholders is available on the website of the Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/ annual-reports/hul-annual-report-related-documents.html.
v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: Sr.  No.
Name of Directors / KMP Shareholding at the beginning   of the year Cumulative Shareholding   during the year No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company 1 Mr. Harish Manwani At the beginning of the year 22,130 - 22,130 - Bought during the year - - 22,130 - Sold during the year - - 22,130 - At the end of the year 22,130 - 22,130 - 2 Mr. Sanjiv Mehta At the beginning of the year - - - - Bought during the year 10$ - 10 - Sold during the year - - 10 - At the end of the year 10 - 10 - 3 Mr. Srinivas Phatak As on 1st December, 2017 10,208 - 10,208 - Bought during the period - - 10,208 - Sold during the period - - 10,208 - At the end of the year 10,208 - 10,208 - 4 Mr. Pradeep Banerjee At the beginning of the year 52,886 - 52,886 - Bought during the year - - 52,886 - Sold during the year - - 52,886 - At the end of the year 52,886 - 52,886 - Overview Reports   Financial Statements 29 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Sr.  No.
Name of Directors / KMP Shareholding at the beginning   of the year Cumulative Shareholding   during the year No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company 5 Mr. S. Ramadorai At the beginning of the year 35 - 35 - Bought during the year - - 35 - Sold during the year - - 35 - At the end of the year 35 - 35 - 6 Mr. Dev Bajpai At the beginning of the year 33,326 - 33,326 - Bought during the year 6,583* - 39,909 - Sold during the year - - 39,909 - At the end of the year 39,909 - 39,909 - Notes: 1.
Mr. Aditya Narayan, Mr. O. P. Bhatt, Dr. Sanjiv Misra and Ms. Kalpana Morparia did not hold any Shares of the Company during the financial year 2017-18.
2.
Mr. P. B. Balaji ceased to be the Executive Director, Finance and IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
13th November, 2017 and his shareholding as on  1st April, 2017 was 12,406 shares.
As on 13th November, 2017 there was no change.
* Shares allotted under ESOP.
$  Transmission of Shares dated 30th June, 2017.
V. INDEBTEDNESS  The Company had no indebtedness with respect to Secured or Unsecured Loans or Deposits during the financial year 2017-18.
VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL  A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: (` lakhs) Sr.  No.
Particulars of Remuneration   Name of MD/ WTD/ KMP Total  AmountSanjiv Mehta P. B. Balaji# Srinivas Phatak# Pradeep  Banerjee Dev Bajpai Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer Executive  Director, Finance and IT and Chief Financial  Officer Executive Director, Finance and IT and Chief Financial  Officer Executive  Director, Supply Chain Executive Director, Legal and  Corporate Affairs & Company  Secretary 1.
Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions  contained in Section 17(1)  of the Income-tax Act, 1961 696 295 72 204 205 1,472 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s  17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 102 - - 1 1 104 (c)  Profits in lieu of salary  under Section 17(3)  Income-tax Act, 1961 558 - 15 204 150 927 2.
Stock Option 543 - 3 98 208 852 3.
Sweat Equity - - - - - - 4.
Commission - - - - - - 5.
Others (Contribution to PF &  Superannuation) 38 21 12 41 37 149 TOTAL (A) 1,937 316 102 548 601 3,504 Ceiling as per the Act ` 70,770 lakhs (being 10% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of the  Companies Act, 2013) #  Mr. P. B. Balaji, ceased to be the Executive Director, Finance and IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
13th November, 2017 and Mr. Srinivas Phatak  was appointed as an Executive Director, Finance and IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
1st December, 2017.
30 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors  B. Remuneration to other Directors: (` lakhs) Particulars of  Remuneration Name of other Directors Total  Amount Chairman* Independent Directors Harish Manwani Aditya Narayan S. Ramadorai O.P.
Bhatt Sanjiv Misra Kalpana Morparia$ -  Fee for attending Board / Committee meetings - 4.50 3.60 4.80 4.50 3.60 21.00 -  Commission # 62.00 24.00 23.00 25.71 23.00 22.00 179.71 TOTAL (B) 62.00 28.50 26.60 30.51 27.50 25.60 200.71 Ceiling as per the Act ` 7,077 lakhs (being 1% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) TOTAL MANAGERIAL REMUNERATION = (A+B) 3,704.71 Overall Ceiling as per the Act ` 77,847 lakhs (being 11% of Net Profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) * Non-Executive Non-Independent Director #  The Commission for the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 will be paid after adoption of financial statement by the Members at the AGM to be held on   29th June, 2018.
$ Ms. Kalpana Morparia, ceased to be the member of Audit Committee w.e.f.
25th October, 2017 VII.
PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:   There were no penalties / punishment / compounding of offences for breach of any section of Companies Act, 2013 against the  Company or its Directors or other Officers in default, if any, during the year.
On behalf of the Board  Harish Manwani  Chairman Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 (DIN: 00045160) Overview Reports   Financial Statements 31 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annexure to the Directors’ Report Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Pursuant to Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014) 1.
BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE COMPANY’S CSR POLICY,  INCLUDING OVERVIEW OF PROJECTS / PROGRAMMES  UNDERTAKEN:   Your Company has a simple but clear purpose – to make  sustainable living commonplace.
This purpose inspires your  Company’s vision to accelerate growth in the business, while  reducing its environmental footprint and increasing its positive  social impact.
Your Company’s commitment to sustainable  living is not only helping drive strong business growth but also  helping enhance equity and preference for its brands among  consumers.
Your Company believes that in the long-term, this is the best  way for business to grow.
That is why Unilever Sustainable  Living Plan (USLP) ( http://www.hul.co.in/sustainable-living/)  is at the heart of your Company’s business model.
The USLP  has three global goals, namely: (i) help more than a billion  people take action to improve their health and well-being;   (ii) halve the environmental footprint of the making and use  of products; and (iii) enhance the livelihoods of millions of  people while growing the business.
These goals also contribute  to and are covered by activities listed in the Schedule VII of   Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
USLP commits to a value  chain approach which is integrated across your Company’s brands  and operations.
Your Company also helps in achieving United  Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals through its initiatives.
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy of the  Company, as approved by the Board of Directors, is available  on the Company’s website https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/corporate-governance/hul-policies/.
A brief overview of your Company’s projects is given below.
This  Report is divided into two parts – Section A provides details  of the initiatives that are covered under activities listed in the  Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and are considered  for the purpose of computing prescribed CSR spends.
Section B of this Report deals with USLP and other initiatives  that are not considered for the purpose of CSR Spends.
Section A  i.
Water Conservation Project    India is a water scarce region and water supply is expected  to be half of its demand over the next decade, therefore  Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) has identified water as  a key area of intervention and set-up Hindustan Unilever  Foundation (HUF).
Hindustan Unilever Foundation (HUF) is a not-for-profit  Company that anchors water management related  community development and sustainability initiatives  of HUL.
HUF operates the ‘Water for Public Good’  programme, with specific focus on empowering local  community institutions to govern water resources and  enhancing farm-based livelihoods through adoption of  judicious water practices.
Through the Foundation’s  water conservation and farm-based livelihoods  initiatives, cumulatively, a capacity to conserve more than  450 billion litres of water has been created, over 6.5 lakhs  tonnes of additional agriculture production has been  generated and over 50 lakhs person days of employment  has been generated.
HUF has projects across nearly  2,400 villages in 57 districts with 20 partners in India.
ii.
Handwashing Behaviour Change Programme    Handwashing with soap has been cited as one of the most  cost-effective solutions to improve health and hygiene.
A  review of several studies shows that the simple act of  handwashing with soap in institutions, such as primary  schools and day care centres, reduces the incidence of  diarrhoeal diseases by an average of 30 per cent.
Your  Company’s Lifebuoy handwashing behaviour change  initiatives help in promoting the benefits of handwashing  with soap at key times during the day and encouraging  people to sustain good handwashing behaviour.
Over  67 million people have been reached through Lifebuoy  handwashing behaviour change initiatives.
Lifebuoy has partnered with PSI, Plan International,  World Association of Girl Guides & Girl Scouts  (WAGGGS), Gavi, Project Hope and NGO Naman Seva  Samiti for scaling up the handwashing behaviour  change programme.
In partnership with WAGGGS,  Lifebuoy has launched an initiative to empower young  girls.
Through this partnership, girl guides and scouts  become handwashing heroes and teach the potentially  lifesaving habit of handwashing with soap within their  local communities.
Each handwashing hero is trained  on the importance of using soap while washing hands  before eating and after using the toilet.
They are also  equipped with the necessary skills to share these  learnings with other people they know.
In this way, the  practice of using soap at critical occasions is spread  across communities protecting people from infections.
iii.
Domex Toilet Academy    Domex Toilet Academy (DTA) is a unique market-based  entrepreneurial model launched by the Company in  2014.
DTA programme trains entrepreneurs and masons  to help build and maintain toilets; provides access  to micro-financing and creates demand for toilets in   low-income households.
Since its inception, the DTA has  trained more than 600 micro-entrepreneurs.
To date,  over 2 lakhs toilets have been built, benefitting over   11 lakhs people.
iv.
Swachh Aadat Swachh Bharat    The ‘Swachh Aadat, Swachh Bharat’ (SASB) programme  is in line with the Government of India’s Swachh Bharat  Abhiyan (Clean India Mission) to promote good health and  hygiene practices.
In 2017, the programme continued to  promote good health and hygiene practices by stressing  the need to adopt three clean habits (‘Swachh Aadat’)  of washing hands five times a day, using a toilet for  defecation and adopting safe drinking water practices.
To  spread awareness of the three clean habits, ‘A Playing  32 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Billion’ campaign film was launched that highlighted  how kids miss out on the simple joys of childhood due  to repeated illness and urged people to adopt the three  simple hygiene habits.
The campaign has received   89 million 'YouTube' views.
A part of SASB, Swachhta Doot is a volunteering  programme that enables any person to become  a change agent in his / her community.
It is a  mobile-led WASH communication model to help  create awareness on the three clean habits in  communities.
Till date, your Company has reached   7.5 million people through this programme.
In 2017  alone, 4.5 million people have been reached.
Your Company also contributes to the Village Social  Transformation Mission (VSTM) through its Swachhata  Curriculum.
This curriculum teaches students of  class 1-5 about the three habits of washing hands with  soap, adopting safe drinking water practices and using  clean toilets.
It provides a conceptual understanding of  cleanliness, germs and the clean habits to be adopted in  a fun and engaging manner across a 21 day period.
The Community Hygiene Centre – Suvidha Centre – is  another important project by your Company to contribute  to SASB.
'Suvidha' is a first-of-its-kind urban water,  hygiene and sanitation community centre in Azad Nagar,  Ghatkopar, one of the largest slums in Mumbai.
The  community centre provides drinking water, sanitation,  handwashing, shower facilities and laundry services at  an affordable cost.
The centre uses circular economy  principles to reduce water use.
The centre was built  in partnership with the Municipal Corporation of   Greater Mumbai and Pratha Samajik Sanstha, a  community-based organisation.
v. Project Prabhat    ‘Prabhat’ is HUL ’s USLP-linked programme which  contributes to the development of local communities  around key sites including manufacturing locations.
In  2017, Prabhat surpassed the ambitious target of directly  impacting the lives of one million people.
From its launch  in December 2013 in eight locations, Project Prabhat  is now live in over 30 locations across the country and  directly benefits over 1.7 million people.
The key focus  areas are enhancing livelihoods, water conservation and  health and hygiene awareness.
Under Prabhat’s livelihood initiatives, in partnership   with LabourNet, TARA and Mann Deshi Foundation  over 30,000 people have been successfully certified and  over 21,000 have already been linked to employment  opportunities till December 2017.
The water conservation initiative is spearheaded by  Hindustan Unilever Foundation in partnership with  reputed NGOs to create capacities in water conservation  with specific focus on farm-based livelihoods.
Prabhat’s  water conservation programme is currently active across  seven manufacturing locations.
The Swachh (Health & Hygiene) initiatives of Prabhat are  aligned to the health and well-being pillar of the USLP.
The key focus areas are – removing open defecation,  reducing infant mortality and providing safe drinking  water.
Prabhat also encourages HUL employees to  become Swachhata Doots.
Over 4,000 factory employees  have become Swachhata Doots driving three clean habits.
vi.
Asha Daan    Asha Daan is a home in Mumbai for abandoned and  differently-abled children, HIV-positive and destitute people.
Since the inception of Asha Daan in 1976, your Company has  been looking after the maintenance of the premises.
At any  time, there are about 350-400 inmates at Asha Daan.
vii.
Sanjeevani    Your Company runs a free mobile medical service camp  ‘Sanjeevani’ for the local community near Doom Dooma  factory in Assam.
There are two mobile vans dedicated to  the project.
Each vehicle has one male and one female  doctor, two nurses, a medical attendant and a driver.
The  vans are equipped with basic kits such as diagnostic kit,  blood pressure measuring unit, medicines and a mobile  stretcher.
More than 3.2 lakhs patients have been treated in  these service camps since its inception in 2003.
In 2017 alone,  nearly 17,800 patients were treated through this programme.
viii.
Ankur    Ankur was set up in 1993 as a centre for special education  for differently-abled children at Doom Dooma in Assam.
Ankur has provided educational and vocational training  to 352 differently-abled children.
ix.
Project Shakti    Project Shakti is your Company’s initiative which aims to  financially empower and provide livelihood opportunities  to women in rural India.
The Shakti Entrepreneurs are  given training for familiarisation with your Company’s  products and basic tenets of distribution management.
Your Company has a team of Rural Sales Promoters (RSPs)  who coach and help Shakti Entrepreneurs in managing  their business.
This includes help in business basics and  troubleshooting as well as coaching in softer skills of  negotiation and communication, which enable them to  run their business effectively.
Project Shakti has nearly   80,000 Shakti Entrepreneurs across 18 States.
The  programme has helped Shakti Entrepreneurs gain  confidence, self-esteem, negotiating skills, communication  and engagement capabilities, with supporting the  development of an entrepreneurial mind-set.
Section B Improving Health and Well-being:  i.
Safe Drinking Water    Your Company’s Pureit water purifier has been working  towards making safe drinking water accessible and  affordable to millions of people.
Pureit’s most affordable  range of purifiers provide safe drinking water at a  running cost of just 30 paise per litre without the hassles  of boiling or need of electricity or a continuous tap water  supply.
In India, Pureit has provided 83 billion litres of  safe drinking water till date.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 33 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited  ii.
Dove Self-Esteem programme    Globally 8 out of 10 girls opt out of key life activities when  they don’t feel good about the way they look.
In India,   6 in 10 girls say they do not have high body esteem 1.
Dove has a mission to ensure the next generation grows  up enjoying a positive relationship with the way they look  helping young people raise their self-esteem and realise  their full potential.
For more than 10 years, globally we have been helping  young people with self-esteem education, reaching over  20 crores lives.
In India, in 2017 your Company worked  with partners such as Fountainhead and WAGGGS to  reach out to 4.5 lakhs girls.
iii.
Nutrition and Well-Being Initiatives    Your Company continuously works to improve the taste  and nutritional quality of the products using globally  recognised dietary standards.
In 2017, in India 47% of  your Company’s total food and refreshment portfolio met  the highest nutritional standards.
Reducing Environmental Impact:  iv.
Reducing GHG, Waste, Water in Manufacturing    In 2017, CO2 emissions per tonne of production reduced  by 54%*.
There was an increase in share of renewable  energy at your Company’s sites to 36%*.
Water usage  (cubic meter per tonne of production) in manufacturing  operations reduced by 55%*.
Total waste generated  from the factories reduced by 54%*.
Your Company  maintained the status of ‘zero non-hazardous waste  to landfill’ in all its factories and offices.
100% of the   non-hazardous waste generated at our factories was  recycled in environment friendly ways.
v.  Reusable, Recyclable or Compostable Plastic Packaging    The USLP commits to ensure 100% of the Company’s  plastic packaging is reusable, recyclable or compostable  by 2025.
All Unilever factories and offices in over   190 countries are ‘zero non-hazardous waste to landfill’  sites.
Factory generated non-hazardous waste is recycled  in environment friendly ways.
Globally, we have reduced one-third of our plastic  packaging since 2010.
In India, your Company is taking  the below initiatives in this direction:    Energy from Waste:  In partnership with specialist  agency, your Company has conducted a pilot on energy  recovery from waste.
Your Company has recovered  energy from over 13,000 tonnes of waste till end of 2017.
Waste collection and segregation at source: In  partnership with NGOs, your Company has conducted   pilot projects in the domain of waste collection and  segregation.
Till end of 2017, over 380 tonnes of plastic  waste has been collected, segregated and co-processed.
vi.
Sustainable Sourcing    Your Company has a clear roadmap to achieve the bold  commitment to source 100% of agricultural raw materials  sustainably by 2020.
In 2017, 100% of tomatoes used in  Kissan ketchup continued to be sourced sustainably.
The  Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project, which began  in 2012 between HUL and Maharashtra Government  for sustainable sourcing of tomatoes, has become   self-sustaining.
In 2017, your Company continued to  provide these farmers a buy-back guarantee for their  produce.
Your Company also offers farmers knowledge  and expertise in sustainable agricultural practices.
This  includes the latest agricultural techniques, irrigation  practices, recommendation of the right type of seeds, etc.
A total of 423 tea estates in India are trustea2 verified and  a total of 285 tea estates in India are Rainforest Alliance3  certified.
In 2017, over 52% of tea was sourced from  sustainable sources in India.
Over five lakhs (0.5 million)  plantation workers (56% of them are women workers) and  40,000 smallholders are verified under the trustea code.
Enhancing Livelihoods:  vii.
Fair & Lovely Foundation    The Fair & Lovely Foundation (FAL) identifies   academically exceptional girls from financially challenged  backgrounds and offers scholarships to deserving  candidates to pursue further education.
To maintain  integrity and fairness, the selection is done by a panel  of eminent personalities from diverse fields.
Till date,  over 1400 girl students have been awarded scholarships.
FAL Foundation has partnered with edX.org, a non-profit  Massive Open Online Course Platform founded by  Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of  Technology (MIT), NIIT and English Edge to launch a  mobile education programme for women.
Nearly 2 lakhs  women have enrolled for this course till December 2017.  viii.
Rin Career Ready Academy    Rin Career Ready Academy aims to inspire, educate and  equip the youth from modest backgrounds with English  speaking skills, office dressing and interviewing.
In 2016,  your Company re-launched the academy with two key  new initiatives: Introduction of the ‘Tele-Conferencing’  module where students can speak to a teacher instead  of an automated voice and a web course available on   www.rin.in.
So far, over 4.2 lakhs people have benefitted  from this programme.
ix.
Kwality Wall’s Vending Operations    Our Kwality Wall’s mobile vending initiative,   ‘I am Wall’s’, has provided entrepreneurship opportunities  to 10,500 people across India.
This programme has helped  vendors become self-sufficient micro-entrepreneurs  selling Ice Creams on the move.
Your Company’s work over the last several years has  paved the way for setting out clear targets.
However, to  scale up your Company’s initiatives, partnerships are  1  The 2017 Dove Global Girls Beauty and Confidence Report 2   trustea is a multi-stakeholder programme, locally developed and owned India sustainability tea code.
3   The Rainforest Alliance is a growing network of farmers, foresters, communities, scientists, governments, environmentalists, and businesses dedicated to conserving  biodiversity and ensuring sustainable livelihoods.
*  compared to 2008 baseline.
34 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors crucial to make a meaningful difference.
Your Company  is working in partnership with Governments, NGOs,  suppliers and others to help forge alliances and address  big societal challenges.
Your Company has shared progress on the sustainability  initiatives and partnerships in the Business Responsibility  Report in line with the key principles enunciated in the  ‘National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental  and Economic Responsibilities of Business’ framed by the  Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
The Business Responsibility  Report forms part of this Annual Report.
2.
COMPOSITION OF THE CSR COMMITTEE:   Please refer to the Corporate Governance Report for the  composition of the CSR Committee.
3.
DETAILS OF CSR SPEND: (` lakhs) Average Net Profit of the Company for last 3 financial  years: 5,61,009 Prescribed CSR Expenditure: 11,220 Details of CSR spent during the financial year 2017-18: a)  Total amount to be spent for the financial year   (2% of Average Net Profit for last 3 financial years)  11,220 b)  Total amount spent during the financial year 11,609 c) Amount unspent, if any Nil d) Manner in which the amount was spent during the financial year is detailed below: (` lakhs) Sr. No CSR project/  activity identified Relevant Section  of Schedule VII  in which the  Project is covered (Note 1) Projects/  Programmes  Coverage Amount  outlay  (budget) Amount spent on   the project / programme Cumulative  expenditure  up to 31st March, 2018 Amount spent  Direct / through  implementing  agencyDirect  expenditure Overheads 1 Project Shakti (ii) PAN India 4,177 4,177 0 4,177 Direct 2 Swachh Aadat Swachh Bharat (i) PAN India 3,048 3,048 0 3,048 Direct 3 Water Conservation Project (iv) PAN India 3,317 3,002 315 3,317 Implementing  Agencies  (Multiple NGOs) (Note 2 [i]) 4 Asha Daan (iii) Mumbai 170 170 0 170 Implementing  Agency  (Missionaries of  Charity) 5 Project Prabhat (x) PAN India 561 544 17 561 Implementing  Agencies   (Note 2 [ii]) 6 Domex Toilet Academy (i) Andhra  Pradesh 233 233 0 233 Implementing  Agencies   (Note 2 [iii]) 7 Sanjeevani (i) Assam 75 75 0 75 Direct 8 Ankur (iii) Assam 28 28 0 28 Direct TOTAL 11,609 11,277 332 11,609 Note 1: (i)  eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition (promoting  healthcare including preventive healthcare) and sanitation  (including contribution to the ‘Swachh Bharat Kosh’ set up by  the Central Government for the promotion of sanitation) and  making available safe drinking water; (ii)  promoting education, including special education and  employment, enhancing vocational skills especially among  children, women, elderly and the differently-abled, and  livelihood enhancement projects; (iii)  promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up  homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old  age homes, day care centers and such other facilities for  senior citizens and measures for reducing inequalities faced  by socially and economically backward groups; (iv)  ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance,  protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry,  conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of  soil, air and water (including contribution to the ‘Clean Ganga  Fund’ set up by the Central Government for rejuvenation of  river Ganga); (x)  Rural development projects.
Note 2 [i]: Samuha, Watershed Organisation Trust, People’s Action for  National Integration, Sahjeevan, Samaj Pragati Sahayog,   Dhan Foundation, Parmarth, Sanjeevani Institute for Empowerment  & Development, BAIF Development Research Foundation and  Integrated Rural Development Trust.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 35 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Note 2 [ii]: Labour Net Services India Private Limited, Mann Deshi Foundation,  and Development Alternatives.
Note 2 [iii]: Population Services International.
Note 3: During the year, the Company has spent an amount of   ` 8.5 crores on Fair & Lovely Foundation and ` 2.14 crores on   Rin Career Ready Academy in accordance with the CSR Policy of  the Company.
However, these spends have not been considered for  the purpose of computing prescribed CSR spend of two percent of  the Average Profits.
4.
CSR COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT   The CSR Committee confirms that the implementation  and monitoring of the CSR activities of the Company are in  compliance with the CSR objectives and CSR Policy of the  Company.
On behalf of the CSR Committee Sanjiv Mehta  O. P. Bhatt Managing Director and  Chairman, CSR Committee  Chief Executive Officer  (DIN: 00548091)  (DIN: 06699923) 36 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Annexure to the Directors’ Report Business Responsibility Report SECTION A – GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company L15140MH1933PLC002030 2.
Name of the Company Hindustan Unilever Limited 3.
Registered address Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East),   Mumbai - 400 099 4.
Website www.hul.co.in 5.
E-mail id levercare.shareholder@unilever.com 6.
Financial Year reported 1st April, 2017 to 31st March, 2018 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial  activity code-wise) • 20231 Soaps • 20233 Detergents • 20236 Shampoos • 20235 Toothpastes • 20234 Deodorants • 20237 Cosmetics • 10791 Tea • 10792 Coffee • 10750 Packaged Foods (Including Frozen Desserts) • 27501 Water Purifiers • 28195 Air Purifier 8.
List three key products /services that the Company  manufactures /provides (as in balance sheet) • Home Care (Fabric Wash, Household Care and Water Business) •  Personal Care (Personal Wash, Skin Care, Hair Care, Oral Care,  Colour Cosmetics and Deodorants) •  Refreshments (Tea, Coffee, Ice Cream and Frozen Desserts) 9.
Total number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company  i.
Number of International Locations None  ii.
Number of National Locations •  Registered Office:   Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East),  Mumbai - 400 099 •  Research Centre:  64, Main Road, Whitefield P O, Banglore - 560 066 •   9th Floor, Prestige Shantiniketan, The Business Presinct, Tower – A,  Whitefield Main Road, Bangalore – 560 048.
•  Regional Office (East):  Brooke House, 9 Shakespere Sarani, Kolkata - 700 071 •  Regional Office (West):   Uttara, Plot No.
2, Sector No.
11, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai - 400 614 •  Regional Office (North):   Block No.
A, Plot No.
B, South City I, Delhi - Jaipur Highway,  Gurgaon - 122 001 •  Regional Office (South):  101, Santhome High Road, Chennai - 600 028 •  Regional Office (Central):   Office Space Number 101, 102, 103, 108 and 109, Shalimar Titanium,  Vibhuti Khand, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow - 226 010 Uttar Pradesh •   Unit No.
511 To 514, 5th Floor, Princes' Business Skypark,  Block No.
22,23,24, Sch No.
54, Pu-3 Commercial, Opposite Orbit,   A.B Road, Indore - 452001, Madhya Pradesh Details of manufacturing locations form part of this Annual Report.
10.
Markets served by the Company India Overview Reports   Financial Statements 37 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited SECTION B – FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY (` lakhs) 1.
Paid-up Capital 21,645 2.
Total Turnover 34,61,872 3.
Total profit after taxes 5,23,679 4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of average Net profit of the  Company for last 3 financial years  2.07% (` 11,609 lakhs) 5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred: Please refer to the CSR Annual Report which forms part of this   Annual Report.
SECTION C – OTHER DETAILS 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company /  Companies?
2.
Do the Subsidiary Company / Companies participate in  the Business Responsibility (BR) initiatives of the parent  company?
If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary  Company(ies)?
As on 31st March, 2018, the Company has 11 Subsidiary Companies.
Hindustan Unilever Foundation and Bhavishya Alliance Child  Nutrition Initiatives – both are not-for-profit companies incorporated  to promote and implement the Corporate Social Responsibility  agenda.
Both companies work in the areas of social, economic  and environmental concerns and contribute to the sustainability  initiatives of the Company.
In addition, Unilever India Exports Limited  also contributes to the sustainability initiatives of the Company.
3.
Do any other entity / entities (e.g.
suppliers, distributors  etc.)
that the Company does business with, participate in the   BR initiatives of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the percentage  of such entity / entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%, More   than 60%] Your Company works with stakeholders in its extended value chain  through its business responsibility initiatives.
Your Company also requires its third-party business partners to  adhere to business principles set out in Responsible Sourcing Policy  (RSP) and Responsible Business Partner Policy (RBPP), which  underpin the third-party compliance programme.
SECTION D: BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY (BR) INFORMATION Details of Director / Directors Responsible for BR The details of members of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee and their roles and responsibilities are elaborated in   CSR Annual Report and Corporate Governance Report forming part of this Annual Report.
The DIN details of the CSR Committee members are as follows: Name Designation DIN Mr. O. P. Bhatt* Independent Director 00548091 Mr. Aditya Narayan Independent Director 00012084 Dr. Sanjiv Misra Independent Director 03075797 Ms. Kalpana Morparia Independent Director 00046081 Mr. Sanjiv Mehta Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 06699923 Mr. Srinivas Phatak Executive Director, Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer 02743340 * Chairman PRINCIPLE-WISE (AS PER NVGS) BR POLICY / POLICIES  (REPLY IN Y / N) Respect and Integrity for its people, environment and other  businesses have always been at the heart of your Company’s  Corporate Responsibility.
Your Company’s Corporate Purpose is to  make Sustainable Living Commonplace and it believes that this is  the best way to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
This purpose is supported by the Code of Business Principles (CoBP),  which describes the standards that everyone at HUL follow.
Unilever  Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) is the Company’s blueprint for  achieving sustainable growth.
CoBP and the USLP framework supplement the requirements  under the National Voluntary Guidelines and cover principles  beyond those enunciated under the National Voluntary Guidelines.
38 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors The National Voluntary Guidelines provide the following nine principles.
Principle 1: Ethics, Transparency and Accountability [P1] Principle 6: Environment [P6] Principle 2: Products Lifecycle Sustainability [P2] Principle 7: Policy Advocacy [P7] Principle 3: Employees’ Well-being [P3] Principle 8: Inclusive Growth [P8] Principle 4: Stakeholder Engagement [P4] Principle 9: Customer Value [P9] Principle 5: Human Rights [P5] (a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y / N) Sr. No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 Do you have policy / policies for… Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with  the relevant stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3 Does the policy conform to any national / international  standards?
If yes, specify?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y The CoBP of the Company conforms to the United Nations Global Compact  (UNGC) guidelines and International Labour Organisation (ILO) principles.
The USLP Progress Report conforms to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  indicators.
4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes,  has it been signed by MD/ owner/ CEO/ appropriate  Board Director?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y The CoBP and the USLP are frameworks adopted by Unilever globally and  have been followed by the Company.
5 Does the Company have a specified Committee  of the Board/ Director/ Official to oversee the  implementation of the policy?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y The CoBP is administered under the overall supervision of the Management  Committee of the Company, headed by the Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director.
The Audit Committee reviews the implementation of  CoBP.
The CSR Committee reviews the implementation of the USLP besides  the scope that has been laid out for this Committee under the Companies  Act, 2013.
6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online USLP: https://www.hul.co.in/sustainable-living/ CoBP: https://www.hul.co.in/Images/4297-cobp-summary-doc_tcm1255- 409220_en.pdf RSP: https://www.hul.co.in/Images/responsible-sourcing-policy-interactive- final_tcm1255-504736_en.pdf RBPP: https://www.hul.co.in/Images/responsible-business-partner-policy- may-2017_tcm1255-504807_en.pdf 7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all  relevant internal and external stakeholders’?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 8 Does the Company have in-house structure to  implement the policy / policies?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy / policies to address  stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy / policies?
Y - Y Y Y Y - - Y 10 Has the Company carried out independent audit /  evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal  or external agency?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y (b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: Not Applicable GOVERNANCE RELATED TO BR The Management Committee of the Company reviews complaints,  issues and concerns received under the CoBP framework as  well as the implementation of the CoBP on a monthly basis.
The Audit Committee of the Company reviews the implementation of  the CoBP on a quarterly basis.
The CSR Committee of the Company  comprising a majority of Independent Directors is responsible for  formulating, implementing and monitoring the CSR Policy of the  Company.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review  progress on various sustainability initiatives, including progress  under the USLP.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 39 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Reporting progress to stakeholders on USLP targets forms an  important part of the governance procedures of your Company.
Your Company publishes an update on progress in India under  USLP every year.
The USLP India Progress Report can be accessed  at https://www.hul.co.in/sustainable-living/india-sustainability- initiatives/.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act,  2013, your Company has also published the CSR Annual Report  which forms part of this Annual Report.
The CSR Annual Report  and this Business Responsibility Report can be accessed at   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/annual-reports/.
PRINCIPLE 1: ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY AND  ACCOUNTABILITY BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES  WITH ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY The standards on ethics, transparency and accountability are stated  under the CoBP and Code policies of your Company.
CoBP is the  statement of values and represents the standard of conduct which  everyone associated with your Company is expected to observe  in all business endeavours.
Your Company also has a Whistle  Blower Policy which allows employees to bring to the attention of  the Management, promptly and directly, any unethical behaviour,  suspected fraud or irregularity in the Company practices which is  not in line with the CoBP.
The CoBP and Whistle Blower Policy and  their implementation are explained in detail under the Report of  Board of Directors and the Corporate Governance Report.
PRINCIPLE 2: PRODUCTS LIFECYCLE SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES THAT  ARE SAFE AND CONTRIBUTE TO SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT  THEIR LIFECYCLE Consumers increasingly prefer responsible brands and responsible  businesses.
Your Company’s brands have integrated responsibility  and sustainability into both their purpose and products.
For  example, your Company’s brands such as Pureit (Water), Domex  (Sanitation) and Lifebuoy (Hygiene) have supported the water,  sanitation and hygiene (WASH) agenda in India.
Your Company has  reached over 140 million people by end of 2017 through its initiatives  in the area of health and well-being and has also contributed to  an important national agenda through its Swachh Aadat, Swachh  Bharat programme.
For further details on our brands with purpose  refer to the Report of Board of Directors.
It is crucial for your Company to manage the environmental impact  at each stage of its products’ lifecycle to achieve USLP goals.
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is one of several techniques that  your Company uses to understand the impacts of its products on  the environment.
Your Company uses LCA in three ways: in new  product design; for assessment of existing products; and in science  and methodological development.
Sustainable purpose, sustainable products These purpose-driven brands are not limited to being socially  relevant, but are also environmentally sustainable.
Many of your  Company’s food products are made from sustainably sourced  agricultural raw materials.
For example 100% of tomatoes used  in your Company’s Kissan ketchup are from sustainable sources.
Your Company is also working through its supplier partners with  10,000 smallholder farmers in southern India for sustainable  farming of gherkins.
This is a part of the innovative Responsible  Farming Programme that aims to increase productivity, develop  best practices and improve livelihoods.
Your Company has taken an audacious target of eliminating  coal from its energy mix by 2020.
This will result in substantial  reduction in our carbon footprint.
Further, your Company shall  source 100% of its energy across its operations from renewable  sources by 2030.
Product safety Being responsible also means ensuring that your Company’s  products are of high quality and completely safe for use by its  consumers.
Unilever has a Safety & Environmental Assurance  Centre (SEAC) which assures the safety and environmental  sustainability of the products as well as the processes used to  manufacture them.
Your Company works closely on all safety and  environmental assurance issues with SEAC.
In case consumers face any issues with the products, they can reach  the Company through Levercare – an initiative of the Company that  allows consumers to register complaints and obtain information  regarding the Company’s products.
PRINCIPLE 3: EMPLOYEES’ WELL-BEING  BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL  EMPLOYEES  Your Company’s well-being strategy aims to create a working  environment that is supportive of employees’ personal lives, while  meeting your Company’s business needs.
Vision – An injury-free organisation  Your Company’s vision to become an injury-free organisation.
We  achieved a further 6% reduction in Total Recordable Frequency  Rate (TRFR) in 2017 as compared to 2016.
Overall, we have achieved  a robust 80% reduction in the TRFR for accidents in the factories  and offices in 2017 as compared to 2008 baseline.
Your Company  has a Central Safety, Health and Environment Sub-Committee,  which is led by the Chief Executive Officer.
Holistic well-being  Your Company's well-being agenda encompasses four pillars  of well-being – physical, mental, emotional and purposeful.
Lamplighter is your Company’s framework for addressing  employee health and well-being.
In 2017, your Company rolled  out well-being workshops and healthy-eating awareness sessions  for employees, that were attended by nearly 4,000 employees.
It  also conducted purpose workshops for over 1,000 employees.
Your Company is successfully running the toll-free helpline in   nine languages for its employees to reach out and speak to a  counsellor and seek advice on physical and mental health.
Your  Company has also collaborated with well-being experts to share  their insights on holistic well-being.
Additionally, well-being ‘Thrive’ workshops were conducted  across 32 locations in the country and saw participation from over   12,000 employees.
Your Company also conducted regular  workshops on improving nutrition where we invited experts to  demonstrate ways of healthy cooking.
Along with partners and  experts, the Company implemented habit changing interventions  that focused on healthy nutrition choices, de-addiction and  adopting clean habits.
40 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Capability building  Apart from physical and mental health, your Company focuses on  continuous learning and building organisational capabilities of its  people:  •   Sparkle: It is a technology tool designed for capability  management of shop-floor Blue collar employees.
•   Unilever Future Leaders Programme (UFLP): Your Company  identifies talent early and invests to build capability through  this flagship programme.
•   70:20:10 Capability Building: Your Company follows the  70:20:10 capability building approach with 70% capability built  on the job through live assignments, 20% through coaching,  short-term projects and exposures and 10% through  classroom, virtual and e-learning.
•   People Planning Processes:  Leaders at each level review  and assess talent on both, the “What” and the “How’” of  performance through an objective process.
Capability building  and career plans for talent form an integral part of this  process.
•   Growth through Diversity of Experience:  Job rotation and  diversity of experiences are integrated at all stages of the  individual’s career.
Diversity and inclusion  During the year ‘Inclusive Leaders’ were recognised by employees  for contribution and role modelling of inclusive leadership.
In the area of diversity, your Company ensures a gender-balanced  workforce.
More than one-third of your Company’s managers are  women.
In 2017, over 60% of the hires were Mid-Career Recruits  (MCRs) and 45.5% of Unilever Future Leaders Programme (UFLP)  hires were women.
Your Company has been consistently recognised at various awards  and forums such as ‘Best Companies for Women in India’ for its  culture of diversity and inclusiveness.
Your Company's onsite  Daycare Centre in Mumbai has been ranked as the ‘No.1 Preschool  Programme’ in Mumbai by Education Today consistently for the  past two years.
Affirmative action and prevention from sexual  harassment  Your Company believes in providing Equal Opportunity / Affirmative  Action.
It has a Policy on Affirmative Action and a Policy on  Prevention of Sexual Harassment to ensure a harassment-free  workspace for the employees.
Sexual harassment cases are dealt  with as per the Company Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment  and the CoBP and applicable laws.
Communication is sent to all  employees on a regular basis on various aspects of prevention of  sexual harassment at work through e-articles and other means  of communication.
During the year 2017-18, four complaints with  allegation of sexual harassment were filed with the Company and  the same has been handled under the provisions of the Prevention  of Sexual Harassment Act.
Around 1500 people were trained on preventing sexual harassment  and related topics.
Training included:  •   New Joiners / Trainees / Interns / Third-party business  partners were inducted on the subject of Prevention of Sexual  Harassment of Women at Workplace.
•   Employees across locations were taken through a refresher  programme on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace.
•   Inside offices, women employees are discouraged from  working beyond 8.30 p.m. Any instances of late working  are detected by the attendance card reader and sent to the  employee's Line Manager automatically.
In circumstances  where late working becomes unavoidable, women employees  are required to (i) Take a drop home from a Company approved  car vendor only; (ii) Be escorted by a male colleague back  home; (iii) Inform their Line Managers upon reaching home  that they have reached safely.
Fair labour practices  Your Company drives fairness in the workplace by advancing  human rights across its operations and extended supply chain.
Your Company has an excellent record on industrial relations.
Since  2015, it has maintained a record of near-zero loss of man-days due  to industrial unrest.
Your Company currently has 5,725 employees  (excluding workmen), over 4,000 employees are employed on  contractual / temporary basis as on 31st March, 2018.
Freedom of association, participation and collective  bargaining  All workers are free to exercise their right to form and / or join trade  unions or to refrain from doing so and to bargain collectively.
There are 105 employee associations across your Company.
More than 10,000 permanent employees are members of these  associations.
There are over 104 female shop-floor Blue collar  employees and over 18 permanent shop-floor Blue collar  employees with disabilities in your Company’s factories.
During the last year, your Company entered into long-term  settlements with around 3,747 employees covering 10 factories  across India.
Managing grievances  Your Company’s grievance redressal mechanisms ensure that all  employees can raise issues and concerns.
The CoBP and Whistle  Blower Policy provide for reporting in confidence of issues like  child labour, sexual harassment etc.
The Company has established  a vigil mechanism for Directors and employees to report their  genuine concerns, details of which have been given in the  Corporate Governance Report.
During the year, there have been no  complaints alleging child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour  and discriminatory employment.
PRINCIPLE 4: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF, AND BE  RESPONSIVE TOWARDS ALL STAKEHOLDERS’, ESPECIALLY  THOSE WHO ARE DISADVANTAGED, VULNERABLE AND  MARGINALISED.
Your Company actively engages with stakeholders in its own  operations and beyond to bring transformational change.
Internal and external stakeholder engagement  Stakeholder engagement and partnership is essential to grow your  Company’s business and to reach the ambitious targets set out in  the USLP.
The CoBP and Code Policies guide how your Company  interacts with the partners – among other suppliers, customers,  governments, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and trade  Overview Reports   Financial Statements 41 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited associations.
Only authorised and appropriately trained employees  or representatives can engage with these groups.
All engagement  must be conducted in a transparent manner with honesty, integrity  and openness; in compliance with local and international laws and  in accordance with Unilever’s values.
The Company engages in multiple ways with specific important  stakeholders:  Suppliers  Every day, we work with thousands of suppliers who are helping  us achieve success in the market.
Our suppliers help us innovate,  create value, build capacity and capability, deliver quality and  service and drive market transformation.
We invest in long-term  mutually beneficial relationships with our key suppliers through  our Partner to Win programme, so we can share capabilities and  co-innovate for shared growth.
Consumers and customers  Your Company constantly seeks to understand the needs of the  consumers and brings in technology to ensure that the consumers  are kept informed and engaged on your Company’s products and  services.
•   Winning In Many Indias:  Your Company consolidated the  ambitious transformation agenda of ‘Winning In Many Indias’  (WiMi) in 2016.
It has been a journey strengthening the WiMi  thinking across markets, end-to-end planning and ways of  working.
This has helped the Company to move the needle on  quality of servicing and in-market execution by getting closer  to the customers, shoppers and consumers.
This approach  has strengthened your Company’s connect with them across  geographical clusters, and will be a source of competitive  advantage for years to come.
•   Dial Up The Big Q: Your Company has been a pioneer in the  area of big data and analytics as a tool to drive sustainable  growth.
Using more than millions of transactions captured  every month, your Company uses intelligent analytics at the  back-end, to deliver better on-shelf availability in stores.
Your  Company will continue to invest in the power of knowledge and  big data to enhance the impact and effectiveness of execution.
•   Building Brands In Store: Investments made by your  Company in building brands in stores in the Modern Trade  channel has delivered good results.
Your Company saw strong  growth across all key modern trade retail partners, driven by  strong joint business plans.
Your Company’s position in FMCG  as market leader coupled with the early investments in the  e-commerce channel has helped your Company take the lead  in developing this channel with key online and offline retailers.
•   Levercare: Your Company has Levercare, a toll-free number,  e-mail and a postal address where consumers can reach the  Company directly.
Levercare gives consumers the promise  of better service and helps the Company to connect with  consumers and understand their needs, expectations and  aspirations.
It helps consumers voice their queries, grievances  and offer suggestions / ideas.
Levercare has leveraged  technology to deliver personalised service that helps build  one-on-one relationships with consumers and customers to  delight them.
Detailed description of more such initiatives is  given in Principle 9 (Customer Value).
Shareholders and investors  Your Company regularly interacts with its shareholders and  investors through results announcements, annual report, media  releases, Company’s website and subject-specific communications.
The Annual General Meeting gives the shareholders an opportunity  to engage directly with the Board of Directors and the Management.
During this meeting, the Board engages with shareholders and  answers their queries on varied subjects.
Your Company has a designated e-mail address for shareholders.
The Investor Services Department regularly engages with the  shareholders to resolve queries, grievances, if any, and provides  guidance to shareholders for any Company-related matter.
The  Investor Relations team also interacts regularly with investors and  analysts, through quarterly results calls, one-on-one and group  meetings, participation at investor conferences and the annual  investors meet.
Government  Your Company co-operates and engages with governments,  regulators and legislators, both directly and through trade  associations, in the development of proposed legislation and  regulation which may affect your business interests.
NGOs  Your Company is building transformational partnerships in  collaboration with NGOs and other stakeholders who share the  Company’s vision for a more sustainable future.
These partnerships  are instrumental in improving the quality of people’s lives, achieving  the Company’s USLP targets and driving the business growth.
Your Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Hindustan Unilever  Foundation, partners with several NGOs for undertaking water  conservation programme.
This year, your Company has partnered  with NGOs for implementing the Swachh Aadat curriculum and  conducted pilot projects for waste collection and segregation.
Media  Your Company engages with media to update about the  developments in the Company.
Regular interactions with print,  television and online media take place through press releases,  media events and quarterly results announcements.
Your Company  also ensures timely and appropriate responses to media for any  information requests within the stipulated disclosure norms.
Employee engagement  Your Company has several communication processes instituted  to ensure a two-way communication channel with its employees.
These include:  •   CEO Report Back:  Quarterly performance update from the  CEO to all employees.
•   Annual Review: All managers are invited to the Annual Review  which is conducted in four major metros.
•   Others: The Company has other in-house communication  channels, which help employees to connect, bond, inspire,  express and celebrate their achievements.
Other key opinion formers  Every year, the Company organises an event and provides an update  on the progress of the USLP to key opinion formers representing  various stakeholder groups such as NGOs, IGOs, Government  bodies, companies, industry bodies and consumer organisations.
42 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors PRINCIPLE 5: HUMAN RIGHTS  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS  Your Company seeks to uphold and promote human rights in its  operations, in relationships with business and partners; and by  working through external initiatives such as the United Nations  Global Compact.
Unilever has identified eight human rights issues as priority and is  committed to addressing them across its operations globally.
The  eight priority issues are: discrimination, fair wages, forced labour,  freedom of association, harassment, health and safety, land rights  and working hours.
Unilever’s approach to managing these critical  human rights issues globally is elaborated on the Unilever website.
The report on human rights released by Unilever in 2015 outlines  Unilever’s goals not only to respect human rights but to actively  advance them across all areas of the business.
In India, your Company fully adheres to Unilever’s approach to  human rights.
In addition to this, your Company’s CoBP upholds  the principles of human rights and fair treatment.
The Code also  conforms to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) principles.
The principles of human rights are followed in the same spirit  within as well as outside the organisation when engaging with  business partners.
Your Company’s Responsible Sourcing Policy’  for suppliers reinforces the principles of human rights and labour  rights for all suppliers of your Company and is available on  Unilever’s website.
No complaints were received regarding human rights violation  during the year.
PRINCIPLE 6: ENVIRONMENT  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT, PROTECT AND MAKE EFFORTS  TO RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT  In line with USLP, your Company’s vision is to grow the business  whilst decoupling the environmental footprint from growth and  increase the social impact.
To achieve this goal, your Company has  taken up ambitious targets of specific reductions in the areas of  waste (kg/tonne of production), water (m3/tonne of production) and  greenhouse gas emission (kg/tonne of production).
The reductions  for 2017 based on 2008 baseline are:  •  CO2 emissions (kg/tonne of production) reduced by 54%.
•  Water consumption (m3/tonne of production) reduced by 55%.
•   Total waste (kg/tonne of production) generated from the  factories reduced by 54%.
Your Company also recycles and disposes the waste generated  during the manufacturing operations in an environmentally  friendly manner.
All our manufacturing sites have sustained zero   non-hazardous waste to landfills status since 2014.
The Company  has also embraced Unilever’s global target of ensuring that all of  its plastic packaging is fully reusable, recyclable or compostable  by 2025.
Your Company has undertaken multiple sustainability initiatives,  which are elaborated as under:  •  Your Company is now using 100% of its waste residue generated  from oil processing as fuel in its various factories.
This is   bio-genic (renewable) fuel and has zero carbon footprint.
•   Various solar initiatives were implemented across factories in  2017 like Solar Tree, Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) powered  by Solar Photovoltaic (PV), Solar Power Purchase Agreements  (PPAs), Roof top Solar PV.
•   During the year, your Company upgraded effluent treatment  facilities at several sites by providing technologies like PVA  (Polyvinyl Alcohol) gel based biocarriers, MBBR (Moving  Bed Biofilm Reactor), Volute for mechanical dewatering ETP  sludge via reducing screw pitch mechanism, Drum drier for  treatment of RO rejects.
The facilities were installed to ensure  that these sites remain zero liquid effluent discharge.
•   Your Company is maximising use of biodegradable material like  food waste, leaves, etc.
for energy generation through Biogas  plants which are now operational in eight sites.
The biogas  generated from these plants is used in canteen for cooking.
•   Over 8.5 million units (KWH) were reduced from your  Company’s energy footprint during 2017 in comparison to  last year due to execution of various capital projects ranging  from LED lights replacement across various factories,  compressed air heat recovery system, replacement of AHU  (Air Handling Unit) with HVLS (High-Volume Low-Speed) fans,  Variable Freequecy Drives (VFDs) for pumps in manufacturing,  optimisation of compressed air usage through control system,  steam usage optimisation, condensate recoveries and energy  efficient motors for pumps and agitators.
Your Company has  made investments totaling ` 7 crores in such projects in the  above period.
•   The contribution of renewable energy in total energy went up  to 36%, an increase of more than 7% in comparison to last  year.
•   Your Company has significantly increased direct use  of rainwater in operations during monsoons to reduce  groundwater withdrawal.
There was a 44% increase in captive  rainwater reuse in 2017 in comparison to last year.
The  areas of use include utilities like cooling towers, soft water  generation and processes.
•   Total waste reduction achieved by identifying new opportunities  for reusing and recycling wastes, recovering energy from  organic process wastes, all within the purview of statutory  guidelines of waste disposals.
Your Company maintained the  status of ‘zero non-hazardous waste to landfill’ for all factories  and offices.
Monitoring procedures  The progress on sustainability is monitored at different levels as  mentioned below:  •  Sustainability Governing Council: The top leadership from  respective business verticals and functions constitute  the Sustainability Governing Council.
The Company has a  governance mechanism and scorecard to monitor the progress  on USLP commitments.
The Council reports the progress to  the CEO and Management Committee on a quarterly basis.
•   Environment Sub-Committee: The sub-committee is  headed by the Executive Director, Supply Chain, and has  cross-functional representation from departments such as  Safety, Health and Environment, Engineering, R&D, Finance  and Legal.
The subcommittee meets regularly to review  environmental performances and strategise on the areas of  improvement.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 43 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Risk Assessment  All the emissions / waste generated by your Company are generally  within the permissible limits given by respective state Pollution  Control Boards (PCBs).
During the year, your Company continued to make significant  progress on the matter of its former factory in Kodaikanal.
An  update on this issue forms part of the Report of Board of Directors.
PRINCIPLE 7: POLICY ADVOCACY  BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGED IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND  REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A RESPONSIBLE  MANNER  Your Company’s approach to advocacy is guided by the CoBP.
The  CoBP and Code Policies provide that any contact by the Company  or its business associates with government, legislators, regulators  or NGOs must be done with honesty, integrity, openness and in  compliance with applicable laws.
Only authorised and trained  officials can interact with these organisations.
The Company is represented in key industry and business  associations which include Confederation of Indian Industry  (CII), Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry  (FICCI), Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India  (ASSOCHAM), Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI)  and Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI).
Many of the Board and senior leadership team members are  associated with several global bodies like the World Economic  Forum (WEF), United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), apart from  the leading business Chambers in India.
Your Company participates in multi-stakeholder engagements and  when relevant, responds to public consultations.
Some of the key  issues on which your Company engaged with the government in  2017-18 include:  •  Effective plastic waste management  •   Engagement with government on fiscal issues including  Goods and Services Tax (GST)  •   IPR: Right Holders recommending changes in policy  framework and adoption of practices to mitigate the menace  of counterfeits; seeking action against parallel imports of  goods in the country.
•   Consumer Protection Bill – seeking support for  implementing ‘workable’ provisions, especially on misleading  advertisements.
•   Seeking redressal to address the overlaps in the existing  packaging, labelling laws.
PRINCIPLE 8: INCLUSIVE GROWTH  BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND  EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT  Your Company’s inclusive growth approach focuses on improving  the livelihoods of smallholder farmers, supporting small-scale  retailers and helping young entrepreneurs.
Some of the important  initiatives are mentioned below.
Improving livelihoods of smallholder farmers  Your Company has been associated with a number of smallholder  farmers through its supplier partners, training them on good  agricultural practices like drip irrigation, nutrient management,  pest and disease management to improve their livelihood.
Over  10,000 smallholder gherkin farmers in southern India have  benefitted from Unilever’s innovative Responsible Farming  Programme.
The aim of this programme is to increase productivity,  develop best practices and improve livelihoods of farmers.
Your Company has worked with its suppliers to partner with  smallholder farmers for cultivation of tomatoes.
These farmers  have also benefitted from similar training initiatives.
Till date, your  Company has reached out to over 8,000 smallholder farmers who  cultivated tomatoes on more than 11,000 acres of land.
Empowering women micro-entrepreneurs  Project Shakti is your Company’s initiative to provide livelihood  enhancing opportunities to women micro-entrepreneurs in rural  India.
The Shakti Ammas are given training for familiarisation  with your Company’s products and basic tenets of distribution  management.
Currently, there are nearly 80,000 micro-entrepreneurs  as part of Project Shakti.
Empowering communities through Prabhat  Project ‘Prabhat’ (meaning ‘dawn’ in Hindi) is your Company’s  programme to contribute to and engage with communities around  its manufacturing sites.
Prabhat focuses on three priority areas  - improving health and hygiene, conserving water potential and  enhancing livelihoods.
Project Prabhat has directly impacted over  17 lakhs people as of by the end of 2017.
Rin Career Ready Academy  Rin Career Ready Academy aims to inspire, educate and equip the  youth from modest backgrounds with skills in English speaking,  office dressing and interview preparation.
So far, over 4.2 lakhs  people have benefitted from this programme.
PRINCIPLE 9: CUSTOMER VALUE  BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE  TO THEIR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE  MANNER  Your Company’s strong distribution network comprises millions  of outlets serviced by 3,500 distributors and associates who help  deliver Company’s products.
Your Company has undertaken some  important initiatives to become more customer-centric and win in  the marketplace.
These initiatives include:  •   Call centres: The call centres setup for retailers have helped  many of your Company’s traditional trade customers reach out  directly to the Company.
The calls received from retail outlets  provide useful insights and help the Company understand  issues and opportunities in the marketplace better and  address them effectively.
•  Partner of choice: Your Company registered strong growth  across all key modern trade partners, driven by strong joint  business plans.
Your Company made significant investment in  capability building in e-commerce.
An efficient team with diverse  talent combined with the best global practices is a competitive  advantage for your Company in area of e-commerce.
44 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Report of Board of Directors Responsible marketing and communication  •  Your Company is committed to building trust through  responsible practices and through transparent communication  – both directly to consumers and indirectly through other key  stakeholders.
•  It is your Company’s responsibility to ensure that its products  are safe and that the Company provides clear information on  their use and any risks that are associated with their use.
•  Your Company fully supports a consumer's right to know what  is in the products and is transparent in terms of ingredients,  nutritional values and the health and beauty properties of its  products.
•   Your Company uses a combination of channels, which include  product labels, websites, careline phone numbers and leaflets  to communicate openly with its consumers.
•   Your Company also supports industry self-regulation and the  development of self-regulatory codes for all its marketing  and advertising activities and applies these codes across its  businesses.
Your Company is one of the founder members  of Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), a self- regulatory body which has developed principles and codes  in the area of advertising and marketing.
During the year, 55  complaints were filed with ASCI against advertisements made  by your Company, out of which all but two were closed at the  end of the year.
•   Your Company has certain legal cases, including those relating  to consumer / customer disputes.
At the end of the year, there  were 57 consumer cases pending.
Labels and Pack Information  All Company products comply with the applicable regulations such  as the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, Legal Metrology Act, Bureau of  Indian Standards Specifications, Trademark Act and Copyright Act,  Food Safety and Standards Act, Tea Act, Tea Board Regulations  for Labels and Pack Information.
The food and beverage products  also carry a nutritional information table on the back of pack in  compliance with local legislation.
As part of Guideline Daily Amounts  (GDA) labelling, 100% of the Company's food and beverage product  includes energy per portion information on the front of the pack  and percentage GDA for five nutrients on the back of the pack*.
In addition to national laws and self-regulatory codes in India,  your Company also applies Unilever’s principles to the marketing  and advertising of all its food and beverage products directed at  children (below 12 years).
These principles require that marketing  practices:  •  Do not convey misleading messages  •   Do not undermine parental influence.
Advertisements always  show parents as gatekeepers to the product being consumed  •  Do not encourage ‘pester power’  •   Do not suggest time / sense of urgency or price minimisation  pressure  •   Do not encourage unhealthy dietary habits  •   Do not use broadcast or print media personalities in a way  that obscures the distinction between programme or editorial  content or commercial promotion  Your Company is also a signatory of the India Policy on Marketing  Communications to Children.
In accordance, HUL pledges to  advertise products to children under the age of 12 that meet  common 'Food & Beverage Alliance of India' nutrition criteria.
On behalf of the Board   Harish Manwani   Chairman  Mumbai, 14th May, 2018  (DIN: 00045160) * Where applicable and legally permissible in accordance with local or regional industry agreements.
Overview Reports   Financial Statements 45 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited 46 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 47 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE “I believe that nothing can be greater than a business, however small it may  be, that is governed by conscience; and that nothing can be meaner or more  petty than a business, however large, governed without honesty and without  brotherhood.”  – William Hesketh Lever CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY The principles of Corporate Governance are based on transparency,  accountability and focus on the sustainable success of the Company  over the long-term.
At Hindustan Unilever Limited, we feel proud to  belong to a Company whose visionary founders laid the foundation  stone for good governance long back and made it an integral  principle of the business, as demonstrated in the words above.
Responsible corporate conduct is integral to the way we do our  business.
Our actions are governed by our values and principles,  which are reinforced at all levels within the Company.
At   Hindustan Unilever, we are committed to doing things the right way  which means taking business decisions and acting in a way that is  ethical and is in compliance with applicable legislation.
Our Code  of Business Principles (‘CoBP’) is an extension of our values and  reflects our continued commitment to ethical business practices  across our operations.
We acknowledge our individual and collective  responsibilities to manage our business activities with integrity.
To succeed, we believe, requires highest standards of corporate  behaviour towards everyone we work with, the communities we  touch and the environment on which we have an impact.
This is our  road to consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible growth  and creating long-term value for our Members, our people and our  business partners.
The above principles have been the guiding force  for whatever we do and shall continue to be so in the years to come.
The Board of Directors are responsible for and committed to sound  principles of Corporate Governance in the Company.
The Board of  Directors plays a crucial role in overseeing how the Management  serves the short and long-term interests of Members and other  stakeholders.
This belief is reflected in our governance practices,  under which we strive to maintain an effective, informed and  independent Board.
We keep our governance practices under  continuous review and benchmark ourselves to best practices  across the globe.
In recognition of its governance practices, your Company was  conferred upon a Certificate of Recognition at the 17th ICSI National  Awards for Excellence in Corporate Governance for the year 2017  by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance The Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) accepted  some of the recommendations with or without modifications on   28th March, 2018 of the Kotak Committee on Corporate  Governance and consequently, on 9th May, 2018 the SEBI amended  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 (Listing Regulations).
Your Company welcomes this  progressive step of SEBI and has already been in compliance with  many of the recommendations made by the Kotak Committee  as part of its Corporate Governance framework.
The Company  shall ensure that its governance framework incorporates the  amendments introduced in the Listing Regulations and the same  are complied with on or before the effective date.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors (‘the Board’) have ultimate responsibility  for the management, general affairs, direction, performance and   long-term success of business as a whole.
The Board has delegated  the operational conduct of the business to the Managing Director  and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company.
The Management  Committee of the Company is headed by the Managing Director and  CEO and has business / functional heads as its Members, which look  after the management of the day-to-day affairs of the Company.
Composition  The Board of your Company has a good mix of Executive and  Non-Executive Directors with half of the Board of the Company  comprising Independent Directors.
As on date of this Report, the  Board consists of ten Directors comprising one Non-Executive  Chairman, five Independent Directors and four Executive Directors.
The composition of the Board represents an optimal mix of  professionalism, knowledge, experience and enables the Board  to discharge its responsibilities and provide effective leadership  to the business.
The Board, as part of its succession planning  exercise, periodically reviews its composition to ensure that the  same is closely aligned with the strategy and long-term needs of  the Company.
Mr. Harish Manwani has decided to retire as the Non-Executive  Chairman of the Company and will not seek re-appointment  at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The Board  places on record its deep sense of gratitude and appreciation  for the leadership and direction provided by Mr. Manwani, first  as the Executive Director and thereafter, as the Non-Executive  Chairman for the past 13 years.
The Board has decided to appoint   Mr. Sanjiv Mehta, presently, the Managing Director and CEO  of the Company, as the Chairman of the Board in succession to   Mr. Manwani from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The  Board, while taking the above decision, took note of SEBI’s  announcement on 28th March, 2018, to accept the recommendation  of the Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance to separate the  46 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 47 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited positions of the Chairman and the Managing Director, effective   April 2020, for top 500 Companies by market capitalisation.
Considering this, the Board has decided that, the current tenure of  Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as the Chairman shall be till March 2020.
The  Company shall ensure compliance with the new requirement of  separation of the positions of the Chairman and the Managing  Director on or before April 2020.
The present term of appointment of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as the  Managing Director and CEO is valid up to 9th October, 2018.
The Board has, subject to the approval of the Members in the  forthcoming AGM, approved the re-appointment of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta  as Managing Director and CEO for a further period of five years,  post completion of his present term.
The period of re-appointment  will be from 10th October, 2018 to 9th October, 2023.
During the year, Mr. P. B. Balaji, resigned as Executive Director,  Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer with effect from   13th November, 2017 to pursue an external opportunity.
Mr. Srinivas Phatak was appointed as Executive Director, Finance  & IT and Chief Financial Officer succeeding Mr. P. B. Balaji with  effect from 1st December, 2017.
The Board places on record its  deep sense of appreciation for the outstanding contribution made  by Mr. P. B. Balaji as the Executive Director, Finance & IT and   Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
On an annual basis, the Company obtains from each Director  details of the Board and Board Committee positions she / he  occupies in other Companies and changes, if any, regarding their  Directorships.
In addition, the Independent Directors provide an  annual confirmation that they meet the criteria of independence as  defined under Section 149(6) on an annual basis of the Companies  Act, 2013.
The details of each member of the Board along with the number  of Directorship(s) / Committee Membership(s) / Chairmanship(s),  date of joining the Board and their shareholding in the Company are  provided herein below:- Composition and Directorship(s) / Committee Membership(s) / Chairmanship(s) as on 31st March, 2018 Name Date of  joining  the Board Number of  shares held in  the Company Directorship(s)  in other  Companies# Membership(s)  of Committees in  other Companies## Chairmanship(s)  of Committees in  other Companies## Non-Executive Chairman  Harish Manwani 29.04.2005 22,130 - - - Managing Director and CEO  Sanjiv Mehta 01.10.2013 10 - - - Executive Director (Finance & IT) and CFO  Srinivas Phatak 01.12.2017 10,208 - - - Executive Directors  Pradeep Banerjee 01.03.2010 52,886 2 - - Dev Bajpai 23.01.2017 39,909 - - - Independent Directors Aditya Narayan 29.06.2001 - 3 2 1 S. Ramadorai 20.05.2002 35 8 - - O. P. Bhatt 20.12.2011 - 3 3 1 Sanjiv Misra 08.04.2013 - 2 - 1 Kalpana Morparia 09.10.2014 - 1 - 1 #Excluding Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies, Section 8 Companies and Alternate Directorships.
##Includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
The number of Directorship(s), Committee Membership(s) /  Chairmanship(s) of all Directors is within respective limits prescribed  under the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations.
None of the Directors of your Company are inter-se related to each  other.
Appointment and Tenure The Directors of the Company are appointed / re-appointed by the Board   on the recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration  Committee and approval of the Members at the General  Meetings.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of  the Company, all Directors, except the Managing Director and  Independent Directors of the Company, are liable to retire by  rotation at the AGM each year and, if eligible, offer themselves for   re-election.
The Executive Directors on the Board have been appointed  as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 / Companies Act,  2013 and serve in accordance with the terms of their contract of service   with the Company.
As regards the appointment and tenure of the Independent Directors,  following is the policy adopted by the Board: • The Company has adopted the provisions with respect to appointment  and tenure of Independent Directors which are consistent with the  Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
• The Independent Directors will serve a maximum of two terms of  five years each, after the introduction of the Companies Act, 2013.
• The Company would not have any upper age limit of retirement of  Independent Directors from the Board and their appointment and  tenure will be governed by provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  and the Listing Regulations.
• In accordance, with the recently notified changes in the   Listing Regulations, the Company shall ensure that the appointment  of any Non-Executive Director who has attained the age of 75 years  is approved by the Members by way of a Special Resolution.
48 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 49 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Any person who becomes Director or Officer, including an employee  who is acting in managerial or supervisory capacity, shall be covered  under Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance policy.
The policy  shall also cover those who serve as a Director, Officer or equivalent  of an outside entity at Company’s request.
The Company has provided  insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors under  the Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance.
Board Independence Our definition of ‘Independence’ of Directors is derived from   Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16 of the  Listing Regulations.
Based on the confirmation / disclosures received  from the Directors and on evaluation of the relationships disclosed, all  Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman are Independent.
Mr. Harish Manwani, who was formerly Chief Operating Officer of the  parent Company, is not considered as an Independent Director.
Board Meetings  The Board meets at regular intervals to discuss and decide on  Company / Business policy and strategy apart from other Board  business.
The Board / Committee Meetings are pre-scheduled and  a tentative annual calendar of the Board and Committee Meetings  is circulated to the Directors well in advance to facilitate them  to plan their schedule and to ensure meaningful participation in  the meetings.
However, in case of a special and urgent business  need, the Board’s approval is taken by passing resolutions by  circulation, as permitted by law, which are noted and confirmed in  the subsequent Board Meeting.
The Board business generally includes consideration of important  corporate actions and events including:- • quarterly and annual result announcements; • oversight of the performance of the business; • declaration of dividends; • development and approval of overall business strategy; • Board succession planning; • review of the functioning of the Committees and  • other strategic, transactional and governance matters as required  under the Companies Act, 2013, Listing Regulations and other  applicable legislations.
The notice of Board / Committee meeting is given well in advance  to all the Directors.
Usually, meetings of the Board are held in  Mumbai.
The Agenda of the Board / Committee Meetings is set by   the Company Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and  the Managing Director and CEO of the Company.
The Agenda is  circulated a week prior to the date of the meeting.
The Board  Agenda includes an Action Taken Report comprising the actions  emanating from the Board Meetings and status update thereof.
The Agenda for the Board and Committee Meetings covers  items set out as per the guidelines in Listing Regulations to the  extent it is relevant and applicable.
The Agenda for the Board  and Committee Meetings include detailed notes on the items to  be discussed at the meeting to enable the Directors to take an  informed decision.
Prior approval from the Board is obtained for circulating the Agenda  items with shorter notice for matters that form part of the Board  and Committee Agenda and are considered to be in the nature of  Unpublished Price Sensitive Information.
During the financial year ended 31st March, 2018, five Board meetings  were held on 17th May, 2017, 18th July, 2017, 25th October, 2017,  11th December, 2017 and 17th January, 2018.
The maximum interval  between any two meetings was well within the maximum allowed gap  of 120 days.
Board Support The Company Secretary is responsible for collation, review and  distribution of all papers submitted to the Board and Committees  thereof for consideration.
The Company Secretary is also responsible  for preparation of the Agenda and convening of the Board and  Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary attends all the  meetings of the Board and its Committees, either in the capacity  of Secretary of the Committees or Member of the Committee.
The  Company Secretary advises / assures the Board and its Committees  on Compliance and Governance principles and ensures appropriate  recording of minutes of the meetings.
With a view to leverage technology and reducing paper consumption,  the Company has adopted a web-based application for transmitting  Board / Committee Agenda and Pre-reads.
The Directors of the  Company receive the Agenda and Pre-reads in electronic form through  this application, which can be accessed through Browsers or iPads.
The application meets high standards of security and integrity that is  required for storage and transmission of Board / Committee Agenda  and Pre-reads in electronic form.
Separate Independent Directors’ Meetings The Independent Directors meet at least once in a quarter, without  the presence of Executive Directors or Management representatives.
The Independent Directors met five times during the financial year  ended 31st March, 2018 on 17th May, 2017, 18th July, 2017,  25th October,  2017,11th December, 2017 and 17th January, 2018.
The Independent  Directors inter alia discuss the issues arising out of Committee  Meetings and Board discussion including the quality, quantity and timely  flow of information between the Company Management and the Board  that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform   their duties.
In addition to these formal meetings, interactions outside the   Board Meetings also take place between the Chairman and  Independent Directors.
Directors’ Induction and Familiarisation The Board familiarisation programme comprises the following:- • Induction programme for new Independent Directors; • Immersion sessions on business and functional issues; • Strategy session.
All new Independent Directors are taken through a detailed induction  and familiarisation programme when they join the Board of your  Company.
The induction programme is an exhaustive one that  covers the history and culture of Hindustan Unilever, background of  48 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 49 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited the Company and its growth over the last several decades, various  milestones in the Company’s existence since its incorporation, the  present structure and an overview of the businesses and functions.
The programme also covers the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
As part of the induction sessions, the Managing Director and CEO  provides an overview of the organisation its history, culture, values and  purpose.
The Business and Functional Heads take the Independent  Directors through their respective businesses and functions.
As a  part of the induction programme, Independent Directors also visit the  Company’s manufacturing locations and undertake market visits to  understand the operations of the Company.
The Independent Directors  are exposed to the constitution, Board procedures, matters reserved  for the Board and major risks facing the business and mitigation  programmes.
The Independent Directors are made aware of their  roles and responsibilities at the time of their appointment and a  detailed Letter of Appointment is issued to them.
In the Board Meetings, immersion sessions deal with different parts  of the business and bring out all facets of the business besides the  shape of the business.
These immersion sessions provide a good  understanding of the business to the Independent Directors.
Similar  immersion sessions are also convened for various functions of the  Company.
These sessions are also an opportunity for the Board to  interact with the next level of management.
To make these sessions  meaningful and insightful, pre-reads are circulated in advance.
Deep dive sessions are also organised on specific subjects for better  appreciation by the Board of its impact on the business.
There  are opportunities for Independent Directors to interact amongst  themselves every quarter.
Many themes for such immersion sessions  come through on account of these structured interactions and  meetings of Independent Directors.
The process of Board Evaluation  also throws up areas where the Board desires deep dive sessions.
Every year, a two day Strategy Board Meeting is organised generally  at a location where the Company has an office or an establishment.
It  provides to the Board an opportunity to understand Company’s footprint  in that market and also interact with the Company’s leadership and  business teams in that market.
The strategy session focuses on the  strategy for the future and covers all parts of the business and functions,  the course corrections, if any, required to be undertaken and gives a  good perspective of the future opportunities and challenges.
Apart from  the above, the Directors are also given an update on the environmental  and social impact of the business, corporate governance, regulatory  developments and investor relations matters.
The details of training programme attended by Independent Directors  are available on the website at https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/corporate-governance/.
Board Evaluation In terms of the requirement of the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Listing Regulations, an annual performance evaluation of the Board is  undertaken where the Board formally assesses its own performance  with an aim to improve the effectiveness of the Board and the  Committees.
During the year, Board Evaluation cycle was completed  by the Company internally which included the evaluation of the Board  as a whole, Board Committees and Peer evaluation of the Directors.
The exercise was led by the Non-Executive Chairman along with the  Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the  Company.
The evaluation process focused on various aspects of the  functioning of the Board and Committees such as composition of the  Board and Committees, experience and competencies, performance  of specific duties and obligations, governance issues, etc.
The guidance  note issue by SEBI on Board Evaluation was duly considered while  conducting the evaluation exercise.
Separate exercise was carried out  to evaluate the performance of individual Directors on parameters  such as attendance, contribution and independent judgement.
As an outcome of the above exercise, it was noted that the Board as  a whole is functioning as a cohesive body which is well engaged with  different perspectives.
The Board Members from different backgrounds  bring about different complementarities that help Board discussions  to be rich and value adding.
It was also noted that the Committees  are functioning well and besides the Committee’s terms of reference  as mandated by law, important issues are brought up and discussed  in the Committee Meetings.
The evaluation exercise also suggested  that the Board succession planning exercise has been embedded  well in the Board processes.
The exercise highlighted that the Board’s  support and guidance on key issues such as demonetisation and  implementation of GST helped the management in validating its  approach and decision taken in this regard.
The Board also noted that given the changing external environment,  there is need for better allocation of time for business reviews, periodic  refreshers for the Board on key strategic thrusts.
The Board observed  that there is a significant value in conducting Board offsite meetings as  it brings the Board close to its customers and consumers.
The need to  continue to conduct these meetings was reiterated.
These areas have  been identified for the Board to engage itself with and the same will  be acted upon.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance structure  of the Company and have been constituted to deal with specific areas /  activities as mandated by applicable regulation; which concern the  Company and need a closer review.
The Board Committees are  set up under the formal approval of the Board to carry out clearly  defined roles which are considered to be performed by Members of  the Board, as a part of good governance practice.
The Chairman of  the respective Committees informs the Board about the summary  of the discussions held in the Committee Meetings.
The minutes  of the meetings of all Committees are placed before the Board for  review.
The Board Committees can request special invitees to join  the meeting, as appropriate.
The Board has established the following statutory and non-statutory  Committees:- Audit Committee The Company’s Audit Committee comprises Mr. Aditya Narayan as  the Chairman and Mr. S. Ramadorai, Mr. O. P. Bhatt, Dr. Sanjiv Misra,  Independent Directors of the Company as Members of the Committee.
Ms. Kalpana Morparia stepped down as the member of the Committee  w.e.f.
25th October, 2017.
All the Members of the Committee have  relevant experience in financial matters.
The Audit Committee of the Company is entrusted with the responsibility  to supervise the Company’s internal controls and financial reporting  process and inter alia, performs the following functions:-  50 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 51 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 • overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure  of financial information to ensure that the financial statement are  correct, sufficient and credible; • reviewing and examining with management the quarterly and  annual financial results and the auditors’ report thereon before  submission to the Board for approval; • reviewing management discussion and analysis of financial  condition and results of operations; • reviewing, approving or subsequently modifying any Related Party  Transactions in accordance with the Related Party Transaction  Policy of the Company; • recommending the appointment, remuneration and terms of  appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company and approval for  payment of any other services; • reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and  performance and effectiveness of audit process; reviewing  management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued  by the Statutory Auditors; • reviewing with management, Statutory Auditors and Internal  Auditor, the adequacy of internal control systems;  • reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function and discussing  with Internal Auditor any significant finding and reviewing the  progress of corrective actions on such issues; • evaluating internal financial controls and risk management  systems;  • reviewing the functioning of the CoBP of the Company and   Whistle Blowing mechanism.
The Committee is governed by the terms of reference which are in  line with the regulatory requirements mandated by the Companies  Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
The detailed terms of reference  of the Audit Committee is contained in the ‘Corporate Governance  Code’ which is available on the website of the Company at https:// www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
The Audit  Committee ensures that it has reviewed each area that it is required  to review under its terms of reference and under applicable legislation  or by way of good practice.
This periodic review ensures that all areas  within the scope of the Committee are reviewed.
In addition to quarterly meetings for consideration of financial results,  special meetings of the Audit Committee are convened.
In these  meetings, the Audit Committee reviews various businesses / functions,  business risk assessment, controls and critical IT applications with  implications of security and internal audit and control assurance  reports of all the major divisions of the Company.
The meetings of Audit Committee are also attended by the Chief  Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Statutory Auditors and  Internal Auditor as special invitees.
The Company Secretary acts as  the Secretary to the Committee.
The minutes of each Audit Committee  meeting are placed in the next meeting of the Board.
The Audit  Committee also meets the internal and external auditors separately,  without the presence the Management representatives.
The Audit Committee met six times during the financial year ended  31st March, 2018 on 17th May, 2017, 29th June, 2017, 18th July, 2017,  25th October, 2017, 11th December, 2017 and 17th January, 2018.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Company has robust systems for Internal Audit and Corporate  risk assessment and mitigation.
The Company has an independent  Control Assurance Department (CAD) assisted by dedicated  outsourced audit teams.
The Internal Audit covers all the factories, sales offices, warehouses and  centrally controlled businesses and functions, as per the annual plan  agreed with the Audit Committee.
The audit coverage plan of CAD is  approved by the Audit Committee at the beginning of every year.
Every  quarter, the Audit Committee is presented with key control issues and  actions taken on the issues highlighted in previous report.
Business Risk Assessment procedures have been set in place for   self-assessment of business risks, operating controls and compliance  with Corporate Policies.
There is an ongoing process to track the  evolution of risks and delivery of mitigating action plans.
Ms. Subhra Gourisaria acts as an Internal Auditor of the Company.
The Company’s internal financial control framework, established in  accordance with the Committee of Sponsoring Organisation (COSO)  framework, is commensurate with the size and operations of the  business and is in line with requirements of the Companies Act,  2013.
The Company’s internal financial controls framework is based  on the ‘three lines of defense model’.
The Company has laid down  Standard Operating Procedures and policies to guide the operations  of the business.
Unit heads are responsible to ensure compliance  with the policies and procedures laid down by the management.
Robust and continuous internal monitoring mechanisms ensure  timely identification of risks and issues.
The Management, Statutory  and Internal Auditors undertake rigorous testing of the control  environment of the Company.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises   Mr. S. Ramadorai as the Chairman and Mr. Aditya Narayan,   Mr. O. P. Bhatt, Dr. Sanjiv Misra and Mr. Harish Manwani as Members  of the Committee.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for  evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity  and knowledge on the Board and for drawing up selection criteria,  ongoing succession planning and appointment procedures for both  internal and external appointments.
The role of Nomination and  Remuneration Committee, inter alia, includes:- • Determine / recommend the criteria for appointment of   Executive, Non-Executive and Independent Directors to the Board; • Determine / recommend the criteria for qualifications, positive  attributes and independence of Director; • Review and determine all elements of remuneration package of all  the Executive Directors, i.e.
salary, benefits, bonuses, stock options,  pension etc.
; • Formulate criteria and carry out evaluation of each Director’s  performance and performance of the Board as a whole.
The detailed terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration  Committee is contained in the ‘Corporate Governance Code’ which  50 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 51 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited is available on the website of the Company at https://www.hul.co.in/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
The Committee also plays  the role of Compensation Committee and is responsible for  administering the Stock Option Plan and Performance Share Plan of  the Company and determining eligibility of employees for stock options.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee met once during the  financial year ended 31st March, 2018 on 23rd February, 2018.
During  the year, the Committee also transacted some of the business under  its terms of reference by passing resolution by circulation.
Board Membership Criteria  The Board of Directors are collectively responsible for selection of a  member on the Board.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company  follows a defined criteria for identifying, screening, recruiting and  recommending candidates for election as a Director on the Board.
The  criteria for appointment to the Board include:- • composition of the Board, which is commensurate with the size of  the Company, its portfolio, geographical spread and its status as a  listed Company; • desired age and diversity on the Board; • size of the Board with optimal balance of skills and experience and  balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors consistent with  the requirements of law; • professional qualifications, expertise and experience in specific area  of relevance to the Company; • balance of skills and expertise in view of the objectives and activities  of the Company; • avoidance of any present or potential conflict of interest; • availability of time and other commitments for proper performance  of duties; • personal characteristics being in line with the Company’s values,  such as integrity, honesty, transparency, pioneering mindset.
Reward Policy  The Reward philosophy of the Company is to provide market competitive  total reward opportunity that has a strong linkage to and reinforces the  performance culture of the Company.
This philosophy is set forth into  practice by various policies governing the different elements of total  reward.
The intent of all these policies is to ensure that the principles  of Reward philosophy are followed in entirety, thereby facilitating the  Company to recruit and retain the best talent.
The ultimate objective  is to gain competitive advantage by creating a reward proposition that  inspires employees to deliver Company’s promise to consumers and  achieve superior operational results.
The guiding principles for Company’s reward policies / practices are  as follows:- 1.
Open, Fair and Consistent: increase transparency and ensure  fairness and consistency in reward framework; 2.
Insight and Engagement: make reward truly relevant to the  employees by using leading edge tools that help the Company  ‘hear’ how employees feel about their reward; 3.
Innovation: continuously improve Company’s reward through  innovations based on insight, analytics and Unilever’s expertise; 4.
Simplicity, Speed and Accuracy: simplify reward plans and  processes and deliver the information employees need quickly,  clearly and efficiently; 5.  Business Results: Company’s business results are the ultimate  test of whether reward solutions are effective and sustainable.
In line with the review done of the Reward Framework during the  year 2017, the salary structure of senior managers of the Company is  undergoing a change.
It has been simplified to ensure fewer elements  and a clear linkage to employee performance.
The appointment of Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel,  Management Committee Members and other employees is by virtue  of their employment with the Company as management employees  and therefore, their terms of employment vis-à-vis salary, variable pay,  service contract, notice period and severance fee, if any, are governed  by the applicable policies at the relevant point in time.
The total reward  for Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Management  Committee Members is reviewed and approved by the Nomination  and Remuneration Committee annually, taking into account external  benchmarks within the context of group and individual performance.
A fair portion of Executive Directors total reward is linked to Company’s  performance.
This creates alignment with the strategy and business  priorities to enhance shareholder value.
Long-term incentives, in the  form of Management Co-Investment Plan, seek to reward Executive  Directors, Management Committee Members and other eligible  employees by aligning their deliverables to business results.
This  programme has been further strengthened as part of the review  exercise for Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and   Senior Management employees of the Company.
In line with the Evaluation Policy of the Company, the Nomination  and Remuneration Committee considers the outcome of the annual  evaluation before recommending the changes in the remuneration of  the Executive Directors and appointment / re-appointment of Directors.
Non-Executive Independent Directors are eligible for sitting fees  and commission not exceeding the limits prescribed under the   Companies Act, 2013.
The remuneration payable to Non-Executive  Directors is decided by the Board of Directors subject to the  approval of Members of the Company.
Independent Directors are  currently paid sitting fees of ` 30,000/- for attending every meeting  of the Board or Committee thereof.
In line with the globally accepted  governance practices, the Board of Directors adopted a ‘Differential  Remuneration Policy’ for Non-Executive Directors remuneration  which is also available at Company’s website at https://www.hul.co.in/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
As per the Differential  Remuneration Policy, Non-Executive Independent Directors are  entitled to fixed commission on profits at the rate of ` 15 lakhs for  each financial year.
In addition, Non-Executive Independent Directors  are entitled to a remuneration linked to their attendance at the  meetings of the Board or Committees thereof and also on the basis  of their position in various Committees of the Board, whether that of a  Chairman or a member of the Committee(s).
52 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 53 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 The remuneration payable to the Independent Directors under the Differential Remuneration Policy is within the overall limit of ` 300 lakh, as  approved by the Members at the AGM held on 29th June, 2015.
The criteria adopted by the Company for Differential Remuneration Policy is as  under:- (` Lakhs) Particulars Commission (p.a.)
Fixed Commission: Base Fixed Commission for Independent Directors 15.00 Additional Variable Commission: Corresponding to the percentage of attendance at all the Board and Committee Meeting(s) 5.00 In the capacity of Chairperson of the Committee(s)* 2.00 In the capacity of Member of the Committee(s)* 1.00 *Committee includes Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors, who continuously serve minimum two terms of five years each, are also entitled to one time commission of   ` 10 lakhs at the time of stepping down from the Board.
During the year, there were no pecuniary relationships or transactions between the Company and any of its Non-Executive Directors apart from  sitting fees and commission.
The Company has not granted any stock options to any of its Non-Executive Independent Directors.
The details of remuneration paid, stock options and conditional grants made to Executive Directors and remuneration paid to Non-Executive  Directors for the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 are provided hereinafter: Details of Remuneration to the Executives Directors (` Lakhs) Name Salary and  Allowances Bonus Perquisites Contribution  to PF Pension Total Sanjiv Mehta 696 558 645 38 - 1,937 P. B. Balaji$ 295 - - 12 9 316 Srinivas Phatak$ 72 15 3 8 4 102 Pradeep Banerjee 204 204 99 24 17 548 Dev Bajpai 205 150 209 21 16 601 $ Mr. P. B. Balaji ceased to be the Executive Director, Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
13th November, 2017 and Mr. Srinivas Phatak  was appointed as the Executive Director, Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
1st December, 2017.
Details of Conditional Grants of Performance Shares made to the Executive Directors Name Performance Shares  outstanding as at  31st March, 2017 Performance Shares exercised during  the year Grant under  Performance Share Scheme  during the year Performance   Shares balance as at   31st March, 2018 Pradeep Banerjee 5,845 - - 5,845 Dev Bajpai 16,329 6,583 - 9,746 Details of Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors (` Lakhs) Name Sitting Fees* Commission# Total Harish Manwani## - 62.00 62.00 Aditya Narayan 4.50 24.00 28.50 S. Ramadorai 3.60 23.00 26.60 O. P. Bhatt 4.80 25.71 30.51 Sanjiv Misra 4.50 23.00 27.50 Kalpana Morparia 3.60 22.00 25.60 * Includes sitting fees paid for Board and Committee Meetings.
#  The Commission for the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 as per the Differential Remuneration Policy will be paid to Independent Directors, subject to  deduction of tax, after adoption of financial statement by the Members at the AGM to be held on 29th June, 2018.
##  In addition to Commission, the Non-Executive Chairman is entitled to reimbursement of expenses towards accommodation, travel, transport and business centre  / club usage in accordance with the approval of the Board within the overall limits approved by the Members of the Company.
52 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 53 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee comprises   Mr. O. P. Bhatt as the Chairman and Mr. Aditya Narayan,   Dr. Sanjiv Misra, Ms. Kalpana Morparia, Mr. Sanjiv Mehta and   Mr. Srinivas Phatak as the Members of the Committee.
During the  year, Mr. P. B. Balaji ceased to be the Member of the Committee and  was succeeded by Mr. Srinivas Phatak.
The role of CSR Committee includes formulating and recommending  to the Board the CSR Policy and activities to be undertaken by the  Company, recommending the amount of expenditure to be incurred  on CSR activities of the Company, reviewing the performance of  Company in the area of CSR.
The detailed terms of reference of the Corporate Social Responsibility  Committee is contained in the ‘Corporate Governance Code’ which  is available on the website of the Company at https://www.hul.co.in/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
During the financial year ended 31st March, 2018, the Committee  met thrice on 17th May, 2017, 11th December, 2017 and   17th January, 2018.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee comprises Mr. O. P. Bhatt,  Independent Director as the Chairman and Mr. Sanjiv Mehta and   Mr. Srinivas Phatak, as Members of the Committee.
During the year,  Mr. P. B. Balaji ceased to be the member of the Committee and was  succeeded by Mr. Srinivas Phatak.
The role of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee includes resolving  the grievances of Members, ensuring expeditious share transfer  process in line with the proceedings of the Share Transfer Committee,  evaluating performance and service standards of the Registrar and  Share Transfer Agent of the Company.
The detailed terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee is contained in the ‘Corporate Governance Code’ which  is available on the website of the Company at https://www.hul.co.in/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
The Committee has periodic interaction with the representatives of the  Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company.
During the financial year ended 31st March, 2018, the Committee met  twice on 18th July, 2017 and 28th February, 2018.
Details of Shareholders’ / Investors’ Complaints  Mr. Dev Bajpai, Executive Director (Legal & Corporate Affairs) and  Company Secretary, is the Compliance Officer for resolution of  Shareholders’ / Investors’ complaints.
During the financial year ended  31st March, 2018, 108 complaints were received from the Members.
All complaints have been redressed to the satisfaction of the Members  and none of them were pending as on 31st March, 2018.
Particulars Complaints  Received Complaints  Redressed Non-Receipt of Dividend 34 34 Non-Receipt of Shares lodged for  Transfer 46 46 Others (e.g.
non-receipt of Annual  Report) 28 28 Total 108 108 Non-receipt of Dividend Non-receipt of shares lodged for transfer Others 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 17 45 19 35 47 17 21 42 17 15 27 24 28 46 34 Trend of Complaints Received During Last 5 Years: Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee of the Company comprises   Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as the Chairman and Mr. Srinivas Phatak,   Mr. Pradeep Banerjee, Mr. Dev Bajpai and Mr. Aasif Malbari,   Group Controller as Members of the Committee.
Mr. Aasif Malbari ceased to be the Member of the Committee with  effect from 1st April, 2018 and was succeeded by Ms. Suman Hegde as  the Group Controller.
The role of Risk Management Committee includes the implementation  of Risk Management Systems and Framework, review of the  Company’s financial and risk management policies, assessment of  risk and procedures to minimise the same.
The detailed terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee  is contained in the ‘Corporate Governance Code’ which is available  on the website of the Company at https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/corporate-governance/.
During the financial year ended 31st March, 2018, the   Committee met twice on 18th September, 2017 and 15th March, 2018  for reviewing the Company level risks, mitigation plans and actions.
Share Transfer / Transmission Committee The Share Transfer / Transmission Committee has been formed to look  into share transfer and related applications received from Shareholders,  with a view to accelerate the transfer procedures.
The Committee  comprises three Executive Directors of the Board.
The Committee  inter alia  considers applications for transfer, transmission, split,  54 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 55 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 consolidation of share certificates and cancellation of any share  certificate in compliance with the provisions in this regard.
The  Committee is authorised to sign, seal or issue any new share  certificate as a result of transfer, consolidation, splitting or in lieu of  share certificates lost, defaced or destroyed.
The Committee meets  generally on a weekly basis to ensure that share transfers, and  other related requests are registered and returned within a period  of 15 days from the date of receipt, provided the documents are  complete in all respects.
Committee for Allotment of Shares under ESOPs The Committee for Allotment of Shares under ESOPs has been  constituted for approval, issue and allotment of shares under ESOP  Schemes.
The Committee comprises three Executive Directors of  the Board and is constituted to expedite the process of allotment  and issue of eligible shares to the employees under the Stock  Option Plan of the Company.
Other Functional Committees Apart from the above statutory Committees, the Board of Directors  has constituted the following Functional Committees to raise the level  of governance as also to meet the specific business needs.
Administrative Matters Committee The Routine Business Matter Committee renamed as Administrative  Matters Committee w.e.f.
18th July, 2017 has been set up to oversee  routine operations that arise in the normal course of the business,  such as decision on banking relations, delegation of operational  powers, appointment of nominees under statutes, etc.
The Committee  comprises three Executive Directors of the Board.
The Committee  reports to the Board and the minutes of these meetings are placed  before the Board for information.
Committee for approving Disposal of Surplus Assets The Committee for approving Disposal of Surplus Assets has been  set up and entrusted with the responsibility of identifying the surplus  assets of the Company and to authorise sale and disposal of such  surplus property.
The Committee is fully authorised to take necessary  steps to give effect to sale and transfer of ownership rights, interest  and title in the said property, for and on behalf of the Company.
The  Committee comprises three Executive Directors of the Board.
The  Committee reports to the Board and minutes of these meetings are  placed before the Board for information.
Attendance of Directors / Members at Board and Committee Meeting(s)  The following table shows attendance of Directors at the Board and Members of the statutory Committee Meeting(s) for the year ended   31st March, 2018.
Attendance is presented as number of meeting(s) attended, (including meetings attended through electronic mode) out of the  number of meeting(s) required to be attended.
Name Board Meeting Audit  Committee  Meeting Nomination and  Remuneration  Committee  Meeting Stakeholders’  Relationship  Committee  Meeting Corporate  Social  Responsibility  Committee  Meeting Risk  Management  Committee  Meeting Harish Manwani 5 of 5# - 0 of 1 - - - Sanjiv Mehta 5 of 5 - - 2 of 2 3 of 3 2 of 2# P. B. Balaji$ 3 of 3 - - 1 of 1 1 of 1 0 of 1 Srinivas Phatak$ 2 of 2 - - 1of 1 2 of 2 0 of 1  Pradeep Banerjee 5 of 5 - - - - 0 of 2 Dev Bajpai 5 of 5 - - - - 2 of 2 Aditya Narayan 5 of 5 6 of 6# 1 of 1 - 3 of 3 - S. Ramadorai 5 of 5 6 of 6 1 of 1# - - - O. P. Bhatt 5 of 5 6 of 6 0 of 1 2 of 2# 3 of 3# - Sanjiv Misra 5 of 5 6 of 6 1 of 1 - 3 of 3 - Kalpana Morparia* 5 of 5 4 of 4 - - 3 of 3 - Aasif Malbari - - - - - 2 of 2 #  Chairman $  Mr. P. B. Balaji ceased to be the Executive Director, Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
13th November, 2017 and Mr. Srinivas Phatak  was appointed as the Executive Director, Finance & IT and Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f.
1st December, 2017 *   Ms. Kalpana Morparia ceased to be the Member of Audit Committee w.e.f.
25th October, 2017 The last AGM of the Company held on 30th June, 2017 was attended by all Members of the Board of Directors.
GOVERNANCE OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES The minutes of the Board Meetings of the subsidiary companies  along with the details of significant transactions and arrangements  entered into by the subsidiary companies are shared with the Board  of Directors on a quarterly  basis.
The financial statements of the  subsidiary companies are presented to  the Audit Committee.
The  Company does not have a material subsidiary as on the date of this  report, having a net worth exceeding 20% of the consolidated  net  worth or income of 20% of the consolidated income of your Company.
The information in respect of the loans and advances in the nature  of loans to  subsidiaries pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Listing  Regulations is provided  in Notes to the standalone financial  statements.
54 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 55 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited COMPANY POLICIES  Code of Business Principles / Whistle Blower Policy The Code of Business Principles (CoBP) is the Company’s statement  of values and represents the standard of conduct which all employees  are expected to observe in their business endeavours.
The Code  reflects the Company’s commitment to principles of integrity,  transparency and fairness.
It forms the benchmark against which  the world at large is invited to judge the Company’s activities.
The copy of the CoBP is available on the website of the Company   https://www.hul.co.in/about/who-we-are/purpose-and-principles/.
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy, as part of vigil  mechanism to provide appropriate avenues to the Directors and  employees to bring to the attention of the management any issue  which is perceived to be in violation of or in conflict with the Code of  Business Principles of the Company.
The Company has provided dedicated e-mail addresses   whistleblowing.hul@unilever.com and cobp.hul@unilever.com for  reporting such concerns.
Alternatively, employees can also send  written communications to the Company.
The employees are  encouraged to voice their concerns by way of whistle blowing and all  the employees have been given access to the Audit Committee.
No  personnel have been denied access to the Audit Committee pertaining  to the Whistle Blower Policy.
The Company Secretary is the designated  officer for effective implementation of the policy and dealing with the  complaints registered under the policy.
All cases registered under  the Code of Business Principles and the Whistle Blower Policy of  the Company, are reported to the Management Committee and are  subject to the review of the Audit Committee.
The Whistle Blower  Policy is available on the website of the Company https://www.hul.
co.in/investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
Preventing Conflict of Interest The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that rules are  in place to avoid conflict of interest by the Board Members and the  Management Committee.
The Board has adopted the Code of Conduct  for the Members of the Board and Senior Management Team.
The  Code provides that the Directors are required to avoid any interest  in contracts entered into by the Company.
If such an interest exists,  they are required to make adequate disclosure to the Board and to  abstain from discussion, voting or otherwise influencing the decision  on any matter in which the concerned Director has or may have such  interest.
The Code also restricts Directors from accepting any gifts  or incentives in their capacity as a Director of the Company, except  what is duly authorised under the Company’s Gift Policy.
The Members  of the Board and the Management Committee annually confirm the  compliance of the Code of Conduct to the Board.
The Code of Conduct  is in addition to the Code of Business Principles of the Company.
A copy  of the said Code of Conduct is available on the website of the Company   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
In  addition, Members of the Board and Management Committee also  submit, on an annual basis, the details of individuals to whom they  are related and entities in which they hold interest and such   disclosures are placed before the Board.
The Members of the  Board inform the Company of any change in their Directorship(s),  Chairmanship(s) / Membership(s) of the Committees, in accordance  with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing  Regulations.
Transactions with any of the entities referred above  are placed before the Board for approval.
Details of all Related  Party Transactions are placed before the Audit Committee on  quarterly basis.
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions The Company has not entered into any material Related Party  Transaction during the year.
In line with requirement of the Companies  Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, your Company has formulated  a Policy on Related Party Transactions which is also available at  Company’s website under the weblink: https://www.hul.co.in/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
The Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, approval and  disclosure processes are in place for all transactions between the  Company and Related Parties.
This policy specifically deals with the review and approval of Material  Related Party Transactions keeping in mind the potential or actual  conflicts of interest that may arise because of entering into these  transactions.
All Related Party Transactions are placed before the  Audit Committee for review and approval.
Prior omnibus approval  is obtained for Related Party Transactions on a quarterly basis for  transactions which are of repetitive nature and / or entered in the  ordinary course of business and are at Arm’s Length.
All Related  Party Transactions entered during the year were in Ordinary Course  of the business and on Arm’s Length basis.
No Material Related Party  Transactions, i.e.
transactions exceeding ten percent of the annual  consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements,  were entered during the year by your Company.
Policy on Material Subsidiary The Company has adopted a Policy on Material Subsidiary in line  with the requirements of the Listing Regulations.
The objective of  this policy is to lay down criteria for identification and dealing with  material subsidiaries and to formulate a governance framework  for subsidiaries of the Company.
The policy on Material Subsidiary  is available on the website of the Company under the weblink:   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
Policy on Dividend Distribution The Company has adopted Dividend Distribution Policy in terms of  the requirement, of Listing Regulations.
The Policy is available on the  website of the Company under the weblink https://www.hul.co.in/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/.
The Dividend Distribution  Policy forms a part of this Report.
Share Dealing Code The Company has instituted a mechanism to avoid Insider Trading and  abusive self-dealing in the securities of the Company.
In accordance  with the SEBI Regulations as amended, the Company has established  systems and procedures to prohibit insider trading activity and has  framed a Share Dealing Code.
The Share Dealing Code of the Company  prohibits the Directors of the Company and other specified employees  from dealing in the securities of the Company on the basis of any  unpublished price sensitive information, available to them by virtue of  their position in the Company.
The objective of this Code is to prevent  misuse of any unpublished price sensitive information and prohibit any  insider trading activity, in order to protect the interest of the Members  at large.
The Board of the Company has adopted a Share Dealing  Code and formulated the Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair  56 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 57 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Disclosure in terms of the requirements of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider  Trading) Regulations, 2015.
The details of dealing in Company’s shares  by Specified Employees (which include Members of the Management  Committee and Directors) are placed before the Board for information  on quarterly basis.
The Code also prescribes sanction framework  and any instance of breach of Code is dealt with in accordance with  the same.
A copy of the Share Dealing Code of the Company is made  available to all employees of the Company and compliance of the same  is ensured.
The Share Dealing Code is available on the website of the  Company at https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/corporate- governance/.
AFFIRMATION AND DISCLOSURE All the Members of the Board and the Management Committee have  affirmed their compliance with the Code of Conduct as on 31st March,  2018 and a declaration to that effect, signed by the Managing Director and  CEO, is attached and forms part of this Report.
The Members of the Management Committee have made disclosure  to the Board of Directors relating to transactions with potential conflict  of interest with the Company.
There were no material, financial or  commercial transactions, between the Company and Members of the  Management Committee that may have a potential conflict with the  interest of the Company at large.
All details relating to financial and commercial transactions where  Directors may have a pecuniary interest are provided to the Board and  the interested Directors neither participate in the discussion nor vote  on such matters.
The Company has complied with the requirements specified in  Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of the Regulation 46(2) of the  Listing Regulations.
Disclosure on Website Following information has been disseminated on the website of the  Company at www.hul.co.in; 1.
Details of business of the Company 2.
Terms and conditions of appointment of Independent Directors 3.
Composition of various Committees of Board of Directors 4.
Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior Management  Personnel 5.
Details of establishment of vigil mechanism/Whistle Blower policy 6.
Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors 7.
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions 8.
Policy for determining material subsidiaries 9.
Details of familiarisation programmes imparted to Independent  Directors 10.
Policy for determination of materiality of events 11.
Policy for Dividend Distribution Disclosure of Pending Cases / Instances of Non-Compliance There were no non-compliances by the Company and no instances  of penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the Stock  Exchanges or SEBI or any other statutory authority on any matter  related to the capital market during the last three years.
The Company has been impleaded in certain legal cases related to  disputes over title to shares arising in the ordinary course of share  transfer operations.
However, none of these cases are material  in nature, which may lead to material loss or expenditure to the  Company.
Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and  Hedging Activities Commodities form a major part of the raw materials required for  Company’s products portfolio and hence commodity price risk is one  of the important market risks for the Company.
The commodities  are priced using pricing benchmarks and commodity derivatives are  priced using exchange-traded pricing benchmarks.
Your Company has  a robust framework and governance mechanism in place to ensure  that the organisation is adequately protected from the market volatility  in terms of price and availability.
The Commodity Risk Management (CRM) team of Unilever, based  on intelligence and monitoring, forecasts commodity prices and  movements and advises the Procurement team on cover strategy.
A robust planning and strategy ensure that Company’s interests are  protected despite volatility in commodity prices.
Your Company has managed the foreign exchange risk with  appropriate hedging activities in accordance with policies of the  Company.
The aim of the Company’s approach to manage currency  risk is to leave the Company with no material residual risk.
The  Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge against its  foreign currency exposures relating to firm commitment.
Foreign  exchange transactions are fully covered with strict limits placed on  the amount of uncovered exposure, if any, at any point in time.
There  are no materially uncovered exchange rate risks in the context of the  Company’s imports and exports.
The Company does not enter into  any derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The  details of foreign exchange exposures as on 31st March, 2018 are  disclosed in Notes to the standalone financial statements.
Compliance with the Discretionary Requirements under  the Listing Regulations The Board of Directors periodically reviewes the compliance of all  applicable laws and steps taken by the Company to rectify instances of  non-compliance, if any.
The Company is in compliance with all mandatory  requirements of Listing Regulations.
In addition, the Company has also  adopted the following non-mandatory requirements under the Listing  Regulations as on 31st March, 2018 to the extent mentioned below: • The Board & separate posts of Chairman and CEO: As on date,   the positions of the Chairman and the CEO are separate.
Mr. Harish Manwani, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company  maintains office at the Company’s expense and is allowed  reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.
The Board has decided to appoint Mr. Sanjiv Mehta, presently,  the Managing Director & CEO of the Company, as the Chairman  of the Board of Directors in succession to Mr. Manwani from the  conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
• Shareholders’ rights: The quarterly results along with the press  release are uploaded on the website of the Company https://www.
hul.co.in/investor-relations/quarterly-results/.
The soft copy of the  quarterly results is also sent to the Members who have registered  their e-mail addresses.
56 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 57 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited • Audit qualifications: Company’s financial statement are unqualified.
• Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal Auditor of the Company  directly reports to the Audit Committee on functional matters.
The Company has submitted quarterly compliance report on  Corporate Governance with the Stock Exchanges, in accordance with  the requirements of Regulation 27(2)(a) of the Listing Regulations.
Secretarial Audit Report The Company has undertaken Secretarial Audit for the financial  year 2017-18 which, inter alia, includes audit of compliance with  the Companies Act, 2013, and the Rules made under the Act,  Listing Regulations and applicable Regulations prescribed by SEBI  and Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and Secretarial  Standards issued by the Institute of the Company Secretaries of  India.
The Secretarial Audit Report forms part of this Annual Report.
Corporate Governance Code Audit The Board of Directors has adopted ‘Corporate Governance  Code’, as amended from time-to-time for the Company which  is a statement of practices and procedures to be followed by the  Company.
The Code is being updated from time to time as per  the Governance requirements.
The updated copy of the Code is  available on Company’s website https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/corporate-governance/.
The Company had appointed M/s.
S. N. Ananthasubramanian and  Co., a firm of Company Secretaries as the Auditor for the audit of  the practices and procedures followed by the Company under the  Code.
The Company has received the Corporate Governance Audit  Report for the financial year 2017-18.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION General Body Meetings Details of last three Annual General Meetings and the summary of Special Resolutions passed therein are as under:- Financial year ended Date and Time Venue Special Resolutions passed 31st March, 2015 29th June, 2015 2.00 p.m. Unilever House,  B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala,  Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 099 •  Increase in overall limit of Remuneration payable to  Non-Executive Directors • Adoption of new of Articles of Association of the Company 31st March, 2016 30th June, 2016 3.30 p.m.
Same as above • No special resolutions were passed at this meeting 31st March, 2017 30th June, 2017 3.30 p.m.
Same as above •  Increase in overall limits of Remuneration for  Managing / Whole-time Director(s) No Special Resolution was passed by the Company last year through Postal Ballot.
No Special Resolution is proposed to be passed through  Postal Ballot as on the date of this report.
During the year, the Members by Ordinary Resolution had approved for appointment of Mr. Srinivas  Phatak as the Whole-time Director of the Company through Postal Ballot.
The Board had appointed Mr. S. N. Anathasubramanian, Practicing  Company Secretary as the Scrutinizer to conduct the Postal Ballot process.
The Results of Postal Ballot were declared on 11th December, 2017  and the Members passed the Ordinary Resolution with requisite majority.
Annual General Meeting for the financial year 2017-18 Date Friday, 29th June, 2018 Venue Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400 099 Time 2.30 p.m. Book Closure Dates for Final Dividend Saturday, 23rd June, 2018 to Friday, 29th June, 2018 (both days inclusive) Last Date of receipt of Proxy Forms Wednesday, 27th June, 2018 before 2.30 p.m. at Registered Office of the Company Calendar of financial year ended 31st March, 2018 The Company follows April-March as the financial year.
The  meetings of Board of Directors for approval of quarterly financial  results during the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 were held  on the following dates: First Quarter Results 18th July, 2017 Second Quarter and Half yearly Results 25th October, 2017 Third Quarter Results 17th January, 2018 Fourth Quarter and Annual Results 14th May, 2018 Tentative Calendar for financial year ending   31st March, 2019 The tentative dates of meetings of the Board of Directors for  consideration of the quarterly financial results for the financial year  ending 31st March, 2019 are as follows: First Quarter Results 16th July, 2018 Second Quarter and Half yearly Results 15th October, 2018 Third Quarter Results 22nd January, 2019 Fourth Quarter and Annual Results 14th May, 2019 58 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 59 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Dividend  The Board of Directors at their meeting held on 14th May, 2018,  recommended a Final Dividend of ` 12/- per equity share of face  value of ` 1/- each, for the financial year ended 31st March, 2018.
Together with the Interim Dividend of ` 8/- per equity share paid on  14th November, 2017, the total dividend for the year works out to   ` 20/- per equity share of face value of ` 1/- each.
Final Dividend,  if approved by Members, will be paid on or after Wednesday,   4th July, 2018.
Unpaid / Unclaimed Dividends  In accordance with the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of Companies  Act, 2013 and Investor Education and Protection Fund (Accounting,  Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (IEPF Rules) dividends not  encashed / claimed within seven years from the date of declaration  are to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund  (IEPF) Authority.
The IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer shares of Members  whose dividends remain unpaid / unclaimed for a continuous period  of seven years to the demat account of IEPF Authority.
The Members  whose dividend / shares are transferred to the IEPF Authority can  claim their shares / dividend from the Authority.
In accordance with the said IEPF Rules and its amendments, the  Company had sent notices to all the Shareholders whose shares  were due to be transferred to the IEPF Authority and simultaneously  published newspaper advertisement.
In terms of the provisions of Investor Education and Protection  Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016  / Investor Education and Protection Fund (Awareness and  Protection of Investors) Rules, 2001, ` 4.01 crores of unpaid /  unclaimed dividends and 30,81,586 shares were transferred  during the financial year 2017-18 to the Investor Education and   Protection Fund.
The Company has appointed a Nodal Officer under the   provisions of IEPF, the details of which are available on the  website of the Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/ unclaimed-and-unpaid-dividends/.
The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed  amounts lying with the Company as on 30th June, 2017   (date of last AGM) on the Company’s website https://www.hul.
co.in/investor-relations/unclaimed-and-unpaid-dividends/   and on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at   www.iepf.gov.in/.
Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March, 2018 Holding Shareholders  Shares Number  % Number  % 1 – 5000 2,98,278  96.20 12,86,55,411  5.94 5001 – 10000 6,662  2.15 4,68,25,709  2.16 10001 – 20000 3,069  0.99 4,25,02,240  1.96 20001 – 30000 754  0.24 1,82,89,669  0.85 30001 – 40000 314  0.10 1,07,88,957  0.50 40001 – 50000 176  0.06 77,93,348  0.36 50001 – 100000 341  0.11 2,40,47,715  1.11 100001 and above 469  0.15 188,56,25,728  87.12 TOTAL 3,10,063 100.00 216,45,28,777 100.00 67.19% 0.41% 0.01% 0.74% 1.67% 12.56% 11.80% 4.44% 1.18% Categories of Shareholders as on 31st March, 2018 Category No.
of  Folios Shares %  Unilever PLC and its Affiliates 7 145,44,12,858 67.19   Mutual Funds & Unit Trust  of India 256 3,60,72,231 1.67   Financial Institutions / Banks 132 1,60,75,240 0.74   Insurance Companies 18 9,61,00,521 4.44   Foreign Portfolio Investors 918 27,19,61,235 12.56   Bodies Corporate 2,067 2,55,73,530 1.18   NRIs / Foreign Bodies  Corporate / Foreign Nationals 6,511 89,01,912 0.41   Directors and their Relatives 8 1,25,178 0.01   Resident Individuals & Others3,00,146 25,53,06,072 11.80 TOTAL 3,10,063 216,45,28,777 100.00 58 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 59 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Bifurcation of shares held in physical and demat form as on 31st March, 2018 Particulars No.
of Shares % Physical Segment 4,12,63,573 1.90 Demat Segment  NSDL (A) 209,12,94,859 96.62 CDSL (B) 3,19,70,345 1.48 Total (A+B) 212,32,65,204 * 98.10 TOTAL 216,45,28,777 100.00 * includes shares held by Unilever PLC and its Affiliates representing 67.19% of the total shareholding.
There are no outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants / Convertible  Instruments of the Company.
Listing Details Name and Address of Stock Exchange Stock Code BSE Limited (BSE) Floor 25, PhirozeJeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001.
500696 National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) Exchange Plaza, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051.
HINDUNILVR ISIN INE030A01027 The listing fee for the financial year 2017-18 has been paid to the above Stock Exchanges.
Share Price Data The monthly high and low prices and volumes of shares of the Company at BSE Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited  (NSE) for the year ended 31st March, 2018 are as under: Month BSE NSE High Low Volume High Low Volume Apr-17 950.00 899.10 13,62,772 951.00 898.55 2,27,09,237 May-17 1,080.00 923.50 40,69,169 1.077.00 922.60 3,54,69,354 Jun-17 1,128.00 1,052.40 35,40,911 1.129.00 1.046.10 2,79,85,760 Jul-17 1,195.10 1,082.00 23,30,354 1.195.05 1,081.10 2,99,20,274 Aug-17 1,221.00 1,144.05 9,40,018 1.222.80 1143.55 1,97,34,055 Sep-17 1,286.00 1,169.00 22,76,969 1.287.60 1,169.00 2,46,54,473 Oct-17 1,288.00 1,173.00 15,42,582 1.288.65 1,171.00 2,25,35,108 Nov-17 1,314.50 1,227.00 16,35,283 1.315.00 1,226.35 2,30,65,722 Dec-17 1,384.10 1,241.30 13,56,665 1.382.80 1,241.20 2,03,57,621 Jan-18 1,410.65 1,331.05 17,84,654 1.410.00 1,328.55 2,54,76,315 Feb-18 1,415.15 1,305.00 22,22,723 1.384.80 1,299.00 2,38,15,135 Mar-18 1,344.05 1,281.60 28,09,940 1.340.00 1,281.10 2,17,94,188 NSE Nifty Vs HUL Share Price (Indexed) 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18    HUL NSE    Nifty BSE Sensex Vs HUL Share Price (Indexed)  150 140 130 120 110 100 90 90 80 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18    HUL BSE    Sensex Index 60 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 61 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 10-year Performance of Hindustan Unilever Share vis-à-vis Sensex and Nifty Date of Purchase HUL Share  Price on BSE HUL Share BSE Sensex HUL Share HUL Share NSE Nifty Performance Sensex Performance Price on NSE Performance Nifty Performance 01/01/2009 250.75 437% 9,903.46 241% 250.75 436% 3,033.45 244% 01/04/2010 264.70 409% 17,558.73 93% 264.70 408% 5,232.20 99% 01/03/2011 313.15 330% 20,561.05 64% 313.15 329% 6,157.60 69% 01/03/2012 407.95 230% 15,939.36 112% 407.70 230% 4,765.30 119% 01/01/2013 530.60 154% 19,580.81 73% 530.60 153% 5,950.85 75% 01/01/2014 570.00 136% 21,222.19 59% 570.65 136% 6,301.65 66% 01/01/2015 758.25 78% 27,507.54 23% 758.45 77% 8,284.00 26% 01/01/2016 856.55 57% 26,160.90 29% 856.55 57% 7,963.20 31% 02/01/2017 824.55 63% 26,595.45 27% 825.35 63% 8,179.50 28% 01/01/2018 1,347.25 - 33,812.75 - 1,344.50 - 10,435.55 - Source: BSE and NSE Website  All comparisons are with respect to 1st January, 2018 (the reference date).
Market Capitalisation The Market Capitalisation of the Company based on year-end closing  prices quoted in the BSE Limited is given below:  (` crore) 350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2016-17 Mergers and Demergers The details of Mergers and Demergers with Companies and respective  share exchange ratios are available on ‘Investor Relations’ page on the  website of the Company www.hul.co.in.
Plant Locations The details of Plant Locations form part of this Annual Report.
COMMUNICATION TO SHAREHOLDERS Effective communication of information is an essential component of  Corporate Governance.
It is a process of sharing information, ideas,  thoughts, opinions and plans to all stakeholders which promotes  management-shareholder relations.
The Company regularly interacts  with Members through multiple channels of communication such as  results announcement, annual report, media releases, Company’s  website and subject specific communications.
The quarterly, half yearly and annual results of the Company’s  performance are published in leading newspapers such as Times of  India and Maharashtra Times.
These results are also made available on  the website of the Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/ quarterly-results/.
The website also displays vital information relating  to the Company and its performance, official press releases and  presentation to analysts.
The Company also sends quarterly, half  yearly and annual results as well as the notice of the Board Meeting to  Members through e-mail.
The Investor Relations page of the Company’s website provides more  than 50 Frequently Asked Questions on various topics related to  transfers and transmission of shares, dematerialisation, nomination,  change of address, loss of share certificates, dividend and sub-division  of share certificates.
In addition, various downloadable forms required  to be executed by the Members have also been provided on the website  of the Company.
All price sensitive information and matters that are material to Members  are disclosed to the respective Stock Exchanges where the securities  of the Company are listed.
The Quarterly Results, Shareholding Pattern  and all other corporate communication to the Stock Exchanges are  filed through NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS)  and BSE Listing Centre, for dissemination on their respective websites.
The stock exchange filings are also made available on the website of  the Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/shareholder- and-agm-information/.
Investor Services Web-based Query Redressal System Members may utilise the facility extended by the Registrar and Transfer  Agent for redressal of queries, by visiting https://karisma.karvy.com/  and clicking on ‘INVESTORS SERVICES’ option for query registration  through free identity registration process.
Investors can submit their query in the ‘QUERIES’ option provided on  the above website, which would generate the grievance a registration  number.
For accessing the status / response to the query submitted,  the grievance registration number can be used at the option   ‘VIEW REPLY’ after 24 hours.
Investors can continue to put an additional  query, if any, relating to the grievance till they get a satisfactory reply.
Investors can provide their feedback on the services provided by  the Company and its Registrar and Transfer Agent by filling the  Shareholder Satisfaction Survey form available in Investor Relations  page on website of the Company at https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/.
60 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 61 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Alternative Dispute Redressal Long pending litigations involve significant investment as monetary  value of the disputed shares and accrued dividends / other benefits  are locked up unutilised till the dispute is settled.
Keeping this in  mind, the Company in 2004, pioneered the mechanism of providing  an alternate dispute redressal for Shareholders to resolve the  shares related disputes pending before the courts / authorities by  amicable settlement.
The Company had started this unique initiative of organising Alternative  Dispute Redressal meetings wherein aggrieved investors come face to  face and get a chance to settle their disputes, some of which were  pending for years.
ANNEXURE TO THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Dividend Distribution Policy The Company’s Dividend Distribution Policy shall ensure that it  returns cash from operations that is in excess of its immediate  and foreseeable needs back to the shareholders over the   long-term.
Interim dividend is considered for declaration by the  Board based on the performance of the Company during the year  and final dividend is based on the performance for the full year.
The actual quantum of dividend pay-out on a yearly basis will  be dependent on the existing and expected underlying financial  performance, market conditions, cash flow position, interim  dividend, if any, already declared during the year and future  requirements of funds.
As such, any amount retained will be utilised  for securing the long-term growth objectives of the business.
With this in mind, the Company shall strive to declare a steady  stream of dividends to the shareholders that is in their best   long-term interest.
The declaration and distribution of dividends, whether interim or  final, will, at all times, be in accordance with the Companies Act,  2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, such other applicable provisions of law and the  Articles of Association of the Company as amended.
This Policy is issued with the consent of the Board of Directors of   the Company and can be amended only with the authority of the   Board of Directors.
A number of Shareholders have availed the benefit of this process  and the Company through its various initiatives keeps exploring  the possibilities of settling such issues.
The process helps the  investors in releasing the locked up investment and save their  time consumed in contesting legal proceedings.
The objective of  this process is to facilitate quick resolution of the dispute between  the parties.
The Shareholders who are willing to avail the benefits of Alternative  Dispute Redressal mechanism may approach the Investor Service  Department of the Company at the Registered Office of the Company.
Address for Correspondence •  All Members’ correspondence should be forwarded to Karvy Computershare Private Limited, the Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company  or to the Investor Service Department at the Registered Office of the Company at the addresses mentioned below.
• The Company’s dedicated e-mail address for Investors’ Complaints and other communications is levercare.shareholder@unilever.com • SEBI vide its circular dated 26th March, 2018 issued new policy measures w.r.t.
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES).
As per the new  process, SEBI has requested the Members to approach the Company directly at the first instance for their grievances.
Karvy Computershare Private Limited  Unit : Hindustan Unilever Limited  Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial District,  Nanakramguda Hyderabad - 500 032 Phone: +91 - 040 - 67161500, 67162222 Fax: +91 - 040 - 23431551 Toll Free No.
: 1800-345-4001 E-mail: einward.ris@karvy.com  Website: www.karvy.com Investor Service Department  Hindustan Unilever Limited  Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East),  Mumbai - 400 099  Phone: +91 - 22 - 39832285 / 32452  Fax: +91 - 22 - 28249457 E-mail: levercare.shareholder@unilever.com Website: www.hul.co.in Compliance Officer Mr. Dev Bajpai Executive Director (Legal & Corporate Affairs) and  Company Secretary E-mail: levercare.shareholder@unilever.com  Phone: +91 - 22 - 39832557 / 34485 / 32532 / 32312 62 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 63 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 To The Board of Directors Hindustan Unilever Limited We, the undersigned, in our respective capacities as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Hindustan Unilever Limited   (“the Company”), to the best of our knowledge and belief certify that: (a)  We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement for the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 and to the best of our  knowledge and belief, we state that:  (i)  these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain any statements that might be  misleading;  (ii)  these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with the existing accounting  standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(b)  We further state that to the best of our knowledge and belief, there are no transactions entered into by the Company during the year, which  are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
(c)  We hereby declare that all the members of the Board of Directors and Management Committee have confirmed compliance with the   Code of Conduct as adopted by the Company.
(d)  We are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls and for evaluating the effectiveness of the same over the financial  reporting of the Company and have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of internal  controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
(e) We have indicated, based on our most recent evaluation, wherever applicable, to the Auditors and Audit Committee:  (i) significant changes, if any, in the internal control over financial reporting during the year;  (ii)   significant changes, if any, in the accounting policies made during the year and that the same has been disclosed in the notes to the  financial statements; and  (iii)  instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or an employee  having significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Managing Director and   Chief Executive Officer Executive Director - Finance & IT  and Chief Financial Officer  Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 DIN: 06699923 DIN: 02743340 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) & CHIEF FINANCIAL  OFFICER (CFO) CERTIFICATION 62 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 63 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE Independent Auditor’s Certificate on Compliance with the Corporate  Governance requirements under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 To the Members of Hindustan Unilever Limited 1.
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 10 July, 2017.
2.
This report contains details of compliance of conditions of corporate governance by Hindustan Unilever Limited (‘the Company’) for the  year ended 31 March, 2018 as stipulated in regulations 17-27, clause (b) to (i) of regulation 46 (2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’)  pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock Exchanges.
Management’s Responsibility for compliance with the conditions of Listing Regulations 3.
The compliance with the terms and conditions contained in the corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management of the  Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents.
Auditor’s Responsibility 4.
Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the  conditions of Corporate Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
5.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable assurance whether the Company has  complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Listing Regulations for the year ended 31 March, 2018.
6.
We conducted our examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
The Guidance Note requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics  issued by ICAI.
7.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that  Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion 8.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied with  the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations.
9.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which  the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on use 10.
The certificate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose to enable the Company to comply with the  requirement of the Listing Regulations and it should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose.
Accordingly, we do not accept  or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands  it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 Akeel Master Partner Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Membership No: 046768 64 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 65 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 To, The Members, Hindustan Unilever Limited CIN: L15140MH1933PLC002030 Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri East, Mumbai - 400 099.
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of  applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate  practices by Hindustan Unilever Limited  (hereinafter called   “the Company”).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that  provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts /  statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute  books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company and also the information provided by the Company, its  officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company  has, during the audit period covering the Financial Year ended   31st March, 2018 , complied with the statutory provisions listed  hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes  and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and  subject to the reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns  filed and other records maintained by the Company for the financial  year ended on 31st March, 2018, according to the provisions of: i.
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder; ii.
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the  rules made thereunder; iii.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws  framed thereunder; iv.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings [Applicable only to the extent of  Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct Investment] v.  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the  Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-  a.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial  Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  b.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of  Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  c.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 [Not  Applicable as the Company has not issued any further  share capital during the period under review];  d.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;  e.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008   [Not Applicable as the Company has not issued and  listed any debt securities during the financial year under  review];  f.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars  to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client [Not  Applicable as the Company is not registered as Registrar  to Issue and Share Transfer Agent during the financial  year under review];  g.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of  Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 [Not Applicable as there  was no reportable event during the period under review];  h.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of  Securities) Regulations, 1998 [Not Applicable as there was  no reportable event during the period under review]; vi.
The Management has identified and confirmed the following laws  as specifically applicable to the Company:  i.
The Hazardous Wastes Management Rules, 2016;  ii.
The Insecticide Act, 1968;  iii.
The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940;  iv.
The Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954;  v. The Legal Metrology Act, 2009;  vi.
The Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules 2011;  vii.
Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 and Rules 2011 with  allied rules and regulations;  viii.
Applicable BIS Standards for various categories and  production process.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the  following: (i)  Secretarial Standards with regard to Meeting of Board of  Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The  Institute of Company Secretaries of India; (ii)  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 and the Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with  BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited; During the period under review the Company has complied with the  provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc.
; We further report that:- •  The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with  proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors,  Independent Directors and a Woman Director.
The changes in  the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during  the period under review were carried out in compliance with the  provisions of the Act.
•  Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board  Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent seven  days in advance and a system exists for seeking and obtaining  FORM NO.
MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT For the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 [Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.
9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014] 64 Overview Reports   Financial StatementsCorporate Governance 65 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited further information and clarifications on the agenda items before  the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
•  All the decisions of the Board and Committees thereof were  carried out with requisite majority.
We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism  established by the Company and on the basis of the Compliance  Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary and taken on record by  the Board of Directors at their meeting(s), we are of the opinion that  there are adequate systems and processes in place in the Company  which is commensurate with the size and operations of the Company  ANNEXURE TO SECRETARIAL AUDITORS’ REPORT To, The Members, Hindustan Unilever Limited CIN L15140MH1933PLC002030 Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri East, Mumbai- 400 099.
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date, for the financial year 2017-18 is to be read along with this letter.
Management’s Responsibility 1.
It is the responsibility of the management of the Company to maintain secretarial records, devise proper systems to ensure compliance with  the provisions of all applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that the systems are adequate and operate effectively.
Auditor’s Responsibility 2.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records, standards and procedures followed by the Company with respect to  secretarial compliances.
3.
We believe that audit evidence and information obtained from the Company’s management is adequate and appropriate for us to provide a  basis for our opinion.
4.
Wherever required, we have obtained the management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening  of events etc.
Disclaimer 5.
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which  the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
6.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of account of the Company.
For S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN & CO. Company Secretaries FIRM REGISTRATION NO.
: P1991MH040400 S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN PARTNER Thane, 9th May, 2018 FCS No.
: 4206, C.P.
No.
: 1774 to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,  regulations and guidelines:- •  As informed, the Company has responded appropriately to  notices received from various statutory /regulatory authorities  including initiating actions for corrective measures, wherever  found necessary.
We further report that during the audit period there were no following  specific events/actions having a major bearing on Company’s affairs in  pursuance of the above-referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines,  standards, etc.
For S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN & CO. Company Secretaries FIRM REGISTRATION NO.
: P1991MH040400 S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN PARTNER Thane, 9th May, 2018 FCS No.
: 4206, C.P.
No.
: 1774 Note: This report is to be read with letter of even date by the Secretarial Auditors, which is annexed and forms an integral part of this report.
67Overview Reports   Financial Statements66 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED  (EVA) What is EVA?
Traditional approaches to measuring Shareholder’s Value Creation’  have used parameters such as earnings capitalisation, market  capitalisation and present value of estimated future cash flows.
Extensive equity research has established that it is not earnings per  se, but VALUE that is important.
A measure called ‘Economic Value  Added’ (EVA) is increasingly being applied to understand and evaluate  financial performance.
*EVA = Net Operating Profit after Taxes (NOPAT) - Cost of  Capital Employed (COCE), where, NOPAT = Profits after depreciation and taxes but before interest  costs.
NOPAT thus represents the total pool of profits available on an  ungeared basis to provide a return to lenders and shareholders, and  COCE = Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) x Average Capital  Employed *Cost of debt is taken at the effective rate of interest applicable to an  “AAA” rated Company like HUL for a short-term debt, net of taxes.
We have considered a pre-tax rate of 7.97% for 2017-18 (7.42% for  2016-17) *Cost of Equity is the return expected by the investors to compensate  them for the variability in returns caused by fluctuating earnings and  share prices.
Cost of Equity = Risk free return equivalent to yield on long-term  Government Bonds (taken at 7.40% for 2017-18)  + Market risk premium (taken at 9.80%) (x) Beta variant for the Company,  (taken at 0.693) where Beta is a relative measure of risk associated  with the Company’s shares as against the market as a whole.
Thus, HUL ’s cost of equity = 7.40% + 9.8% (x) 0.693 = 14.19% What does EVA show?
EVA is residual income after charging the Company for the cost of  capital provided by lenders and shareholders.
It represents the value  added to the shareholders by generating operating profits in excess of  the cost of capital employed in the business.
When will EVA increase?
EVA will increase if: a.
Operating profits can be made to grow without employing more  capital, i.e.
greater efficiency.
b.
Additional capital’s invested in projects that return more than the  cost of obtaining new capital, i.e.
profitable growth.
c.  Capital is curtailed in activities that do not cover the cost of  capital, i.e liquidate unproductive capital.
EVA in practice at Hindustan Unilever Limited.
In Hindustan Unilever Limited, the goal of sustainable long-term value  creation for our shareholders is well understood by all the business  groups.
Measures to evaluate business performance and to set targets  take into account this concept of value creation.
ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED 67Overview Reports   Financial Statements66 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Economic Value Added (EVA)  (` crores) EVA TRENDS: 2008-18 (UNAUDITED) Particulars I-GAAP IND AS 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Cost of Capital Employed (COCE) 1.
Average Debt  342  119  2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.
Average Equity  1,928  2,497  3,118  3,462  4,018  3,715  4,338  5,664  5,831  6,181 3.
Average Capital Employed :  (1) + (2)  2,270  2,616  3,120  3,462  4,018  3,715  4,338  5,664  5,831  6,181 4.
Cost of Debt, post-tax % 3.91 3.95 5.36 6.20 6.02 6.36 5.56 5.43 4.90 5.21 5.
Cost of Equity % 14.47 12.51 12.93 10.10 10.07 11.62 10.91 11.98 12.85 14.19 6.
Weighted Average Cost of  Capital % (WACC) 12.88 12.12 12.92 10.10 10.07 11.62 10.91 11.98 12.85 14.19 7.
COCE : (3) x (6)  365  317  403  350  405  432  474 679 749 877 Economic Value Added (EVA) 8.
Profit after tax, before  exceptional items  2,501  2,103  2,153  2,599  3,314  3,555  3,843  4,116  4,247  5,135 9.
Add : Interest, after taxes  17  5  0  1  17  24  11  0  0  0 10.
Net Operating Profits After  Taxes (NOPAT)  2,518  2,108  2,153  2,600  3,331  3,579  3,854  4,117  4,247  5,135 11.
COCE, as per (7) above  365  317  403  350  405  432  474  679  749  877 12.
EVA : (10) - (11)  2,154  1,791  1,750  2,250  2,926  3,147  3,380  3,438  3,498  4,258 * Figures as per IND AS 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16* 2016-17* 2017-18* 0 - 500 - 1,000 - 1,500 - 2,000 - 2,500 - 3,000 - 3,500 - 4,000 - 4,500 - 69Overview Reports  Financial Statements68 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  to the Members of Hindustan Unilever Limited REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE IND AS  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial  statements of Hindustan Unilever Limited (“the Company”), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018, the Statement  of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the  Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows  for the year then ended, and summary of the significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (herein after referred to  as “standalone Ind AS financial statements”).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE  STANDALONE IND AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters  stated in Section 134 (5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)  with respect to the preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/ loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash  flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles  generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting  Standards (“Ind AS”) prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act  for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing  and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and  application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial  controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible  for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern,  disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and  using the going concern basis of accounting unless management  either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or  has no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone Ind  AS financial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting  and auditing standards and matters which are required to be  included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the  Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified  under Section 143 (10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we  comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone Ind AS  financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the standalone Ind  AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on  the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks  of material misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk  assessments, the auditor considers internal financial controls  relevant to the Company’s preparation of the standalone Ind AS  financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design  audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit  also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting  policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates  made by the Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
We are also responsible to conclude on the appropriateness of  management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting  and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material  uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast  significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going  concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are  required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related  disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are  inadequate, to modify the opinion.
Our conclusions are based on  the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause an entity to cease  to continue as a going concern.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  standalone Ind AS financial statements.
OPINION In our opinion and to the best of our information and according  to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS  financial statements give the information required by the Act in the  manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with  the accounting principles generally accepted in India of the state  of affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2018, its profit and other  comprehensive income, changes in equity and its cash flows for the  year ended on that date.
69Overview Reports  Financial Statements68 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ( Contd.)
to the Members of Hindustan Unilever Limited REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY  REQUIREMENTS 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016  (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government in terms of  Section 143 (11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure A” a statement  on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that: (a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief  were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law  have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our  examination of those books.
(c)  The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including  other comprehensive income), the Statement of Changes in  Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this  Report are in agreement with the books of account.
(d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards  prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
(e)  On the basis of the written representations received from  the directors as on 31 March 2018 taken on record by the  Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on   31 March 2018 from being appointed as a director in terms of  Section 164 (2) of the Act.
(f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements of the Company and the  operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate  report in “Annexure B”.
(g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s  Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit  and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our  information and according to the explanations given to us:  1.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending  litigations on its financial position in its standalone Ind AS  financial statements – Refer Note 24 to the standalone  Ind AS financial statements.
2.
The Company has made provision, as required under  the applicable law or accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts  including derivative contracts - Refer Note 45 to the  standalone Ind AS financial statements.
3.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and  Protection Fund by the Company.
4.
The disclosures regarding details of specified bank  notes held and transacted during 8 November 2016 to 30  December 2016 has not been made since the requirement  does not pertain to financial year ended 31 March 2018.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration   No: 101248W/W-100022 Akeel Master Mumbai Partner 14th May, 2018 Membership No: 046768 71Overview Reports  Financial Statements70 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 ANNEXURE A  to the Independent Auditor’s Report - 31 March 2018 on the Standalone   Ind as financial statements (Referred to in our report of even date) (i) (a)  The Company has maintained proper records showing full  particulars, including quantitative details and situation of  fixed assets.
(b)  The Company has a regular programme of physical  verification of its fixed assets by which all fixed assets are  verified in a phased manner over a period of two years.
In accordance with this programme, a portion of the fixed  assets has been physically verified by the management  during the year and no material discrepancies have been  noticed on such verification.
In our opinion, this periodicity  of physical verification is reasonable having regard to the  size of the Company and the nature of its assets.
(c)  According to the information and explanations given to  us, the title deeds of immovable properties, as disclosed  in Note 3A to the standalone Ind AS financial statements,  are held in the name of the Company, except for   the following:  Particulars Leasehold   Land Freehold  Land Buildings Gross block as at 31  March 2018 0.76 0.19 78.48 Net block as at 31  March 2018 0.62 0.19 46.76 (ii)  The inventory, except goods-in-transit, has been physically  verified by the management at reasonable intervals during  the year.
In our opinion, the frequency of such verification is  reasonable.
In respect of inventory lying with third parties,  these have substantially been confirmed by them.
The  discrepancies noticed on verification between the physical  stocks and the book records were not material.
(iii)  In our opinion and according to information and explanations  given to us, the Company has not granted any loans, secured or  unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships  or other parties covered in the register maintained under  Section 189 of the Act.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (iii) of the  Order is not applicable to the Company.
(iv)  The Company has not granted any loans or provided  any guarantees or security to the parties covered under   Section 185 of the Act.
The Company has complied with the  provisions of Section 186 of the Act in respect of investments  made or loans or guarantee or security provided to the parties  covered under Section 186.
(v)  According to information and explanations given to us, the  Company has not accepted any deposits from the public within  the meaning of the directives issued by the Reserve Bank  of India, provisions of Section 73 to 76 of the Act, any other  relevant provisions of the Act and the relevant rules framed  thereunder.
(vi)  We have broadly reviewed the records maintained by the  Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by Central  Government for maintenance of cost records under   Section 148 (1) of the Act and are of the opinion that prima  facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made  and maintained.
However, we have not made a detailed  examination of the records.
(vii) (a)  According to the information and explanations given to  us and the records of the Company examined by us, in  our opinion, the Company is regular in depositing the  undisputed statutory dues including provident fund,  employees state insurance, income tax, sales tax, service  tax, goods and service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise,  value added tax, cess, professional tax and other material  statutory dues, as applicable, with the appropriate  authorities.
According to the information and explanations given to us,  no undisputed amounts payable in respect of provident  fund, employees state insurance, income tax, sales tax,  service tax, goods and service tax, duty of customs,  duty of excise, value added tax, cess, professional tax  and other material statutory dues were in arrears as at   31 March 2018 for a period of more than six months from  the date they became payable.
(b)  According to the information and explanations given to  us, there are no dues of income tax, sales tax, value added  tax, service tax, goods and service tax, duty of customs,  duty of excise which have not been deposited with the  appropriate authorities on account of any dispute other  than those mentioned in Appendix I to this report.
(viii)  The Company has not taken any loans or borrowings from any  financial institution, bank or Government nor has it issued any  debentures.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (viii) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(ix)  The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial  public offer, further public offer (including debt instruments)  or term loans during the year.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (ix) of  the Order is not applicable to the Company.
71Overview Reports  Financial Statements70 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited (x)  According to the information and explanations given to us,  no material fraud by the Company or on the Company by its  officers or employees has been noticed or reported during the  year.
(xi)  According to the information and explanations given to us and  based on our examination of the records, the Company has  paid or provided for managerial remuneration in accordance  with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of  Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
(xii)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi company.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (xii) of the Order is not applicable to  the Company.
(xiii) According to the information and explanations given to us  and based on our examinations of the records of the Company,  transactions with the related parties are in compliance with   Sections 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable.
The details  of such related party transactions have been disclosed in the  standalone Ind AS financial statements as required by applicable  Indian Accounting Standards.
(xiv)  According to the information and explanations given to us and  based on our examination of the records, the Company has  not made any preferential allotment or private placement of  shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the year.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (xiv) of the Order is not applicable to  the Company.
(xv)  According to the information and explanations given to us and  based on our examination of the records, the Company has not  entered into non-cash transactions with directors or persons  connected with him.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (xv) of the Order  is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)  The Company is not required to be registered under   Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Accordingly, paragraph 3 (xvi) of the Order is not applicable to  the Company.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration   No: 101248W/W-100022 Akeel Master Mumbai Partner 14th May, 2018 Membership No: 046768   73Overview Reports  Financial Statements72 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 APPENDIX I Name of the Statute Nature of dues Amount  Demanded   ` in crores Amount  Paid ` in  crores Period to which  the amount  relates Forum where dispute is  pending Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise duty (including Interest  and penalty, if applicable) 69.48 3.85 1982-2017 Appellate Authority up to  Commissioner’s level Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise duty (including Interest  and penalty, if applicable) 278.22 7.42 1994-2016 Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunals of  various states Central Excise Act, 1944 Excise duty (including Interest  and penalty, if applicable) 3.59 - 2003-2010 High Courts of various states Customs Act, 1962 Custom Duty, (including Interest  and penalty, if applicable) 2.29 0.12 2011-2014 Appellate Authority up to  Commissioner’s level Customs Act, 1962 Custom Duty, (including Interest  and penalty, if applicable) 8.42 0.36 2012-2017 Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunals of  various states Central Sales Tax Act, 1956  and Local Sales Tax Act Sales tax (including interest and  penalty, if applicable) 270.71 49.64 1985-2017 Appellate Authority up to  Commissioner’s level Central Sales Tax Act, 1956  and Local Sales Tax Act Sales tax (including interest and  penalty, if applicable) 30.81 2.23 1984-2014 Sales Tax Appellate Tribunals  of various states Central Sales Tax Act, 1956  and Local Sales Tax Act Sales tax (including interest and  penalty, if applicable) 151.11 102.38 1977-2017 High Courts of various states Central Sales Tax Act, 1956  and Local Sales Tax Act Sales tax (including interest and  penalty, if applicable) 24.44 9.40 1985-2017 Supreme Court Service tax  (Finance Act,  1994) Service tax (including interest and  penalty, if applicable) 163.70 2.79 2005-2017 Appellate Authority up to  Commissioner’s level Service tax  (Finance Act,  1994) Service tax (including interest and  penalty, if applicable) 47.55 3.58 2003-2015 Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunals of  various states Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax (including interest  and penalty, if applicable) 151.11 - 1979-80, 1991,   2006-07, 2007- 08, 2009-10,  2011-12 Appellate Authority - up to  Commissioner’s Level Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax (including interest  and penalty, if applicable) 0.20 - 1982-83 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal,  Mumbai Income Tax Act, 1961 Income Tax (including interest  and penalty, if applicable) 0.06 - 1963-1964,  1982- 1983 Bombay High Court 73Overview Reports  Financial Statements72 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited ANNEXURE B  to the Independent Auditor’s Report - 31 March 2018 on the Standalone Ind as   financial statements (Referred to in our report of even date) REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS  UNDER SECTION 143 (3) (i) OF THE COMPANIES ACT,  2013 (“THE ACT”) We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements of Hindustan Unilever Limited (“the Company”)  as of 31 March 2018 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone  Ind AS financial statements of the Company for the year ended on  that date.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERNAL  FINANCIAL CONTROLS The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and  maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  controls with reference to financial statements criteria established  by the Company considering the essential components of  internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance note”)  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and  maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were  operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct  of its business, including adherence to Company’s policies, the  safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds  and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting  records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information,  as required under the Act.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's  internal financial controls with reference to financial statements  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with  the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI  and deemed to be prescribed under Section 143 (10) of the Act,  to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls,  both applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both  issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require  that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform  the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate  internal financial controls with reference to financial statements  was established and maintained and if such controls operated  effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system with  reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements included obtaining an understanding of internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing  the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating  the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls based on  the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,  whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Company’s internal financial control system with reference to  financial statements.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH  REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance  regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation  of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company's internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements includes  those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance  of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect  the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded  as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only  in accordance with authorisations of management and directors  of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use,  or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material  effect on the financial statements.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL  CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of  collusion or improper management override of controls, material  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject  to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements may become inadequate because of changes  in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
OPINION In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an  adequate internal financial control system with reference to  financial statements and such internal financial controls with  reference to financial statements were operating effectively as  at 31 March 2018, based on the internal controls with reference  to financial statements criteria established by the Company  considering the essential components of internal controls stated in  the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration   No: 101248W/W-100022 Akeel Master Mumbai Partner 14th May, 2018 Membership No: 046768 75Overview Reports  Financial Statements74 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) BALANCE SHEET as at 31st March, 2018  Particulars Note As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment  3A  3,776  3,654  Capital work-in-progress  3B  430  203  Goodwill  4  0  0  Other intangible assets  4  366  370  Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint venture  5  254  254  Financial assets Investments  6  2  6  Loans  7  404  352  Other financial assets  8  6  6  Non-current tax assets (net)  9D  439  311  Deferred tax assets (net)  9C  255  160  Other non-current assets  10  78  70  Current assets Inventories  11  2,359  2,362  Financial assets Investments  6  2,855  3,519  Trade receivables  12  1,147  928  Cash and cash equivalents  13  573  572  Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents mentioned above  14  2,800  1,099  Other financial assets  8  829  306  Other current assets  15  560  507  Assets held for sale  16  16  72  TOTAL ASSETS  17,149  14,751  75Overview Reports  Financial Statements74 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) BALANCE SHEET (Contd.)
as at 31st March, 2018  Particulars Note As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Equity share capital  17  216  216  Other equity  18A  6,859  6,274  Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities  19  115  71  Provisions  20  772  485  Non-current tax liabilities (net)  9D  384  296  Other non-current liabilities  21  167  207  Current liabilities Financial liabilities Trade payables Dues to micro and small enterprises  22  -  0  Dues to Others  22  7,013  6,006  Other financial liabilities  19  203  181  Other current liabilities  23  769  628  Provisions  20  651  387  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  17,149  14,751  Basis of preparation, measurement and significant accounting policies  2  Contingent liabilities and commitments  24  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Membership No.
FCS 3354 Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 77Overview Reports  Financial Statements76 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Particulars Note Year ended  31st March, 2018 Year ended  31st March, 2017 INCOME Revenue from operations  25  35,218  34,487  Other income  26  569  526  TOTAL INCOME  35,787  35,013  EXPENSES Cost of materials consumed  27  12,491  11,363  Purchases of stock-in-trade  28  3,812  4,166  Changes in inventories of finished goods (including stock-in-trade) and   work-in-progress  29  (71)  156  Excise duty  30  693  2,597  Employee benefits expenses  31  1,745  1,620  Finance costs  32  20  22  Depreciation and amortisation expenses  33  478  396  Other expenses  34  9,272  8,538  TOTAL EXPENSES  28,440  28,858  Profit before exceptional items and tax  7,347  6,155  Exceptional items  35  (62)  241  Profit before tax  7,285  6,396  Tax expenses Current tax  9A  (2,148)  (1,865) Deferred tax credit/(charge)  9A  100  (41) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR (A)  5,237  4,490  STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS  for the year ended 31st March, 2018  77Overview Reports  Financial Statements76 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Particulars Note Year ended  31st March, 2018 Year ended  31st March, 2017 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit plans 18C  (16)  (32) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified subsequently  to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit plans 9A  5  11  Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value of debt instruments through other comprehensive income 18C  (2)  1  Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified subsequently to   profit or loss Fair value of debt instruments through other comprehensive income 9A  1  (0) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (B)  (12)  (20) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (A+B)  5,225  4,470  Earnings per equity share Basic (Face value of ` 1 each)  36  ` 24.20  ` 20.75  Diluted (Face value of ` 1 each)  36  ` 24.19  ` 20.74  Basis of preparation, measurement and significant accounting policies  2  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements  As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 79Overview Reports  Financial Statements78 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  for the year ended 31st March, 2018 A.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Note Balance As at 31st March, 2016 17  216  Changes in equity share capital during the year  0  As at 31st March, 2017 17  216  Changes in equity share capital during the year  0  As at 31st March, 2018 17  216  B.
OTHER EQUITY Reserves and Surplus  Items of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  Capital  Reserve Capital  Redemption  Reserve Securities  Premium   Reserve Employee  Stock Options  Outstanding  Account General  Reserve Retained  Earnings Other  Reserves Remeasurements  of net defined  benefit plans Debt  instruments  through OCI  Total  As at 31st March, 2016  4  6  98  43  2,187  3,727  9  (11)  0  6,063  Profit for the year  -  -  -    -    -  4,490  -  -  -  4,490  Other comprehensive income for the year  -  -  -    -    - -  -  (21)  1  (20) Total comprehensive income for the year  -  -  -    -    -  4,490  -  (21)  1  4,470  Dividend on equity shares for the year  (Note: 37)   -  -  -    -    -  (3,571)  -  -  -  (3,571) Dividend distribution tax (Note: 37)  -  -  -    -    -  (693)  -  -  -  (693) Issue of equity shares on exercise of  employee stock options   -  -  18  (18)  -  -  -  -  -  -    Equity settled share based payment credit  -  - -  5  -  -  -  -  -  5  As at 31st March, 2017  4  6  116  30  2,187  3,953  9  (32)  1  6,274  Profit for the year  -  -  -  -  -  5,237  -  -  -  5,237  Other comprehensive income for the year  -  -  -  -  - -  -  (11)  (1)  (12) Total comprehensive income for the year  -  -  -  -  -  5,237  -  (11)  (1)  5,225  Dividend on equity shares for the year  (Note: 37)   -  -  -  -  -  (3,896)  -  -  -  (3,896) Dividend distribution tax(Note: 37)  -  -  -  -  -  (755)  -  -  -  (755) Issue of equity shares on exercise of  employee stock options   -  -  11  (11)  -  -  -  -  -    -    Equity settled share based payment credit  -  - -  11  -  -  -  -  -  11  As at 31st March, 2018  4  6 127 30 2,187 4,539  9  (43)  (0)  6,859  a) Refer note 18B for nature and purpose of reserves.
b)  The Scheme of Arrangement (Scheme) between the Company and its Members, envisages the transfer of balance of ` 2,187 crores  standing to the credit of General Reserves to the  Profit and Loss account (currently retained earnings).
The Scheme, under relevant  sections of the Companies Act, 1956 and 2013,  was approved in annual general meeting held on 30th June, 2016 and is now pending  for approval with National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai:  14th May, 2018 Mumbai:  14th May, 2018 79Overview Reports  Financial Statements78 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 A CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Profit before exceptional items and tax  7,347  6,155  Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expenses  478  396  (Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  26  13  Government grant accrued  (172)  -    Interest income  (266)  (262) Dividend income  (190)  (178) Fair value (gain)/loss on investments  (113)  (86) Net (gain)/loss on sale of investments  -    (0) Interest expense  20  22  Provision for expenses on employee stock options  11  4  Impairment of non-current investments  -    8  Provision/(write back) for Inventory (net)  41  27  Inventory written off  124  101  Provision/(write back) for doubtful debts and advances (net)  2  4  Bad debts/assets written off  3  2  Mark-to-market (gain)/loss on derivative financial instruments  (4)  13  Cash Generated from operations before working capital changes  7,307  6,219  Adjustments for: (Increase)/decrease in Non current loans (Security deposits and Others)  (24)  (46) (Increase)/decrease in other non-current financial assets  (0)  20  (Increase)/decrease in other current financial assets  (285)  (58) (Increase)/decrease in other non-current assets  (20)  (10) (Increase)/decrease in other current assets  (53)  (42) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables  (224)  131  (Increase)/decrease in inventories  (162)  38  Increase/(decrease) in trade payables  1,007  508  Increase/(decrease) in other non-current financial liabilities  (4)  52  Increase/(decrease) in other current financial liabilities  2  (71) Increase/(decrease) in non-current provisions  271  (37) Increase/(decrease) in current provisions  219  61  Increase/(decrease) in other non-current liabilities  (49)  (9) Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities  141  1  Cash generated from operations  8,126  6,757  Taxes paid (net of refunds)  (2,194)  (1,783) Cash flow before exceptional items  5,932  4,974  Exceptional items: Amounts paid for other restructuring activities  (25)  (21) Taxes paid for exceptional items  9  Net cash (used in) / generated from operating activities - [A]  5,916  4,953  STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  for the year ended 31st March, 2018 81Overview Reports  Financial Statements80 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 B CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (847)  (1,024) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment  16  5  Purchase of Intangibles  (6)  (348) Sale proceeds of non-current investments  4  0  Purchase of current investments  (47,755)  (26,230) Sale of current investments  48,530  25,260  Loans given to subsidiaries  (183)  (84) Loans repaid by subsidiaries  154  48  Redemption/maturity of bank deposits (having original maturity of more than 3  months)  1,135  2,590  Investment in bank deposits (having original maturity of more than 3 months)  (2,811)  (1,555) Investment in non-current deposits with banks  (0)  (1) Interest received  229  266  Dividend received from subsidiaries  188  167  Dividend received from others  2  11  Cash flow before exceptional items  (1,344)  (895) Exceptional items: Consideration received on disposal of surplus properties  10  167  Consideration received on disposal of joint venture  73  20  Taxes paid for exceptional items  (3)  (44) Net cash (used in) / generated from investing activities - [B]  (1,264)  (752) C CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Dividends paid  (3,872)  (3,561) Dividend distribution tax paid  (755)  (693) Amounts deposited in bank accounts towards unpaid dividends  (24)  (10) Interest paid  (0)  (0) Proceeds from share allotment under employee stock options/ performance share  schemes  0  0  Net cash (used in) / generated financing activities - [C]  (4,651)  (4,264) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents - [A+B+C]  1  (63) Add: Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (refer note 13)  572  635  Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (refer note 13)  573  572  Note:  The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018   STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2018 81Overview Reports  Financial Statements80 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTE 1 : COMPANY INFORMATION Hindustan Unilever Limited (the ‘Company’) is a public limited  company domiciled in India with its registered office located at  Unilever House, B.D.
Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai  400 099.
The Company is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE)  and the National Stock Exchange (NSE).
The Company is a market  leader in the FMCG business comprising primarily of Home Care,  Personal Care, Foods and Refreshments segments.
The Company  has manufacturing facilities across the country and sells primarily in  India through independent distributors and modern trade.
NOTE 2 : BASIS OF PREPARATION, MEASUREMENT AND  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of Preparation and Measurement (a) Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  the Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter referred to as the   ‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of Corporate Affairs pursuant  to Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 3 of  the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016.
The financial statements have been prepared on accrual and going  concern basis.
The accounting policies are applied consistently to  all the periods presented in the financial statements.
All assets and  liabilities have been classified as current or non current as per the  Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria as set out in  the Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
Based on  the nature of products and the time between acquisition of assets  for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents,  the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months  for the purpose of current or non-current classification of assets   and liabilities.
The financial statements are presented in INR, the functional  currency of the Company.
Items included in the financial  statements of the Company are recorded using the currency of the  primary economic environment in which the Company operates  (the ‘functional currency’).
Transactions and balances with values below the rounding off norm  adopted by the Company have been reflected as “0” in the relevant  notes in these financial statements.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended  31st March, 2018 were approved for issue in accordance with the  resolution of the Board of Directors on 14th May, 2018.
(b) Basis of measurement These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost  convention unless otherwise indicated.
2.2 Key Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to  make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application  of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets,  NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from  these estimates.
Continuous evaluation is done on the estimation  and judgments based on historical experience and other factors,  including expectations of future events that are believed to be  reasonable.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  prospectively.
Information about critical judgments in applying accounting  policies, as well as estimates and assumptions that have the most  significant effect to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities  within the next financial year, are included in the following notes: (a) Measurement of defined benefit obligations - Note 40 (b)  Measurement and likelihood of occurrence of provisions and  contingencies - Note 20 and 24 (c)  Recognition of deferred tax assets  - Note 9 (d)  Key assumptions used in discounted cash flow projections -  Note 42 (e) Impairment of Intangibles - Note 4 2.3  Recent Accounting Developments (a) Standards issued but not yet effective: IND AS 115: Revenue from Contracts with Customers In March 2018, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendments)  Rules, 2017, notifying Ind AS 115, ‘Revenue from Contracts with  Customers’.
The Standard is applicable to the Company with effect  from 1st April, 2018.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers Ind AS 115 establishes  a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting  for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Ind AS 115  will supersede the current revenue recognition standard Ind AS  18 Revenue, Ind AS 11 Construction Contracts when it becomes  effective.
The core principle of Ind AS 115 is that an entity should  recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or  services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration  to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those  goods or services.
Specifically, the standard introduces a 5-step  approach to revenue recognition: • Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer  • Step 2: Identify the performance obligation in contract  • Step 3: Determine the transaction price  • Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance  obligations in the contract  • Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a  performance obligation Under Ind AS 115, an entity recognises revenue when (or as) a  performance obligation is satisfied, i.e.
when ‘control’ of the goods  or services underlying the particular performance obligation is  transferred to the customer.
The Company has completed its  evaluation of the possible impact of Ind AS 115 and will adopt the  standard from 1st April, 2018.
83Overview Reports  Financial Statements82 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
2.4  Significant Accounting Policies (a)  Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment is stated at acquisition cost net of   accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination  are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent  costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as  a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future  economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company  and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs  and maintenance cost are charged to the Statement of Profit and  Loss during the period in which they are incurred.
Gains or losses arising on retirement or disposal of property, plant  and equipment  are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Property, plant and equipment which are not ready for  intended  use as on the date of Balance Sheet are disclosed as “Capital work- in-progress”.
Depreciation is provided on a pro-rata basis on the straight line  method based on estimated useful life prescribed under Schedule  II to the Companies Act, 2013 with the exception of the following: - plant and equipment is depreciated over 3 to 21 years based on  the technical evaluation of useful life done by the management.
- assets costing ` 5,000 or less are fully depreciated in the year of  purchase.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation of  property, plant and equipment is reviewed at each financial year  end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
(b)  Intangible Assets: Separately purchased intangible assets are initially measured at  cost.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are  recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequently,  intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated  amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or  indefinite.
Finite-life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line  basis over the period of their expected useful lives.
Estimated useful  lives by major class of finite-life intangible assets are as follows: Design     - 10 years Know-how   - 10 years Computer software  - 5 years The amortisation period and the amortisation method for finite- life intangible assets is reviewed at each financial year end and  adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
For indefinite life intangible assets, the assessment of indefinite life  is reviewed annually to determine whether it continues, if not, it is  impaired or changed prospectively basis revised estimates.
Goodwill is initially recognised based on the accounting policy for  business combinations [refer note 2.4.(r)].
These assets are not  amortised but are tested for impairment annually.
(c) Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures: Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are  carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Where an indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of  the investment is assessed and written down immediately to its  recoverable amount.
On disposal of investments in subsidiaries,  associates and joint venture, the difference between net disposal  proceeds and the carrying amounts are recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
(d) Inventories: Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is computed on a weighted average basis.
Cost of finished  goods and work-in-progress include all costs of purchases,  conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories  to their present location and condition.
The net realisable value is  the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less  the estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary  to make the sale.
(e) Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents are short-term (three months or  less from the date of acquisition), highly liquid investments that  are readily convertible into cash and which are subject to an  insignificant risk of changes in value.
(f) Assets Held for Sale: Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and  liabilities are classified as ‘held for sale’ when all of the following  criterias are met: (i) decision has been made to sell.
(ii) the assets are  available for immediate sale in its present condition.
(iii) the assets are  being actively marketed and (iv) sale has been agreed or is expected to  be concluded within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date.
Subsequently, such non-current assets and disposal groups  classified as ‘held for sale’ are measured at the lower of its carrying  value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets held for  sale are not depreciated or amortised.
(g) Financial Instruments: Financial Assets: Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes a  party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
On initial recognition, a financial asset is recognised at fair value.
In  case of Financial assets which are recognised at fair value through  profit and loss (FVTPL), its transaction cost are recognised in the  statement of profit and loss.
In other cases, the transaction cost are   attributed to the acquisition value of the financial asset.
Financial assets are subsequently classified and measured at  - amortised cost  - fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)  - fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI).
83Overview Reports  Financial Statements82 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their  recognition, except if and in the period the Company changes its  business model for managing financial assets.
Trade Receivables and Loans: Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
Subsequently,  these assets are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest  rate (EIR) method net of any expected credit losses.
The EIR is  the rate that discounts estimated future cash income through the  expected life of financial instrument.
Debt Instruments:  Debt instruments are initially measured at amortised cost, fair  value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) or fair value  through profit or loss (‘FVTPL ’) till derecognition on the basis of   (i) the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets  and (ii) the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial  asset.
(i) Measured at amortised cost:    Financial assets that are held within a business model  whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect  contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal  and interest, are subsequently measured at amortised  cost using the effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method less  impairment, if any.
The  amortisation of EIR and loss arising  from impairment, if any is recognised in the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
(ii) Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income:    Financial assets that are held within a business model whose  objective is achieved by both, selling financial assets and  collecting contractual cash flows that are solely payments  of principal and interest,  are subsequently measured at  fair value through other comprehensive income.
Fair value  movements are recognized in the other comprehensive  income (OCI).
Interest income measured using the EIR method  and impairment losses, if any are recognised in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
On derecognition, cumulative gain or loss  previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from the equity to  ‘other income’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(iii) Measured at fair value through profit or loss:    A financial asset not classified as  either  amortised cost  or FVOCI, is classified as FVTPL.
Such financial assets are  measured at fair value with all changes in fair value, including  interest income and dividend income if any, recognised as  ‘other income’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Equity Instruments:  All investments in equity instruments classified under financial  assets are initially measured at fair value , the Company may, on  initial recognition, irrevocably elect to measure the same either at  FVOCI or FVTPL.
The Company makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument  basis.
Fair value changes on an equity instrument is recognised  as ‘other income’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss unless the  Company has elected to measure such instrument at FVOCI.
Fair value changes excluding dividends, on an equity instrument  measured at FVOCI are recognised in OCI.
Amounts recognised in  OCI are not subsequently reclassified to the Statement of Profit and  Loss.
Dividend income on the investments in equity instruments are  recognised as ‘other income’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Derivative Financial Instruments: The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as  forward currency contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk.
Such  derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value  on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are  subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Any changes therein are  recognised in the statement of profit and loss account.
Derivatives  are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as  financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Derecognition The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual  rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers  the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the asset.
Impairment of Financial Asset The Company applies expected credit losses (ECL) model for  measurement and recognition of loss allowance on the following: i.
Trade receivables ii.
Financial assets measured at amortized cost (other than trade  receivables) iii.
Financial assets measured at fair value through other  comprehensive income (FVTOCI) In case of trade receivables, the Company follows a simplified  approach wherein an amount equal to lifetime ECL is measured  and recognized as loss allowance.
In case of other assets (listed as ii and iii above), the Company  determines if there has been a significant increase in credit risk  of the financial asset since initial recognition.
If the credit risk of  such assets has not increased significantly, an amount equal to  12-month ECL is measured and recognized as loss allowance.
However, if credit risk has increased significantly, an amount equal  to lifetime ECL is measured and recognized as loss allowance.
Subsequently, if the credit quality of the financial asset improves  such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since  initial recognition, the Company reverts to recognizing impairment  loss allowance based on 12-month ECL.
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that  are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and all  the cash flows that the Company expects to receive (i.e., all cash  shortfalls), discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all  possible default events over the expected life of a financial asset.
12-month ECL are a portion of the lifetime ECL which result  from default events that are possible within 12 months from the  reporting date.
85Overview Reports  Financial Statements84 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
ECL are measured in a manner that they reflect unbiased and  probability weighted amounts determined by a range of outcomes,  taking into account the time value of money and other reasonable  information available as a result of past events, current conditions  and forecasts of future economic conditions.
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix  to measure lifetime ECL on its portfolio of trade receivables.
The  provision matrix is prepared based on historically observed default  rates over the expected life of trade receivables and is adjusted for  forward-looking estimates.
At each reporting date, the historically  observed default rates and changes in the forward-looking  estimates are updated.
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the  period is recognised as income/ expense in the Statement of Profit  and Loss under the head ‘Other expenses’.
Financial Liabilities: Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes  a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial  liabilities are initially measured at the amortised cost unless at  initial recognition, they are classified as fair value through profit  and loss.
In case of trade payables, they are initially recognised at  fair value and subsequently, these liabilities are held at amortised  cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Subsequent measurement Financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost  using the EIR method.
Financial liabilities carried at fair value  through profit or loss are measured at fair value with all changes in  fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in  the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
(h) Provisions and Contingent Liabilities: Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present  obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it  is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic  benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable  estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions  are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to  settle the present obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are  discounted to reflect its present value using a current pre-tax rate  that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of  money and the risks specific to the obligation.
When discounting  is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is  recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed when there is a possible  obligation arising from past events, the existence of which will  be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one  or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of  the Company or a present obligation that arises from past events  where it is either not probable that an outflow of resources will  be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the  amount cannot be made.
(i)  Revenue Recognition:  Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when all the significant  risks and rewards of ownership in the goods are transferred to  the buyer as per the terms of the contract, there is no continuing  managerial involvement with the goods and the amount of revenue  can be measured reliably.
The Company retains no effective  control of the goods transferred to a degree usually associated  with ownership and no significant uncertainty exists regarding  the amount of the consideration that will be derived from the sale  of goods.
Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration  received or receivable, after deduction of any trade discounts,  volume rebates and any taxes or duties collected on behalf of the  government which are levied on sales such as sales tax, value  added tax, goods and services tax, etc.
Income from export incentives such as duty drawback and premium  on sale of import licenses and lease license fee are recognised on  accrual basis.
Income from services rendered is recognised based on agreements/ arrangements with the customers as the service is performed  in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the  reporting date and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest income is recognized using the effective interest rate (EIR)  method.
Dividend income on investments is recognised when the right to  receive dividend is established.
(j)  Government Grant: The Company is entitled to ‘Scheme of budgetary support’ under  Goods and Service Tax Regime in respect of eligible manufacturing  units located in specified regions.
Such grants are measured at  amount receivable from the government and are recognised as  other operating revenue when there is a reasonable assurance that  the Company will comply with all necessary conditions attached   to that.
Income from such grants is recognised on a systematic basis over  the periods to which they relate.
(k) Expenditure:  Expenses are accounted on accrual basis.
(l) Employee Benefits: Defined contribution plans  Contributions to defined contribution schemes such as employees’  state insurance, labour welfare fund, superannuation scheme,  employee pension scheme etc.
are charged as an expense based  on the amount of contribution required to be made as and when  services are rendered by the employees.
Company’s provident  fund contribution, in respect of certain employees, is made to a  government administered fund and charged as an expense to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
The above benefits are classified as  85Overview Reports  Financial Statements84 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Defined Contribution Schemes as the Company has no further  defined obligations beyond the monthly contributions.
Defined benefit plans In respect of certain employees, provident fund contributions are  made to a trust administered by the Company.
The interest rate  payable to the members of the trust shall not be lower than the  statutory rate of interest declared by the Central Government under  the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,  1952 and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Company.
The  liability in respect of the shortfall of interest earnings of the Fund  is determined on the basis of an actuarial valuation.
The Company  also provides for retirement/post-retirement benefits in the form of  gratuity, pensions (in respect of certain employees), compensated  absences (in respect of certain employees) and medical benefits (in  respect of certain employees) including to the employees of Indian  subsidiaries and a subsidiary of parent company.
For defined benefit plans, the amount recognised as ‘Employee  benefit expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss is the cost of  accruing employee benefits promised to employees over the year  and the costs of individual events such as past/future service benefit  changes and settlements (such events are recognised immediately  in the Statement of Profit and Loss).
The amount of net interest  expense calculated by applying the liability discount rate to the net  defined benefit liability or asset is charged or credited to ‘Finance  costs’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Any differences between  the interest income on plan assets and the return actually achieved,  and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in  actuarial assumptions or experience adjustments within the plans,  are recognised immediately in ‘Other comprehensive income’ and  subsequently not reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The defined benefit plan surplus or deficit on the Balance Sheet date  comprises  fair value of plan assets less the present value of the  defined benefit liabilities (using a discount rate by reference to market  yields on government bonds at the end of the reporting period).
All defined benefit plans obligations are determined based on  valuations, as at the Balance Sheet date, made by independent  actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The classification  of the Company’s net obligation into current and non-current is as  per the actuarial valuation report.
Termination benefits Termination benefits, in the nature of voluntary retirement benefits  or termination benefits arising from restructuring, are recognised  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company recognises  termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates:  (a)  when the Company can no longer withdraw the offer of those  benefits; or  (b)  when the Company recognises costs for a restructuring that  is within the scope of Ind AS 37 and involves the   payment of  termination benefits.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the  reporting period are discounted to their present value.
Share-Based Payments Employees of the Company receive remuneration in the form of  share-based payments in consideration of the services rendered.
Under the equity settled share based payment, the fair value on  the grant date of the awards given to employees is recognised as  ‘employee benefit expenses’ with a corresponding increase in equity  over the vesting period.
The fair value of the options at the grant  date is calculated by an independent valuer basis  Black Scholes  model.
At the end of each reporting period, apart from the non  market vesting condition,  the expense is reviewed and adjusted to  reflect changes to the level of options expected to vest.
When the  options are exercised, the Company issues fresh equity shares.
For cash-settled share based payments, the fair value of the  amount payable to employees is recognised as ‘employee benefit  expenses’ with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the  period of non market vesting conditions getting fulfilled.
The liability  is remeasured at each reporting period up to, and including the  settlement date, with changes in fair value recognised in employee  benefits expenses.
Refer Note 41 for details.
(m) Impairment of Non-Financial Assets: Assessment for impairment is done at each Balance Sheet  date as to whether there is any indication that a non-financial  asset may be impaired.
Indefinite life intangibles are subject to  a review for impairment annually or more frequently if events or  circumstances indicate that it is necessary.
For the purpose of  assessing impairment, the smallest identifiable group of assets  that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely  independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of  assets is considered as a cash generating unit.
Goodwill acquired  in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated  to each of the Company’s cash-generating units that are expected  to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of  whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to  those units.
If any  indication of impairment exists, an estimate of the  recoverable amount of the individual asset/cash generating unit is  made.
Asset/cash generating unit whose carrying value exceeds  their recoverable amount are written down to the recoverable  amount by recognising the impairment loss as an expense in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
The impairment loss is allocated first  to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill (if any) allocated to  the cash generating unit and then to the other assets of the unit,  pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s or cash generating  unit’s fair value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Value in  use is the present value of estimated future cash flows expected to  arise from the continuing use of an asset or cash generating unit  and from its disposal at the end of its useful life.
Assessment is  also done at each Balance Sheet date as to whether there is any  indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset in prior  accounting periods may no longer exist or may have decreased,  basis the assessment a reversal of an impairment loss for an asset  other than goodwill is recognised  in the Statement of Profit and  Loss account.
87Overview Reports  Financial Statements86 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
(n) Income Taxes: Income tax expense for the year comprises of current tax and  deferred tax.
It is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss  except to the extent it relates to a business combination or to an  item which is recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive  income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable/receivable on the taxable  income/loss for the year using applicable tax rates at the Balance  Sheet date, and any adjustment to taxes in respect of previous  years.
Interest expenses and penalties, if any, related to income  tax are included in finance cost and other expenses respectively.
Interest Income, if any, related to Income tax is included in current  tax expense.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences  between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting purposes and the corresponding amounts used for  taxation purposes.
A deferred tax liability is recognised based on the expected manner  of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and  liabilities, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, by the  end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised  only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will  be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax  assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the  extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will  be realised.
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset when there  is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and  there is an intention to settle the asset and the liability on a net  basis.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset  when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax  assets against current tax liabilities; and the deferred tax assets  and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the  same taxation authority.
(o)  Leases: Leases in which a substantial portion of the risks and rewards of  ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating  leases.
Payments and receipts under such leases are recognised  to the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over  the term of the lease unless the lease payments to the lessor are  structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to  compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increases,  in which case the same are recognised as an expense in line with  the contractual term.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the  lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to  ownership to the lessee.
(p)  Foreign Currencies: Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional  currency using exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses from settlement of these  transactions, and from translation of monetary assets and  liabilities at the reporting date exchange rates are recognised in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(q)  Earnings Per Share: Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit for  the period attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company  by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding  during the period.
The weighted average number of equity shares  outstanding during the period and for all periods presented is  adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion  of potential equity shares that have changed the number of equity  shares outstanding, without a corresponding change in resources.
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net  profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the  weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period  is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
(r) Business Combination: Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition  accounting method as at the date of the acquisition, which is the date  at which control is transferred to the Company.
The consideration  transferred in the acquisition and the identifiable assets acquired  and liabilities assumed are recognised at fair values on their  acquisition date.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the  excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the  amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous  interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities  assumed.
The Company recognises any non-controlling interest in  the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at  fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share  of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets.
Consideration  transferred does not include amounts related to settlement of  pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are  recognised in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, other than those  incurred in relation to the issue of debt or equity securities.
Any  contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the  acquisition date.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent  consideration are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
87Overview Reports  Financial Statements86 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 3 : PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT      Refer Note 2.4 (a) for accounting policy on Property, Plant and Equipment   A Property, Plant and Equipment  Land  Buildings Plant and   equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Office  equipment Total - Freehold    - Leasehold Gross Block Balance as at 31st March, 2016   58  27  872  2,157  43  38  3,195  Additions   -  -  279  848  7  22  1,156  Disposals   (0)  (0)  (6)  (24)  (1)  (1)  (32) Balance as at 31st March, 2017   58  27  1,145  2,981  49  59  4,319  Additions   -  -  133  471  9  19  632  Disposals   -  -  (5)  (70)  -  (8)  (83) Balance as at 31st March, 2018   58  27  1,273  3,382  58  70  4,868  Accumulated Depreciation  Balance as at March 31, 2016   -     0  33  243  8  9  293  Additions    -     0  38  325  9  12  384  Disposals    -     (0)  (1)  (10)  (1)  (0)  (12) Balance as at March 31, 2017    -     0  70  558  16  21  665  Additions    -     0  48  397  8  15  468  Disposals    -     -  (1)  (33)  -  (7)  (41) Balance as at March 31, 2018    -     0  117  922  24  29  1,092  Net Block  Balance as at 31st March, 2017  58  27  1,075  2,423  33  38  3,654  Balance as at 31st March, 2018  58  27  1,156  2,460  34  41  3,776  NOTES: (a) Buildings include ` 0 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 0 crores) being the value of shares in co-operative housing societies.
(b)  The title deeds of Freehold Land aggregating ` 0 crores (31st March, 2017: `0 crores), Leasehold Land, net block aggregating   ` 1 crores, (31st March, 2017: ` 1 crores) are in the process of perfection of title.
(c)  Additions in capital expenditure of ` 5 crores (2016-17: ` 1 crores) and ` 0 crores (2016-17: ` 1 crores) incurred at Company’s  inhouse R&D facilities at Mumbai and Bengaluru respectively are eligible for weighted deduction under Section 35(2AB) of the  Income Tax Act, 1961.
(d) The Property, Plant and Equipment in 3A includes assets given on lease given in the below table:  Building  Plant and  equipment   Furniture  and fixtures   Office  equipment  Total  Gross Block as at 31st March, 2016  0  60  0  0  60  Accumulated Depreciation as at 31st March, 2016  (0)  (1)  -  (0)  (1) Net Block as at 31st March, 2016  0  59  0  0  59  Gross Block as at 31st March, 2017  0  53  0  0  53  Accumulated Depreciation as at 31st March, 2017  (0)  (3)  (0)  (0)  (3) Net Block as at 31st March, 2017  0  50  0  0  50  Gross Block as at 31st March, 2018  0  59  0  0  59  Accumulated Depreciation as at 31st March, 2018  (0)  (11)  (0)  (0)  (11) Net Block as at 31st March, 2018  0 48  0  0 48  B Capital work-in-progress           Capital work in progress as at 31st March, 2018 is ` 430 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 203 crores)   For contractual commitment with respect to property, plant and equipment refer Note 24.B(ii).
89Overview Reports  Financial Statements88 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 4 : INTANGIBLE ASSETS Refer Note 2.4 (b) for accounting policy on Intangible Assets Goodwill Other intangible assets Brands/  Trademarks Knowhow and  Design Computer  Software Total Gross Block Balance as at 31st March, 2016  -  4  -  19  23  Additions  -  -  -  0  0  Disposals  -  -  -  (0)  (0) Acquisitions through business combination  (Refer note 42)  0  311  59  -  370  Balance as at 31st March, 2017  0  315  59  19  393  Additions  -  -  -  6  6  Disposals  -  -  -  (0)  (0) Balance as at 31st March, 2018  0  315  59  25  399  Accumulated Amortisation and Impairment Balance as at 31st March, 2016  -  4  -  7  11  Additions  -  -  6  6  12  Disposals  -  -  -  -  -  Balance as at 31st March, 2017  -  4  6  13  23  Additions  -  -  6  4  10  Disposals  -  -  -  -  -  Balance as at 31st March, 2018  0  4  12  17  33  Net Block Balance as at 31st March, 2017  0  311  53  6  370  Balance as at 31st March, 2018  0  311  47  8  366  IMPAIRMENT CHARGES       The goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested for impairment and accordingly no impairment charges were identified for FY  2017-18 (Nil for FY 2016-17).
SIGNIFICANT CASH GENERATING UNITS (CGU s)       The Company has identified its reportable segments, i.e.
Home Care, Personal Care, Foods, Refreshments and Others as the CGUs.
The goodwill and brand (with indefinite life) acquired through business combination has been entirely allocated to CGU ‘Personal Care’  segment of the Company.
The carrying amount of goodwill and brand as at March 31, 2018 is ` 0 crores and ` 311 crores respectively.
Following key assumptions were considered while performing Impairment testing: Long term sustainable growth rates 7% Weighted Average Cost of Capital % (WACC) before tax (Discount rate) 14% Average segmental margins 25% The projections cover a period of five years, as the Company believes this to be the most appropriate timescale over which to review  and consider annual performances before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows.
The growth rates used  to estimate future performance are based on the conservative estimates from past performance.
Segmental margins are based on   FY 2017-18 performance.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital % (WACC)  =  Risk free return + ( Market risk premium x Beta variant for the Company).
The Company has performed sensitivity analysis around the base assumptions and have concluded that no reasonable changes in key  assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the CGU to be less than the carrying value.
89Overview Reports  Financial Statements88 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 5 : INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURE Refer Note 2.4 (c) for accounting policy on Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures   As at   31st March, 2018 As at   31st March, 2017 Investment In Subsidiaries Unquoted  7,36,560 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 7,36,560] of Nepalese ` 100 each held in  Unilever Nepal Limited  5  5  29,75,000 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 29,75,000] of ` 10 each held in Unilever  India Exports Limited  73  73  3,59,07,547 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 3,59,07,547] of ` 10 each held in Lakme  Lever Private Limited  172  172  1,79,10,132 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 1,79,10,132] of ` 1 each held in Pond's  Export Limited [net of impairment in value of ` 3 crores (31st March, 2017: 3 crores)]  -  -  50,00,000 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 50,00,000] of ` 10 each held in Jamnagar  Properties Private Limited[net of impairment in value of ` 5 crores (31st March, 2017:  5 crores)]  -  -  2,21,700 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 2,21,700] of ` 10 each held in Daverashola  Estates Private Limited  4  4  50,000 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 50,000] of ` 10 each held in Levindra Trust  Limited  0  0  50,000 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 50,000] of ` 10 each held in Hindlever Trust Limited  0  0  50,000 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 50,000] of ` 10 each held in Levers  Associated Trust Limited  0  0  7,600 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 7,600] of ` 10 each held in Hindustan Unilever  Foundation  0  0  10,000 equity shares [31st March, 2017: 10,000] of ` 10 each held in Bhavishya  Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives  0  0  TOTAL  254  254  Aggregate amount of quoted investments  -  -  Aggregate Market value of quoted investments  -  -  Aggregate amount of unquoted investments  254  254  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments  8  8  Investment in Associate            The Company holds 24% of equity holdings in Comfund Consulting Limited and 26% equity and preference capital holding in Aquagel  Chemicals (Bhavnagar) Private Limited.
The Company does not exercise significant influence or control on decisions of the investee.
Hence, they are not being construed as associate companies.
Information About Subsidiaries and Joint Venture Name of the company Country of   incorporation   Principal activities Proportion (%) of   equity interest As at   31st March,  2018 As at   31st March,  2017 Subsidiaries Unilever India Exports Limited India FMCG export business  100  100  Lakme Lever Private Limited India (i) Beauty salons  (ii) Job work business   100  100  Unilever Nepal Limited Nepal FMCG  business  80  80  Pond's Export Limited India Leather products business   (primarily exports)  90  90  Jamnagar Properties Private Limited India Real estate Company  100  100  Daverashola Estates Private Limited India Real estate Company  100  100  91Overview Reports  Financial Statements90 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Name of the company Country of   incorporation   Principal activities Proportion (%) of   equity interest As at   31st March,  2018 As at   31st March,  2017 Levindra Trust Limited India Discharge trust business as a trustee  100  100  Hindlever Trust Limited India Discharge trust business as a trustee  100  100  Levers Associated Trust Limited India Discharge trust business as a trustee  100  100  Hindustan Unilever Foundation India Not-for-profit company in the field of  community development initiatives.
76  76  Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition  Initiatives India Not-for-profit company that works in the  area of social development issues  100  100  Joint venture Kimberly Clark Lever Private Limited* India FMCG business (infant care and feminine  care products)  -  50  * The Company has divested its stake in Kimberly-Clark Lever Private Limited (KCLL) to its Joint Venture partner, Kimberly-Clark Corporation (KCC) on 29th September, 2017     NOTE 6 : INVESTMENTS Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Investments.
As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Non-Current Investments A.
Equity instruments  Fair value through profit and loss   Quoted  0  0    Unquoted  1  1  TOTAL (A)  1  1  B.
Other instruments  Amortised cost Unquoted Investment in debentures and bonds  0  0  Investment in National Savings Certificates  0  0   Fair value through profit and loss Unquoted Investment in preference shares  1  5  TOTAL (B)  1  5  TOTAL (A+B)  2  6  Current Investments C. Other instruments  Fair value through other comprehensive income Quoted Investments in treasury bills  1,025  1,459   Fair value through profit and loss Quoted Investments in mutual funds  1,830  2,060  TOTAL (C)  2,855  3,519  TOTAL (A+B+C)  2,857  3,525  Aggregate amount of quoted investments  2,855  3,519  Aggregate Market value of quoted investments  2,855  3,519  Aggregate amount of unquoted investments  2  6  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments  -  -  Refer Note 38 for information about fair value measurement and Note 39 for credit risk and market risk of investments.
91Overview Reports  Financial Statements90 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 7 : LOANS (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated) Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Loans.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Loans to related parties (Refer Note 43)  226  198  Security deposits  112  108  Others (including employee loans)  66  46  TOTAL  404  352  Refer Note 39 for information about credit risk and market risk for loans.
NOTE 8 : OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated) Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Financial Instruments.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Investments in term deposits (with remaining maturity of more than twelve months)  1  1  Other assets (includes other receivables etc.)
5  5  TOTAL (A)  6  6  Current Current account balances with group companies and joint venture  83  70  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  5  0  Other assets (includes government grants, other receivables, etc.)
741  236  TOTAL (B)  829  306  TOTAL (A+B) 835  312  Refer Note 39 for information about credit risk and market risk for other financial assets.
NOTE 9 : INCOME TAXES Refer Note 2.4 (n) for accounting policy on Income Taxes.
A.
Components of Income tax Expense  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  I.
Tax expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss   Current tax  Current year  2,290  1,930   Adjustments/(credits) related to previous years - (net)  (142)  (65) TOTAL (A)  2,148  1,865  Deferred tax charge/(credit) Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (100)  41  TOTAL (B)  (100)  41  TOTAL (A+B)  2,048  1,906  II.
Tax on Other Comprehensive Income   Current tax (Gain)/loss on remeasurement  of net defined benefit plans  (11)  -  (Gain)/loss on debt instruments through other comprehensive income  -  -   Deferred tax (Gain)/loss on remeasurement  of net defined benefit plans  6  (11) (Gain)/loss on debt instruments through other comprehensive income  (1)  0   (6)  (11) 93Overview Reports  Financial Statements92 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
B. Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate      The reconciliation between the statutory income tax rate applicable to the Company and the effective income tax rate of the Company is  as follows :       Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Statutory income tax rate 34.6% 34.6% Differences due to: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6% 2.0% Income exempt from income tax -0.7% -0.9% Income tax incentives -4.5% -4.6% Others* -2.9% -1.3% Effective tax rate 28.1% 29.8% * Others include prior period adjustment tax refunds and tax on exceptional items C. Movement in Deferred tax Assets and Liabilities Movement during the year ended  31st March, 2017 As at   31st March, 2016 Credit/(charge) in  the Statement of  Profit and Loss Credit/(charge)  in Other  Comprehensive  Income On account  of Business  Combination As at   31st March, 2017 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) Provision for post retirement  benefits and other employee  benefits  158  (33)  11  -  136  Provision for doubtful debts and  advances  21  (1)  -  -  20  Expenses allowable for tax  purposes when paid  136  (13)  -  -  123  Depreciation  (280)  (71)  -  22  (329) Fair value gain/(loss) on  investments  (62)  (21)  -  -  (83) Other temporary differences  195  98  (0)  -  293   168  (41)  11  22  160  Movements during the year ended  31st March, 2018 As at   31st March, 2017 Credit/(charge) in  the Statement of  Profit and Loss Credit/(charge)  in Other  Comprehensive  Income On account  of Business  Combination As at   31st March, 2018 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) Provision for post retirement benefits  and other employee benefits  136  (7)  (2)  -    127  Provision for doubtful debts and  advances  20  2  -  -    22  Expenses allowable for tax  purposes when paid  123  35  (1)  -    157  Depreciation  (329)  (17)  -  -    (346) Fair value gain/(loss) on  investments  (83)  29  2  -    (52) Other temporary differences  293  58  (4)  -    347   160  100  (5)  -    255  93Overview Reports  Financial Statements92 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
D. Tax Assets and Liabilities       As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Non current tax assets (net)  439  311  Non current  tax liabilities (net)  384  296  NOTE 10 : OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Security Deposits with customs, port trust, excise and other government authorities  57  37  Capital advances  21  33  Other advances (includes advances for materials)  29  30  Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances  (29)  (30) TOTAL  78  70  The movement in allowance for bad and doubtful advances is as follows: Balance as at beginning of the year  30  35  Change in allowance for bad and doubtful assets during the year  (1)  4  Written off during the year  (0)  (9) Balance as at the end of the year  29  30  NOTE 11 : INVENTORIES Refer Note 2.4 (d) for accounting policy on inventories.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Raw materials [includes in transit: ` 49 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 79 crores)]  763  789  Packing materials  65  90  Work-in-progress  249  205  Finished goods [includes in transit: ` 21 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 18 crores)] (Refer  note (a) below)  1,221  1,214  Stores and spares  61  64   2,359  2,362  (a) Finished goods includes good purchased for re-sale, as both are stocked together.
(b)  During FY 2017-18 an amount of ` 165 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 128 crores) was charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on account  of damage and slow moving inventory.
The reversal on account of above during the year amounted to Nil (31st March, 2017: Nil).
NOTE 12 : TRADE RECEIVABLES (Unsecured unless otherwise stated) Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Trade Receivables.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Considered good 1,147 928 Considered doubtful  34 31 Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful debts  (34)  (31) 1,147 928 The movement in allowance for bad and doubtful debts is as follows: Balance as at beginning of the year 31 23 Change in allowance for bad and doubtful debts during the year 6 11 Trade receivables written off during the year  (3)  (3) Balance as at the end of the year 34 31 Refer note 39 for information about credit risk and market risk of trade receivables.
95Overview Reports  Financial Statements94 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 13 : CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Refer Note 2.4 (e) for accounting policy on Cash and Cash Equivalents.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Cash on hand 0  0  Balances with Banks In current accounts 44  65  Term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 529  507  573  572  NOTE 14 : BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Earmarked balances with banks Unpaid dividend 138 114 Investments in term deposits (with original maturity of more than three months but less  than twelve months) 2,662 985 2,800 1,099 NOTE 15 : OTHER CURRENT ASSETS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Export benefits receivable  27  3  VAT credit receivable  -  55  GST and CENVAT receivable  335  243  Other advances (includes prepaid expenses etc.)
198  206   560  507  NOTE 16 : ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Refer Note 2.4 (f) for accounting policy on Assets Held for Sale.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Groups of assets held for sale Freehold Land  2  2  Buildings  6  7  Plant and equipment  8  12  Furniture and fixtures  0  0  Vehicles  0  0  Office equipment  0  0  Investment in Joint Venture  -  51   16  72  95Overview Reports  Financial Statements94 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 17 : EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL    As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Authorised 2,25,00,00,000 (31st March, 2017: 2,25,00,00,000 ) equity shares of ` 1 each 225 225 Issued, subscribed and fully paid up 216 216 2,16,45,28,777 (31st March, 2017: 2,16,43,49,639) equity shares of ` 1 each 216 216 a) Reconciliation of the number of shares  Equity Shares: As at 31st March , 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Number of shares Amount Number of shares Amount Balance as at the beginning of the year  2,16,43,49,639  216  2,16,39,36,971  216  Add: ESOP shares issued during the year (Refer note 41)  1,79,138 0  4,12,668  0  Balance as at the end of the year  2,16,45,28,777 216  2,16,43,49,639  216  b) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares             Equity shares: The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1 per share.
Each shareholder is eligible for one  vote per share held.
In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after  distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to  the  approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.
c) Shares held by holding company and subsidiaries of holding company in aggregate  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Equity Shares of ` 1 each 1,11,43,70,148 shares (31st March, 2017: 1,11,43,70,148) held by Unilever PLC, UK, the  holding company 111 111 34,00,42,710 shares (31st March, 2017: 34,00,42,710) held by subsidiaries of the holding  company 34 34 d) Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company   As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Number of shares  1,11,43,70,148  11,143,70,148  Unilever PLC, UK, the holding company 51.48% 51.49% e) Shares reserved for issue under options   As at 31st March , 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Number of shares Amount Number of shares Amount Under 2001 HLL Stock Option Plan: equity shares of ` 1  each, at an exercise price of ` 132.05 per share  -  -  -  -  Under 2006 HUL Performance Share Scheme: equity  shares of ` 1 each, at an exercise price of ` 1 per share  -  -  -  -  Under 2012 HUL Performance Share Scheme: equity  shares of ` 1 each, at an exercise price of ` 1 per share  (refer note 41)  4,53,191  0  5,52,414  0   4,53,191  0  5,52,414  0  For terms and other details Refer note 41.
97Overview Reports  Financial Statements96 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 18 : OTHER EQUITY  Refer Statement of Changes in Equity for detailed movement in Equity balance.
A.
Summary of Other Equity balance.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Capital Reserve  4  4  Capital Redemption Reserve  6  6  Securities Premium Reserve  127  116  Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account  30  30  General Reserve  2,187  2,187  Retained Earnings  4,539  3,953  Other Reserves  9  9  Items of Other Comprehensive Income - Remeasurements of defined benefit plans  (43)  (32) - Fair value of Debt instruments through OCI  (0)  1  Total Other Equity  6,859  6,274  B.
Nature and purpose of reserves    (a)  Capital Reserve:  During amalgamation, the excess of net assets taken, over the cost of consideration paid is treated as   capital reserve.
(b)  Capital Redemption Reserve:  The Company has recognised Capital Redemption Reserve on buyback of equity shares from its  retained earnings.
The amount in Capital Redemption Reserve is equal to  nominal amount of the equity shares bought back.
(c)  Securities Premium Reserve:  The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium  Reserve.
In case of equity-settled share based payment transactions, the difference between fair value on grant date and nominal  value of share is accounted as securities premium reserve        (d)  Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account: The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees  is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account.
(e)  General Reserve: The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to general  reserve pursuant to the earlier provisions of Companies Act, 1956.
Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the  Companies Act, 2013.
(f)  Retained Earnings: Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve,  dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
(g)  Other Reserves:  The Company has recognised Other Reserves on amalgamation of Brooke Bond Lipton India Limited as per statutory  requirements.
This reserve is not available for capitalisation/declaration of dividend/ share buy-back.
Further it also includes capital  subsidy and revaluation reserve.
(h)  Remeasurements of Net Defined Benefit Plans:  Differences between the interest income on plan assets and the return actually  achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience adjustments within the  plans, are recognised  in ‘Other comprehensive income’ and subsequently not reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(i)  Debt Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income: The fair value change of the debt instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income is recognised in Debt instruments through Other Comprehensive Income.
Upon derecognition,  the cumulative fair value changes on the said instruments are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
97Overview Reports  Financial Statements96 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
C. Other Comprehensive Income accumulated in Other Equity, net of tax      The disaggregation of changes in other comprehensive income by each type of reserve in equity is shown below: Remeasurements  of defined benefit  plans Debt instruments  through Other  Comprehensive  Income Total As at 1st April, 2016  (11) 0  (11) Remeasurement gain/(loss) on net defined benefit plans  (32)  -    (32) Gain/(loss) on debt instruments recognised in other  comprehensive income  -    1  1  Reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss  -    -    -    Income tax effect  11  (0)  11  As at 31st March, 2017  (32)  1  (31) Remeasurement gain/(loss) on net defined benefit plans  (16)  -    (16) Gain/(loss) on debt instruments recognised in other  comprehensive income  -    (2)  (2) Reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss  -    -    -    Income tax effect  5  1  6  As at 31st March, 2018  (43)  (0)  (43) D. Capital Management    Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Company’s capital management.
The Company  manages its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to shareholders.
The  capital structure of the Company is based on management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day needs with a focus on total equity  so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence.
The management and the board of directors monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to shareholders.
The Company  may take appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
NOTE 19 : OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Financial Instruments.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Security deposits  24 22 Contingent consideration  91 49 TOTAL (A)  115 71 Current  Unpaid dividends [Refer (a) below]  138 114 Derivative financial liabilities - forward contracts  1 13 Contingent consideration payable  13  -  Other payables (payable for purchase of property, plant and equipment, etc.)
51 54 TOTAL (B)  203 181 TOTAL (A+B) 318 252 a)  There are no amounts due for payment to the Investor Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013  as 31st March,2018 (31st March, 2017: Nil).
99Overview Reports  Financial Statements98 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 20 : PROVISIONS Refer Note 2.4 (h) for accounting policy on Provisions.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Provision for employee benefits (pension, medical, compensated absences and others) [Refer Note 40]  100 105 Other provisions (including for statutory levies etc.)
- net [Refer (a) below]  672 380 TOTAL (A)  772 485 Current  Provision for employee benefits (gratuity, pension, medical, compensated absences and  others)[Refer Note 40]  92 41 Other provisions (including restructuring etc.)
[Refer (a) below]  559 346 TOTAL (B)  651 387 Total (A+B)  1,423 872 a) Movement in Other provisions (Non-current and Current) Indirect   Tax related Legal and  Other Matters Total Balance as at 31st March, 2016  240  413  653  Add: Provision/reclassified during the year *  132  69  201  Less: Amount utilised/reversed during the year  (92)  (36)  (128) Balance as at 31st March, 2017  280  446  726  Add: Provision/reclassified during the year *  69  515  584  Less: Amount utilised/reversed during the year  (13)  (66)  (79) Balance as at 31st March, 2018  336  895  1,231  * includes unwinding of discount and effect of change in discount rate.
The provisions for indirect taxes and legal matters comprises of numerous separate cases that arise in the ordinary course of business.
These provisions have not been discounted as it is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timing of the provision utilisation and  cash outflows, if any, pending resolution.
NOTE 21 : OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Employee and ex-employee related liabilities 167 207 167 207 99Overview Reports  Financial Statements98 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 22 : TRADE PAYABLES Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Trade Payables.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES (as per the intimation received from vendors) a.
Principal and interest amount remaining unpaid  -  0  b.
Interest due thereon remaining unpaid  -  -  c.  Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, Small and  Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along with the amount of the payment  made to the supplier beyond the appointed day  -  -  d.  Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have  been paid but beyond the appointed day during the period) but without adding  interest specified under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Act, 2006  -  -  e. Interest accrued and remaining unpaid  -  -  f.  Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date  when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprises  -  -  Dues to Others Acceptances  141  242  Trade payables  6,872  5,764   7,013  6,006  Refer note 39 for information about liquidity risk and market risk related to trade payables.
NOTE 23 : OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Salaries, wages, bonus and other employee payable  215  192  Statutory dues (including provident fund, tax deducted at source and others)  338  366  Advance from customers  55  70  Other payables  161  -   769  628  NOTE 24 : CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Refer Note 2.4 (h) for accounting policy on Contingent Liabilities.
As at    31st March, 2018 As at    31st March, 2017 A.
Contingent Liabilities Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts Income tax matters  685  581  Sales tax matters  246  122  Excise duty, service tax and customs duty matters  481  193  Other matters including claims related to employees/ex-employees, property  related demands, etc.
119  83  (i)  It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timings of cash outflows,  if any, in respect of the above pending resolution of the respective proceedings  as it is determinable only on receipt of judgements/decisions pending with  various forums/authorities.
101Overview Reports  Financial Statements100 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
As at    31st March, 2018 As at    31st March, 2017 (ii)  The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above  contingent liabilities.
(iii)  The Company’s pending litigations comprise of claims against the Company  by employees and pertaining to proceedings pending with Income Tax, Excise,  Custom, Sales/VAT tax and other authorities.
The Company has reviewed  all its pending litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for  where provisions are required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where  applicable, in its financial statements.
The Company does not expect the  outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its  financial results.
(iv)  The Company has given Bank Guarantees in respect of certain contingent  liabilities included above.
Corporate Guarantee given  8  8  B.
Commitments           i) Operating lease commitments             The Company’s significant leasing arrangements are in respect of operating leases for premises (residential, office, stores, godown etc.)
and computers.
These leasing arrangements which are cancellable (other than those specified below), range between 11 months and 10  years generally, or longer, and are usually renewable by mutual consent on mutually agreeable terms.
The aggregate lease rentals payable  are charged as rent in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company has entered into agreement to take certain land and building on operating lease for warehousing activities from a third party.
The lease arrangement is for 10 years, including a non-cancellable term of 9 years.
The lease rent of ` 13 crores (2016-17: ` 14 crores) on  such lease is included in Rent.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Not later than one year  13  12  Later than one year and not later than five years  58  56  Later than five years  8  24  ii) Capital commitments  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Estimated value of contracts in capital account remaining to be executed and not  provided for (net of capital advances)  160  254   160  254  NOTE 25 : REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS Refer Note 2.4 (i) for accounting policy on Revenue Recognition.
Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Sale of products (including excise duty*)  34,619  33,895 Other operating revenue  Income from services rendered  360  513  Others (including government grant, scrap sales,  commission, etc.)
239  79   35,218  34,487  Total government grant recognized ` 172 crores (31st March, 2017: ` Nil) (Refer note 2.4 (j) for accounting policy on government grant)  * Up to 30th June, 2017  101Overview Reports  Financial Statements100 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 26 : OTHER INCOME Refer Note 2.4 (i) for accounting policy on Revenue Recognition.
Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Interest income on Bank deposits  130  173  Current investments  122  74  Others  14  15  Dividend income from Subsidiaries  188  167  Current investments  -  11  Non-current investments  2  -  Fair value gain/(loss) Investments measured at fair value through profit or loss  113  86  Investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income  -  0  Net gain on sale of investments  -  0   569  526 NOTE 27 : COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Raw materials consumed  10,047  8,999   Packing materials consumed  2,444  2,364   12,491  11,363  NOTE 28 : PURCHASES OF STOCK-IN-TRADE   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Purchases of stock-in-trade  3,812  4,166   3,812  4,166  NOTE 29 : CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS (INCLUDING STOCK-IN-TRADE) AND WORK-IN-PROGRESS   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Opening inventories  Finished goods  1,214  1,206  Work-in-progress  205  355  Closing inventories  Finished goods  (1,221)  (1,214) Work-in-progress  (249)  (205) Excise duty on increase/(decrease) of finished goods  (20)  14   (71)  156  NOTE 30 : EXCISE DUTY   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Excise duty  693  2,597   693  2,597  Up to 30th June, 2017 103Overview Reports  Financial Statements102 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 31 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES Refer Note 2.4 (l) for accounting policy on Employee Benefits.
Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Salaries and wages, bonus etc.
1,425  1,330  Contribution to provident funds and other funds  88  81  Defined benefit plan expense (Refer Note 40)  65  18  Share based payments to employees (Refer note 41)  79  94  Workmen and staff welfare expenses  88  97   1,745  1,620  NOTE 32 : FINANCE COSTS  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Interest expense on bank overdraft and others  0 0 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (Refer Note 40)  8 6 Unwinding of discount on provisions and liabilities  8 9 Unwinding of discount on employee and ex-employee related liabilities  4 7  20 22 NOTE 33 : DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSES Refer Note 2.4 (a) and  (b) for accounting policy on Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets.
Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment  468 384 Amortisation on intangible assets  10 12 478 396 NOTE 34 : OTHER EXPENSES  Year ended 31st March, 2018 Year ended 31st March, 2017 Advertising and promotion  4,105  3,470  Carriage and freight      1,492  1,457  Royalty  - Technology 487 511 - Brand 158  645 169  680  Fees for central services from Parent Company  348  364  Processing charges  405  290  Power, fuel, light and water  259  257  Rent  260  241  Travelling and motor car expenses  157  176  Repairs  109  117  Rates & taxes (excluding income tax)  94  116  Corporate social responsibility expense [Refer note (c) below]  116  104  Miscellaneous expenses [Refer note (a) below]  1,282  1,266   9,272  8,538  103Overview Reports  Financial Statements102 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  (a) Miscellaneous  expenses include: Auditor's remuneration and expenses Statutory audit fees  1  2  Tax audit fees  1  1  Others Fees for other audit related services  1  1  Fees for certification  1  0  Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses  0  0  Total  4  4  Previous year’s remuneration is inclusive of taxes (b)  Total revenue expenditure (net of recoveries) on  Research and Development (R&D) eligible for weighted deduction under   Section 35(2AB) of the  Income Tax Act, 1961 aggregates to ` 23 crores (2016-17: ` 28 crores).
The details are as below: Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 Location of the R&D facility Bengaluru Mumbai Bengaluru Mumbai Revenue expenditure eligible u/s 35(2AB) Salaries & wages 11 6 9  11  Materials, consumables and spares 1 2 1  2  Utilities  - 0  -  0  Other expenditure directly related to R&D 1 2 2  3  Total 13 10 12  16  (c)  The Company has spent ` 116 crores (2016-17: ` 104 crores) towards various schemes of Corporate Social Responsibility as prescribed  under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The details are:      I.
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year: ` 112 crores (2016-17: ` 102 crores) II.
Amount spent during the year on: Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 In cash / payable  Yet to be  paid in Cash  In cash / payable  Yet to be paid  in Cash  i) Construction/acquisition of any asset  -  -    -  -    ii) For purposes other than (i) above  116  -    104  -    Total  116  -    104  -    III.
Above includes a contribution of  ` 32 crores (2016-17: ` 18 crores) to subsidiary Hindustan Unilever Foundation which is a Section 8  registered company under Companies Act, 2013, with the main objectives of working in the areas of social, economic and environmental  issues such as water harvesting, health and hygiene awareness, women empowerment and enable the less privileged segments of  the society to improve their livelihood by enhancing their means and capabilities to meet the emerging opportunities.
IV.
The Company does not carry any provisions for Corporate social responsibility expenses for current year and previous year.
105Overview Reports  Financial Statements104 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 35 : EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  i) Profit on disposal of surplus properties  10 164 ii) Profit on disposal of business/subsidiary  - 19 ii) Profit on disposal of joint venture  46  -  iii)  Decrease in liability on account of plans amendments basis actuarial valuation  (refer note 40)  - 115 Total exceptional income (A)  56 298 i) Fair valuation of contingent consideration payable (refer note 42)  (48)  -  ii) Restructuring costs  a) Other costs  (70)  (57) Total exceptional expenditure (B)  (118)  (57) Exceptional items (net)  (A+B)  (62)  241  NOTE 36 : EARNING PER EQUITY SHARE   Refer Note 2.4 (q) for accounting policy on Earnings Per Share  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Earnings Per Share has been computed as under: Profit for the year 5,237 4,490 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,16,44,57,493 2,16,42,12,891 Earnings Per Share (`) - Basic (Face value of ` 1 per share) ` 24.20 ` 20.75  Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on account of employee stock  options/performance share schemes  4,66,552  4,25,681  Weighted average number of Equity shares (including dilutive shares) outstanding  2,16,49,24,045  2,16,46,38,572  Earnings Per Share (`) - Diluted (Face value of ` 1 per share) ` 24.19 ` 20.74  NOTE 37 : DIVIDEND ON EQUITY SHARE    Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Dividend on equity shares declared and paid during the year Final dividend of ` 10.00 per share for FY 2016-17 (2015-16: ` 9.50 per share)  2,164  2,056  Dividend distribution tax on final dividend*  441  419  Interim dividend of ` 8.00 per share for FY 2017-18 (2016-17: ` 7.00 per share)  1,732  1,515  Dividend distribution tax on interim dividend*  314  274   4,651  4,264  Proposed dividend on equity shares not recognised as liability Final dividend of ` 12.00 per share for FY 2017-18 (2016-17: `10.00 per share) 2,597 2,164 Dividend distribution tax on final dividend 534 441 3,131 2,605 Payout ratio for FY 2017-18 99% Proposed dividend on equity shares is subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company at the Annual General Meeting and not  recognised as liability as at the Balance Sheet date.
*Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT)-net, pertaining to the current year comprises the DDT on final dividend of FY 2016-17 and interim dividend of FY 2017-18 and the  credit in respect of tax paid under Section 115 O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 by the Company on dividend received from its domestic and foreign subsidiaries during  the year.
105Overview Reports  Financial Statements104 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 38 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   Refer Note 2.4 (g) for accounting policy on Financial Instruments.
A.
Accounting Classifications and Fair Values The carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments by class are as follows: Note Carrying value /Fair value As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Financial Assets Financial assets measured at fair value Investments measured at i.
Fair value through other comprehensive income 6  1,025  1,459  ii.
Fair value through profit and loss 6  1,832  2,066  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts 8  5  0  Financial assets measured at amortised cost Investments 6  0  0  Loans 7  404  352  Investments in term deposits 8,14  2,663  986  Other assets 8  746  241   6,675  5,104  Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts 19  1  13  Contingent consideration 19  104  49  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Security deposits 19  24  22  Other payables 19  51  54   180  138  The Company has  disclosed  financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, trade receivables, current  account balances with group companies and joint venture, trade payables and unpaid dividends at carrying value because their carrying  amounts are a reasonable approximation of the fair values due to their short term nature.
B.
Income, Expenses, Gains or Losses on Financial Instruments             Interest income and expenses, gains or losses recognised on financial assets and liabilities in the Statement of Profit and Loss are as follows:  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Financial assets measured at amortised cost Interest income  144  188  Allowance for doubtful debts  5  4  Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Investment in debt instruments Interest income  122  74  Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income  (2)  2  Reclassified from other comprehensive income to Statement of Profit and Loss  -  0  Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Fair value gain/(loss) on investment in debt instruments  113  86  Dividend income on non current investment  -  11  Dividend income on current investment  2  -  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Interest expense  0  0  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts Fair value gain/(loss)  (14)  (6) 107Overview Reports  Financial Statements106 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
C. Fair Value Hierarchy The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note (A) above have been classified into a three categories depending on the inputs  used in the valuation technique.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities  (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
The categories used are as follows: • Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in an active market;             • Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and • Level 3: Inputs which are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as at Balance Sheet date, the classification of fair value calculations by category  is summarized below: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31st March, 2018 Assets at fair value Investments measured at: i.
Fair Value through OCI  1,025  -  -  1,025  ii.
Fair Value through Profit or Loss  1,830  -  2  1,832  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -    5  -  5  Liabilities at fair value Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -  1  -  1  Contingent consideration  -  -  104  104  As at 31st March, 2017 Assets at fair value Investments measured at: i.
Fair Value through OCI  1,459  -  -  1,459  ii.
Fair Value through Profit or Loss  2,060  -  6  2,066  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -  0  -  0  Liabilities at fair value Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -  13  -  13  Contingent consideration  -  -  49  49  The fair value classification of investment in mutual funds (fair value through profit and loss) has been reviewed and re-classified from  Level 2 to Level 1 during FY 2017-18                 Calculation of Fair Values The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a  liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Methods and assumptions used to estimate the  fair values are consistent with those used for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at Balance Sheet date: 1.
The fair values of investment in treasury bills and quoted investment in equity shares is based on the current bid price of respective  investment as at the Balance Sheet date.
2.
The fair values of investments in mutual fund units is based on the net asset value (‘NAV’) as stated by the issuers of these mutual  fund units in the published statements as at Balance Sheet date.
NAV represents the price at which the issuer will issue further units  of mutual fund and the price at which issuers will redeem such units from the investors.
3.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments has been determined using valuation techniques with market observable inputs.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counter-parties and foreign exchange forward rates.
107Overview Reports  Financial Statements106 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Other financial assets and liabilities - Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, investments in term deposits, other financial assets (except derivative financial instruments),  trade payables, and other financial liabilities (except derivative financial instruments) have fair values that approximate to their carrying  amounts due to their short-term nature.
- Loans have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts as it is based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash  flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
SIGNIFICANT UNOBSERVABLE INPUTS USED IN LEVEL 3 FAIR VALUES Significant unobservable inputs Sensitivity of input to fair value measurement As at 31st March, 2018 Contingent consideration Forecast revenue: 10% increase in forecasted revenue will have additional liability  of ` 10 crores and 10% decrease will have opposite impact of   ` 8 crores.
Discount rate: 14% 1% increase in Discount rate  will have P&L gain of ` 2 crores   1% decrease will have  an equal but opposite effect.
As at 31st March, 2017 Contingent consideration Forecast revenue: 10% increase in forecasted revenue will have additional liability  of ` 5 crores and 10% decrease will have  an equal but opposite  effect.
Discount rate: 12% 1% increase in Discount rate  will have P&L gain of ` 2 crores   1% decrease will have  an equal but opposite effect.
NOTE 39 : FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Company’s business activities are exposed  to a variety of financial risks, namely liquidity risk, market risks and credit risk.
The  Company’s senior management has the overall responsibility for establishing and governing the Company’s risk management framework.
The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Company’s risk  management policies.
The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company,  to set and monitor appropriate risk limits and controls, periodically review the changes in market conditions and reflect the changes in the  policy accordingly.
The key risks and mitigating actions are also placed before the Audit Committee of the Company.
A.
Management of Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will face in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities.
The Company’s  approach in managing liquidity is to ensure that it will have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities when due without incurring unacceptable  losses.
In doing this, management considers both normal and stressed conditions.
The Company maintained a cautious liquidity strategy, with a positive cash balance throughout the year ended 31st March, 2018 and 31st  March, 2017.
Cash flow from operating activities provides the funds to service the financial liabilities on a day-to-day basis.
The Company regularly monitors the rolling forecasts to ensure it has sufficient cash on an on-going basis to meet operational needs.
Any short term surplus cash generated , over and above the amount required for working capital management and other operational  requirements, is retained as cash and cash equivalents (to the extent required) and any excess is invested in interest bearing term deposits  and other highly marketable debt investments with appropriate maturities to optimise the cash returns on investments while ensuring   sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities.
The following table shows the maturity analysis of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractually agreed undiscounted cash  flows along with its carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
109Overview Reports  Financial Statements108 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Carrying amount Undiscounted Amount Payable within 1 year More than 1 years Total  As at 31st March, 2018 Non-derivative liabilities Trade payables (including acceptances)  7,013  7,013  -    7,013  Security deposits  24  -    24  24  Unpaid dividend  138  138  -    138  Other Payables  51  51  -    51  Contingent consideration  104  13  127  140  Derivative liabilities Forward exchange contracts  1  1  -    1  As at 31st March, 2017 Non-derivative liabilities Trade payables (including acceptances)  6,006  6,006  -    6,006  Security deposits  22  -    22  22  Unpaid dividend  114  114  -    114  Other Payables  54  54  -    54  Contingent consideration  49  -    73  73  Derivative liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts  13  13  -    13  B.
Management of Market Risk  The Company’s size and operations result in it being exposed to the following market risks that arise from its use of financial instruments:   • currency risk;    • price risk;  and   • interest rate risk   The above risks may affect the Company’s income and expenses, or the value of its financial instruments.
The Company’s exposure  to and management of these risks are explained below.
Potential Impact Of Risk Management Policy Sensitivity To Risk 1.
Currency Risk The Company is subject to the risk that  changes in foreign currency values impact  the Company’s exports revenue and imports  of raw material and property, plant and  equipment.
As at 31st March, 2018, the net unhedged  exposure to the Company on holding  financial assets (trade receivables and capital  advances) and liabilities (trade payables and  capital creditors) other than in their functional  currency amounted to ` 1 crores payable   (31st March, 2017: ` 2 crores).
The Company is exposed to foreign  exchange risk arising from various currency  exposures, primarily with respect to US  Dollar and Euro.
The Company manages currency exposures  within prescribed limits, through use  of forward exchange contracts.
Foreign  exchange transactions are covered with strict  limits placed on the amount of uncovered  exposure, if any, at any point in time.
The aim of the Company’s approach to   management of currency risk is to leave the  Company with no material residual risk.
A 5% strengthening of the INR against  key currencies to which the Company is  exposed (net of hedge) would have led to  approximately an additional ` 0 crores gain  in the Statement of Profit and Loss   (2016-17: ` 0 crores gain).
A 5% weakening  of the INR against these currencies would  have led to an equal but opposite effect.
109Overview Reports  Financial Statements108 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Potential Impact Of Risk Management Policy Sensitivity To Risk 2.
Price Risk The Company is mainly exposed to the  price risk due to its investment in debt  mutual funds.
The price risk arises due  to uncertainties about the future market  values of these investments.
At 31st March 2018, the investments in debt  mutual funds amounts to ` 1,830 crores  (31st March, 2017: ` 2,060 crores).
These are exposed to price risk   The Company has laid  policies and  guidelines which it adheres to in order  to minimise price risk  arising from  investments in debt mutual funds.
A 1% increase in prices would have led to  approximately an additional ` 18 crores  gain in the Statement of Profit and Loss  (2016-17: ` 21 crores gain).
A 1% decrease  in prices would have led to an equal but  opposite effect.
3.
Interest Rate Risk The Company is mainly exposed to the  interest rate risk due to its investment in  treasury bills.
The interest rate risk arises  due to uncertainties about the future  market interest rate on these investments.
In addition to treasury bills, the Company  invests in term deposits for a period of less  than one year.
Considering the short-term  nature, there is no significant interest rate  risk pertaining to these deposits.
As at 31st March 2018, the investments in  treasury bil  amounts to ` 1,025 crores   (31st March, 2017: ` 1,459 crores).
These  are exposed to interest rate risk.
The Company has laid  policies and  guidelines including  tenure of investment  made to minimise impact of interest rate  risk A 0.25% decrease in interest rates would  have led to approximately an additional    ` 0 crore gain in the Statement of Profit  and Loss (2016-17: ` 1 crore gain).
A 0.25%   increase in interest rates would have led to  an equal but opposite effect.
C. Management of Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counter-party fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Trade receivables  Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, due to the Company’s customer base being large and diverse.
All  trade receivables are reviewed and assessed for default on a quarterly basis.
Our historical experience of collecting receivables is that credit risk is low.
Hence, trade receivables are considered to be a single class of  financial assets.
Refer note 2.4(g) for accounting policy on Financial Instruments.
Other financial assets  The Company maintains exposure in cash and cash equivalents, term deposits with banks, investments in treasury bills, government  securities, money market liquid mutual funds and derivative instrument with financial institutions.
The Company has set counter-party   limits  based on multiple factors including financial position, credit rating, etc.
The Company has given inter-corporate deposits (ICD) only  to its subsidiaries amounting ` 226 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 198 crores).
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31st March, 2018 and 31st March, 2017  is the carrying value of each class of  financial assets.
111Overview Reports  Financial Statements110 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 40 : DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Refer note 2.4(l) for accounting policy on Employee Benefits.
Description of Plans Retirement Benefit Plans of the Company include Gratuity, Management Pension, Officer’s Pension and Provident Fund.
Other post- employment benefit plans includes post retirement medical benefits.
Gratuity is funded through investments mostly with an insurance service provider and partly through direct investment under Hind Lever  Gratuity Fund.
Pension (Management Pension and Officer’s Pension) for most employees is managed through a trust, investments with  an insurance service provider and for some employees investments are managed through Company managed trust.
Provident Fund for  most of the employees are managed through trust investments and for some employees through government administered fund.
Post-retirement medical benefits are managed through investment made under Company managed trust.
Governance  The trustees of the trust fund are responsible for the overall governance of the plan and to act in accordance with the provisions of the trust  deed and rules in the best interests of the plan participants.
They are tasked with periodic reviews of the solvency of the fund and play a role  in the long-term investment, risk management and funding strategy.
Investment Strategy The Company’s investment strategy in respect of its funded plans is implemented within the framework of the applicable statutory  requirements.
The plans expose the Company to a number of actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and  inflation risk.
The Company has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of controlling  risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the Company of the benefits  provided.
To achieve this, investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact  on the overall level of assets.
A.
Balance Sheet     The assets, liabilities and surplus/(deficit) position of the defined benefit plans at the Balance Sheet date were:   Retirement Benefit Plans Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Present value of obligation  2,582  2,424  158  162  Fair value of plan assets  (2,483)  (2,377)  (88)  (93) (Asset)/Liability recognised in the  Balance Sheet  99  47  70  69  Of which in respect of: Funded plans in surplus: Present value of obligation  14  12  -    -    Fair value of plan assets  (39)  (42)  -    -    (Asset)/Liability recognised in the  Balance Sheet*  -*  -*  -    -    *The excess of assets over liabilities in  respect of Officer's Pension have not been  recognised as they are lying in an Income  Tax approved irrevocable trust fund.
Funded plans in deficit: Present value of obligation  2,568  2,412  158  162  Fair value of plan assets  (2,469)  (2,365)  (88)  (93) (Asset)/Liability recognised in the  Balance Sheet  99  47  70  69  111Overview Reports  Financial Statements110 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
B.
Movements in Present Value of Obligation and Fair Value of Plan Assets  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Plan Assets  Plan  Obligation   Total  Plan Assets  Plan  Obligation   Total  As at 31st March, 2016  2,208  2,318  111  92  146  54  Current service cost  -  73  73  -  0  0  Past service cost  -  (115)  (115)  -  -  -  Interest cost  -  170  170  -  11  11  Interest income  171  -  (171)  7  -  (7) Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in demographic assumptions  -  -  -  -  -  -  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in financial assumptions  27  30  3  3  14  11  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from  experience adjustments  -  22  22  -  (1)  (1) Employer contributions  76  -  (76)  -  -  -  Employee contributions  129  129  -  -  -  -  Assets acquired/ (settled)  (42)  (42)  0  -  -  -  Benefit payments  (162)  (162)  -  (9)  (9)  -  As at 31st March, 2017  2,407  2,424  17  93  162  69  Current service cost  -  81  81  -  0  0  Past service cost  -  45  45  -  -  -  Employee contributions  -  145  145  -  -  -  Interest cost  -  163  163  -  11  11  Interest income  163  -  (163)  6  -  (6) Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in demographic assumptions  -  30  30  -  -  -  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in financial assumptions  39  3  (36)  (1)  (18)  (17) Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from  experience adjustments  -  39  39  -  13  13  Employer contributions  102  -  (102)  -  -  -  Employee contributions  145  -  (145)  -  -  -  Assets acquired/ (settled)  (20)  (20)  -  -  -  -  Benefit payments  (328)  (328)  -  (10)  (10)  -  As at 31st March, 2018  2,508  2,582  74  88  158  70  C. Statement of Profit and Loss The charge to the Statement of Profit and Loss comprises:  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Employee Benefit Expenses *: Current service cost  20  18  0  0  Past service cost  45  (115)  -  -  Finance costs * : Interest cost  42  44  11  11  Interest income  (39)  (42)  (6)  (7) Net impact on profit (before tax)  68  (95)  5  4  113Overview Reports  Financial Statements112 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Remeasurement of the net defined  benefit plans: Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from  changes in demographic assumptions  28  -  -  -  Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from  changes in financial assumptions  1  20  (17)  11  Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from  experience adjustments  1  -  13  (1) Net impact on other comprehensive  income (before tax)  30  20  (4)  10  *: Service cost and Finance cost has not been recognised in the statement of profit and loss for Officer’s Pension and Provident Fund  D.  Assets      The fair value of plan assets at the Balance Sheet date for the defined benefit plans for each category are as follows:  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Quoted Government debt instruments 907  809  -  -  Other debt instruments  967  1,000  88  93  Total (A) 1,874  1,809  88  93  Unquoted Other debt instruments  201  201  -  -  Others  433  397  -  -  Total (B)  634  598  -  -  Total (A+B)  2,508  2,407  88  93  Note: Assets to the extent of ` 39 crores is not recognised in Balance Sheet  of Officer’s Pension Fund  as they are lying in an Income Tax  approved irrevocable trust.
None of the plans invest directly in any property occupied by the Company or any financial securities issued by the Company.
E. Assumptions             With the objective of presenting the plan assets and plan obligations of the defined benefits plans at their fair value on the Balance  Sheet, assumptions under Ind AS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date.
Financial Assumptions  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans  As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Discount rate (per annum) 8.0% 7.0% 8.0% 7.0% Salary escalation rate (per annum) Management employees  - for first 5years 8.0% 7.0% Management employees  - after 5 years 8.0% 5.0% Non-management employees 8.0% 8.0% Pension increase rate (per annum)* 2.5% 2.5% Annual increase in healthcare costs   (per annum) 9.0% 9.0% *For management pension only The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other  relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
113Overview Reports  Financial Statements112 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Demographic Assumptions Mortality in Service:  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2006-08) Ultimate table   Mortality in Retirement : LIC Buy-out Annuity Rates & UK Published PA (90) Annuity Rates suitably adjusted for Indian Lives.
F.  Sensitivity Analysis The sensitivity of the overall plan obligations to changes in the weighted key assumptions are: Retirement Benefit Plans Other Post-Employment   Benefit Plans Change in  assumption (%) Change in plan  obligation (%) Change in  assumption (%) Change in plan  obligation (%) Discount rate (per annum)                    Increase 0.5% -1.9% 0.5% -5.1% Decrease 0.5% 2.0% 0.5% 5.6% Salary escalation rate (per annum) Increase 0.3% 1.4% - - Decrease 0.3% -1.3% - - Pension rate                                        Increase 0.3% 2.7% - - Decrease 0.3% -2.6% - - Life expectancy                                     Increase  1 year 2.0%  1 year 3.8% Decrease  1 year -2.1%  1 year -3.8% Annual increase in healthcare costs  (per annum) Increase  -  - 1.00% 11.5% Decrease  -  - 1.00% -9.7% The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at  the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change.
It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding all  other assumptions constant.
When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability recognised  in the Balance Sheet has been applied.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change  compared with the previous year.
G. Weighted average duration and expected employers contribution for FY 2017-18 for each of the defined benefit plan  Weighted average duration (yrs.)
Expected Employers  contribution for the  next year Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 Gratuity  6.8  10.9  92.3  Management Pension  6.5  6.9  2.2  Officer's Pension  3.7  3.9  -    Provident Fund  7.7  15.2  67.6  Post-retirement medical benefits  10.7  11.9  -    NOTE 41 : SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Refer note 2.4(l) for accounting policy on Share Based Payments.
Equity Settled Share Based Payments The members of the Company had approved ‘2001 HLL Stock Option Plan’ at the Annual General Meeting held on 22nd June, 2001.
The  plan envisaged grant of share options to eligible employees at market price as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
This plan was amended and revised vide ‘2006 HLL Performance Share Scheme’ at the Annual General Meeting held on 29th May, 2006.
This scheme provided for conditional grant of Performance Shares at nominal value to eligible management employees as determined  by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors from time to time, at the end of 3-year performance period.
The performance  measures under this scheme include group underlying sales growth and free cash flow.
The scheme also provided for ‘Par’ Awards for the  managers at different work levels.
The 2006 scheme was further amended and revised vide ‘2012 HUL Performance Share Scheme’ at the Annual General Meeting held on  23rd July, 2012.
This scheme provided for conditional grant of Performance Shares at nominal value to eligible management employees as  determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors from time to time, at the end of 3-year performance  period.
The performance measures under this scheme include group underlying sales growth, core operating margin improvement and  operating cash flow.
115Overview Reports  Financial Statements114 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
The number of shares allocated for allotment under the 2006 and 2012 Performance Share Schemes is 2,00,00,000 (two crores) equity  shares of ` 1/- each.
The schemes are monitored and supervised by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of  Directors in compliance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014  and amendments thereof from time to time.
The Employee Stock Option Plan includes employees of Hindustan Unilever Limited, its subsidiaries and a subsidiary of parent company.
Scheme Year Date of Grant Numbers of  options granted Vesting Conditions Exercise Period Exercise Price  (`) per share Weighted Average  Exercise Price (`)  per share 2001 HLL Stock  Option Plan 2005 27-May-05  15,47,700 Vested after three years  from date of grant 7 years from date of  vesting  132.05  132.05  2006 HLL  Performance Share  Scheme 2012 17-Feb-12  4,20,080 Vested after three years  from date of grant 3 months from date  of vesting  1.00  1.00  Interim 2012 30-Jul-12  51,385  1.00  1.00  2012 HUL  Performance  Share Scheme 2013 18-Mar-13  3,68,023  Vested after three years  from date of grant 3 months from date  of vesting  1.00  1.00  Interim 2013 29-Jul-13  25,418  1.00  1.00  2014 14-Feb-14  2,62,155  1.00  1.00  Interim 2014 28-Jul-14  16,805  1.00  1.00  2015 13-Feb-15  1,42,038  1.00  1.00  Interim 2015 27-Jul-15  12,322  1.00  1.00  2016 11-Feb-16  1,57,193  1.00  1.00  Interim 2016 25-Jul-16  11,834  1.00  1.00  2017 13-Feb-17  1,23,887  1.00  1.00  Interim 2017 21-Jul-17  6,846  1.00  1.00  2018 16-Feb-18  63,421  1.00  1.00  Number of Share Options Scheme Year Outstanding at  the beginning   of the year Granted    during the  year* Forfeited/ Expired during  the year Exercised  during   the year Exercisable at  the end of the  year Outstanding at  the end of the  year 2012 HUL  Performance  Share Scheme 2013   -      -      -      -      -      -      (3,08,705)   -      -     (3,08,705)   -      -     Interim 2013   -      -      -      -      -      -      (23,044)  (5,964)   -     (29,008)   -     2014  1,14,890   -      -     1,14,890   -      (2,31,763)   -     (41,918)  (74,955)  (1,14,890)  (1,14,890) Interim 2014  15,103   -     1,061  14,042   -     -     (16,805)   -     (1,702)   -      -     (15,103) 2015  1,27,151  28,084   -     50,206  1,05,029 1,05,029  (1,36,054)   -     (8,903)   -      -     (1,27,151) Interim 2015  11,690   -     632   -      -    11,058  (12,322)   -     (632)   -      -     (11,690) 2016  1,47,859   -     10,826   -      -    1,37,033  (1,56,351)   -     (8,492)   -      -     (1,47,859) Interim 2016  11,834   -     835   -      -     10,999    -     (11,834)   -      -      -     (11,834) 2017  1,23,887   -     4,667   -      -     1,19,220    -     (1,23,887)   -      -      -     (1,23,887) Interim 2017  -    6,846  415   -      -     6,431    -     -     -      -      -     -    2018   -     63,421   -      -      -     63,421   -    -    -    -    -    -    * Granted during the year includes additional shares granted upon meeting the vesting conditions     (figures in bracket pertain to 2016-17) Weighted average equity share price at the date of exercise of options during the year was ` 1154  (2016-17: ` 864)    Weighted average remaining contractual life of options as at 31st March, 2018 was 1.23 years (31st March, 2017: 1.68 years)  115Overview Reports  Financial Statements114 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
The value of the underlying shares has been determined by an independent valuer.
The following assumptions were used for  calculation of fair value of grants in accordance with Black Scholes model:  Year ended  31st March, 2018 Year ended  31st March, 2017 Risk-free interest rate (%) 7.0% 6.6% Expected life of options (years) [(year to vesting) + (contractual option term)/2] 3.125 3.125 Expected volatility (%) 21.4% 22.3% Dividend yield 1.3% 1.9% The risk free interest rates are determined based on the zero-coupon sovereign bond yields with maturity equal to the expected term of  the option.
Volatility calculation is based on historical stock prices using standard deviation of daily change in stock price.
The historical  period is taken into account to match the expected life of the option.
Dividend yield has been calculated taking into account expected rate  of dividend on equity share price as on grant date.
Cash Settled Share Based Payments The employees of the Company are eligible for Unilever PLC (the ‘Holding Company’) share awards namely, the Management Co-Investment  Plan (MCIP), the Global Performance Share Plan (GPSP) and the SHARES Plan.
The MCIP allows eligible employees to invest up to 100%  of their annual bonus in the shares of the Holding Company and to receive a corresponding award of performance-related shares.
Under  GPSP, eligible employees receive annual awards of the holding company’s shares.
The awards under MCIP and GPSP plans will vest after  3-4 years between 0% and 200% of grant level, depending on the satisfaction of the performance metrics.
The performance metrics of  GPSP are underlying sales growth, operating cash flow and core operating margin improvement.
The performance metrics of MCIP are  underlying sales growth, underlying EPS growth and sustainability progress index.
Under the SHARES Plan, eligible employees can invest  up to EUR 200 per month in the shares of the Holding Company and after three years one share is granted free of cost to the employees  for every three shares invested, provided they hold the shares bought for three years.
The Holding Company charges the Company for the  grant of shares to the Company’s employees at the end of the 3 years based on the market value of the shares on the exercise date.
The  Company recognises the fair value of the liability and expense for these plans over the vesting period based on the management’s estimate  of the vesting and forfeiture conditions.
The Company grants share appreciation rights (SARs) to eligible employees for all cash settled share based plans mentioned above that  entitles them to a cash/shares after three years of service.
The amount of payment is also determined basis increase in the share price of  the Holding Company between grant date and the time of exercise.
Details of the liabilities arising from the Company’s cash settled share based payment transactions:  As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Other non-current liabilities 94 130 Other current liabilities 94 86 Total carrying amount of liabilities 188 216 Effect of share based payment transactions on the Statement of Profit and Loss:  As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Equity settled share based payments 11 5 Cash settled share based payments 68 89 Total expense on share based payments 79 94 117Overview Reports  Financial Statements116 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 42 : BUSINESS COMBINATION  Refer note 2.4(r) for accounting policy on Business Combination.
Acquisition of Indulekha Brand On April 07, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of the flagship brand ‘Indulekha’ from Mosons Extractions Private Limited  (‘MEPL ’) and Mosons Enterprises (collectively referred to as ‘Mosons’ and acquisition of the specified intangible assets referred to as the  ‘Business acquisition’).
The deal envisaged the acquisition of the trademarks ‘Indulekha’ and ‘Vayodha’, intellectual property, design and  knowhow for a total cash consideration of  ` 330 crores (excluding taxes) and a deferred consideration of 10% of the domestic turnover of  the brands each year, payable annually for a 5 year period commencing financial year 2018-19.
Basis the projection of the domestic turnover of the brand, the contingent consideration is subject to revision on a yearly basis.
As at   31st March 2017, the fair value of the contingent consideration was ` 49 crores which was classified as other  financial liability.
Deferred contingent consideration Based on actual performance in financial year 2017-18 and current view of future projections for the brand, the Company has reviewed  and fair valued the deferred contingent consideration so payable.
As at 31st March 2018, the fair value of the contingent consideration is   ` 104 crores which is classified as other financial liability.
The determination of the fair value as at Balance Sheet date is based on discounted cash flow method.
The key model inputs used in  determining the fair value of deferred contingent consideration were domestic turnover projections of the brand and weighted average  cost of capital.
NOTE 43 : DISCLOSURES PURSUANT TO SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND  DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 AND SECTION 186 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 (a) Loans to subsidiaries (i) Loan to subsidiary: Pond's Exports Limited, India Balance as at the year end  - 4 Maximum amount outstanding at any time during the year 4 8 [Pond's Export Limited has utilised the loan for meeting working capital  requirements with an average rate of interest at 7.04% (2016-17: 7.58%)] (ii) Loan to subsidiary: Lakme Lever Private Limited, India Balance as at the year end 146 194 Maximum amount outstanding at any time during the year 194 200 [Lakme Lever Private Limited has utilised the loan for working capital  requirements of salon business.
It is repayable over a period of 7 years and carries  an average rate of interest at 7.09% (2016-17: 7.60%)] (iii) Loan to subsidiary: Unilever India Export Limited, India Balance as at the year end 80  -    Maximum amount outstanding at any time during the year 80  -    (Unilever India Export Limited has utilised the loan for meeting working capital  requirements of export business.
It is repayable over a period of 7 years and carries  an average rate of interest at 7.23%) (b) Investment by the loanees in the shares of the Company The loanees have not made any investments in the shares of the Company 117Overview Reports  Financial Statements116 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 44 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES   A.
Enterprises exercising control (i) Holding Company : Unilever Plc B.
Enterprises where control exists (i) Subsidiaries : Daverashola Estates Private Limited (100%) (Extent of holding) Hindlever Trust Limited (100%) Jamnagar Properties Private Limited (100%) Lakme Lever Private Limited (100%) Levers Associated Trust Limited (100%) Levindra Trust Limited (100%) Pond's Exports Limited (90%) Unilever India Exports Limited (100%) Unilever Nepal Limited (80%) Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives (100%)  (with effect from March 12, 2015) (Section 8 company) Hindustan Unilever Foundation (76%) (Section 8 company) (ii) Trust : Hindustan Unilever Limited Securitisation of Retirement Benefit Trust (100% control) (iii) Joint Ventures : Kimberly Clark Lever Private Limited (50% control, ceases to be Joint venture after   29th September, 2017)  (iv) Key Management Personnel (a) Executive directors : Sanjiv Mehta PB Balaji (up to 13th November, 2017) Srinivas Phatak (with effect from 1st December, 2017) Pradeep Banerjee Dev Bajpai Geetu Verma  BP Biddappa Priya Nair Sandeep Kohli Sudhir Sitapati Srinandan Sundaram (b) Non-executive directors Harish Manwani Aditya Narayan S. Ramadorai O. P. Bhatt Sanjiv Misra Kalpana Morparia (v) Employees' Benefit Plans where  there is significant influence : Hind Lever Gratuity Fund The Hind Lever Pension Fund The Union Provident Fund 119Overview Reports  Financial Statements118 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Disclosure of transactions between the Company and Related Parties and the status of outstanding balances as on  31st March, 2018     For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017 Holding Company : Dividend paid  2,006  1,839  Royalty expense  628  663  Fees for central services  348  364  Income from services rendered  350  500  Expenses for other services received  237  96  Outstanding as at the year end : - Trade payables  372  338  Subsidiaries/ Trust : Sale of finished goods / raw materials etc  355  393  Processing charges  111  115  Purchase of fixed assets  -  0  Purchase of finished goods / raw materials etc  21  12  Royalty income  8  8  Rent income  1  1  Commission paid  1  1  Expenses shared by subsidiary companies  14  19  Dividend income  188  167  Interest income  12  13  Reimbursement received/ receivable towards pension  and medical benefits   34  19  Purchase of export licences  30  36  Rent expense  0  0  Contribution to foundation  32  18  Reimbursements paid  27  36  Reimbursements received  26  14  Inter corporate loans given during the year  183  84  Inter corporate loans repaid during the year  154  48  Deposit Received  -  0  Deposit Paid  -  0  Outstanding as at the year end: -   Current account balances receivable with  subsidiaries and trust  44  19  - Trade receivables  35  34  - Trade payables  12  35  - Loans & advances to subsidiaries  226  198  Fellow Subsidiaries : Purchased of fixed assets  68  37  Rent income  2  2  Sale of fixed assets  27  -  Income from services rendered  8  12  Management fees paid  45  29  Purchase of finished goods / raw materials etc.
799  581  Dividend paid  612  561  Royalty expense  17  17  Expenses shared by fellow subsidiary companies  8  6  Maintenance and support costs for licences and  software  7  6  119Overview Reports  Financial Statements118 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017 Reimbursements paid  102  49  Reimbursements received  57  34  Outstanding as at the year end with fellow  subsidiaries -  Current account balances receivable with   fellow subsidiaries  39  28  - Trade payables  353  209  Joint Venture : Purchase of finished goods / raw materials etc.
122  303  Reimbursements received  28  95  Outstanding as at the year end with joint venture -  Current account balances receivable with  joint venture  -  24  - Trade payables  -  1  Key Management Personnel : Remuneration : (Executive directors) - Short-term employee benefits  50  47  - Post-employment benefits*  2  4  - Other long-term benefits*  0  -  -  Share-based payments  17  16  Dividend paid  0  0  Consideration received on exercise of options  0  0  Key Management Personnel : Dividend paid  0  0  (Non-executive directors) Commission paid  2  2  Employees' Benefit   Plans where there is significant  influence : Contributions during the year (Employer's  contribution only)  100  61  Outstanding as at the year end : -  Advances recoverable in cash or kind or for value to  be received  18  -  - Payables  -  12  *Note: As the liabilities for defined benefit plans  are provided on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the amounts pertaining to Key Management Personnel  are not included.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties      All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of the business and are on arm’s length basis.
For the year ended 31st March, 2018, the Company  has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related  parties (2016-17: Nil).
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and  the market in which the related party operates.
PBOverview Reports  Financial Statements120 Standalone Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 45      The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material foreseeable  losses.
At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/accounting standards for  material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in the books of accounts.
NOTE 46      The Company has presented segment information in the consolidated financial statements which are presented in the same financial  report.
Accordingly, in terms of Paragraph 3 of Ind AS 108 ‘Operating Segments’, no disclosures related to segments are presented in this  standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018   121Overview Reports   Financial StatementsPB Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT to the Members of Hindustan Unilever Limited REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF CONSOLIDATED IND AS  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial  statements of Hindustan Unilever Limited (hereinafter referred  to as “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding  Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”),  which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March  2018, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including  other comprehensive income), Consolidated Statement of Changes  in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, for the  year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to  as “the consolidated Ind AS financial statements”).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE  CONSOLIDATED IND AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  preparation of these consolidated Ind AS financial statements in  terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter  referred to as “the Act”) that give a true and fair view of the  consolidated state of affairs, consolidated profit/loss and other  comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in  equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance  with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under   Section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the  companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance  of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of  the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing  and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and  application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial  controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the  preparation and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used  for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, the  respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group  are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as  a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going  concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless  management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease  operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated  Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
While conducting  the audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the  accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required  to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act  and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on  Auditing specified under Section 143 (10) of the Act.
Those  Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and  plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether the consolidated Ind AS financial statements are free from  material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated Ind  AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on  the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks  of material misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk  assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control  relevant to the Holding Company’s preparation of the consolidated  Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to  design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the  accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting  estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of  the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
We are also responsible to conclude on the appropriateness of  management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting  and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material  uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast  significant doubt on the ability of Group to continue as a going  concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are  required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related  disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements or,  if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our  conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date  of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may  cause Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit  evidence obtained by the other auditor in terms of their report  referred to in Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
OPINION In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us and based on the consideration of report  of other auditor on separate financial statements and on the other  financial information of a subsidiary, the aforesaid consolidated Ind  AS financial statements give the information required by the Act in  the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity  with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the  consolidated state of affairs of the Group and their consolidated  profit and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of  changes in equity and consolidated cash flows for the year ended  on that date.
OTHER MATTERS We did not audit the financial statements of one subsidiary, whose  financial statements reflect total assets of ` 325 crores and  net assets of ` 99 crores as at 31 March 2018, total revenues of   123Overview Reports   Financial Statements122 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 ` 332 crores and net cash inflows amounting to ` 5 crores for the  year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated Ind AS  financial statements.
These financial statements have been audited  by other auditor whose report has been furnished to us by the  Management and our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures  included in respect of this subsidiary and our report in terms of  Section 143 (3) of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid  subsidiary is based solely on the report of the other auditor.
Our opinion above on the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,  and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below,  is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our  reliance on the work done and the report of the other auditor.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY  REQUIREMENTS 1.
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, based on our audit and  on the consideration of report of the other auditor on separate  financial statements and the other financial information of a  subsidiary as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph, we report,  to the extent applicable, that:  a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the  aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by  law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated  Ind AS financial statements have been kept so far as it  appears from our examination of those books and the  report of the other auditor.
c)  The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss (including other  comprehensive income), the Consolidated Statement of  Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of  Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement  with the relevant books of account maintained for the  purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS  financial statements.
d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards  specified under section 133 of the Act.
e)  On the basis of the written representations received from  the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2018  taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding  Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its  subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of the  directors of the Group companies is disqualified as on   31 March 2018 from being appointed as a director in  terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding  Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in  India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer  to our separate Report in “Annexure A”.
g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in  our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us and based on  the consideration of the report of the other auditor on  separate financial statements as also the other financial  information of a subsidiary, as noted in the ‘Other matter’  paragraph:   i.
The consolidated Ind AS financial statements  disclose the impact of pending litigations on the  consolidated financial position of the Group -  Refer Note 25 to the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements.
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated Ind  AS financial statements, as required under the  applicable law or Ind AS, for material foreseeable  losses, on long-term contracts including derivative  contracts - Refer Note 47 to the consolidated Ind AS  financial statements in respect of such items as it  relates to the Group.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts  to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by  the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies  incorporated in India during the year ended 31  March 2018;   iv.
The disclosures regarding details of specified bank  notes held and transacted during 8 November 2016  to 30 December 2016 has not been made since  the requirement does not pertain to financial year  ended 31 March 2018.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration   No: 101248W/W-100022 Akeel Master Mumbai Partner 14th May, 2018 Membership No: 046768 123Overview Reports   Financial Statements122 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited ANNEXURE A  to the Independent Auditor’s Report - 31st March, 2018 on the Consolidated   Ind as financial statements (Referred to in our report of even date) REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS UNDER  SECTION 143 (3) (I) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE  ACT”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements of Hindustan Unilever Limited (“the Holding Company”)  as of and for the year ended 31 March 2018, we have audited the  internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of  the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in  India as of that date.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERNAL  FINANCIAL CONTROLS The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and its  subsidiary companies incorporated in India, are responsible for  establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on  the internal controls with reference to financial statements criteria  established by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies  incorporated in India considering the essential components of  internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”)  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and  maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were  operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct  of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s  policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and  detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial information, as required under the Act.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding  Company’s, and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India,  internal financial controls with reference to financial statements  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the  Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing,  issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10)  of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial  controls, both issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the  Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements  and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements was established and maintained and if such  controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the adequacy of the internal financial control system with  reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements included obtaining an understanding of internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing  the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating  the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on  the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,  whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and  appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Holding  Company’s and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, internal  financial control system with reference to financial statements.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH  REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance  regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation  of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements includes  those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance  of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect  the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded  as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only  in accordance with authorisations of management and directors  of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use,  or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material  effect on the financial statements.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL  CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of  collusion or improper management override of controls, material  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject  to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to  financial statements may become inadequate because of changes  in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
OPINION In our opinion, the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies  incorporated in India, have in all material respects, an adequate  internal financial control system with reference to financial  statements and such internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March  2018, based on the internal controls with reference to financial  statements criteria established by the Holding Company and its  subsidiary companies, considering the essential components of  internal controls stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration   No: 101248W/W-100022 Akeel Master Mumbai Partner 14th May, 2018 Membership No: 046768 125Overview Reports   Financial Statements124 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) CONSOLIDATED  BALANCE SHEET As at 31st March, 2018  Particulars Note As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 3A  4,080  3,968  Capital work-in-progress 3B  461  229  Goodwill 4A 0 0 Other intangible assets 4A  367  370  Goodwill on consolidation 4B  81  81  Financial assets Investments 5  2  6  Loans 6  184  168  Other financial assets 7  6  6  Non-current tax assets (net) 8E  635  461  Deferred tax assets (net) 8C  302  170  Other non-current assets 9  84  75  Current assets Inventories 10  2,513  2,541  Financial assets Investments 5  2,871  3,788  Loans 6  4  -    Trade receivables 11  1,310  1,085  Cash and cash equivalents 12  649  628  Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents mentioned above 13  2,836  1,200  Other financial assets 7  805  331  Other current assets 14  656  552  Assets held for sale 15  16  47  TOTAL ASSETS  17,862  15,706  125Overview Reports   Financial Statements124 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ( Contd.)
As at 31st March, 2018  Particulars Note As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Equity share capital 16  216  216  Other equity 17A  7,065  6,528  Non-controlling interests 18  20  22  Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 19  119  73  Provisions 20  800  514  Non-current tax liabilities (net) 8E  558  432  Other non-current liabilities 21  197  207  Current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 22  -    277  Trade payables Dues to micro and small enterprises 23  -   0 Dues to others 23  7,170  6,186  Other financial liabilities 19  214  195  Other current liabilities 24  815  664  Provisions 20  688  392  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  17,862  15,706  Basis of preparation, measurement and significant accounting policies 2 Contingent liabilities, capital and other commitments 25 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 127Overview Reports   Financial Statements126 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Particulars Note Year ended  31st March, 2018 Year ended  31st March, 2017 INCOME Revenue from operations 26 36,238 35,759 Other income 27 384 369 TOTAL INCOME 36,622 36,128 EXPENSES Cost of materials consumed 28 12,927 11,946 Purchases of stock-in-trade 29 3,875 4,223 Changes in inventories of finished goods (including stock-in-trade) and  work-in-progress 30  (72) 144 Excise duty 31 693 2,597 Employee benefits expenses 32 1,860 1,743 Finance costs 33 26 35 Depreciation and amortisation expense 34 520 432 Other expenses 35 9,456 8,766 TOTAL EXPENSES 29,285 29,886 Profit before exceptional items and tax 7,337 6,242 Exceptional items 36  (33)  237  Profit before tax from Continuing Operation 7,304 6,479 Tax expenses Current tax 8A  (2,216)  (1,947) Deferred tax credit/(charge) 8A 137  (30) PROFIT AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (A) 5,225 4,502 Profit/(Loss) from discontinued operations before tax  37A 2  (13) Tax expenses of discontinued operations  37A  -    1  PROFIT/(LOSS)  FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AFTER TAX (B) 2  (12) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR (A+B) 5,227 4,490 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit plans 17C  (15)  (33) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified subsequently  to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit plans 8A 5  11  Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value of debt instruments through other comprehensive income 17C  (2)  2  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS  For the year ended 31st March, 2018  127Overview Reports   Financial Statements126 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS (Contd.)
For the year ended 31st March, 2018  Particulars Note Year ended  31st March, 2018 Year ended  31st March, 2017 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified subsequently to  profit or loss Fair value of Debt instruments through other comprehensive income 8A 1  (0) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (C)  (11)  (20) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (A+B+C) 5,216  4,470  Profit attributable to: Owners of the Company 5,214 4,476 Non-controlling interests 13 14 Other Comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the company  (11)  (20) Non-controlling interests  -    (0) Total Comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the company 5,203 4,456 Non-controlling interests 18 13 14 Earnings per equity share from Continuing Operations Basic (Face value of ` 1 each) 38A ` 24.08 ` 20.74 Diluted (Face value of ` 1 each) 38A ` 24.07 ` 20.73 Earnings per equity share from Discontinued Operations Basic (Face value of ` 1 each) 38B ` 0.01 `(0.06) Diluted (Face value of ` 1 each) 38B ` 0.01 `(0.06) Earnings per equity share from continuing and discontinued operations Basic (Face value of ` 1 each) `  24.09 ` 20.68 Diluted (Face value of ` 1 each) `  24.08 ` 20.67 Basis of preparation, measurement and significant accounting policies  2  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements  As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 128 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in  ` crores, unless otherwise stated) A.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Note Balance As at 31st March, 2016  216  Changes in equity share capital during the year 0 As at 31st March, 2017  216  Changes in equity share capital during the year 0 As at 31st March, 2018 16  216  B.
OTHER EQUITY Reserves and Surplus  Items of Other Comprehensive  Income (OCI) Grand Total Capital  Reserve Capital  Redemption  Reserve Securities  Premium   Reserve Employee  Stock Options  Outstanding  Account General  Reserve Retained  Earnings Other  Reserves Employees’  Housing  Reserve Export  profit  reserves Remeasurements  of net defined  benefit plans Debt  instruments  through Other  Comprehensive  Income Total  Attributable to  owners of the  company Attributable  to Non- controlling  Interest  Total  As at 31st March, 2016  4  6  98  43  2,301  3,864  9  43 0  (11) 0  6,357  20  6,377  Profit for the year  -    -    -    -    -    4,476  -    -    -    -    -    4,476  14  4,490  Transfer to Employees'  Housing  Reserve   -    -    -    -    -    (5)  -    5  -    -    -    -    -   - Other comprehensive income for the year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (22)  2  (20)  (0)  (20) Total comprehensive income for the year  -    -    -    -    -    4,47 1  -    5 0  (22)  2  4,456  14  4,470  Dividend on equity shares for the year  -    -    -    -    -    (3,571)  -    -    -    -    -    (3,571)  (12)  (3,583) Dividend distribution tax  -    -    -    -    -    (718)  -    -    -    -    -    (718)  -    (718) Exercise of employee stock options  -    -    18  (18)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -   0  -   0 Share based payment credit  -    -    -    4  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4  -    4  As at 31st March, 2017  4  6  116  29  2,301  4,046  9  48  0  (33)  2  6,528  22  6,550  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  For the year ended 31st March, 2018 129Overview Reports   Financial Statements Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018   (All amounts in  ` crores, unless otherwise stated) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ( Contd.)
For the year ended 31st March, 2018 Reserves and Surplus  Items of Other Comprehensive  Income (OCI) Grand Total Capital  Reserve Capital  Redemption  Reserve Securities  Premium   Reserve Employee  Stock Options  Outstanding  Account General  Reserve Retained  Earnings Other  Reserves Employees’  Housing  Reserve Export  profit  reserves Remeasurements  of net defined  benefit plans Debt  instruments  through Other  Comprehensive  Income Total  Attributable to  owners of the  company Attributable  to Non- controlling  Interest  Total  Profit for the year  -    -    -    -    -    5,214  -    -    -    -    -    5,214  13  5,227  Transfer to Employees' Housing  Reserve   -    -    -    -    -    (2)  -    2  -    -    -    -    -    -    Other comprehensive income for the  year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (10)  (1)  (11)  -    (11) Total comprehensive income for the year  -    -    -    -    -    5,212  -    2  -    (10)  (1)  5,203  13  5,216  Dividend on equity shares for the year  -    -    -    -    -    (3,896)  -    -    -    -    -    (3,896)  (15)  (3,911) Dividend distribution tax  -    -    -    -    -    (781)  -    -    -    -    -    (781)  -    (781) Exercise of employee stock options  -    -    11  (11)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Share based payment credit  -    -    -    11  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    11  -    11  As at 31st March, 2018  4  6  127  29  2,301  4,581  9  50  0  (43)  1  7,065  20  7,085  a) Refer note 17B for nature and purpose of reserves.
b)  The Scheme of Arrangement (Scheme) between the Company and its Members, envisages the transfer of balance of  ` 2,187 crores standing to the credit  of General Reserves to the  Profit and Loss account (currently retained earnings).
The Scheme, under relevant sections of the Companies Act, 1956 and the  Companies Act,2013,  was approved in annual general meeting held on 30th June, 2016 and is now pending for approval with National Company Law Tribunal  (NCLT).
131Overview Reports   Financial Statements130 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 A CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Profit before exceptional items and tax  7,337  6,242  Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expenses  520  432  (Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  30  14  Government grant accrued  (172)  -    Interest income  (260)  (260) Dividend income  -    (14) Fair value (gain)/loss on investments  (122)  (95) Interest expense  26  35  Provision for expenses on employee stock options  11  4  Impairment of non-current investments  -   0 Provision/(write back) for inventory (net)  49  48  Inventory written off  124  101  Provision/(write back) for doubtful debts and advances (net)  9  4  Bad debts/assets written off  4  2  Mark-to-market (gain)/loss on derivative financial instruments  (1)  (1) Cash Generated from operations before working capital changes  7,555  6,512  Adjustments for: (Increase)/decrease in Non current loans (Security deposits and Others)  (16)  (46) (Increase)/decrease in other non-current financial assets  (0)  19  (Increase)/decrease in other current financial assets  (315)  (82) (Increase)/decrease in other non-current assets  (23)  (7) (Increase)/decrease in other current assets  (104)  (28) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables  (238)  173  (Increase)/decrease in inventories  (146)  37  Increase/(decrease) in trade payables  984  501  Increase/(decrease) in other non-current financial liabilities  (2)  31  Increase/(decrease) in other current financial liabilities  (4)  (78) Increase/(decrease) in non-current provisions  271  (39) Increase/(decrease) in current provisions  253  63  Increase/(decrease) in other non-current liabilities  (20)  12  Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities  151  10  Cash generated from operations  8,346  7,078  Taxes paid (net of refunds)  (2,268)  (1,859) Cash flow before exceptional items  6,078  5,219  Exceptional items: Profit from discontinued operations  2  (13) Amounts paid for other restructuring activities  (25)  (21) Taxes paid for exceptional items  9  -    Net cash (used in) / generated from operating activities - [A]  6,064  5,185  STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  For the year ended 31st March, 2018 131Overview Reports   Financial Statements130 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 B CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (888)  (1,113) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment  17  9  Purchase of Intangibles  (7)  (348) Investment in equity shares of a joint venture  -    (0) Purchase of non-current investments  -   0 Sale proceeds of non-current investments  4  9  Purchase of current investments  (51,855)  (31,214) Sale of current investments  52,893  30,074  Redemption/maturity of bank deposits (having original maturity of more than 3  months)  1,200  2,652  Investment in bank deposits (having original maturity of more than 3 months)  (2,812)  (1,662) Investment in non-current deposits with banks  (0)  (1) Interest received  297  264  Dividend received from others  -    14  Cash flow before exceptional items  (1,151)  (1,316) Exceptional items: Consideration received on disposal of surplus properties  15  167  Consideration received on disposal of joint venture  73  20  Taxes paid for exceptional items  (5)  (44) Net cash (used in) / generated from investing activities - [B]  (1,068)  (1,173) C CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Dividends paid  (3,887)  (3,572) Dividend distribution tax paid  (781)  (717) Amounts deposited in bank accounts towards unpaid dividends  (24)  (11) Amount borrowed for short term purpose  -    460  Amount repaid taken for short term purpose  (277)  (360) Interest paid  (6)  (14) Proceeds from share allotment under employee stock options/ performance share  schemes 0 0 Net cash (used in) / generated financing activities - [C]  (4,975)  (4,214) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents - [A+B+C]  21  (202) Add: Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (refer Note 12)  628  830  Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (refer Note 12)  649  628  Note:  The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018   STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Contd.)
For the year ended 31st March, 2018 133Overview Reports   Financial Statements132 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 132 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 NOTE 1 : GROUP INFORMATION  Hindustan Unilever Limited (the ‘Company’) is a public limited company domiciled in India with its registered office located at Unilever House,  B.D.
Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai 400 099.
The Company is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National  Stock Exchange (NSE).
The Company is a market leader in the FMCG business comprising primarily of Home  Care, Personal Care, Foods and  Refreshments.
The Company has manufacturing facilities across the country and sells primarily in India through independent distributors and  modern trade.
The Company, its subsidiaries and its joint venture (jointly referred to as the ‘Group’ herein under) considered in these consolidated financial  statements are:  a) Subsidiaries  Name of the company Country of  incorporation Principal activities Proportion (%) of equity interest As at   31st March, 2018 As at   31st March, 2017 Unilever India Exports Limited  India FMCG export business  100  100  Lakme Lever Private Limited  India (i) Beauty salons  (ii) Job work business   100  100  Unilever Nepal Limited  Nepal FMCG  business  80  80  Pond’s Export Limited  India Leather products business (primarily  exports)  100  100  Jamnagar Properties Private Limited  India Real estate Company  100  100  Daverashola Estates Private Limited  India Real estate Company  100  100  Levindra Trust Limited  India Discharge trust business as a trustee  100  100  Hindlever Trust Limited  India Discharge trust business as a trustee  100  100  Levers Associated Trust Limited  India Discharge trust business as a trustee  100  100  Hindustan Unilever Foundation*  India Not-for-profit company in the field of  community development initiatives.
100  100  Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition  Initiatives*  India Not-for-profit company that works in  the area of social development issues  100  100  *These companies are private companies limited by shares formed under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956, now Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013.
No dividend can be  proposed and paid to the shareholders by these companies.
In the event of winding up or dissolution of these companies, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any  property whatsoever shall be given or transferred to some other institution(s) having object similar to the objects of these companies, to be determined by the members of the  these companies at or before the time of dissolution or in default thereof by the High Court.
The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities included within the consolidated  financial statements to which these restrictions apply is ` 20 Crores (31st March, 2017: ` 3 Crore) and ` 0 Crore (31st March, 2017: ` 1 Crores) respectively.
b) Joint venture  Name of the company Country of  incorporation Principal activities Proportion (%) of equity interest As at   31st March, 2018 As at   31st March, 2017 Kimberly Clark Lever Private Limited #  India FMCG business (infant care  and feminine care products)  -    50  # The Company has divested its stake in Kimberly-Clark Lever Private Limited (KCLL) to its Holding Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation (KCC) on 29th September, 2017  c) Associates         Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, requires preparation of consolidated financial statement of the company and of all the subsidiaries  including associate company and joint venture businesses in the same form and manner as that of its own.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind  AS) 28 on Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures defines Associate Group as an entity over which the investor has significant influence.
It mentions that if an entity holds, directly or indirectly through intermediaries, 20 per cent or more of the voting power of the enterprise, it is  presumed that the entity has significant influence, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
The Group holds investments in the below entities which by share ownership are deemed to be an associate company: i)  Comfund Consulting Limited where the Group has 24% equity holding.
This is a Non Banking Finance Company (NBFC) set up  between HUL and a partner company, currently dormant.
ii)  Aquagel Chemicals (Bhavnagar) Private Limited where the Group has 26% equity and 26% preference capital holding.
This is a  company engaged in Silica business.
NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 133Overview Reports   Financial Statements132 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 133Overview Reports   Financial Statements Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.
)However, the Group does not exercise significant influence in any of the above entities, as demonstrated below : i)   The Group does not have any representation on the board of directors or corresponding governing body of the investee.
ii)  The Group does not participate in policy making process.
iii) The Group does not have any material transactions with the investee.
iv)  The Group does not interchange any managerial personnel.
v)   The Group does not provide any essential technical information to the investee.
vi)  As these are not investments strategic to the core business of HUL, these are intended to be divested/liquidated in the near future.
Since the Group does not exercise significant influence or control on decisions of the investees, these are not being construed as associate companies  and therefore  these have not been consolidated in the financial statement of the Group.
d) Share of Entities in Group  Name of the Entity As at 31st March, 2018 For the year ended 31st March, 2018 Net Assets (Total Assets  - Total Liabilities) Share in Sales of  Products and Services Share in Profit and Loss Share in Other  Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount As % of  consolidated  net Sales Amount As % of  Consolidated  profit and  loss Amount As % of  consolidated  other  comprehensive  income Amount As % of  Consolidated  total  comprehensive   income Amount Parent Hindustan Unilever Limited 96.9%  7,075 97.3%  34,619 100.1%  5,237 109.1%  (12) 100.2%  5,225  Subsidiaries Indian Unilever India Exports Limited 2.9%  214 2.5%  881 0.9%  49 -9.1%  1 1.0%  50  Lakme Lever Private Limited 2.7%  200 0.7%  246 0.4%  23 0.0%  -   0.4%  23  Pond’s Exports Limited 0.0%  (3) 0.0%  -   0.0%  2 0.0%  -   0.0%  2  Daverashola Estates Private Limited 0.1%  4 0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -    Levers Associated Trust Limited 0.0% 0 0.0%  -   0.0%  (0) 0.0%  -   0.0%  (0) Levindra Trust Limited 0.0% 0 0.0%  -   0.0%  (0) 0.0%  -   0.0%  (0) Hindlever Trust Limited 0.0% 0 0.0%  -   0.0%  (0) 0.0%  -   0.0%  (0) Jamnagar Properties Private Limited 0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -    Hindustan Unilever Foundation 0.3%  20 0.0%  -   0.3%  17 0.0%  -   0.3%  17  Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives 0.0% 0 0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -   0.0%  -    Foreign Unilever Nepal Limited 1.1%  79 0.8%  301 0.9%  49 0.0%  -   0.9%  49  Non-controlling interests 0.3%  20 0.0%  -   0.2%  13 0.0%  -   0.2%  13  Inter-company eliminations -4.3%  (308) -1.3%  (476) -2.8%  (163) 0.0%  -   -3.0%  (163) TOTAL 100%  7,301 100%  35,571 100%  5,227 100%  (11) 100%  5,216    135Overview Reports   Financial Statements134 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 2 : BASIS OF PREPARATION, MEASUREMENT  AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of Preparation and Measurement (a) Basis of preparation and consolidation These Consolidated Financial statements have been prepared in  accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter  referred to as the ‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of Corporate  Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read  with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  Amendment Rules, 2016.
The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared  on accrual and going concern basis.
The accounting policies  are applied consistently to all the periods presented in the  Consolidated financial statements.
All assets and liabilities  have been classified as current or non current as per the Group  normal operating cycle and other criteria as set out in the  Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
Based on  the nature of products and the time between acquisition of assets  for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents,  the Group has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for  the purpose of current or non-current classification of assets and  liabilities.
Subsidiaries are entities where the group exercise or controls  more than one-half of its total share capital.
The net assets and  results of acquired businesses are included in the consolidated  financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition,  being the date on which the Group obtains control.
The results  of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated financial  statements up to their date of disposal, being the date control  ceases.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using  uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events  in similar circumstances.
The accounting policies adopted in the  preparation of consolidated financial statements are consistent  with those of previous year.
The financial statements of the  Company and its subsidiaries have been combined on a line- by-line basis by adding together the book values of like items of  assets, liabilities, income and expenses, after eliminating intra- group balances, intra-group transactions and the unrealised  profits/losses, unless cost/revenue cannot be recovered.
The excess of cost to the Group of its investment in subsidiaries,  on the acquisition dates over and above the Group’s share of equity  in the subsidiaries, is recognised as ‘Goodwill on Consolidation’  being an asset in the consolidated financial statements.
The said  Goodwill is not amortised, however, it is tested for impairment  at each Balance Sheet date and the impairment loss, if any, is  provided for.
On the other hand, where the share of equity in  subsidiaries as on the date of investment is in excess of cost of  investments of the Group, it is recognised as ‘Capital Reserve’  and shown under the head ‘Other Equity’ in the consolidated  financial statements.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of  consolidated subsidiaries is identified and presented in  the consolidated Balance Sheet separately within equity.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated  subsidiaries consists of: (a)  The amount of equity attributable to non-controlling interests  at the date on which investment in a subsidiary is made; and  (b)  The non-controlling interests share of movements in equity since  the date parent subsidiary relationship came into existence.
The profit and other comprehensive income attributable to  non-controlling interests of subsidiaries are shown separately  in the Statement of Profit and Loss and Statement of Changes  in Equity.
Transactions and balances with values below the rounding off norm  adopted by the Group have been reflected as “0” in the relevant  notes in these Consolidated Financial statements.
The Consolidated Financial statements of the Company for the year  ended 31st March, 2018 were approved for issue in accordance with  the resolution of the Board of Directors on 14th May, 2018.
(b) Basis of measurement These Consolidated Financial statements are prepared under the  historical cost convention unless otherwise indicated.
2.2 Key Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of Consolidated Financial statements requires  management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions  in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported  amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results  may differ from these estimates.
Continuous evaluation is done  on the estimation and judgments  based on historical experience  and other factors, including expectations of future events that are  believed to be reasonable.
Revisions to accounting estimates are  recognised prospectively.
Information about critical judgments in applying accounting  policies, as well as estimates and assumptions that have the most  significant effect to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities  within the next financial year, are included in the following notes: (a) Measurement of defined benefit obligations - Note 42 (b)  Measurement and likelihood of occurrence of provisions and  contingencies - Note 20 and 25 (c) Recognition of deferred tax assets  - Note 8 (d)  Key assumptions used in discounted cash flow projections -  Note 44 (e) Impairment of Intangible - Note 4 2.3 Recent Accounting Developments (a) Standards issued but not yet effective: IND AS 115: Revenue from Contracts with Customers In March 2018, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendments)  Rules, 2017, notifying Ind AS 115, ‘Revenue from Contracts with  Customers’.
The Standard is applicable to the Group with effect  from 1st April, 2018.
135Overview Reports   Financial Statements134 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Revenue from Contracts with Customers Ind AS 115 establishes  a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting  for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Ind AS 115  will supersede the current revenue recognition standard Ind AS  18 Revenue, Ind AS 11 Construction Contracts when it becomes  effective.
The core principle of Ind AS 115 is that an entity should  recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or  services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration  to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those  goods or services.
Specifically, the standard introduces a 5-step  approach to revenue recognition: • Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer  • Step 2: Identify the performance obligation in contract  • Step 3: Determine the transaction price  • Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance  obligations in the contract  • Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a  performance obligation Under Ind AS 115, an entity recognises revenue when (or as) a  performance obligation is satisfied, i.e.
when ‘control’ of the goods  or services underlying the particular performance obligation  is transferred to the customer.
The Group has completed its  evaluation of the possible impact of Ind AS 115 and will adopt the  standard from 1st April, 2018 2.4 Significant Accounting Policies (a)  These are set out under “Significant Accounting Policies”  as given in the Company’s standalone financial statements.
(b) Other Accounting Policies applicable to Group i) Staff Bonus and Staff quarters [Unilever Nepal Limited):    Staff bonus and staff quarters are accounted in accordance  with the provisions of the Bonus Act, 2030 and Labor  Act, 2048 respectively.
In accordance with the decision of  Honorable Supreme Court of Nepal, the Group has set aside  “Employees’ Housing Reserve” for the purpose of construction  of staff quarters in line with the requirement of Section 41(2)  of the Labor Act, 2048.
This allocation has been done for all  years including previous years since financial year 2005-06.
There is no requirement of allocating fund for staff quarters as  per the provision of new Labor Act enacted and effective from  4th September, 2017.
Hence, the allocation of staff quarter from  the retained earning is done only for the applicable fiscal year.
ii) Operating segments:   The managing committee is considered to be the ‘Chief  Operating Decision Maker’ (CODM) as defined in IND AS 108.
The Operating Segment is the level at which discrete financial  information is available.
The CODM allocates resources and  assess performance at this level.
The group has identified the  below operating segments:  1.
Home Care - Fabric Wash, Household care and Water  2.
Personal Care -  Personal Wash, Skin Care, Hair Care,  Oral Care, Deodorants and colours     3.
Foods - Packaged foods and popular foods   4.
Refreshments -  Tea, Coffee, Ice Creams and Frozen  Deserts.
137Overview Reports   Financial Statements136 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 3 : PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT      A Property, Plant and Equipment  Land Buildings Plant and   equipment Furniture  and fixtures Office  equipment Total- Freehold    - Leasehold Gross Block Balance as at 31st March, 2016  60  28  931  2,370  61  41  3,491  Additions  -    1  284  934  7  22  1,248  Disposals  -    -    (5)  (34)  (2)  (1)  (42) Balance as at 31st March, 2017  60  29  1,210  3,270  66  62  4,697  Additions  -    1  139  500  10  20  670  Disposals  -    (3)  (6)  (79)  -    (8)  (96) Balance as at 31st March, 2018  60  27  1,343  3,691  76  74  5,271  Accumulated Depreciation Balance as at 31st March, 2016  -    2  36  272  8  8  326  Additions  -    2  40  356  9  13  420  Disposals  -    -    (1)  (14)  (1)  (1)  (17) Impairment Loss  -    -    -   0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31st March, 2017  -    4  75  614  16  20  729  Additions  -    2 51  433  8  16  510  Disposals  -    (1)  (1)  (39)  -    (7)  (48) Balance as at 31st March, 2018  -    5  125  1,008  24  29  1,191  Net Block Balance as at 31st March, 2017  60  25  1,135  2,656  50  42  3,968  Balance as at 31st March, 2018  60  22  1,218  2,683  52  45  4,080  Notes: (a) Buildings include ` 0 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 0 crores) being the value of shares in co-operative housing societies.
(b)  The title deeds of Freehold Land aggregating ` 0 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 2 crores), Leasehold Land, net block aggregating  ` 1 crores, (31st March, 2017: ` 5 crores) are in the process of perfection of title.
(c) The  Property, Plant and Equipment in 3A includes assets given on lease mentioned in the below table:          Building  Plant and  equipment   Furniture  and fixtures   Office  equipment  Total  Gross Block as at 31st March, 2016  1  62  0  0 63 Accumulated Depreciation as at 31st March, 2016  (0)  (2)  (0)  (0)  (2) Net Block as at 31st March, 2016  1  60  0  0 61 Gross Block as at 31st March, 2017  0  55  0  0  55  Accumulated Depreciation as at 31st March, 2017  (0)  (4)  (0)  (0)  (4) Net Block as at 31st March, 2017  0  51  0  0 51 Gross Block as at 31st March, 2018  0  70  0  0  70  Accumulated Depreciation as at 31st March, 2018  (0)  (12)  (0)  (0)  (12) Net Block as at 31st March, 2018  0  58 0 0 58 B Capital work-in-progress           Capital work in progress as at 31st March, 2018 is ` 461 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 229 crores)   For contractual commitment with respect to property, plant and equipment refer Note 25.B(ii).
137Overview Reports   Financial Statements136 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 4 : INTANGIBLE ASSETS A Intangible Assets Goodwill Other intangible assets Brands Knowhow and  Design Computer  Software Total Gross Block Balance as at 31st March, 2016  -    4  -    19  23  Additions  -    -    -    1  1  Disposals  -    -    -    (1)  (1) Acquisitions through business combination  (Refer note 44) 0  311  59  -    370  Balance as at 31st March, 2017 0  315  59  19  393  Additions  -    -    -    7  7  Disposals  -    -    -    -    -    Balance as at 31st March, 2018 0  315  59  26  400  Accumulated Amortisation and Impairment Balance as at 31st March, 2016  -    4  -    7  11  Additions  -    -    6  6  12  Disposals  -    -    -    (0)  (0) Balance as at 31st March, 2017  -    4  6  13  23  Additions  -    -    6  4  10  Disposals  -    -    -    -    -    Balance as at 31st March, 2018  -    4  12  17  33  Net Block Balance as at 31st March, 2017 0  311  53  6  370  Balance as at 31st March, 2018 0  311  47  9  367  IMPAIRMENT CHARGES       The goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested for impairment and accordingly no impairment charges were identified for FY  2017-18 (Nil for FY 2016-17)             SIGNIFICANT CASH GENERATING UNITS (CGUS)        The Group has identified its reportable segments Home care, Personal Care, Foods, Refreshments and Others as the CGUs.
The goodwill  and brand (with indefinite life) acquired through business combination has been entirely allocated to CGU ‘Personal Care’ segment of the  Group.
The carrying amount of goodwill and brand as at 31st March, 2018 is ` 0 crores and ` 311 crores respectively.
Following key assumptions were considered while performing Impairment testing Long term sustainable growth rates 7% Weighted Average Cost of Capital % (WACC) before tax 14% Average segmental margins 25% The projections cover a period of five years, as the Group believes this to be the most appropriate timescale over which to review and consider  annual performances before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows.
The growth rates used to estimate future  performance are based on the conservative estimates from past performance.
Segmental margins are based on FY 2017-18 performance.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital % (WACC)  =  Risk free return + ( Market risk premium x Beta variant for the Company).
The Group has performed sensitivity analysis around the base assumptions and have concluded that no reasonable  changes in key  assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the CGU to be less than the carrying value.
B Goodwill on consolidation   Pursuant to the merger of Aquagel Chemicals Private Limited (ACPL) with Lakme Lever Private Limited in the FY 2014-15, the excess  of cost to the Group of its investment in ACPL over the Group’s portion of equity in ACPL, amounting to ` 81 crores has been treated  as ‘Goodwill on consolidation’.
The goodwill on consolidation is tested for impairment and accordingly no impairments charges were  identified for FY 2017-18 (Nil for FY 2016-17)  139Overview Reports   Financial Statements138 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 5 : INVESTMENTS As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Non-Current Investments A.
Equity instruments Fair value through profit or loss Quoted 0 0 Unquoted  1  1  TOTAL (A)  1  1  B.
Other instruments Amortised cost Unquoted Investments in debentures and bonds 0 0 Investments in National Savings Certificates 0 0 Fair value through profit or loss Unquoted Investments in preference shares  1  5  TOTAL (B)  1  5  TOTAL (A+B)  2  6  Current Investments C. Other instruments Fair value through other comprehensive income Quoted Investments in treasury bills  1,025  1,459  Fair value through profit or loss Quoted Investments in mutual funds  1,846  2,329  TOTAL (C)  2,871  3,788  TOTAL (A+B+C)  2,873  3,794  Aggregate amount of quoted investments  2,871  3,788  Aggregate Market value of quoted investments  2,871  3,788  Aggregate amount of unquoted investments  2  6  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments  -    -    Refer Note 40  for information about fair value measurement and Note 41 for credit risk and market risk of investments.
NOTE 6 : LOANS (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Security deposits  118 122 Others (including employee loans)  66 46 TOTAL (A)  184 168 Current Security deposits  4  -    TOTAL (B)  4  -    Total (A+B)  188 168 Refer Note 41 for information about credit risk and market risk for loans.
139Overview Reports   Financial Statements138 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 7 : OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Investments in term deposits (with remaining maturity of more than twelve months)  1 1 Other assets (includes other receivables etc.)
5 5 TOTAL (A)  6 6 Current Current account balances with group companies and joint venture  40 71 Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  5 14 Duty drawback receivable  6  -    Other assets (includes government grants, other receivables etc.)
754 246 TOTAL (B)  805 331 Total (A+B)  811 337 Refer Note 41 for information about credit risk and market risk for other financial assets.
NOTE 8 : INCOME TAXES A.
Components of Income tax Expense  From Continuing Operation  From Discontinued Operations  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  I.
Tax expense recognised in the Statement of Profit  and Loss   Current tax Current year  2,360  2,011  -    -     Adjustments/(credits) related to previous years  - (net)  (144)  (64)  -    (1) TOTAL (A)  2,216  1,947  -    (1)  Deferred tax charge/(credit) Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (137)  30  -    -    TOTAL (B)  (137)  30  -    -    TOTAL (A+B)  2,079  1,977  -    (1) II.
Tax on Other Comprehensive Income   Current tax  (Gain)/loss on remeasurement  of net defined  benefit plans  (11)  -    -    -     (Gain)/loss on debt instruments through other  comprehensive income  -    -    -    -     Deferred tax charge/(credit)  (Gain)/loss on remeasurement  of net defined  benefit plans  6  (11)  -    -     (Gain)/loss on debt instruments through other  comprehensive income  (1)  0  -    -     (6)  (11)  -    -    141Overview Reports   Financial Statements140 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
B. Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate      The reconciliation between the statutory income tax rate applicable to the Company and the effective income tax rate of the Company is  as follows :             As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Statutory income tax rate 34.6% 34.4% Differences due to: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.7% 2.0% Income exempt from income tax -0.7% -0.9% Income tax incentives -4.4% -4.5% Others* -2.7% -0.4% Effective tax rate 28.5% 30.6% * Others include prior period adjustment tax refunds and tax on exceptional items  C. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Deferred tax assets  302  170  Net Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)  302  170  D. Movement In Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities       Movement during the year ended  31st March, 2017 As at   31st March, 2016 Credit/(charge) in  the Statement of  Profit and Loss Credit/(charge)  in Other  Comprehensive  Income On account  of Business  Combination  As at   31st March,  2017  Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) Provision for post retirement  benefits and other employee  benefits  159  (33)  11  -    137  Provision for doubtful debts and  advances  22  (0)  -    -    22  Expenses allowable for tax  purposes when paid  141  (12)  -    -    129  Accelerated Tax Depreciation  (285)  (71)  -    22  (334) Fair value (gains)/losses  (67)  (17)  -    -    (84) Other temporary differences  197  103  0  -    300   167  (30)  11  22  170  Movement during the year ended  31st March, 2018 As at   31st March, 2017 Credit/(charge) in  the Statement of  Profit and Loss Credit/(charge)  in Other  Comprehensive  Income On account  of Business  Combination  As at   31st March,  2018  Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) Provision for post retirement  benefits and other employee  benefits  137  9  (3)  -    143  Provision for doubtful debts and  advances  22  7  -    -    29  Expenses allowable for tax  purposes when paid  129  37  (1)  -    165  Depreciation  (334)  (26)  -    -    (360) Fair value gain/(loss) on  investments  (84)  29  2  -    (53) Other temporary differences  300  81  (3)  -    378   170  137  (5)  -    302  141Overview Reports   Financial Statements140 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
E. Tax Assets and Liabilities       As at 31st March, 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Non Current tax assets (net)  635  461  Non Current  tax liabilities (net)  558  432  F. Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets  As at 31st March, 2018  As at 31st March, 2017   Gross Amount Unrecognised  Tax effect  Gross Amount Unrecognised  Tax effect Deductible temporary difference  14  5  (59)  (20) Tax losses  5  2  165  57  TOTAL  19  7  106  37  G. Tax Losses Carried Forward  Year ended   31st March, 2018  Expiry date  Year ended   31st March, 2017  Expiry date  Brought forward losses (allowed to be carried forward  for specified period) - - 63 2018-22 Brought forward losses (allowed to be carried forward  for specified period) 5 2023-25 5 2023-25 Brought forward losses (allowed to be carried forward  for infinite period) 0 - 97 - Note: The above is arrived basis the balances as on date.
Part of the tax losses expires in 2023-2025.
The deductible temporary difference  do not expire under the current tax legislation.
NOTE 9 : OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Deferred lease rent  1  1  Security Deposits with customs, port trust, excise and other government authorities  62  39  Capital advances  21  35  Other advances (includes advances for materials)  29  30  Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances  (29)  (30) TOTAL  84  75  The movement in allowance for bad and doubtful advances is as follows: Balance as at beginning of the year  30  35  Change in allowance for bad and doubtful assets during the year  (1)  3  Written off during the year  (0)  (8) Balance as at the end of the year  29  30  NOTE 10 : INVENTORIES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Raw materials [includes in transit: ` 52 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 86 crores)]  813  863  Packing materials  83  107  Work-in-progress  263  229  Finished goods [includes in transit: ` 34 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 34 crores)] (Refer  note (a) below)  1,285  1,268  Stores and spares  69  74   2,513  2,541  (a) Finished goods includes good purchased for re-sale, as both are stocked together.
(b)  During FY 2017-18 an amount of ` 174 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 151 crores) was charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on  account of damage and slow moving inventory.
The reversal on account of above during the year amounted to ` 1 crore (31st March,  2017: ` 2 crores).
143Overview Reports   Financial Statements142 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 11 : TRADE RECEIVABLES (Unsecured unless otherwise stated)  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Considered good  1,310  1,085  Considered doubtful  49  39  Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful debts  (49)  (39)  1,310  1,085  The movement in allowance for bad and doubtful debts is as follows: Balance as at beginning of the year  39  30  Change in allowance for bad and doubtful debts during the year  14  12  Trade receivables written off during the year  (4)  (3) Balance as at the end of the year  49  39  Refer Note 41 for information about credit risk and market risk of trade receivables.
NOTE 12 : CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Cash on hand 0 0 Balances with banks In current accounts  109 110 Term deposits with original maturity of less than three months  540  518   649 628 NOTE 13 : BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Earmarked balances with banks Unpaid dividend account  140  116  Investments in term deposits (with original maturity of more than three months but less  than twelve months)  2,696  1,084   2,836  1,200  NOTE 14 : OTHER CURRENT ASSETS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Export benefits receivable  49  33  VAT credit receivable  -    55  GST and CENVAT receivable  400  246  Balances with government authorities  1  4  Other advances (includes prepaid expenses etc.)
206  214   656  552  143Overview Reports   Financial Statements142 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 15 : ASSETS HELD FOR SALE  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Group of assets held for sale Freehold Land  2  2  Buildings  6  7  Plant and equipment  8  12  Furniture and fixtures 0 0 Vehicles 0 0 Office equipment 0 0 Investment in Joint Venture  -    26   16  47  NOTE 16 : EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL    As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Authorised 2,25,00,00,000 (31st March, 2017: 2,25,00,00,000 ) equity shares of ` 1 each 225 225 Issued, subscribed and fully paid up 2,16,45,28,777 (31st March, 2017: 2,16,43,49,639) equity shares of ` 1 each 216 216 216 216 a) Reconciliation of the number of shares  Equity Shares: As at 31st March , 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Number of shares Amount Number of shares Amount Balance as at the beginning of the year  2,16,43,49,639  216  2,16,39,36,971  216  Add: ESOP shares issued during the year (Refer note 43)  1,79,138 0  4,12,668 0 Balance as at the end of the year  2,16,45,28,777 216  2,16,43,49,639  216  b) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares             Equity shares: The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1 per share.
Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per  share held.
In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution  of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the  approval  of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend.
c) Shares held by holding company and subsidiaries of holding company in aggregate    As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Equity Shares of ` 1 each 1,11,43,70,148 shares (31st March, 2017: 1,11,43,70,148) held by Unilever PLC, UK, the  holding company    111 111 34,00,42,710 shares (31st March, 2017: 34,00,42,710) held by subsidiaries of the holding  company    34 34 d) Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Number of shares  1,11,43,70,148  1,11,43,70,148  Unilever PLC, UK, the holding company 51.48% 51.49% 145Overview Reports   Financial Statements144 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
e) Shares reserved for issue under options    As at 31st March , 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Number of shares Amount Number of shares Amount Under 2001 HLL Stock Option Plan: equity shares of ` 1  each, at an exercise price of  ` 132.05 per share  -    -    -    -    Under 2006 HUL Performance Share Scheme: equity  shares of ` 1 each, at an exercise price of ` 1 per share  -    -    -    -    Under 2012 HUL Performance Share Scheme: equity  shares of ` 1 each, at an exercise price of ` 1 per share  (refer note 43)  4,53,191 0  5,52,414 0  4,53,191 0  5,52,414 0 For terms and other details Refer Note 43.
NOTE 17 : OTHER EQUITY  Refer Statement of Changes in Equity for detailed movement in Equity balance.
A.
Summary of Other Equity balance.
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Capital Reserve 4 4 Capital Redemption Reserve 6 6 Securities Premium Reserve 127 116 Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account 29 29 General Reserve 2,301 2,301 Retained Earnings 4,581 4,046 Other Reserves 9 9 Employee's Housing Reserve 50 48 Export profit reserves 0 0 Items of Other Comprehensive Income - Remeasurements of net defined benefit plans  (43)  (33) - Fair value of Debt instruments through OCI 1 2 TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 7,065 6,528 Attributable to Non-controlling Interest (Refer Note 18) 20 22 TOTAL OTHER EQUITY 7,085 6,550 B.
Nature and purpose of reserves    (a)  Capital Reserve:  During amalgamation, the excess of net assets taken, over the cost of consideration paid is treated as capital reserve.
(b)  Capital Redemption Reserve: The Company has recognised Capital Redemption Reserve on the buyback of equity shares from its  retained earnings.
The amount in the Capital Redemption Reserve is equal to the nominal amount of the equity shares bought back.
(c)  Securities Premium Reserve:  The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium  Reserve.
In case of equity-settled share based payment transactions, the difference between fair value on grant date and nominal  value of share is accounted as securities premium reserve.
(d)  Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account:  The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees  is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account.
(e)  General Reserve: The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to general reserve  pursuant to the earlier provision of companies Act, 1956.
Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.
(f)  Retained Earnings: Retained earnings are the profits that the company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve,  dividends or other distributions paid to investors.
(g)  Other Reserves:  The Company has recognised Other Reserves on amalgamation of Brooke Bond Lipton India Limited as per statutory  requirements.
This reserve is not available for capitalisation/declaration of dividend/ share buy-back.
Further it also includes capital  subsidy and revaluation reserve.
145Overview Reports   Financial Statements144 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
(h)  Employee’s Housing Reserve : As required by the local labour act of Nepal, on a yearly basis a portion of gross profit earned by the  company is transferred to housing fund reserve which will be used to provide housing facilities to the employees.
Mandatory transfer  to employee’s housing reserve is not required with the new labour law enacted on 4th september, 2017.
(i) Export profit reserves : Export Profit Reserve has been created to protect, from any losses due to volatility in business.
(j)  Remeasurements of Net Defined Benefit Plans:  Differences between the interest income on plan assets and the return actually  achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience adjustments within  the plans, are recognised  in ‘Other comprehensive income’ and subsequently not reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(k)  Debt Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income:  The fair value change of the debt instruments measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income is recognised in Debt instruments through Other Comprehensive Income.
Upon derecognition,  the cumulative fair value changes on the said instruments are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
C. Other Comprehensive Income accumulated in Other Equity, net of tax      The disaggregation of changes in other comprehensive income by each type of reserve in equity is shown below: Remeasurements  of defined benefit  plans Debt instruments  through Other  Comprehensive  Income Total As at 31st March, 2016  (11) 0  (11) Re-measurement gain/(loss) on net defined benefit plans  (33)  -    (33) Gain/(loss) on debt instruments recognised in other  comprehensive income  -    2  2  Reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss  -    -    -    Income tax effect  11  (0)  11  As at 31st March, 2017  (33)  2  (31) Re-measurement gain/(loss) on net defined benefit plans  (15)  -    (15) Gain/(loss) on debt instruments recognised in other  comprehensive income  -    (2)  (2) Reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss  -    -    -    Income tax effect  5  1  6  As at 31st March, 2018  (43)  1  (42) D. Capital Management    Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Group’s capital management.
The Group  manages its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to shareholders.
The  capital structure of the Group is based on management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day needs with a focus on total equity so as  to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence.
The management and the board of directors monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to shareholders.
The Group may  take appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
NOTE 18 : NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS       The following table summarises the financial information relating to Unilever Nepal Limited that has non-controlling interests (20%).
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-current assets  184  156  Current assets  141  153  Non-current liabilities  (144)  (122) Current liabilities  (82)  (78) Net assets  99  109  Carrying amount of non-controlling interests  20  22         147Overview Reports   Financial Statements146 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 Revenue from operations  327  312  Profit for the year  62  69  Other comprehensive income for the year  -    (0) Total comprehensive income for the year  62  69  Attributable to non-controlling interests (20%): Profit for the year  13  14  Other comprehensive income for the year  -    (0) Cash flows from: Operating activities 70  57  Investing activities 8  (2) Financing activities  (73)  (58) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5  (3) Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 15  12  NOTE 19 : OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Security deposits  28  24  Contingent consideration  91  49  TOTAL (A)  119  73  CURRENT  Unpaid dividends [Refer (a) below]  140  116  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  4  13  Contingent consideration payable  13  -    Other payables (payable for purchase of property, plant and equipment etc.)
57  62  Deferred borrowings  -    3  Book Overdraft  -    1  TOTAL (B)  214  195  TOTAL (A+B)  333  268  a)  There are no amounts due for payment to the Investor Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the Companies Act,  2013 as 31st March, 2018 (31st March, 2017: Nil) NOTE 20 : PROVISIONS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Non-Current Provision for employee benefits (pension, medical, compensated absences[Refer Note  42] and others)   101  106  Other provisions (including for statutory levies etc.)
- net [Refer (a) below]  699  408  TOTAL (A)  800  514  Current  Provision for employee benefits (gratuity, pension, medical, compensated  absences[Refer Note 42] and others)   93  41  Other provisions (including restructuring etc.)
[Refer (a) below]  595  351  TOTAL (B)  688  392  TOTAL (A+B)  1,488  906  147Overview Reports   Financial Statements146 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
a) Movement in Other provisions (Non-current and Current) Indirect Tax related Legal and Other  Matters Total Balance as at 31st March, 2016  253  431  684  Add: Provision/reclassified during the year *  135  75  210  Less: Amount utilised/reversed during the year  (93)  (42)  (135) Balance as at 31st March, 2017  295  464  759  Add: Provision/reclassified during the year *  70  548  618  Less: Amount utilised/reversed during the year  (15)  (68)  (83) Balance as at 31st March, 2018  350  944  1,294  * includes unwinding of discount and change in discount rate.
The provisions for indirect taxes and legal matters comprises of numerous separate cases that arise in the ordinary course of business.
These provisions have not been discounted as it is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timing of the provision utilisation and cash  outflows, if any, pending resolution.
NOTE 21 : OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Employee and ex-employee related liabilities  197  207   197  207  NOTE 22 : CURRENT BORROWINGS  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Unsecured loan from banks  -    277   -    277  Refer note 41 for information about liquidity risk and market risk of short term borrowings.
Unsecured loan taken from banks for export packing credit requirement amounting to ` Nil (31st March, 2017: ` 280 crores) NOTE 23 : TRADE PAYABLES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises (as per the Intimation Received from Vendors) a.
Principal and interest amount remaining unpaid  -   0 b.
Interest due thereon remaining unpaid  -    -    c.  Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, Small and  Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along with the amount of the payment  made to the supplier beyond the appointed day  -    -    d.  Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have  been paid but beyond the appointed day during the period) but without adding  interest specified under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Act, 2006  -    -    e. Interest accrued and remaining unpaid  -    -    f.  Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date  when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprises  -    -    Dues to Others Acceptances  141  243  Trade payables  7,029  5,943   7,170  6,186  Refer Note 41 for information about liquidity risk and market risk of trade payables.
149Overview Reports   Financial Statements148 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 24 : OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Salaries, wages and bonus payable  239  211  Statutory dues (including provident fund, tax deducted at source and others)  353  375  Advance from customers  62  78  Other payables  161  -     815  664  NOTE 25 : CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS As at    31st March, 2018 As at    31st March, 2017 A Contingent Liabilities Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts  Income tax matters  895  646   Sales tax matters  255  125   Excise duty, service tax and customs duty matters  482  194    Other matters including claims related to employees/ex-employees, property  related demands, etc.
121  85   (i)  It is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timings of cash  outflows, if any, in respect of the above pending resolution of the  respective proceedings as it is determinable only on receipt of  judgments/decisions pending with various forums/authorities.
(ii)  The Group does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above  contingent liabilities.
(iii)  The Group’s pending litigations comprise of proceedings pending with  Income Tax, Excise, Custom, Sales tax/VAT, other authorities and claims  against the Group by employees.
The Group has reviewed all its pending  litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where  provisions are required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where  applicable, in its financial statements.
The Group does not expect the  outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its  financial results.
(iv)  The Group has given Bank Guarantees in respect of certain matters of  above contingent liabilities.
Corporate Guarantee given  8  8  B Commitments           i) Operating lease commitments            The Group’s significant leasing arrangements are in respect of operating leases for premises (residential, office, stores, godown etc.)
and  computers.
These leasing arrangements which are cancellable (other than those specified below), range between 11 months and 10 years  generally, or longer, and are usually renewable by mutual consent on mutually agreeable terms.
The aggregate lease rentals payable are  charged as rent in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Group has entered into agreement to take certain land and building on operating lease for warehousing activities from a third party.
The lease arrangement is for 10 years, including a non-cancellable term of 9 years.
The lease rent of ` 13 crores (2016-17: ` 14 crores) on  such lease is included in Rent.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:  As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  Not later than one year 14  14  Later than one year and not later than five years 61  58  Later than five years 10  24  149Overview Reports   Financial Statements148 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
As at   31st March, 2018   As at   31st March, 2017  ii) Capital commitments   Estimated value of contracts in capital account remaining to be executed and not  provided for (net of capital advances)  164  257  iii)  Other commitments  Unexpired Letter of credit and acceptances  11  8   175  265  NOTE 26 : REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Sale of products (including excise duty*)  35,474  34,964  Sale of services  97  97  Other operating revenue Income from services rendered  360  513  Others (including government grant, scrap sales, export incentives, commission,  lease license fee etc.)
307  185   36,238  35,759  Total government grant recognized ` 172 crores (FY 2016-17 Nil ) * Up to 30th June, 2017 NOTE 27 : OTHER INCOME  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Interest income on Bank deposits  136  184  Current investments  122  74  Others  2  2  Dividend income from Non-current investments  2  -    Current investments  -    14  Fair value gain/(loss) Investments measured at fair value through profit or loss  113  86  Investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income  -   0 Net gain on sale of investments  9  9   384  369  NOTE 28 : COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Raw materials consumed  10,358  9,383  Packing materials consumed  2,569  2,563   12,927  11,946  NOTE 29 : PURCHASES OF STOCK-IN-TRADE   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Purchases of stock-in-trade  3,875  4,223   3,875  4,223  151Overview Reports   Financial Statements150 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 30 : CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS (INCLUDING STOCK-IN-TRADE) AND WORK-IN-PROGRESS   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Opening inventories  Finished goods  1,268  1,251  Work-in-progress  229  375  Finished goods  Finished goods  (1,285)  (1,268) Work-in-progress  (263)  (229) Excise duty on increase/(decrease) of finished goods  (21)  15   (72)  144  NOTE 31 : EXCISE DUTY   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Excise duty  693  2,597   693  2,597  Up to 30th June, 2017 NOTE 32 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Salaries and wages, bonus etc.
1,526  1,439  Contribution to provident funds and other funds  94  86  Defined benefit plan expense (Refer Note 42)  65  18  Share based payments to employees (Refer Note 43)  79  94  Workmen and staff welfare expenses  96  106   1,860  1,743  NOTE 33 : FINANCE COSTS  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Interest expense on book overdraft and others  5  14  Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (Refer Note 42)  8  6  Unwinding of discount on provisions and liabilities  9  8  Unwinding of discount on employee and ex-employee related liabilities  4  7   26  35  NOTE 34 : DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSES  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 510 420 Amortisation on intangible assets 10 12 520 432 151Overview Reports   Financial Statements150 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 35 : OTHER EXPENSES  Year ended 31st March, 2018 Year ended 31st March, 2017 Advertising and promotion  4,153  3,542  Carriage and freight      1,547  1,516  Royalty - Technology 493 521 - Brand 158  651 170  691  Fees for central services from Parent Company  358  378  Power, fuel, light and water  295  295  Rent  285  267  Processing charges  309  193  Travelling and motor car expenses  162  179  Repairs  120  131  Rates & taxes (excluding income tax)  96  116  Corporate social responsibility expense [Refer note (a) below]  119  107  Miscellaneous expenses  1,361  1,351   9,456  8,766  (a)  The Group has spent ` 119 crores (2016-17: ` 107 crores) towards various schemes of Corporate Social Responsibility as prescribed  under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The details are:      I.
Gross amount required to be spent by the Group during the year: ` 115 crores (2016-17: ` 105 crores) II.
Amount spent during the year on: Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 In cash  /payable  Yet to be  paid in Cash  In cash  /payable  Yet to be paid  in Cash  i) Construction/Acquisition of any asset  -    -    -    -    ii) For purposes other than (i) above  119  -    107  -     119  -    107  -    III.
The Group does not carry any provisions for Corporate social responsibility expenses for the current year and previous year.
NOTE 36 : EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  i)   Profit on disposal of surplus properties  13  164  ii)  Profit on disposal of business/subsidiary  -    19  iiI)  Profit on disposal of joint venture  72  -    iv)  Decrease in liability on account of plans amendments basis actuarial valuation  (refer Note 42)  -    115  Total exceptional income (A)  85  298  i) Fair valuation of contingent consideration payable (refer Note 44)  (48)  -    ii) Restructuring costs  (70)  (61) Total exceptional expenditure (B)  (118)  (61) Exceptional items (net)  (A+B)  (33)  237      153Overview Reports   Financial Statements152 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 37 : DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS      In previous year Ponds Exports Limited (PEL) has closed down its existing operation.
This is in line with our group strategy of exiting non  core business.
A Results of discontinued operation                        Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Revenue  5  90  Expenses  (3)  (103) Results from discontinued operations before tax  2  (13) Less: Inter-company Elimination 0 0 Tax Expense Current tax  -    1  Deferred tax credit/(charge)  -    -    Results from discontinued operations after tax  2  (12) The profit from discontinued operations of ` 2 crores (2016-17 loss ` 12 crores) is attributable entirely to the owners of the Company.
B Net Cash (used in)/generated from discontinued operations  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Net cash generated from operating activities  4  (0) Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (0)  1  Net cash used in financing activities  (4)  0  Net cash flows for the year  (0)  1  NOTE 38 : EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE A.
From Continuing operations  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Earnings Per Share has been computed as under: Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the Company 5,212 4,488 Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,16,44,57,493 2,16,42,12,891 Earnings Per Share (`) - Basic (Face value of ` 1 per share) ` 24.08 ` 20.74 Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on account of employee stock  options/performance share schemes  4,66,552  4,25,681 Weighted average number of Equity shares (including dilutive shares) outstanding 2,16,49,24,045 2,16,46,38,572 Earnings Per Share (`) - Diluted (Face value of ` 1 per share) ` 24.07 ` 20.73 B.
From Discountinued operations  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Earnings Per Share has been computed as under: Profit/(Loss) for the year attributable to the owners of the Company  2  (12) Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 2,16,44,57,493 2,16,42,12,891 Earnings Per Share (`) - Basic (Face value of ` 1 per share) ` 0.01 ` (0.06) Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on account of employee stock  options/performance share schemes 4,66,552 4,25,681 Weighted average number of Equity shares (including dilutive shares) outstanding  2,16,49,24,045 2,16,46,38,572 Earnings Per Share (`) - Diluted (Face value of ` 1 per share) ` 0.01 ` (0.06) 153Overview Reports   Financial Statements152 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
NOTE 39 : DIVIDEND ON EQUITY SHARE    Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Dividend on equity shares declared and paid during the year Final dividend of ` 10.00 per share for FY 2016-17 (2015-16: ` 9.50 per share)  2,164  2,056  Dividend distribution tax on final dividend*  441  419  Interim dividend of ` 8.00 per share for FY 2017-18 (2016-17: ` 7.00 per share)  1,732  1,515  Dividend distribution tax on interim dividend*  314  274   4,651  4,264  Proposed dividend on equity shares not recognised as liability Final dividend of ` 12.00 per share for FY 2017-18 (2016-17: `10.00 per share)  2,597  2,164  Dividend distribution tax on final dividend  534  441   3,131  2,605  Payout ratio for FY 2017-18 99% Proposed dividend on equity shares is subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company at the Annual General Meeting and not  recognised as liability as at the Balance Sheet date.
*Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT)-net, pertaining to the current year comprises the DDT on final dividend of FY 2016-17 and interim dividend of FY 2017-18 and the credit  in respect of tax paid under Section 115 O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 by the Company on dividend received from its domestic and foreign subsidiaries during the year.
NOTE 40 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   A Accounting Classifications and Fair Values The carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments by class are as follows: Note Carrying value /Fair value As at 31st March , 2018 As at 31st March, 2017 Financial Assets Financial assets measured at fair value Investments measured at i.
Fair value through other comprehensive income 5  1,025  1,459  ii.
Fair value through profit or loss 5  1,848  2,335  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts 7  5  14  Financial assets measured at amortised cost Investments 5 0 0 Loans 6  188  168  Investments in term deposits 7,13  2,697  1,085  Other assets 7  759  251   6,522  5,312  Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts 19  4  13  Contingent consideration 19  104  49  Borrowings 22  -    277  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Security deposits 19  28  24  Other payables 19  57  62   193  425  The Group has  disclosed  financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, trade receivables, current  account balances with group companies, trade payables, unpaid dividends, deferred borrowings, interest accrued but not due and book  overdraft at carrying value because their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of the fair values due to their short term nature.
155Overview Reports   Financial Statements154 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
B Income, Expenses, Gains or Losses on Financial Instruments             Interest income and expenses, gains or losses recognised on financial assets and liabilities in the Statement of Profit and Loss  are as  follows:  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Financial assets measured at amortised cost Interest income 138  186  Allowance for doubtful debts  13  6  Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income  Investment in debt instruments Interest income 122  74  Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income  (2)  2  Reclassified from other comprehensive income to Statement of Profit and Loss 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Fair value gain/(loss) on investment in debt instruments 113  86  Dividend income on non current investments 2  -    Dividend income on current investments  -    14  Net gain on sale of investments 9  9  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Interest expense 5  14  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts Fair value gain/(loss)  (2)  22  C Fair Value Hierarchy The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note (A) above have been classified into a three categories depending on the inputs  used in the valuation technique.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities  (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
The categories used are as follows: • Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in an active market;             • Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and • Level 3: Inputs which are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as at Balance Sheet date, the classification of fair value calculations by category  is summarized below:             Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31st March, 2018 Assets at fair value  Investments measured at:  i.
Fair Value through OCI  1,025  -    -    1,025   ii.
Fair Value through Profit or Loss  1,846  -    2  1,848   Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -    5  -    5  Liabilities at fair value  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -    4  -    4   Contingent consideration  -    -    104  104  As at 31st March, 2017   Assets at fair value  Investments measured at:  i.
Fair Value through OCI  1,459  -    -    1,459   ii.
Fair Value through Profit or Loss  2,329  -    6  2,335   Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -    14  -    14  Liabilities at fair value  Derivatives - foreign exchange forward contracts  -    13  -    13   Contingent consideration  -    -    49  49   Borrowings  -    277  -    277  155Overview Reports   Financial Statements154 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
The fair value classification of investment in mutual funds (fair value through profit and loss) has been reviewed and re-classified from  Level 2 to Level 1 during FY 2017-18.
Calculation of Fair Values The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a  liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Methods and assumptions used to estimate the  fair values are consistent with those used for the year ended 31st March, 2017.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at Balance Sheet date: 1.
The fair values of investment in treasury bills and quoted investment in equity shares is based on the current bid price of respective  investment as at the Balance Sheet date.
2.
The fair values of investments in mutual fund units is based on the net asset value (‘NAV’) as stated by the issuers of these mutual  fund units in the published statements as at Balance Sheet date.
NAV represents the price at which the issuer will issue further units  of mutual fund and the price at which issuers will redeem such units from the investors.
3.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments has been determined using valuation techniques with market observable inputs.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counter-parties and foreign exchange forward rates.
Other financial assets and liabilities - Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, investments in term deposits, other financial assets (except derivative financial instruments),  trade payables, and other financial liabilities (except derivative financial instruments) have fair values that approximate to their carrying  amounts due to their short-term nature.
- Loans have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts as it is based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash  flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Significant unobservable inputs used in level 3 Fair Values As at 31st March, 2018 Significant unobservable inputs Sensitivity of input to fair value measurement   Contingent consideration Forecast revenue: 10% increase in forecasted revenue will have additional Liability  of ` 10 crores and 10% decrease will have opposite impact of   ` 8 crores.
Discount rate: 14% 1% increase in Discount rate  will have P&L gain of ` 2 crores   1% decrease will have  an equal but opposite effect.
As at 31st March, 2017 Contingent consideration Forecast revenue 10% increase in forecasted revenue will have additional Liability  of ` 5 crores and 10% decrease will have an equal but opposite  effect.
Discount rate: 12% 1% increase in Discount rate  will have P&L gain of ` 2 crores   1% decrease will have  an equal but opposite effect.
NOTE 41 : FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group business activities are exposed  to a variety of financial risks, namely liquidity risk, market risks and credit risk.
The Group  senior management has the overall responsibility for establishing and governing the Group risk management framework.
The Group has  constituted a Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group risk management policies.
The  Group risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set and monitor appropriate risk  limits and controls, periodically review the changes in market conditions and reflect the changes in the policy accordingly.
The key risks  and mitigating actions are also placed before the Audit Committee of the company.
A Management of Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will face in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities.
The Group approach to  managing liquidity is to ensure that it will have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities when due without incurring unacceptable losses.
In  doing this, management considers both normal and stressed conditions.
The Group maintained a cautious liquidity strategy, with a positive cash balance throughout the year ended 31st March, 2018 and   31st March, 2017.
Cash flow from operating activities provides the funds to service and finance the financial liabilities on a day-to-day basis.
157Overview Reports   Financial Statements156 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
The Group regularly monitors the rolling forecasts to ensure it has sufficient cash on an on-going basis to meet operational needs.
Any short term surplus cash generated , over and above the amount required for working capital management and other operational  requirements, is retained as cash and cash equivalents (to the extent required) and any excess is invested in interest bearing term deposits  and other highly marketable debt investments with appropriate maturities to optimise the cash returns on investments while ensuring   sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities.
The following table shows the maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows  along with its carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Carrying amount Undiscounted Amount Payable within 1 year More than 1 years Total  As at 31st March, 2018 Non-derivative liabilities Trade payables (including acceptances)  7,170  7,170  -    7,170  Security deposits  28  -    28  28  Unpaid dividend  140  140  -    140  Other Payables  57  57  -    57  Contingent consideration  104  13  127  140  Derivative liabilities Forward exchange contracts  4  4  -    4  As at 31st March, 2017 Non-derivative liabilities Borrowings  277  277  -    277  Trade payables (including acceptances)  6,186  6,186  -    6,186  Security deposits  24  -    24  24  Unpaid dividend  116  116  -    116  Other Payables  66  66  -    66  Contingent consideration  49  -    73  73  Derivative liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts  13  13  -    13  B Management of Market Risk The Group size and operations result in it being exposed to the following market risks that arise from its use of financial instruments:   • currency risk;    • price risk;  and   • interest rate risk The above risks may affect the Group income and expenses, or the value of its financial instruments.
The Group exposure to and management  of these risks are explained below.
Potential Impact of Risk Management Policy Sensitivity To Risk 1.
Currency Risk The Group is subject to the risk that changes in  foreign currency values impact the Group exports  revenue and imports of raw material and property,  plant and equipment.
As at 31st March, 2018, the net unhedged exposure  to the Group on holding financial assets (trade  receivables and Capital advances) and liabilities  (trade payables and capital creditors) other than in  their functional currency amounted to ` 4 crores  payable (31st March, 2017: ` 5 crores).
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising  from various currency exposures, primarily with  respect to US Dollar and Euro.
The Group manages currency exposures within  prescribed limits, through use of forward exchange  contracts.
Foreign exchange transactions are covered  with strict limits placed on the amount of uncovered  exposure, if any, at any point in time.
The aim of the Group’s approach to  management of  currency risk is to leave the Group with no material  residual risk.
A 5% strengthening of the  INR against key currencies to  which the Group is exposed  (net of hedge) would have  led to approximately an  additional ` 0 crores gain in  the Statement of Profit and  Loss (2016-17: ` 0 crores  gain).
A 5% weakening of the  INR against these currencies  would have led to an equal but  opposite effect.
157Overview Reports   Financial Statements156 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Potential Impact of Risk Management Policy Sensitivity To Risk 2.
Price Risk “The Group is mainly exposed to the price risk  due to its investment in debt mutual funds.
The  price risk arises due to uncertainties about the  future market values of these investments.
At 31st March 2018, the investments in debt  mutual funds amounts to ` 1,846 crores  (31st March, 2017: ` 2,329 crores).
These are  exposed to price risk   The Group has laid  policies and guidelines which it  adheres to in order to minimise pricing risk  arising  from investments in debt mutual funds.
A 1% increase in prices would  have led to approximately an  additional ` 18 crores gain in  the Statement of Profit and  Loss (2016-17: ` 23 crores  gain).
A 1% decrease in prices  would have led to an equal but  opposite effect.
3.
Interest Rate Risk The Group is mainly exposed to the interest  rate risk due to its investment in treasury  bills.
The interest rate risk arises due to  uncertainties about the future market interest  rate of these investments.
The Group majorly invests in term deposits  for a period of less than one year.
Considering  the short-term nature, there is no significant  interest rate risk pertaining to these deposits.
As at 31st March 2018, the investments in  treasury bill and borrowings amounts to  ` 1,025 crores (31st March, 2017: ` 1,182  crores).
These are exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group has laid  policies and guidelines including   tenure of investment made to minimise impact of  interest rate risk.
A 0.25% decrease in interest  rates would have led to  approximately an additional  ` 0 crores gain in the  Statement of Profit and Loss  (2016-17:  ` 1 crores gain).
A 0.25% decrease in interest  rates would have led to an  equal but opposite effect.
C Management of Credit Risk.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counter-party fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Trade receivables Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, due to the Group’s customer base being large and diverse.
All  trade receivables are reviewed and assessed for default on a quarterly basis.
Our historical experience of collecting receivables is that credit risk is low.
Hence, trade receivables are considered to be a single class of  financial assets.
Other financial assets The Group maintains exposure in cash and cash equivalents, term deposits with banks, investments in treasury bills, money market liquid  mutual funds with financial institutions and derivative financial instruments.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31st March, 2018 and 31st March, 2017  is the carrying value of each class of financial  assets.
NOTE 42 : DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS            Description of Plans Retirement Benefit Plans of the Company include Gratuity, Management Pension, Officer’s Pension and Provident Fund.
Other post- employment benefit plans includes post retirement medical benefits.
Gratuity is funded through investments mostly with an insurance service provider and partly through direct investment under Hind Lever  Gratuity Fund.
Pension (Management Pension and Officer’s Pension) for most employees is managed through a trust, investments with  an insurance service provider and for some employees investments are managed through Company managed trust.
Provident Fund  for most of the employees are managed through trust investments and for some employees through government administered fund.
Post-retirement medical benefits are managed through investment made under Company managed trust.
159Overview Reports   Financial Statements158 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Governance  The trustees of the trust fund are responsible for the overall governance of the plan and to act in accordance with the provisions of the trust  deed and rules in the best interests of the plan participants.
They are tasked with periodic reviews of the solvency of the fund and play a  role in the long-term investment, risk management and funding strategy.
Investment Strategy The Company’s investment strategy in respect of its funded plans is implemented within the framework of the applicable statutory  requirements.
The plans expose the Company to a number of actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and  inflation risk.
The Company has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of controlling  risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the Company of the benefits  provided.
To achieve this, investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact  on the overall level of assets.
A.
Balance Sheet     The assets, liabilities and surplus/(deficit) position of the defined benefit plans at the Balance Sheet date were: Retirement Benefit Plans Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Present value of obligation  2,582  2,424  158  162  Fair value of plan assets  (2,483)  (2,377)  (88)  (93) (Asset)/Liability recognised in the  Balance Sheet  99  47  70  69  Of which in respect of: Funded plans in surplus: Present value of obligation  14  12  -    -    Fair value of plan assets  (39)  (42)  -    -    (Asset)/Liability recognised in the  Balance Sheet*  -*  -*  -    -    *The excess of assets over liabilities in  respect of Officer’s Pension have not been  recognised as they are lying in an Income  Tax approved irrevocable trust fund.
Funded plans in deficit: Present value of obligation  2,568  2,412  158  162  Fair value of plan assets  (2,469)  (2,365)  (88)  (93) (Asset)/Liability recognised in the  Balance Sheet  99  47  70  69  B.
Movements in Present Value of Obligation and Fair Value of Plan Assets  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Plan Assets  Plan  Obligation   Total  Plan Assets  Plan  Obligation   Total  As at 31st March, 2016  2,208  2,318  111  92  146  54  Current service cost  -    73  73  -   0 0 Past service cost  -    (115)  (115)  -    -    -    Interest cost  -    170  170  -    11  11  Interest income  171  -    (171)  7  -    (7) Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in demographic assumptions  -    -    -    -    -    -    Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in financial assumptions  27  30  3  3  14  11  Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from  experience adjustments  -    22  22  -    (1)  (1) Employer contributions  76  -    (76)  -    -    -    Employee contributions  129  129  -    -    -    -    Assets acquired/ (settled)  (42)  (42) 0  -    -    -    Benefit payments  (162)  (162)  -    (9)  (9)  -    As at 31st March, 2017  2,407  2,424  17  93  162  69  159Overview Reports   Financial Statements158 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Plan Assets  Plan  Obligation   Total  Plan Assets  Plan  Obligation   Total  As at 31st March, 2017  2,407  2,424  17  93  162  69  Current service cost   -     81  81   -    0 0 Past service cost   -     45  45   -      -      -     Employee contributions   -     145  145 -   -      -     Interest cost   -     163  163   -     11  11  Interest income  163   -     (163)  6   -     (6) Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in demographic assumptions   -     30  30  -     -      -     Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes  in financial assumptions  39  3  (36)  (1)  (18)  (17) Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from  experience adjustments   -     39  39   -     13  13  Employer contributions  102   -     (102)   -      -      -     Employee contributions  145 -  (145)   -    -   -     Assets acquired/ (settled)  (20)  (20)   -      -      -      -     Benefit payments  (328)  (328)   -     (10)  (10)   -     As at 31st March, 2018  2,508  2,582  74  88  158  70  C. Statement of Profit and Loss The charge to the Statement of Profit and Loss comprises:  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Employee Benefit Expenses *: Current service cost  20  18 0 0 Past service cost  45  (115)   -      -     Finance costs * : Interest cost  42  44  11  11  Interest income  (39)  (42)  (6)  (7) Net impact on profit (before tax)  68  (95)  5  4  Remeasurement of the net defined  benefit plans: Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from  changes in demographic assumptions  28  -    -    -    Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from  changes in financial assumptions  1  20  (17)  11  Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from  experience adjustments  1  -    13  (1) Net impact on other comprehensive  income (before tax)  30  20  (4)  10  *: Service cost and Finance cost has not been recognised in the statement of profit and loss for Officer’s Pension and Provident Fund 161Overview Reports   Financial Statements160 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
D.  Assets      The fair value of plan assets at the Balance Sheet date for the defined benefit plans for each category are as follows:  Retirement Benefit Plans  Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017   Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Quoted Government debt instruments  907  809  -    -    Other debt instruments  967  1,000  88  93  TOTAL (A)  1,874  1,809  88  93  Unquoted Other debt instruments  201  201  -    -    Others  433  397  -    -    Total (B)  634  598  -    -    Total (A+B)  2,508  2,407  88  93  Note: Assets to the extent of ` 39 crores is not recognised in Balance Sheet  of Officer’s Pension Fund  as they are lying in an Income Tax  approved irrevocable trust fund.
None of the plans invest directly in any property occupied by the Company or any financial securities issued by the Company.
E. Assumptions             With the objective of presenting the plan assets and plan obligations of the defined benefits plans at their fair value on the Balance  Sheet, assumptions under Ind AS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date.
Financial Assumptions Retirement Benefit Plans Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Discount rate (per annum) 8.0% 7.0% 8.0% 7.0% Salary escalation rate (per annum) Management employees  - for first 5 years 8.0% 7.0% Management employees  - after 5 years 8.0% 5.0% Non-management employees 8.0% 8.0% Pension increase rate (per annum)* 2.5% 2.5% Annual increase in healthcare costs (per  annum) 9.0% 9.0% *For management pension only              The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other  relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
Demographic Assumptions              Mortality in Service:  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2006-08) Ultimate table  Mortality in Retirement : LIC Buy-out Annuity Rates & UK Published PA (90) Annuity Rates suitably adjusted for Indian Lives.
161Overview Reports   Financial Statements160 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
F. Sensitivity Analysis              The sensitivity of the overall plan obligations to changes in the weighted key assumptions are:  Retirement Benefit Plans Other Post-Employment   Benefit Plans Change in  assumption (%) Change in plan  obligation (%) Change in  assumption (%) Change in plan  obligation (%) Discount rate (per annum)                    Increase 0.5% -1.9% 0.5% -5.1% Decrease 0.5% 2.0% 0.5% 5.6% Salary escalation rate (per annum) Increase 0.3% 1.4% - - Decrease 0.3% -1.3% - - Pension rate                                        Increase 0.3% 2.7% - - Decrease 0.3% -2.6% - - Life expectancy                                     Increase  1 year 2.0%  1 year 3.8% Decrease  1 year -2.1%  1 year -3.8% Annual increase in healthcare costs  (per annum) Increase  -  - 1.00% 11.5% Decrease  -  - 1.00% -9.7% The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring  at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change.
It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding  all other assumptions constant.
When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability  recognised in the Balance Sheet has been applied.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did  not change compared with the previous year.
G. Weighted average duration and expected employers contribution for FY 2017-18 for each of the defined benefit plan Weighted average duration (yrs.)
Expected Employers  contribution for the  next year Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 Gratuity  6.8  10.9  92.3  Management Pension  6.5  6.9  2.2  Officer's Pension  3.7  3.9  -    Provident Fund  7.7  15.2  67.6  Post-retirement medical benefits  10.7  11.9  -    NOTE 43 : SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Equity Settled Share Based Payments          The members of the Company had approved ‘2001 HLL Stock Option Plan’ at the Annual General Meeting held on 22nd June, 2001.
The plan  envisaged grant of share options to eligible employees at market price as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
This plan was amended and revised vide ‘2006 HLL Performance Share Scheme’ at the Annual General Meeting held on 29th May, 2006.
This scheme provided for conditional grant of Performance Shares at nominal value to eligible management employees as determined  by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors from time to time, at the end of 3-year performance period.
The performance  measures under this scheme include group underlying sales growth and free cash flow.
The scheme also provided for ‘Par’ Awards for the  managers at different work levels.
The 2006 scheme was further amended and revised vide ‘2012 HUL Performance Share Scheme’ at the Annual General Meeting held on  23rd July, 2012.
This scheme provided for conditional grant of Performance Shares at nominal value to eligible management employees as  determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors from time to time, at the end of 3-year performance  period.
The performance measures under this scheme include group underlying sales growth, core operating margin improvement and  operating cash flow.
The number of shares allocated for allotment under the 2006 and 2012 Performance Share Schemes is 2,00,00,000 (two crores) equity  shares of ` 1/- each.
The schemes are monitored and supervised by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors  in compliance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and  amendments thereof from time to time.
163Overview Reports   Financial Statements162 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
The Employee Stock Option Plan includes employees of Hindustan Unilever Limited, its subsidiaries and a subsidiary of parent company.
Scheme Year Date of Grant Numbers of  options granted Vesting Conditions Exercise Period Exercise Price  (Rs) per share Weighted Average  Exercise Price (Rs)  per share 2001 HLL Stock  Option Plan 2005 27-May-05  15,47,700 Vested after three years  from date of grant 7 years from date of  vesting 132.05 132.05 2006 HLL  Performance Share  Scheme 2012 17-Feb-12  4,20,080 Vested after three years  from date of grant 3 months from date  of vesting  1.00  1.00  Interim 2012 30-Jul-12  51,385  1.00  1.00  2012 HUL  Performance  Share Scheme 2013 18-Mar-13  3,68,023  Vested after three years  from date of grant 3 months from date  of vesting  1.00  1.00  Interim 2013 29-Jul-13  25,418  1.00  1.00  2014 14-Feb-14  2,62,155  1.00  1.00  Interim 2014 28-Jul-14  16,805  1.00  1.00  2015 13-Feb-15  1,42,038  1.00  1.00  Interim 2015 27-Jul-15  12,322  1.00  1.00  2016 11-Feb-16  1,57,193  1.00  1.00  Interim 2016 25-Jul-16  11,834  1.00  1.00  2017 13-Feb-17  1,23,887  1.00  1.00  Interim 2017 21-Jul-17  6,846  1.00  1.00  2018 16-Feb-18  63,421  1.00  1.00  Number of Share Options Scheme Year Outstanding at  the beginning   of the year Granted    during the  year* Forfeited/ Expired during  the year Exercised  during   the year Exercisable at  the end of the  year Outstanding at  the end of the  year 2012 HUL  Performance  Share Scheme 2013   -      -      -      -      -      -      (3,08,705)   -      -     (3,08,705)   -      -     Interim 2013   -      -      -      -      -      -      (23,044)  (5,964)   -     (29,008)   -      -     2014  1,14,890   -      -     1,14,890   -      (2,31,763)   -     (41,918)  (74,955)  (1,14,890)  (1,14,890) Interim 2014  15,103   -     1,061  14,042   -     -     (16,805)   -     (1,702)   -      -     (15,103) 2015  1,27,151  28,084   -     50,206  1,05,029 1,05,029  (1,36,054)   -     (8,903)   -      -     (1,27,151) Interim 2015  11,690   -     632   -      -    11,058  (12,322)   -     (632)   -      -     (11,690) 2016  1,47,859   -     10,826   -      -    1,37,033  (1,56,351)   -     (8,492)   -      -     (1,47,859) Interim 2016  11,834   -     835   -      -     10,999    -     (11,834)   -      -      -     (11,834) 2017  1,23,887   -     4,667   -      -     1,19,220    -     (1,23,887)   -      -      -     (1,23,887) Interim 2017  -    6,846  415   -      -     6,431    -     -     -      -      -     -    2018   -     63,421   -      -      -     63,421   -    -    -    -    -    -    * Granted during the year includes additional shares granted upon meeting the vesting conditions     (figures in bracket pertain to 2016-17)  Weighted average equity share price at the date of exercise of options during the year was ` 1,154  (2016-17: ` 864)   Weighted average remaining contractual life of options as at 31st March, 2018 was 1.23 years (31st March, 2017: 1.68 years)  163Overview Reports   Financial Statements162 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
The value of the underlying shares has been determined by an independent valuer.
The following assumptions were used for  calculation of fair value of grants in accordance with Black Scholes model:  Year ended  31st March, 2018 Year ended  31st March, 2017 Risk-free interest rate (%) 7.0% 6.6% Expected life of options (years) [(year to vesting) + (contractual option term)/2] 3.125 3.125 Expected volatility (%) 21.4% 22.3% Dividend yield 1.3% 1.9% The risk free interest rates are determined based on the zero-coupon sovereign bond yields with maturity equal to the expected term of  the option.
Volatility calculation is based on historical stock prices using standard deviation of daily change in stock price.
The historical  period is taken into account to match the expected life of the option.
Dividend yield has been calculated taking into account expected rate  of dividend on equity share price as on grant date.
Cash Settled Share Based Payments The employees of the Company are eligible for Unilever PLC (the ‘Holding Company’) share awards namely, the Management Co-Investment  Plan (MCIP), the Global Performance Share Plan (GPSP) and the SHARES Plan.
The MCIP allows eligible employees to invest up to 100% of their  annual bonus in the shares of the Holding Company and to receive a corresponding award of performance-related shares.
Under GPSP, eligible  employees receive annual awards of the holding company’s shares.
The awards under MCIP and GPSP plans will vest after 3-4 years between  0% and 200% of grant level, depending on the satisfaction of the performance metrics.
The performance metrics of GPSP are underlying  sales growth, operating cash flow and core operating margin improvement.
The performance metrics of MCIP are underlying sales growth,  underlying EPS growth and sustainability progress index.
Under the SHARES Plan, eligible employees can invest up to EUR 200 per month in  the shares of the Holding Company and after three years one share is granted free of cost to the employees for every three shares invested,  provided they hold the shares bought for three years.
The Holding Company charges the Company for the grant of shares to the Company’s  employees at the end of the 3 years based on the market value of the shares on the exercise date.
The Company recognises the fair value of  the liability and expense for these plans over the vesting period based on the management’s estimate of the vesting and forfeiture conditions.
The Company grants share appreciation rights (SARs) to eligible employees for all cash settled share based plans mentioned above that  entitles them to a cash/shares after three years of service.
The amount of payment is also determined basis increase in the share price of  the Holding Company between grant date and the time of exercise.
Details of the liabilities arising from the Company’s cash settled share based payment transactions:       As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Other non-current liabilities 94 130 Other current liabilities 94 86 Total carrying amount of liabilities 188 216 Effect of share based payment transactions on the Statement of Profit and Loss:      As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Equity settled share based payments 11 4 Cash settled share based payments 68 90 Total expense on share based payments 79 94 NOTE 44 : BUSINESS COMBINATION  Acquisition of Indulekha Brand   On April 07, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of the flagship brand ‘Indulekha’ from Mosons Extractions Private Limited  (‘MEPL ’) and Mosons Enterprises (collectively referred to as ‘Mosons’ and acquisition of the specified intangible assets referred to as the  ‘Business acquisition’).
The deal envisaged the acquisition of the trademarks ‘Indulekha’ and ‘Vayodha’, intellectual property, design and  knowhow for a total cash consideration of  ` 330 crores (excluding taxes) and a deferred consideration of 10% of the domestic turnover of  the brands each year, payable annually for a 5 year period commencing financial year 2018-19.
Basis the projection of the domestic turnover of the brand, the contingent consideration is subject to revision on a yearly basis.
As at 31st  March 2017, the fair value of the contingent consideration was ` 49 crores which was classified as other financial liability.
165Overview Reports   Financial Statements164 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Deferred contingent consideration  Based on actual performance in financial year 2017-18 and current view of future projections for the brand, the Company has reviewed   and fair valued the deferred contingent consideration so payable.
As at 31st March 2018, the fair value of the contingent consideration is   ` 104 crores which is classified as other financial liability.
The determination of the fair value as at Balance Sheet date is based on discounted cash flow method.
The key model inputs used in determining  the fair value of deferred contingent consideration were domestic turnover projections of the brand and weighted average cost of capital.
NOTE 45 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES   A.
Enterprises exercising control (i) Holding Company : Unilever Plc B.
Other Related Parties with whom the Company had transactions during the year (i) Joint Ventures : Kimberly Clark Lever Private Limited (50% control, ceases to be Joint venture after  29th September, 2017) (ii) Key Management Personnel (a) Executive directors : Sanjiv Mehta PB Balaji (up to 13th November, 2017) Srinivas Phatak (with effect from 1st December, 2017) Pradeep Banerjee Dev Bajpai Geetu Verma  BP Biddappa Priya Nair Sandeep Kohli Sudhir Sitapati Srinandan Sundaram (b) Non-executive directors Harish Manwani Aditya Narayan S. Ramadorai O. P. Bhatt Sanjiv Misra Kalpana Morparia (iii) Employees’ Benefit Plans where  there is significant influence : Hind Lever Gratuity Fund The Hind Lever Pension Fund The Union Provident Fund Disclosure of transactions between the Group and Related Parties and the status of outstanding balances as on 31st  March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017 Holding Company :  Dividend paid  2,006  1,839   Royalty expense  634  673   Fees for central services  358  378   Income from services rendered  350  500   Expenses for other services received  237  96   Outstanding as at the year end :        - Trade payables  378  344  165Overview Reports   Financial Statements164 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
For the Year ended 31st March, 2018 For the Year ended 31st March, 2017 Fellow Subsidiaries :  Sale of finished goods / raw materials etc  673  879   Purchased of fixed assets  69  40   Purchase of finished goods / raw materials etc  807  614   Rent income  2  2   Sale of fixed assets  27  -     Income from services rendered  8  12   Management fees paid  45  29   Dividend paid  612  561   Royalty expense  17  17   Expenses shared by fellow subsidiaries  8  6   Maintenance and support costs for licences and  software   7  6   Contribution to foundation  2  -     Reimbursements paid  102  49   Reimbursements received  134  34   Outstanding as at the year end:  -  Current account balances receivable with fellow  subsidiaries   40  28  - Trade receivables  109  133  - Trade payables  357  218  Joint Venture :  Purchase of finished goods / raw materials etc.
61  152  (to the extent not  consolidated)  Reimbursements received  14  48   Investment in equity shares  -    -     Outstanding as at the year end :  -  Current account balances receivable with joint  ventures   -    12  - Trade payables  -   0 Key Management Personnel :  Remuneration :   - Short-term employee benefits  50  47   - Post-employment benefits*   2  4   - Other long-term benefits* 0  -     - Share-based payments  17  16   Dividend paid 0 0  Consideration received on exercise of options 0 0 Other :  Dividend paid 0 0 (Non Executive Chairman)  Commission paid  2  2  Employees’ Benefit Plans  where there is significant  influence :  Contributions during the year (Employer's  contribution only)   101  62   Outstanding as at the year end :  -  Advances recoverable in cash or kind or for value to  be received   18  -    - Payables  -    12  *Note: As the liabilities for defined benefit plans and compensated absences are provided on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the amounts pertaining to Key  Management Personnel are not included.
167Overview Reports   Financial Statements166 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties  All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of the business and on arm’s length basis.
Outstanding  balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
For the year ended 31st March, 2018, the  Company  has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related parties (2016-17: ` Nil).
This assessment  is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party  operates.
NOTE 46 : SEGMENT INFORMATION Business Segments             The Group has determined following reporting segments based on the information reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker  (‘CODM’).
a) Home Care include detergent bars, detergent powders, detergent liquids,  scourers, water business etc.
b)  Personal Care include products in the categories of oral care, skin care (including soaps), hair care, deodorants, talcum powder,  colour cosmetics, salon services etc.
c) Foods include branded staples (atta, salt, bread, etc.)
and culinary products (tomato based products, fruit based products, soups, etc.)
d) Refreshment include tea and coffee and frozen desserts.
e) Others include exports, infant care products etc.
The above business segments have been identified considering : a) the nature of products and services b) the differing risks and returns c) the internal organisation and management structure, and d) the internal financial reporting systems.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the  Management Committee as explained in the Director’s Report section.
Segment Revenue relating to each of the above domestic business segments includes Income from Services provided to group companies,  where applicable.
Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 External Intersegment Total External Intersegment Total Revenue Home care 11,626  -   11,626 11,346  -   11,346 Personal care 16,588  -   16,588 16,432  -   16,432 Foods 1,165  -   1,165 1,124  -   1,124 Refreshment 5,214  -   5,214 4,848  -   4,848 Others 1,630  -   1,630 1,960  -   1,960 TOTAL REVENUE 36,223  -   36,223 35,710  -   35,710 RESULT Home care 1,702 1,275 Personal care 4,205 3,889 Foods 99 86 Refreshment 897 759 Others 145 200 TOTAL SEGMENT 7,048 6,209 Un-allocated corporate expenses net of  un-allocated income  (69)  (301) Operating profit 6,979 5,908 Finance costs  (26)  (35) Other Income 384 369 Profit before exceptional items and tax 7,337 6,242 167Overview Reports   Financial Statements166 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited   (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 Total Total Exceptional items - income/(expenditure)  - Segment Home care  (8)  (15) Personal care  (107)  (37) Foods  1  (1) Refreshment  (3)  (4) Others  (1)  (118)  (0)  (57) Exceptional items - income/(expenditure)  - unallocated/corporate 85 294 Profit before tax 7,304 6,479 Tax expense Current tax  (2,216)  (1,947) Deferred tax charge/(credit)  137  (30) Profit for the year from Continuing  Operations (A) 5,225 4,502 Profit for the year from Discontinued  Operations (B)  2  (12) Profit For the Year (A+B) 5,227 4,490 Less: Non Controlling Interest  (13)  (14) Profit for the Year 5,214 4,476 Other Information Financial Assumptions Segment Assets Segment Liabilities As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 As at  31st March, 2018 As at  31st March, 2017 Home care 2,100 1,892  (2,865)  (2,337) Personal care 5,185 4,456  (4,925)  (3,851) Foods 312 300  (329)  (255) Refreshment 1,608 1,542  (989)  (807) Others 662 633  (342)  (300) TOTAL 9,867 8,823  (9,450)  (7,550) Unallocated Corporate Assets /  (Liabilities) 7,995 6,883  (1,111)  (1,390) Total Assets / (Liabilities) 17,862 15,706  (10,561)  (8,940) Year ended   31st March, 2018 Year ended   31st March, 2017 Capital  expenditure Depreciation/  Amortisation Non-cash  expenses  other than  depreciation Capital  expenditure Depreciation/  Amortisation Non-cash  expenses  other than  depreciation Home care  242  95  60  367  78  7  Personal care  482  298  88  922  232  11  Foods  18  29  6  23  21  1  Refreshment  81  42  27  96  45  3  Others  31  23  38  32  21  3  Unallocated/Corporate  41  33 -    23  35  4    (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) NOTES  to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (Contd.)
168 Consolidated Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Additional Information by Geographies       Although the Group’s operations are managed by product area, we provide additional information based on geographies.
Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Revenue by Geographical Market India  34,641  33,742  Outside India  1,582  1,968   36,223  35,710  Carrying Amount of Segment Assets India  9,579  8,522  Outside India  288  301   9,867  8,823  Revenue from major customers             The Group is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not receive 10% or more of its revenues  from transactions with any single external customer.
Notes (a) Revenue comprises :  Year ended   31st March, 2018   Year ended   31st March, 2017  Sale of products (including excise duty)  35,474  34,964  Sale of services  97  97  Income from services rendered  360  513  Government grants, export incentives, scrap sales included in other operating income  292  136  TOTAL  36,223  35,710  NOTE 47            The Group has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material foreseeable  losses.
At the year end, the Group has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/accounting standards for  material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in the books of accounts.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of Board of Directors For B S R & Co. LLP Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Firm Registration No.
101248W/W - 100022 Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  Chartered Accountants [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Akeel Master Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Partner Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 Membership No.
046768 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018   169Overview Reports   Financial Statements Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited FORM AOC-1 to the financial statement for the year ended 31st March, 2018 (All amounts in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) Statement containing salient features of the consolidated financial statement of subsidiaries /joint venture •   Part “A”: Subsidiaries Name of the subsidiary Unilever  India  Exports  Limited Pond's  Exports  Limited Unilever  Nepal  Limited -  Indian ` Unilever  Nepal  Limited -  NPR Lakme  Lever  Private  Limited Jamnagar  Properties  Private  Limited Daverashola  Estates  Private  Limited Hindustan  Unilever  Foundation Bhavishya  Alliance  Child  Nutrition  Initiatives Hindlever  Trust  Limited Levindra  Trust  Limited Levers  Associated  Trust  Limited  (note i, ii and iii) 1 The date since  when subsidiary  was acquired 26/06/1963 15/10/1998 22/06/1992 19/12/2008 16/10/2006 16/03/2005 19/12/2012 12/03/2015 01/04/1958 11/12/1946 11/12/1946 2 Reporting period 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 16/07/2017   (Ashaad, 31, 2074) 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 3 Share capital  3  2  6  9  36  5  0  0  0  0  0  0 4 Reserves &  surplus  211  (5)  93  149  164  (5)  4  20  0  (0)  (0)  (0) 5 Total assets  543  6  325  520  437  -  4  20  0  0  0  0 6 Total Liabilities  329  9  226  362  237  -  0  0  -  -  -  - 7 Investments  16  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 8 Turnover  915  1  327  524  249  -  -  37  -  -  -  - 9 Profit / (loss)  before taxation  74  1  80  128  10  -  -  18  (0)  (0)  (0)  (0) 10 Provision for  taxation  (25)  -  (18)  (28)  13  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 11 Profit /(loss) after  taxation  49  1  62  100  23  -  -  18  (0)  (0)  (0)  (0) 12 Proposed  Dividend  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 13 % of  shareholding 100% 90%                 80% 100% 100% 100% 76% 100% 100% 100% 100% Notes: i) Converted into indian Rupees at the Exchange rate ` 1 = 1.6 Nepalese Rupees.
ii) The financial statement have been audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants other than M/s.
B S R & Co. LLP.
iii) The financial statement are as on 31st March, 2018.
•   Part “B”: Joint Venture  –  Nil Note: Joint venture with Kimberly - Clark Lever Private Limited ceased w.e.f.
29th September, 2017.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors Sanjiv Mehta Srinivas Phatak Managing Director and CEO Executive Director  [DIN: 06699923] (Finance & IT) and CFO [DIN: 02743340] Aditya Narayan Dev Bajpai Chairman - Audit Committee Executive Director  Legal & Corporate Affairs and  Company Secretary Membership No.
FCS 3354 [DIN: 00012084] Suman Hegde Group Controller Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 170 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION WINNING WITH BRANDS  AND INNOVATION •  HUL ’s purpose-driven brand  Surf excel bagged a Gold at  the ‘WARC Prize for Asian  Strategy 2017’ for the  Ramadan campaign ‘Madad  Ek Ibadat’ •  HUL ’s brand, Surf excel’s  Ramadan 2017 campaign,  ‘Neki Ek Ibadat’ won a Gold  at the Indian Effies 2018,  in the ‘Consumer Product’  category •  HUL ’s local jewel,  Hamam bagged a Silver  at Effies 2018 for the  #GoSafeOutside campaign •  HUL ’s Brooke Bond  Red Label bagged a  Silver at Effies 2018 for  the brand’s journey of  #SwadApnepanka •  HUL ’s Brooke Bond Red  Label recognised at the  Abby Awards for the  purpose-driven web-series  ‘Breaking Barriers’ •    HUL ’s purpose-driven  brands Lux, Lifebuoy, Rin,  Clinic Plus,   Fair & Lovely, Dove,  Closeup, Pepsodent, Vim,  Surf excel, Pond’s, Sunsilk,  Vaseline, Wheel and Taj  Mahal tea featured in the  Economic Times Brand  Equity’s list of India’s Most  Trusted brands 2017 •  HUL won two Gold and two  Silver medals and bagged  the title of ‘Advertiser of  the Year’ at the Prime  Time Awards 2017.
In this  year’s edition, our ‘RIN  KBC’ campaign won Gold  under two categories i.e.
‘Best use of entertainment  Channel’ and ‘Best branded  content on TV’.
The ‘LUX  Golden Rose Awards’  bagged a Silver under  the ‘Best integrated TV  campaign’ and ‘Best use  of entertainment Channel’  categories WINNING IN THE  MARKETPLACE •  HUL adjudged the Most  Innovative Company in  India, in Forbes’ list of The  World’s Most Innovative  Companies, 2017 •  HUL bagged ‘Exemplary  Leadership Award in Cold  Chain Industry’ at the  3rd edition of the Cold Chain  Industry Awards •  HUL recognised as the  winner in the FMCG sector  at the Dun & Bradstreet  Corporate Awards 2017.
We won this award for the  fourth consecutive year WINNING THROUGH  CONTINUOUS  IMPROVEMENT •  HUL ’s beverage factory  in Kolkata received the  prestigious CII National  Food Safety Award 2017 for  outstanding achievements  in food safety •  HUL ’s Puducherry Home &  Personal Care (HPC) factory  secured the second place  at the Southern Region  Environment, Health & Safety  (EHS) Excellence Awards  2017 in the ‘Manufacturing  - Others’ category organised  by Confederation of India  Industry (CII) •  HUL ’s Amli Factory was  felicitated with the Platinum  Award in the large-scale  manufacturing category,  at the 6th FICCI Quality  Systems Excellence Awards  for Industry •  HUL ’s five factories won an  award in the area of Safety  and Environment from  National Safety Council •  HUL won an award for  excellence in Energy  Conservation and  Management from  Maharashtra Energy  Development Agency  (MEDA), Confederation of  Indian Industry, Green Tech WINNING WITH PEOPLE •  HUL retained the  ‘No.1 Employer of Choice’  title amongst key business  schools for the seventh year  in a row •  HUL emerged as the  Aon Best Employer of 2018 •  HUL emerged winner  at the Business Today’s  Best Companies to  Work for awards in the  Manufacturing sector •  HUL CEO Sanjiv Mehta  declared the winner in  the ‘CA Business Leader’  category at the 11th ICAI  (The Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India)  Awards 2017 •  The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India (ICSI)  conferred the Certificate  of Recognition to HUL for  Excellence in Corporate  Governance at its  17th National Awards •  HUL ’s Puducherry HPC  factory conferred with  the FAME Excellence  Award 2017 for excellence  in promoting safety,  health & environment  practices and initiatives  towards employees and  stakeholders •  HUL honoured with the  National Award for  ‘Excellence in Employee  Relations’ at the EFI Summit  organised by the Employers’  Federation of India (EFI) UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE  LIVING PLAN •  HUL Mumbai Office  felicitated with the  ‘Platinum’ rating, and  the IGBC Green Existing  Building - PLATINUM  award by The Indian Green  Building Council (IGBC) •  HUL received a Certificate  of Appreciation for project  Prabhat, for ‘HUL ’s  responsible contribution to  the society in 2016-17’, at  ASSOCHAM’s 9th Global CSR  Summit •  HUL ’s Project Prabhat  declared the winner under  ‘Community Development’  category at the  ‘Social Change Awards’ •  HUL adjudged the winner of  The Confederation of Indian  Industry(CII) – National  Award for Excellence in  Water Management 2017  under the ‘Beyond the  Fence’ category •  HUL won the ‘Green  Marketer’ Award at the  ‘Marquee Awards.
Vim  and Lifebuoy adjudged  winners in Home Care and  Personal Care categories,  respectively •  HUL ’s factory units – Kolkata  Beverages Factory and   Etah Factory recognised  for their sustainability  achievements by New  Frontiers in Engineering,  Science, and Technology  (NFEST) at its first  International Conference Awards and Recognition Overview Reports   Financial Statements 171 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited REGISTERED OFFICE  AUDITORS Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, BSR & Co. LLP, Mumbai Chakala, Andheri (East), Firm’s Registration No.
: 101248W/W-100022 Mumbai – 400 099.
BANKERS Bank of America Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Standard Chartered Bank Bank of Baroda ICICI Bank Union Bank of India Bank of India HDFC Bank State Bank of India Citibank N.A.
Punjab National Bank Deutsché Bank PLANT LOCATIONS NORTHERN REGION BAROTIWALA • Khasra No.
94-96, 355-409, Village Balyana, Barotiwala 1A,  Tehsil Kasauli District Solan - 174 103, Himachal Pradesh BADDI •     Khasra No.
1350 – 1318, Bhatoli Kalan, Baddi, District   Solan - 173 205,Himachal Pradesh ETAH • Village Asrauli, G.T.Road, Etah-207 001, Uttar Pradesh HARIDWAR •  Plot No.
1, Sector 1A, Integrated Industrial Estate, Ranipur,  Haridwar - 249 403, Uttarakhand NALAGARH • Hudbust No.
143, Khasra No.
182 / 183 / 187/1, Village  Kirpalpur, Near Nalagarh Fire Station, Tehsil - Nalagarh,  District Solan - 174 101, Himachal Pradesh ORAI •  A-1,UPSIDC Industrial Area, Orai, District Jalaun - 285 001   Uttar Pradesh RAJPURA • A-5, Phase 2-B, Focal Point, Rajpura - 140 401, Punjab SUMERPUR • A-1,UPSIDC Industrial Area, Bharua, Sumerpur,   Hamirpur - 210 502, Uttar Pradesh SOUTHERN REGION COCHIN • Ernakulam North PO, Tatapuram, Cochin - 682 018, Kerala HOSUR • Plot No.
50 & 51, SIPCOT Industrial Complex, Hosur - 635 126,  Tamil Nadu MANGALORE • Sultan Battery Road, Boloor, Mangalore – 575 003, Karnataka MYSORE • Plot No.
424, Hebbal Industrial Area, Mysore – 570 016, Karnataka PONDICHERRY • Off NH 45A, Vadamangalam, Pondicherry - 605 102 • No.
9 (3), Cuddalore Road, Kirumambakkam, Pondicherry – 605 702.
• 45/A National Highway Vadamangalam, Pondicherry - 605 102.
CORPORATE INFORMATION WESTERN REGION CHHINDWARA • V 5/6 KM Stone, Narsinghpur Road, Lehgadua, Post Khajari,  Chhindwara – 480 002, Madhya Pradesh CHIPLUN • B-7/17, Lote Parshuram MIDC, Khed Taluka, District Ratnagiri,  Chiplun – 415 722, Maharashtra GOA • Plot Nos.
128 - 139 & 324 - 326, Kundaim Industrial Estate,  Kundaim – 403 115, Goa KHAMGAON • C-9, MIDC, Khamgaon, District Buldhana – 444 303,  Maharashtra  MUMBAI • Aarey Milk Colony, Goregaon, Mumbai – 400 065, Maharashtra NASIK • Plot No.
A-8/9, MIDC, Malegaon, Sinnar - 422 103, Nasik,  Maharashtra SILVASSA • Survey No.151/1/1, Village Dapada, Khanvel Road,   Silvassa - 396 230, Dadra and Nagar Haveli • Survey No.
907, Kilwali Road, Amli Village, Near Gandhigram  Bus Stop, Silvassa - 396 230, Dadra and Nagar Haveli EASTERN REGION HALDIA • PO Durgachak, Haldia, District Purba Medinipur - 721 602,  West Bengal KOLKATA • 1, Transport Depot Road, Kidderpore, Kolkata - 700 088, West  Bengal • 63, Garden Reach, Kolkata - 700 024, West Bengal • P10 Taratola Road, Kolkata - 700 088, West Bengal TINSUKIA • Dag No.
21 of 122 FS Grants, Mouza - Tingrai, Off NH No.
37,  Doom Dooma Industrial Estate, District Tinsukia - 786 151,  Assam 172 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Notice is hereby given that the 85th Annual General Meeting  of Hindustan Unilever Limited will be held on Friday, 29th June,  2018 at 2.30 p.m. at the Registered Office of the Company at  Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East),   Mumbai - 400099, to transact the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive, consider and adopt the audited financial statements  (including audited consolidated financial statements) for the  financial year ended 31st March, 2018 and the Report of the  Board of Directors and Auditors thereon.
2.
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividend and to declare  Final Dividend on equity shares for the financial year ended  31st March, 2018.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Pradeep Banerjee   (DIN 02985965), who retires by rotation and being eligible,  offers himself for re-appointment.
4.
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Dev Bajpai (DIN 00050516),  who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for    re-appointment.
5.
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Srinivas Phatak   (DIN 02743340), who retires by rotation and being eligible,  offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 6.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as an Ordinary Resolution:    “RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the provisions of  Sections 196, 197 and 203 read with Schedule V and all  other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory  modification(s) or re-enactment thereof, for the time being in  force) and pursuant to the Articles 172 and 173 of the Articles  of Association of the Company and subject to such consents  and permissions, as may be required, approval of the Members  of the Company be and is here accorded for re-appointment of  Mr. Sanjiv Mehta (DIN : 06699923), as the Managing Director  and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, for a period of   5 (five) years with effect from 10th October, 2018, on such  terms and conditions as set out in this resolution and the  explanatory statement annexed hereto and payment of such  remuneration, as may be determined by the Board or a duly  constituted Committee thereof, from time to time, within  the maximum limits of remuneration for Managing Director  approved by the Members of the Company .
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors or a duly  constituted Committee thereof be and is hereby authorised to  take all such steps as may be necessary, proper or expedient  to give effect to this resolution.” 7.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as an Ordinary Resolution:   “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of   Section 148(3) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the   Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder (including  any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the  time being in force), the remuneration payable to M/s.
RA & Co.,  Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No.
000242), appointed  by the Board of Directors as Cost Auditors to conduct the  audit of the cost records of the Company for the financial  year ending 31st March, 2019, amounting to ` 11 lakhs   (Rupees Eleven Lakhs only) as also the payment of applicable  tax and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses incurred in  connection with the aforesaid audit, be and is hereby approved.” NOTES : 1.
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the  Companies Act, 2013 relating to the Special Business to be  transacted at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) is annexed  hereto.
2.
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE IS ENTITLED  TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE ON POLL ON   HIS / HER BEHALF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER  OF THE COMPANY.
Pursuant to Section 105 of the Companies  Act, 2013, a person can act as a Proxy on behalf of not more  than fifty Members holding in aggregate not more than ten  percent of the total share capital of the Company carrying  voting rights.
Members holding more than ten percent of the  total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights may  appoint a single person as Proxy, who shall not act as a Proxy  for any other Member.
If a Proxy is appointed for more than  fifty Members, the Proxy shall choose any fifty Members and  confirm the same to the Company not later than 48 hours  before the commencement of the meeting.
In case, the  Proxy fails to do so, only the first fifty proxies received by the  Company shall be considered as valid.
The instrument of Proxy,  in order to be effective, should be deposited, either in person  or through post, at the Registered Office of the Company, duly  completed and signed, not later than 48 hours before the  commencement of the meeting.
A Proxy Form is annexed to  this Report.
Proxies submitted on behalf of limited companies,  societies, etc., must be supported by an appropriate   resolution / letter of authority, as applicable.
Registered Office: Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400 099 CIN: L15140MH1933PLC002030, Web: www.hul.co.in, Email: levercare.shareholder@unilever.com, Tel: +91 22 39832285 / 39832452 NOTICE  of Annual General Meeting Notice Overview Reports   Financial Statements 173 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited 3.
Corporate Members intending to send their authorised  representatives to attend the AGM, pursuant to   Section 113 of the Companies Act, 2013, are requested  to send to the Company, a certified copy of relevant  Board Resolution together with the respective specimen  signatures of those representative(s) authorised under  the said resolution to attend and vote on their behalf at   the meeting.
4.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the  Company will remain closed from Saturday, 23rd June, 2018  to Friday, 29th June, 2018 (both days inclusive).
5.
The Final Dividend for the financial year ended 31st March,  2018, as recommended by the Board, if approved at the AGM,  will be paid on or after Wednesday, 4th July, 2018 to those  Members whose name appears in the Register of Members of  the Company as on the book closure date.
6.
Members holding shares in demat form are hereby informed  that bank particulars registered with their respective  Depository Participants, with whom they maintain their demat  accounts, will be used by the Company for the payment of  dividend.
The Company or its Registrar cannot act on any  request received directly from the Members holding shares in  demat form for any change of bank particulars.
Such changes  are to be intimated only to the Depository Participants of  the Members.
Members holding shares in demat form are  requested to intimate any change in their address and / or  bank mandate immediately to their Depository Participants.
7.
Members holding shares in physical form are requested  to intimate any change of address and / or bank mandate  to Karvy Computershare Private Limited (Karvy) / Investor  Service Department of the Company immediately.
8.
Details as required in Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015  (‘Listing Regulations’) in respect of the Directors seeking   re-appointment at the AGM are provided at page nos.
177 and  178 of this Report.
Requisite declarations have been received  from the Directors seeking re-appointment.
The Independent  Directors of the Company have been appointed for a term  of 5 years in accordance with the relevant provisions of the  Companies Act, 2013 and are not eligible to retire by rotation.
9.
Members of the Company had approved the appointment  of M/s.
BSR & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, as the   Statutory Auditors at the Eighty First AGM of the Company  which is valid till Eighty Sixth AGM of the Company.
In  accordance with the Companies Amendment Act, 2017,  enforced on 7th May, 2018 by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the  appointment of Statutory Auditors is not required to be ratified  at every AGM.
10.
Pursuant to Section 101 and Section 136 of the Companies  Act, 2013 read with the relevant Rules made thereunder,  companies can serve Annual Reports and other  communications through electronic mode to those Members  who have registered their e-mail address either with the  Company or with the Depository Participant(s).
Members   who have not registered their e-mail address with the  Company can now register the same by submitting a duly  filled-in ‘E-communication Registration Form’ available on the  website of the Company www.hul.co.in, to Karvy or Investor  Service Department of the Company.
Members holding shares  in demat form are requested to register their e-mail address  with their Depository Participant(s) only.
Members of the  Company who have registered their e-mail address are also  entitled to receive such communication in physical form,   upon request.
11.
The Notice of AGM, Annual Report and Attendance Slip are  being sent in electronic mode to Members whose e-mail  address is registered with the Company or the Depository  Participant(s), unless the Members have registered their  request for the hard copy of the same.
Physical copy of the  Notice of AGM, Annual Report and Attendance Slip are being  sent to those Members who have not registered their e-mail  address with the Company or Depository Participant(s).
Members who have received the Notice of AGM, Annual Report  and Attendance Slip in electronic mode are requested to print  the Attendance Slip and submit a duly filled in Attendance Slip  at the Registration Counter at the AGM.
12.
Pursuant to Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013, Rule 20  of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,  2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations,  the Company is pleased to provide the facility to Members to  exercise their right to vote on the resolutions proposed to be  passed at AGM by electronic means.
The Members, whose  names appear in the Register of Members / list of Beneficial  Owners as on Friday, 22nd June, 2018, i.e.
the date prior to  the commencement of book closure, being the cut-off date,  are entitled to vote on the Resolutions set forth in this Notice.
Members may cast their votes on electronic voting system  from any place other than the venue of the meeting (remote  e-voting).
The remote e-voting period will commence at   9.00 a.m. on Monday, 25th June, 2018 and will end at   5.00 p.m. on Thursday, 28th June, 2018.
In addition, the facility  for voting through electronic voting system shall also be made  available at the AGM and the Members attending the AGM   who have not cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be  eligible to vote at the AGM.
The Company has appointed   Mr. S. N. Ananthasubramanian, Practising Company  Secretary, to act as the Scrutinizer, to scrutinize the  entire e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
The Members desiring to vote through remote e-voting  are requested to refer to the detailed procedure given  hereinafter.
PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING I.
The Company has entered into an arrangement with Karvy  for facilitating remote e-voting for AGM.
The instructions for  remote e-voting are as under:  (a)  In case of Member(s) receiving an e-mail from  Karvy:   (i)   Launch an internet browser and open   https://evoting.karvy.com/   (ii)  Enter the login credentials i.e.
User ID and Password,  provided in the e-mail received from Karvy.
However,  if Member(s) are already registered with Karvy for  e-voting, Member(s) can use existing User ID and  Password for casting the vote.
(iii)  After entering the above details, click on - ‘Login’.
174 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18   (iv)  Password change menu will appear.
Change the  Password with a new Password of the Member(s)  choice.
The new Password shall comprise minimum  8 characters with at least one upper case (A-Z), one  lower case (a-z), one numeric (0-9) and a special  character (@,#,$,etc.).
The system will also prompt  Member(s) to update their contact details like mobile  number, e-mail ID, etc.
on first login.
Member(s) may also enter a secret question and answer of   his / her choice to retrieve the Password in case  it is forgetten.
It is strongly recommended that  Member(s) do not share his / her Password with any  other person and that the Member(s) take utmost  care to keep his / her Password confidential.
After  changing the Password, Member(s) need to login  again with the new credentials.
(v)  On successful login, the system will prompt  Member(s) to select the e-Voting Event.
(vi)  Select ‘EVENT’ of Hindustan Unilever Limited - AGM  and click on - ‘Submit’.
(vii)  Now Member(s) are ready for e-voting as ‘Ballot  Form’ page opens.
(viii)  Cast the vote by selecting appropriate option and  click on ‘Submit’.
Click on ‘OK’ when prompted.
(ix)  Upon confirmation, the message ‘Vote cast  successfully’ will be displayed.
(x)  Once Member(s) have confirmed his / her vote on  the resolution, Member(s) cannot modify their vote.
(xi)  Institutional shareholders (i.e.
other than individuals,  HUF, NRI, etc.)
are required to send scanned copy  (PDF / JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution  / Authority Letter, along with attested specimen  signature of the duly authorised signatory(ies) who  are authorised to vote, to the Scrutinizer by an e-mail  at scrutinizer@snaco.net.
They may also upload  the same in the e-voting module in their login.
The scanned image of the above mentioned  documents should be in the naming format  “Corporate Name EVENT NO.”  (b)  In case of Member(s) receiving physical copy of the  Notice of AGM and Attendance Slip   (i)  Initial User ID and Password is provided at the bottom  of the Attendance Slip in the following format: USER ID PASSWORD – –   (ii)  Please follow all steps from Sr. No.
(a)(i) to   Sr. No.
(a)(xi) mentioned above, to cast vote.
II.
In case of any queries, Member(s) may refer to the ‘Frequently  Asked Questions’ (FAQs) and ‘e-voting user manual’ available  in the downloads section of the e-voting website of Karvy   https://evoting.karvy.com/.
III.
The voting rights shall be as per the number of equity shares  held by the Member(s) as on Friday, 22nd June, 2018, being the  cut-off date.
Members are eligible to cast vote electronically  only if they are holding shares as on that date.
IV.
Members who have acquired shares after the dispatch of   the Annual Report and before the book closure may obtain   the User ID and Password by sending a request at   evoting@karvy.com or levercare.shareholder@unilever.com.
However, if Member(s) are already registered with Karvy  for remote e-voting, then Member(s) can use their existing   User ID and Password for casting the vote.
If Member(s) have forgotten their Password, it can be reset  by using ‘Forgot Password’ option available on https://evoting.
karvy.com or contact Karvy at toll free no.
1-800-3454-001 or  e-mail at evoting@karvy.com.
In case of any other queries / grievances connected with   voting by electronic means, Member(s) may also contact   Mr. V. Rajendra Prasad of Karvy, at telephone no.
040-67161510.
The results of the electronic voting shall be declared to the  Stock Exchanges after the AGM.
The results along with the  Scrutinizer’s Report, shall also be placed on the website of   the Company.
13.
In case of joint holders attending the meeting, only such joint  holder who is higher in the order of names, will be entitled to  vote at the Meeting.
14.
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel  and their Shareholding maintained under Section 170 of  the Companies Act, 2013, the Register of Contracts or  arrangements in which Directors are interested under  Section 189 of Companies Act, 2013 and the Certificate from  Auditors of the Company certifying that the ESOP Schemes  of the Company are being implemented in accordance with  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, will be available for  inspection at the AGM.
15.
Members can also provide their feedback on the shareholder  services of the Company using the ‘Shareholders Satisfaction  Survey’ form available on the ‘Investor Relations’ page of  the website of the Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor- relations/.
This feedback will help the Company in improving  Shareholder Service Standards.
16.
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had notified provisions  relating to unpaid / unclaimed dividend under Sections 124  and 125 of Companies Act, 2013 and Investor Education and  Protection Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund)  Rules, 2016 (IEPF Rules).
As per these Rules, dividends  which are not encashed / claimed by the shareholder for  a period of seven consecutive years shall be transferred to  the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority.
The IEPF Rules mandate the companies to transfer such  shares of Members of whom dividends remain unpaid /  unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years to the demat  account of IEPF Authority.
Hence, the Company urges all the  Notice Overview Reports   Financial Statements 175 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited Members to encash / claim their respective dividend during  the prescribed period.
The details of the unpaid / unclaimed  amounts lying with the Company as on 30th June, 2017 (date  of last AGM) are available on the website of the Company   https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/ and on Ministry of  Corporate Affairs’ website.
The Members whose dividend /   shares as transferred to the IEPF Authority can now claim   their shares from the Authority by following the Refund  Procedure as detailed on the website of IEPF Authority   http://iepf.gov.in/IEPFA/refund.html.
17.
Members are requested to contact Karvy / Investor Service  Department of the Company for encashing the unclaimed  dividends standing to the credit of their account.
The detailed  dividend history and due dates for transfer to IEPF are  available on ‘Investor Relations’ page on the website of the  Company https://www.hul.co.in/investor-relations/.
18.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide its  circular dated 20th April, 2018 has mandated registration of  Permanent Account Number (PAN) and Bank Account Details  for all securities holders.
Members holding shares in physical  form are therefore, requested to submit their PAN and Bank  Account Details to Karvy / Investor Services Department  of the Company by sending a duly signed letter along with   self-attested copy of PAN Card and original cancelled cheque.
The original cancelled cheque should bear the name of the  Member.
In the alternative Members are requested to submit  a copy of bank passbook / statement attested by the bank.
Members holding shares in demat form are requested to  submit the aforesaid information to their respective Depository  Participant.
19.
All documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and  the Explanatory Statement shall be open for inspection  without any fee at the Registered Office of the Company during  working hours on all working days except Saturdays, up to and  including the date of the AGM of the Company.
Registered Office: By Order of the Board Unilever House, Dev Bajpai B. D. Sawant Marg, Executive Director Chakala, Andheri (East), Legal & Corporate Affairs  Mumbai – 400 099 and Company Secretary  FCS No: 3354 / DIN: 00050516 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Item No.
6 Mr. Sanjiv Mehta was appointed as the Managing Director and   Chief Executive Officer of the Company for a period of five years  with effect from 10th October, 2013, post approval of the Members.
The present term of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta comes to an end on   9th October, 2018.
The Board has, based on the recommendation of the Nomination  and Remuneration Committee and subject to the approval of the  Members, approved the re-appointment of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer for a further period  of five years, post completion of his present term in October 2018.
Consequent to the decision of Mr. Harish Manwani,  Chairman of the Company, to retire as the Non-Executive  Chairman and Board of Director’s decision to appoint   Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as the Chairman of the Board of Directors in  succession to Mr. Harish Manwani, Mr. Sanjiv Mehta will be   re-designated as Chairman and Managing Director after conclusion  of the forthcoming AGM.
Mr. Sanjiv Mehta is not disqualified from being re-appointed as  a Director in terms of Section 164 of the Act and has given his  consent to act as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer  of the Company.
Mr. Sanjiv Mehta satisfies all the conditions as set  out in Section 196(3) of the Act and Part-I of Schedule V to the Act,  for being eligible for his appointment.
A brief profile of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta, including nature of his expertise,  is provided on page no.
177 of this Report.
In so far as the remuneration of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as   Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer is concerned,  the Members have by a Special Resolution at the AGM held on   30th June, 2017, approved the following maximum limits within  which the authority has been delegated to the Board or Committee  thereof to fix the remuneration of the Managing Director(s).
Basic Salary: ` 4,00,00,000/- OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: a)  Performance linked bonus / commission on profits   The Managing Director shall be paid Performance Linked  Bonus as may be decided by the Board of Directors or a  Committee thereof from year to year, based on achievement  of such performance parameters as may be determined by  Board of Directors or a Committee thereof from time to time  provided that the total remuneration including salary and  perquisites paid to the Managing Director shall not exceed the  limits laid down under Section 197 read with Schedule V of the  Companies Act, 2013. b) Perquisites / Benefits   The Managing Director shall be entitled to perquisites like  the benefit of rent free accommodation for self, spouse and  family or house rent allowance in lieu thereof, Company car  with chauffeur, telephone at residence / cellular phones,  statutory contribution to retirement funds, club membership  fees, medical coverage, overseas medical expenses, leave  encashment and long service award and other benefits /  allowances in accordance with the scheme(s) and rule(s) of the  Company from time to time, for the aforesaid benefits.
The total  176 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 remuneration and perquisites / benefits contemplated above,  including contribution towards PF / superannuation fund,  annuity fund, gratuity fund, etc.
payable to all the Managing /  Whole-time Director(s) of the Company shall not exceed 5%,  where there is only one Managing / Whole-time Director(s),  and 10% where there are more than one Managing / Whole- time Director(s), of the profits of the Company calculated in  accordance with Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013. c)  In the absence or inadequacy of the profits in any financial  year, the remuneration including the perquisities will be  paid to the managerial personnel including Managing /   Whole-time Director(s) in accordance with the applicable  provisions of Schedule V of the Act, and subject to approval  of Central Government.
However, in case of payment of  remuneration to Professional Directors as provided under  Section II of Part II of Schedule V of the Act, no approval of  the Central Government shall be required subject to the  compliances mentioned under the Act.
The remuneration payable to Mr. Sanjiv Mehta will be accordingly  decided by Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the  Company within the overall limits approved by the Members and  shall be in compliance with the overall limits provided under the Act.
Mr. Sanjiv Mehta holds 10 equity shares of the face value of ` 1/-  each in the Company and is not related to other Directors or Key  Managerial Personnel of the Company.
It is proposed to seek the Members’ approval for the   re-appointment of and remuneration payable to Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as a  Managing Director, in terms of the applicable provisions of the Act  and the relevant Rules made thereunder.
This Explanatory Statement may also be considered as the requisite  abstract under Section 190 of the Companies Act, 2013 setting out  the terms and conditions of appointment of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as the  Managing Director of the Company.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or the relatives  except Mr. Sanjiv Mehta are concerned or interested, financially or  otherwise, in this resolution.
The Board commends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No.
6  for the approval of Members.
Item No.
7 The Board of Directors of the Company, on the recommendation of  the Audit Committee, approved the appointment and remuneration  of M/s.
RA & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No.
000242),  to conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for the  financial year ending 31st March, 2019.
In terms of the provisions of  Section 148(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14(a)(ii) of  the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the remuneration  payable to the Cost Auditor is required to be approved by the  Members of the Company.
Accordingly, consent of the Members is  sought for the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their  relatives, are concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in  this Resolution.
The Board commends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No.
7  for the approval of Members.
Registered Office: By Order of the Board Unilever House, Dev Bajpai B. D. Sawant Marg, Executive Director Chakala, Andheri (East), Legal & Corporate Affairs  Mumbai – 400 099 and Company Secretary  FCS No: 3354 / DIN: 00050516 Mumbai, 14th May, 2018 ATTENTION MEMBERS Online Query Module The Company is pleased to provide the  new Online Query Module  to enable  the Members to seek informations /  clarifications pertaining to this report in  advance.
Members can post their queries related to  this Annual Report by using their secure  login credentials on the e-voting website of   Karvy at https://evoting.karvy.com/.
Web check-in To facilitate smooth registration / entry at  the AGM, the Company has also provided a  web check-in facility, which would help the  Members enter the AGM hall expeditiously.
The Procedure for web check-in for the AGM  is as follows: •  Log in to https://karisma.karvy.com and  click on the AGM Web Check-in link.
•  Select the Company name, ‘Hindustan  Unilever Limited’.
•  Enter the security credentials as directed  and click on ‘Submit’.
•  After validating the credentials, click on  ‘Generate my Attendance Slip’.
•  The Attendance Slip in PDF format  shall appear on the screen.
Select the  print option for printing or download the  Attendance Slip for future reference.
Webcast  Your Company is pleased to provide the  facility of live webcast of proceedings of   AGM.
Members who are entitled to   participate in the AGM can view the  proceeding of AGM by logging  on  the e-voting website of Karvy at   https://evoting.karvy.com/ using their  secure login credentials.
Members are encouraged to use this  facility of webcast.
Notice Overview Reports   Financial Statements 177 Annual Report 2017-18 Hindustan Unilever Limited SANJIV MEHTA (DIN : 06699923) Mr. Sanjiv Mehta (57) joined the Board of the Company in October  2013 as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.
He is  also the Executive Vice President for Unilever in South Asia.
Mr. Mehta joined Unilever in October 1992.
He has led several  Unilever businesses across South Asia, South East Asia and  Middle East.
He was appointed Chairman and Managing Director  of Unilever Bangladesh in 2002.
In 2007, he was appointed as  Chairman and CEO of Unilever Philippines.
In 2008, he took up  the responsibilities as the Chairman of Unilever North Africa and  Middle East (NAME), leading a multi-country organization spanning  20 countries in the region.
During his tenure as the head of various Unilever Companies, the  business achieved significant success accelerating both growth  and profitability.
Importantly, he has been instrumental in building  leadership talent and substantially strengthening organizational  capabilities.
Before joining Unilever, Mr. Mehta worked for Union Carbide India.
He is a Commerce graduate and a Chartered Accountant.
He  has also completed an Advanced Management Programme from   Harvard Business School.
He is a member of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee,  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Chairman of   Risk Management Committee of the Company.
In terms of external committees, Mr. Mehta is the Chairman of  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)  FMCG sub-committee and Chairman of Confederation of Indian  Industry’s (CII) MNC sub-committee.
Directorship in other Companies Hindustan Unilever Foundation Bhavishya Alliance and Child Nutrition Initiatives Breach Candy Hospital Trust Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry Indian School of Business Mr. Mehta does not hold any Membership / Chairmanship of the  Board Committees in other Companies.
SRINIVAS PHATAK (DIN : 02743340) Mr. Srinivas Phatak (46), a qualified Chartered Accountant and  Cost and Works Accountant, joined the Company in 1999 after a  brief 3 year stint with an external organisation.
He has worked  in various roles in the Company including factory commercial  manager, Head of Treasury, followed by leadership roles such as  General Manager, Finance for Foods & Refreshments and Head,  Investor Relations of the Company.
He was then seconded to  Unilever as the Global Finance VP for Deodorants, followed by   VP Finance, Supply Chain Americas and most recently as   VP, Business Finance Services.
Mr. Phatak was appointed as Executive Director – Finance & IT and  Chief Financial Officer of the Company in December, 2017.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS (Seeking Re-appointment) He is a member of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee,  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Risk Management  Committee of the Company.
Directorship in other Companies Hindustan Unilever Foundation Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives Mr. Phatak does not hold any Membership / Chairmanship of the  Board Committees in other Companies.
PRADEEP BANERJEE (DIN : 02985965) Mr. Pradeep Banerjee (59) joined the Company as a   Management Trainee in 1980.
He has held a series of assignments  in Supply Chain, Research & Development and Categories.
Mr. Banerjee became the Vice President - Technical   (Home and Personal Care) in 2003 and later moved to UK in 2005 as   Vice President - Global Supply Chain for Personal Care Category.
He  served as the Vice President for Global Procurement in Singapore.
Mr. Banerjee was appointed as Executive Director - Supply Chain  of the Company in March, 2010.
He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in  Engineering (Chemical) from IIT Delhi.
He is a member of Risk Management Committee of the Company.
Directorship in other Companies Unilever Nepal Limited Unilever India Exports Limited Gabriel India Limited Membership / Chairmanship of Board Committees in other  Companies Unilever India Exports Limited  Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Member  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Member DEV BAJPAI (DIN: 00050516) Mr. Dev Bajpai (52) was appointed as the Executive Director –  Legal and Company Secretary and a member of the Management  Committee of the Company in 2010.
Mr. Bajpai took additional  responsibility of Corporate Affairs function in the year 2012.
Mr. Bajpai was appointed as an Executive Director on the Board of  the Company in January, 2017.
He has 30 years of experience in the areas of Legal, Compliance,  Tax and Corporate Affairs across diverse industries including  Automobiles, FMCG, Hospitality and Private Equity.
Prior to  joining the Company, Mr. Bajpai has worked in Maruti Udyog  Limited, Marico Limited, The Indian Hotels Company Limited and   ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited.
Mr. Bajpai has been a part of committees of apex industry  organisations like CII and FICCI.
178 Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18178 Profile of Directors Hindustan Unilever Limited Annual Report 2017-18 Mr. Bajpai is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India and holds a law degree from University of Delhi.
He has also completed an Executive Programme for Corporate  Counsels conducted by Harvard Law School.
He is a member of the Risk Management Committee of the  Company.
Directorship in other Companies Unilever Nepal Limited Hindustan Unilever Foundation Bhavishya Alliance Child Nutrition Initiatives Indian Beauty and Hygiene Association Membership / Chairmanship of Board Committees in other  Companies Unilever Nepal Limited  Audit Committee - Member DIRECTORS’ INTEREST None of the Directors of the Company are inter-se related to  each other.
The Directors seeking approval for appointment /   re-appointment may be deemed to be concerned or interested to  the extent of shares held by them in the Company as given in the  table below: Name of the Director No.
of Shares % Holding Sanjiv Mehta 10 0.0000 Pradeep Banerjee 52,886 0.0024 Srinivas Phatak 10,208 0.0005 Dev Bajpai 39,909 0.0018 Name of the Member(s):  Registered address:  E-mail Id:  Folio No.
/ DP ID and Client ID:  I/We, being the Member(s) of  shares of the above named Company, hereby appoint 1.
Name:  E-mail ID:   Address:    Signature:  , or failing him/her 2.
Name:  E-mail ID:   Address:    Signature:  , or failing him/her 3.
Name:  E-mail ID:   Address:    Signature:   as my/our Proxy to attend and vote, in case of a poll, for me/us and on my/our behalf at the 85th Annual General Meeting of the Company, to  be held on Friday, 29th day of June, 2018 at 2.30 p.m. at the Registered Office of the Company and at any adjournment thereof in respect of  such resolutions and in such manner as are indicated below: Reso.
No.
Description For* Against* 1.
Adoption of  Financial Statements together with the Reports of Board of Directors’ and Auditors’  thereon for the financial year ended 31st March, 2018 2.
Confirmation of interim dividend and declaration of final dividend 3.
Re-appointment of Mr. Pradeep Banerjee as Director 4.
Re-appointment of Mr. Dev Bajpai as Director 5.
Re-appointment of Mr. Srinivas Phatak as Director 6.
Re-appointment of Mr. Sanjiv Mehta as Managing Director & CEO for a further period of five years 7.
Ratification of the remuneration of M/s.
RA & Co, Cost Accountants for the financial year ending  31st March, 2019 Signed this  day of  2018.
Registered Office: Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400 099 CIN: L15140MH1933PLC002030, Web: www.hul.co.in, Email: levercare.shareholder@unilever.com, Tel: +91 22 39832285 / 39832452 Form No.
MGT-11  PROXY FORM [Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] Signature of Member (s) Affix Revenue Stamp Notes:  * 1.
Please put a ‘X’ in the Box in the appropriate column against the respective resolutions.
If you leave the ‘For’ or ‘Against’  column blank against any or all the resolutions, your Proxy will be entitled to vote in the manner as he/she thinks appropriate.
2.
A Proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 105 of the Companies Act, 2013, a person  can act as Proxy on behalf of not more than fifty Members and holding in aggregate not more than ten percent of the total  Share Capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
Members holding more than ten percent of the total Share Capital of the  Company carrying voting rights may appoint a single person as Proxy, who shall not act as Proxy for any other Member.
3.
This form of Proxy, to be effective, should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at Unilever House,   B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400 099 not later than FORTY-EIGHT HOURS before the commencement  of the aforesaid meeting.
ONE-THIRD OF INDIA’S CHILDREN LOSE THEIR  CHILDHOOD TO REPEATED ILLNESS CAUSED  BY THE LACK OF BASIC HYGIENE HABITS LIKE  WASHING HANDS WITH SOAP, DRINKING CLEAN  WATER AND USING A CLEAN TOILET.
SWACHH AADAT SWACHH BHARAT IS HUL ’S  INITIATIVE TO TEACH MILLIONS OF CHILDREN  THESE 3 LIFE-SAVING HABITS.
HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Registered Office: Unilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400 099 CIN : L15140MH1933PLC002030 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON OUR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE, PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE: WWW.HUL.CO.IN |  Printed at Print Plus Pvt.
Ltd.designed and produced at aicl.in