Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Annual Report 2015-16       Padma Vibhushan Shri Dhirubhai H. Ambani Founder Chairman “Our dreams have to be bigger.
Our ambitions higher.
Our commitment deeper.
And our efforts greater.
This is my dream for Reliance and for India.” Reliance has started up a transformative  force with a view to digitally empower  and enrich Indians with a distinctly digital  identity of their very own.
Reliance’s businesses and operations have a  deep and wide impact across Indian society.
Over the past five decades, Reliance has become  an integral part of people’s lives, present in  their midst, in every moment, keeping them  connected, safe and better.
Since its inception, Reliance has partnered the  nation to develop and grow into its full potential  and propel the India growth story forward.
From  the hydrocarbons sector to new-age consumer  businesses, Reliance today has a firm foothold  across sectors, driving the economy forward.
These pioneering efforts demonstrate Reliance’s  unwavering faith in the nation’s potential and  purpose.
Invigorating India through insightful  innovations and strategic investments, Reliance  with a select few, has been an architect of the  country’s growth trajectory.
In its inherent role as a curator of development,  Reliance is nurturing India’s digital dream for  a bright and brilliant future.
Reliance started  a transformative force with a view to digitally  empower and enrich Indians with a distinctly  digital identity of their very own.
Reliance also  continues to cater to its consumers’ diverse  needs through over 150 major products and  brands across energy and service sectors.
Reliance is proud to have been a catalyst in  India’s transformation into an attractive economy  globally by directing its investments and focus in  areas that will continue to define and shape the  new India.
Reliance is visibly enhancing the quality of life  and starting up to a digital life.
In doing so,  Reliance is partnering the creation of a   new India.
Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Inside this  Report 380 /   Shareholders’ Referencer 392 /   Notice of Annual General Meeting •  Attendance Slip and Proxy Form •  Members’ Feedback Form 2015-16 Shareholder  Information Letter to Shareowners  / 4 Enhancing the Quality of Life / 10 Business Responsibility Report / 148 On the cover:   The cover depicts Reliance’s core belief  of adding value to the quality of life  of all stakeholders through ensuring  growth and progress, in addition to  better products and services.
Reliance  endeavours to achieve this through  consistent investments and innovations  across the energy and consumer  businesses.
Reliance is building new  business of digital services through Jio,  the world’s largest start-up, which will  herald a transformational ecosystem  leading to a digitally-enabled life for all its  consumers and stakeholders.
OTHER REPORTS AND INFORMATION:  • Corporate sustainability related  information ril.com/Sustainability/ CorporateSustainability.aspx • Quarterly results and Analyst  Presentations ril.com/InvestorRelations/ FinancialReporting.aspx • Financial statements of subsidiary  companies ril.com/InvestorRelations/ Downloads.aspx Scan the QR Code on your smart device to  view the Annual Report online at   www.ril.com/ar2015-16/index.html 2 /  Reliance at a Glance 3 /  Key Performance Indicators 4 /  Letter to Shareowners 8 /  The Board of Directors 10 /  Enhancing the Quality of Life 12 /  Making Lives Better 14 /  Jio - Starting up to a Digital Life 16 /  Jio - Reimagining Digital Life 18 /  Nurturing Digital Entrepreneurship 20 /  People and Innovation 21 /  Research and Technology 22 /   An Integrated Approach Towards  Sustainable Growth - 5P’s 24 /  Strategic Framework and Outcome 26 /  Review of Operations 38 /  Reliance Foundation 40 /  Awards and Recognition 41 /  Company Information 42 /  Major Products and Brands 53 /  Product Flow Chart 54 /  Financial Highlights Corporate  Overview 2  Standalone 257 /  Independent Auditors’ Report on     Financial Statements 262 /  Balance Sheet 263 /  Profit and Loss Statement 264 /  Cash Flow Statement 266 /  Significant Accounting Policies 270 /  Notes on Financial Statements Consolidated 314 /   Independent Auditors’ Report on     Consolidated Financial Statements 318 /  Consolidated Balance Sheet 319 /   Consolidated Profit and Loss  Statement 320 /  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 322 /  Significant Accounting Policies on     Consolidated Accounts 323 /  Notes on Consolidated Financial     Statements 374 /   Salient Features of Financial  Statements of Subsidiary /  Associates / Joint Ventures Financial  Statements 256 380 55 /  Management’s Discussion and Analysis 132 /  Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Management  Review 55 148 /  Business Responsibility Report 170 /  Corporate Governance Report 198 /  Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate      Governance 206 /  Directors’ Report Governance 148  Management Review / 55  Reliance at a Glance BUSINESSES AT A GLANCE* RIL is India’s largest private sector company on key financial parameters.
It is a  significant global player in the integrated energy value chain, and has a growing  presence in the retail and digital services in India.
Built on strong values, RIL  is steadfastly rooted in the culture of safety, integrity and commitment.
RIL is  dedicated to its vision of partnering India’s economic growth and social   well-being.
RIL strives to be a product and service leader across its industries, a  great work-place and above all, to create value for its stakeholders and society.
`2,96,091 crore Annual Revenue US$44.7 billion `27, 630 crore Net Profit US$4.2 billion Major products and brands across  energy and service sectors 151 Producer of polyester fibre/ yarn, globally 2nd Largest Producer of PTA, globally 4th Largest Producer of PP , globally 6th Largest Producer of MEG, globally 8th Largest RIL ’s Petroleum Retail network   outlets currently operational 1,000+ Retail stores currently operating  across India 3,383 Deployed the largest amount of  spectrum for 4G in India Jio Polymers, Polyester,   Fibre intermediates, Elastomers and Chemicals Integrated petrochemicals player with Top 10 rankings in key  products globally and having balanced portfolio of liquid and  gas crackers Petrochemicals Exploration and Production  of Oil and Gas  Interests in onshore and offshore exploration and production in  India and significant presence in US shale Oil and Gas Pan India footprint in   Organised Retail  Market leader with over 12.8 million sq.
ft. of retail space and  having presence in over 500 cities Retail Building a countrywide broadband next generation   infrastructure to deliver digital content, applications and services Digital Services  Broadcasting and Digital Properties  Interests in television, print, internet, film, mobile content and  allied businesses Media and Entertainment Petroleum Refining  Owns and operates two of the world’s largest and most complex  refineries with crude processing capacity of 1.24 MMBPD Refining and Marketing Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Pan India spectrum Revenue 2,34,946 82,410 7 ,527 21,612 846.1 MHz 3,403 23,598 10,221 378 506 182 EBIT EBIT EBIT EBIT EBIT Producer of PX, globally 6th Largest All figures in ` crore *Read more about Consolidated Segment Information on Pg.
363 2 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Key Performance Indicators Turnover ` crore 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 3,88,494 2,96,091 3,68,571 4,08,392 4,46,339 23.8%  y-o-y Profit After Tax ` crore 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 23,566 27,630 19,724 20,879 22,493 17.
2%  y-o-y Earnings Per Share ` 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 80.1 93.8 66.2 70.7 76.5 17.1%  y-o-y Profit and Loss Metrics (Consolidated) (Profit After Tax CAGR of 27.2%)* Networth ` crore 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 2,18,482 2,43,643 1,69,445 1,82,030 1,98,670 11.
5%  y-o-y Debt Equity Ratio 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 0.74 0.74 0.55 0.59 0.70 Book Value Per Share ` 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 742.3 826.5 568.9 619.9 675.9 11.
3%  y-o-y Balance Sheet Metrics (Consolidated)  (Networth CAGR of 30.6%)* * CAGR since IPO i.e.
38 years Market Capitalisation ` crore 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 2,66,847 3,38,703 2,44,757 2,49,802 3,00,405 26.9%  y-o-y Dividend Per Share ` 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 10.0 8.5 9.0 9.5 5.0%  y-o-y Shareholders Metrics  (CAGR of 31.6% in Market Capitalisation)* 10.5 Ranks 238th in the Financial Times’ FT  Global 500 2015 list of the world’s largest  companies.
Ranked 121st on the Forbes Global 2000 list  (2016).
Continues to be the top ranked and  one of the most valued Indian company.
India’s first private sector company to feature  in Fortune Global 500 list of ‘World’s Largest  Corporations’ , currently ranking 215th in  terms of revenue and 126th in terms of profit.
Reliance continues to feature in the list for  the 13th consecutive year.
HSE Expenditure  ` crore 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 289.75 337.31 247.13 281.90 284.95 16.4%  y-o-y Social Metrics (Standalone) R&D Expenditure ` crore 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 1,220 1,259 989 1,118 1,218 3.2%  y-o-y Total Recycled Material ’000 tonnes 11-12 12-13 13-14 15-16 14-15 71.99 82.03 64.90 63.22 69.15 13.9%  y-o-y Reliance at a Glance 3  Letter   to Shareowners Our new projects in the hydrocarbons  and digital services businesses have made  significant progress.
We have invested over  `1,12,000 crore (US$17 billion) in   FY 2015-16, the highest-ever by any  corporate in Indian history.
This large  investment spread across all our businesses  will create sustained and significant value  for our stakeholders.
As we near the end of  our largest capital expenditure cycle, we are  focused on ensuring a smooth start-up and  stabilisation of the new growth platforms  across our hydrocarbon and consumer  businesses.
Global economic activity remained muted  during the year as oil prices remained soft.
The oversupply situation continued as oil  producing countries vied for market share.
Emerging markets dependent on Chinese  growth were impacted as China moves from  an infrastructure and export economy to  a consumption based economy.
Despite  these macro headwinds, India was resilient  and overtook China’s growth rate to  become the world’s fastest growing major  economy.
However, the Indian economy  too faced challenges from slow agricultural  growth with two consecutive poor  monsoons and sharp contraction in exports  due to weak global demand and lower  commodity prices.
Against this backdrop, Reliance recorded  its highest-ever consolidated net profit  of `27,630 crore (US$4.2 billion) during  the year, a growth of 17.2% y-o-y.
Strong  operating performance from the refining  and petrochemicals business led to higher  operating profits (PBDIT), which increased  by 14.2% on a y-o-y basis to `52,503 crore  (US$7.9 billion).
The benefits of low crude  oil and energy prices for our downstream  businesses clearly outweigh the impact of  these factors on our upstream segment,  reflecting in the record earnings for the  year.
This underscores the robustness of  our integrated model and quality of assets  which deliver strong operating cash flows in  a challenging environment.
Dear Fellow Shareowners, I am delighted to write you to report yet another year of outstanding  achievements for our energy and materials businesses.
Despite persisting  global economic uncertainty, we have delivered the best operating and  financial performance in our history.
Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director The global oil demand is expected to grow  by 1.4 million b/d in CY 2016 and probably  by 1.3 million b/d in CY 2017.
This is on the  back of 1.8 million b/d of demand growth  recorded during CY 2015.
This cumulative  growth of over 4 million b/d of global  oil demand over three successive years  bodes well for the refining industry.
The  demand growth for all our key products in  the refining and petrochemicals business  remained robust in India.
Oil demand in  India grew by 10.9%, the highest growth  rate seen in the past 15 years.
This was led  by strong growth of 14.1% in gasoline, 7.5%  in diesel, 8.8% in jet kerosene and 20.7% in  naphtha.
The petrochemical product demand too  remained above long-term averages.
Indian  polymer market experienced growth rate  of 15%, surpassing China to become the  fastest growing polymer market.
Polyester  demand growth sustained at 5% for the  year.
4 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Record EBIT of Refining  and Marketing Business `23,598 crore Highest-ever consolidated  net profit in FY 2015-16 `27,630 crore This allowed us to capture the benefits of  a widening differential between light and  heavy crude oil.
Staying true to our commitment to growth,  we aim to achieve significant long-term  energy cost reduction with the completion  of the petcoke gasification project, where  low value petroleum coke will be used  to produce high value syngas to increase  Jamnagar’s energy self-sufficiency.
Furthermore, we continue to re-commission  our petroleum retail network which has now  expanded to over 1,000 outlets.
Petrochemicals Reliance’s petrochemical division continued  to deliver sustained growth.
Demand for  downstream products increased as lower  oil prices softened end product prices.
Reliance’s petrochemicals business has a  wide product portfolio, superior feedstock  linkages and serves high-growth end- markets including automobiles, packaging,  consumer durables, agriculture and  infrastructure sector in India.
Favourable  demand-supply dynamics were reflected  in margin expansion across key product  categories.
Overall EBIT margin for the  segment expanded by 380 bps to 12.4% for  the year.
We made rapid progress in the completion  of the new ROGC and aromatics project.
These projects upon completion will add  significant volumes to our polymer business  and enhance integration for the polyester  chain.
The new cracker will be among the  lowest cost producers of ethylene in the  world.
We have also made substantial  progress in the US ethane import project,  which will lower costs and ensure long- term feedstock security, flexibility and  competitiveness.
In the polyester chain, we added substantial  volumes in efforts to further integrate our  business.
We now produce 650 KTA of PET  at Dahej, making it the largest bottle-grade  PET resin capacity at a single location  globally.
To cater to the large PET capacity,  we also successfully commissioned PTA  facilities of a total capacity of 2.3 MMTPA in  Dahej during the year.
Our fully integrated  polyester business model allows us to also  benefit from inherent logistics and cost  advantages.
Reliance is confident of placing all our  incremental output from the new projects  in the domestic markets to meet India’s  growing demand.
Refining and Marketing Reliance’s world-class refining infrastructure  at Jamnagar enabled us to deliver   a very strong performance despite the  turbulence in the energy sector.
EBIT from  refining business increased by 49.1% y-o-y  to `23,598 crore.
EBIT margins expanded  from 4.7% in FY 2014-15 to 10% in   FY 2015-16.
Our gross refining margins  stood at US$10.8/bbl in FY 2015-16,  the highest in the last seven years and  significantly outperformed the Singapore  benchmark.
Our refineries benefited from robust growth  in global oil product demand and over  supplied oil markets.
Transportation fuels  benefited the most, with gasoline the key  growth driver.
Gasoline cracks were seen  at historic high levels during the year.
The  refining business was effectively supported  by a robust risk management framework  which is an integral part of the operations.
Leveraging the flexibility provided by  our refining assets at Jamnagar, we were  able to optimise our crude and product  slate to capture higher margins from light  distillates.
Our refineries processed new  grades of crude to make use of advantaged  feedstock available at significant discounts.
Reliance invested over `1,12,000 crore (US$17  billion) in FY 2015-16, the highest-ever by any  corporate in Indian history in creating growth  engines for the future.
Letter to Shareowners 5  Exploration and Production Low energy prices have created a  challenging environment for upstream  business of Reliance.
Conserving cash while  retaining optionality and preparedness  for ramp-up was accorded a high priority  during the year.
Measures were taken in  the shale gas business to optimise capital  expenditure and opex through effective  production management.
The capital  expenditure for US Shale business was cut  by 25% on y-o-y basis.
Reliance strategically  unlocked significant shareholder value by  monetising its EFS midstream investment  for US$1.07 billion.
On the domestic front, KG D6 production  fell due to natural decline in the producing  wells.
During the year, Government of  India issued new gas pricing policy which  includes marketing and pricing freedom  for production from discoveries in deep  water, ultra-deep water and high pressure- high temperature areas.
Both Reliance  and its partner BP , are evaluating the new  policy and investment plans to develop  discovered resources.
Consumer Businesses – Reliance  Retail and Digital Services In our retail business, we have reached  significant milestones over the past couple  of years and continue the high growth  trajectory.
Reliance Retail now caters to  over 3.5 million customers every week.
With  over `20,000 crore of revenue, it is India’s  largest retailer and has sustained a growth  We envisage ushering in the era of  “visuality” , where video will replace voice as  the new communication medium.
Our customer offerings are built on four  key strategic dimensions, viz.
widest  coverage, substantially superior network  quality, transformational data capacity  and affordable services.
We have made  considerable progress on all of these fronts  during the year.
During the year, Reliance Jio moved  towards completion of its network  infrastructure as well as business services  and platforms.
We on-boarded over 1.5  million test users, who have been using  the services extensively.
This has enabled  testing of the network, user applications  and services and business platforms.
The  feedback from test users is extremely  encouraging.
The test programme will be  progressively upgraded into commercial  operations in the coming months.
In order to further deepen the network  coverage, Reliance Jio acquired spectrum  in the 800 MHz band across 13 circles, to  become the only operator with pan India  LTE spectrum in both the 800 MHz and  2300 MHz bands.
Reliance Jio also has  spectrum in the 1800 MHz band across  18 circles.
In addition, Reliance Jio has  entered into an agreement for sharing of  spectrum in the 800 MHz band across 21  circles (4 circles are still awaiting approval).
Reliance Jio is the only telecom service  Letter to Shareowners (contd.)
rate of 29% CAGR in the last five years.
In FY 2015-16, we added 624 new stores  taking our total stores to 3,245 stores,  spread over 12.8 million square feet and it is  currently operating 3,383 stores.
“Reliance  Fresh” has consistently appeared in the list  of most trusted national brands.
The integration of advanced infrastructure  built by Jio and physical retail presence  will help us create a differentiated  omni-commerce model for our retail  business.
We are augmenting reach to  customers through online-offline product  assortment across trade channels.
These  efforts in building a seamless interface will  deliver superior value proposition for our  customers.
As India shifts to a digitally empowered  society, we anticipate a significant demand  for devices to connect users to a digital  ecosystem.
Keeping this in mind, we have  started building the largest distribution  reach for devices in India.
We have  introduced “LYF” models of smartphones  and televisions to enable user’s access to  the 4G LTE experience.
The next wave of growth in India will  be enabled through internet and data  capabilities.
Our digital initiative continues  to gather speed to provide anytime,  anywhere access to innovative and  empowering digital content, applications  and services, thereby propelling India into  global leadership in the digital economy.
Refining and Marketing World-class refining infrastructure at Jamnagar  enabled to deliver an unprecedented  performance.
Reliance’s gross refining  margins stood at US$10.8/bbl in FY 2015-16,  the highest in the last seven years.
Petrochemicals  Rapid progress in new ROGC and aromatics  project.
These projects will add significant  volumes to RIL ’s polymer business and enhance  integration for the polyester chain.
RIL has also  successfully commissioned second phase of PTA.
Exploration and Production Unlocked significant shareholder value by  monetising its EFS midstream investment  for US$1.07 billion.
Pg.
26 Pg.
28 Pg.
30 6 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information provider using sub-GHz spectrum band  for LTE services in the country today.
The  combined spectrum footprint across  frequency bands provides significant  network capacity and deep in-building  coverage for Reliance Jio.
At Reliance, we truly believe that  empowering people with high quality  internet access will help India progress and  move towards a more knowledge based  and connected society.
Robust Balance Sheet RIL enjoys prime credit ratings as a result of  its fiscal prudence and strong cash flows.
During the year, RIL and its subsidiaries  tied-up long-term foreign currency facilities  of about US$6.3 billion.
With its unparalleled  access to global debt markets, Reliance  successfully re-priced and re-financed debt  instruments thereby reducing interest cost.
This year we concluded the largest financing  transaction globally in the telecom sector  supported by K-sure.
This was also the  longest tenure telecom financing supported  by K-sure.
During the year, we became the first  private sector energy company globally  to issue notes backed by the EXIM Bank  of the USA.
Also, we are the first energy  company globally to issue Formosa Bond.
Our innovative financings earned us various  accolades during the year, including ‘Issuer  of the Year’ award for 2015 from IFR Asia and  ‘Best Corporate Issuer - 2015’ from The Asset.
Governance and Safety Reliance has always accorded the highest  importance to health and safety in the  existing plants and the projects.
A fully  equipped and qualified HSE (Health Safety  and Environment) organisation has been  provided for each location to govern,  document and provide HSE assurance.
The  process of first and second party audits  continued at all sites with feedback being  provided to the Board of Directors.
To have a better assessment of the  business and functional risks and to  monitor risk mitigation effectiveness  based on risk evaluation, the concept  of BRAC (Business Risk and Assurance  Committee) was introduced with senior  management personnel on the committee.
On the governance front we have put  in place a comprehensive Reliance  Management System, a holistic set of  management systems, organisational  structures, processes and requirements to  enable more evolved governance and risk  assurance framework for Reliance through  its three key core elements: Operating  Management System (OMS), Financial  Management System (FMS) and People  Management System (PMS).
Sustainable Growth An integral part of Reliance’s philosophy is  its commitment to empower and enhance  the quality of lives of millions of people.
During the year, Reliance Foundation  continued to provide accelerated high  impact solutions to India’s multifarious  development challenges.
Various efforts of  the Foundation have positively impacted  several hundreds of thousands marginal  households in areas of health, livelihoods,  education and relief during natural  calamities.
Our sports initiatives, aimed  at development of youth and reviving the  sporting landscape in the country, reached  out to over 2 million school-going children.
During the year, Reliance contributed `652  crore towards CSR activities, accounting for  2.38% of our profit after tax.
At the close, I would like to thank the  entire team at Reliance for an outstanding  year which is reflective of their efforts,  dedication and commitment to success.
I would like to place on record my sincere  appreciation to the Board of Directors for  their guidance.
I would like to express my  gratitude to all our stakeholders for their  continuing faith in Reliance.
With best wishes,  Sincerely, Mukesh D. Ambani   Chairman and Managing Director July 15, 2016 Retail Caters to over 3.5 million customers every  week.
With over `20,000 crore of revenue, it is  the largest retailer in India.
Jio RJIL acquired spectrum in the 800 MHz band  across 13 circles, to become the only operator  with pan India L TE spectrum in both the 800 MHz  and 2300 MHz bands.
RJIL also has spectrum in  the 1800 MHz band across 18 circles.
Media and Entertainment One of India’s leading Media and Entertainment  (M&E) players, with a presence across several  businesses including television content  production and distribution, theatrical exhibition  of films and media services.
Pg.
32 Pg.
34 Pg.
36 Letter to Shareowners 7  The Board   of Directors Read the profiles of the Board of Directors on Pg.
199 Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Chairman: Finance Committee Shri P .
M. S. Prasad Executive Director Member: Health, Safety and  Environment Committee, Risk  Management Committee Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Non Executive,   Non Independent Director Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Executive Director Member: Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee,  Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee,  Finance Committee Shri Hital R. Meswani Executive Director Chairman: Health, Safety and  Environment Committee Member: Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee,  Finance Committee, Risk  Management Committee Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil Executive Director Member: Health, Safety and  Environment Committee 8 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Member:  Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee Prof. Ashok Misra Independent Director Shri Raminder S. Gujral Independent Director Member:  Audit Committee Shri Mansingh L. Bhakta Independent Director Prof. Dipak C. Jain Independent Director Shri Y ogendra P .
Trivedi Independent Director Chairman: Audit Committee,  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee,  Corporate Social Responsibility and  Governance Committee Member: Human Resources, Nomination  and Remuneration Committee  Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Independent Director Member:  Human Resources,  Nomination and Remuneration  Committee, Corporate Social  Responsibility and Governance  Committee, Health, Safety and  Environment Committee Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Independent Director Member: Audit Committee,  Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee, Corporate  Social Responsibility and Governance  Committee Chairman: Human Resources,  Nomination and Remuneration  Committee, Risk Management Committee Member: Audit Committee Shri Adil Zainulbhai Independent Director The Board of Directors 9  Enhancing the  Quality of Life 10 At Reliance our business objectives has always been aligned to the evolving  needs of India.
From hydrocarbons to telecom, Reliance has created a value  chain that influences lives, making it better.
Reliance has a unique diverse  portfolio of globally competitive Energy and Materials businesses and a new age  India-centric consumer business with a very high growth potential.
Read more about CSR initiatives on Pg.
132 Value Added is defined as the value created by the activities of a business and its employees.
Value Added Statement for FY 2015-16* Stakeholders FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 % ` in crore % ` in crore  Contribution to National Exchequer 48 43,117 46 33,322  Reinvested in the Group to maintain and develop operations 38 33,888 39 28,263  Providers of Debt 5 4,756 5 3,429  Employee Benefits 5 4,260 5 3,686  Providers of Equity Capital 3 3,095 4 2,944  Contribution to Society 1 652 1 761 Total Value Created 100 89,768 100 72,405 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 Central Government Tax Collection 3 (` in crore) 14,59,8111 12,45,1362 RIL’s share in tax collection 3% 2.7% FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 72,405 89,768 Total Value Created 24%  y-o-y 1 Revised Estimate.
2 Actual.
3 Source: http://indiabudget.nic.in/ub2016-17/afs/afs1.pdf*Standalone 10 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Annual Report 2015-16 10 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 398 Shareholder  Information CSR Expenditure - FY 2015-16  Stakeholders % ` in crore  Rural Transformation 17 107  Health 48 314  Education 33 215 Sports for Development 1 9 Others 1 7 Total 100 652 Across its businesses,  Reliance has helped  foster rural prosperity,  contributed to the national  economy, generated  employment and helped  India become a global  leader in the domains it  operates in.
For Reliance, making a  positive contribution to  society and fellow Indians  across the socio-economic  spectrum is an integral part  of business.
Reliance’s more than 100 products and  services developed for unique consumer  experiences not only help people connect  but also help improve livelihoods, create  large-scale employment opportunities,  reinforce India as a manufacturing power,  unleash entrepreneurial energy and create  significant value for Indian society.
EDUCATION  CONNECTING SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT Reliance has an unrelenting focus on  the health and wellbeing not only of  its employees but also of the larger  community wherein it operates.
Reliance  has implemented unique initiatives like  the Operating Management Systems  (OMS) for reducing HSSE risks in its  operating activities.
HEAL TH To Reliance, education and skill  development are the cornerstones of a  progressive society and it has continuously  provided quality education through  6 ‘Education for All’ NGOs, 13 Reliance  Foundation Schools and RIL ’s Jamnagar  projects have skilled thousands of  workmen during their construction and  operational phase.
An important aspect of improving quality  of life for Reliance’s communities is care  and respect for the environment.
Reliance  has always gone beyond mandatory  regulatory dictates on environmental  issues and worked towards the  development and implementation of  climate change mitigation projects.
11  Jio - 4G Connectivity Hamleys - the finest toy shop in the  world   Nickelodeon - Channel for kids Moneycontrol - Financial News,  CNBC TV18 - Business News Reliance Jewels, Colors Channel,  Marks and Spencer T opper Learning - Educational  content for K-12 students Reliance has implemented a scheme of  soil health cards and ‘Plant Clinics’ to help  marginal farmers improve their yield and  reduce cost.
Reliance has helped farmers generate  organic manure through vermi-composting.
MTV - Music Destination and MTV  themed cafe for the youth, Steve Madden - Apparel,  Accessories, Footwear for Y outh For   Businesses For   Families For   Students For   Children For   Teenagers For   Farmers For  Working  People Reliance has  something for  everyone Reliance reaches out to  every section of society and  segment of the population.
Reliance’s products and  services are relevant and help  make everyday life better.
Making Lives   Better Reliance has been an integral part of India’s everyday life for  decades.
Reliance work across multiple value chains to deliver  products and services that find a presence in almost every facet  of modern living, infrastructure and other utilities.
Reliance has a  diverse footprint and impact, and it is its endeavour to sharpen  the innovation, improve its products, and continue to deliver on  newer ways in which quality of life can be enhanced.
For Everyone 12 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Wake Up Breakfast 3,383 retail stores currently  operating across India Home to Office Polymers and Elastomers   used in automobiles  Largest responsible producer and  largest recycler of plastic Transportation Fuel 1.5% (approximately) of world’s  transportation fuel is from RIL  Jamnagar Refineries Lunch Break 6 th largest producer of PP globally Container for carrying food Container for carrying beverage  Office to Home JioMags and JioNews - access to  the popular  magazines and news JioPlay - watch HD TV JioBeats - streaming music Entertainment Dress up for Office 14+ million people shop every  month at Reliance Retail Morning News Network18 broadcast  business reaches over 550  million viewers cumulatively T ea Break Pan India telecom network Dinner World’s largest refinery  complex is at Jamnagar Updating knowledge Financial News Through Everyday Mattresses, Pillows,  Blankets 2 nd Largest producer of polyester globally Making Lives Better 13  Network differentiators, with best-in-class customer service, will transform experience for customers JIO NETWORK ADDRESSES NEW AGE REQUIREMENTS Instant call connectivity, minimal  call drop, unmatched HD quality All-IP Network Superior indoor coverage  using macro and small cells Seamless In-building coverage  India’s largest LTE network deployment with  FDD and TDD spectrum (800/1800/2300 MHz  Bands) with fibre backhaul Ubiquitous Coverage Footprint Sufficient throughput for the  highest end applications Superior Data Experience Seamless voice, video and  messaging experience Seamless Service Experience Sufficient capacity for every  user on the network, at all times  (combination of fibre and spectrum) Rich Capacity eNodeB 800/1800/2300 MHz Spectrum 800/2300 MHz Spectrum JAMMU & KASHMIR HIMACHAL PRADESH PUNJAB U.P .
(WEST)HARYANA  RAJASTHAN MADHYA PRADESH WEST BENGAL KOLK ATA ASSAM ODISHA BIHAR MAHARASHTRA ANDHRA PRADESH KARNATAKA TAMIL NADU KERALA MUMBAI GUJARAT DELHI TELECOM CIRCLE NORTH- EAST U.P.
(EAST) RJIL ’s circle wise  infrastructure and  spectrum band  14 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Jio - Starting up   to a Digital Life 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information MyJio – One   connection • Check balance and Validity • Recharge and Pay Bills • Download and Subscribe Jio  Apps • Real-time balance transfer  between your connections JioPlay – Live and   Catch-up TV • Pause and Play Live TV channels  on the move at HD quality • Catch up weeks TV programme  anytime with Catch-up TV • Set programme reminders and  record programs JioOnDemand –  Personalized Home Theatre • Huge ad-free HD quality content  across languages and genres • Adaptive Streaming based on  network speeds • Voice search and personalized  recommendations • Experience international  contents at your convenience JioMoney – Digital Cash and  digitizing payments • Transforming digital payments  and commerce • Making payment Simple, Smart  and Secure • Bringing consumers and  merchants closer to each other • No more fraud risks with real- time online fund loading and  usage tracking JioSecurity – Y our power  against threats to digital  life • Award winning App Advisor that  warns on risky websites, apps etc  • Proactive antivirus protects you  and your device 24x7  • TrackMyDevice allows you to  track, click a photo, scream and  format your device remotely JioNews – Newspapers on  the go • Read newspapers from across  the country • Clip articles, get the articles  read-out • Resume reading the paper  where left last JioBeats – Stream and  Download HD Music • HD Quality songs in your  preferred language • Experience 1-Touch Radio with  Unlimited Skips • Intelligent Recommendations  based on listening pattern JioMags – There is always  more to read • Vast library of premium  magazines • Life-like reading and  personalized annotations • Sync downloaded magazines  across devices • Never miss your favourite from  wide library of latest regional  magazines JioXpressNews – Stay  Updated.
Stay Ahead • Get News content from various  languages and sources • Read the stories even offline,  save articles • Get notifications for stories that  matter to you JioChat – Chat with a  difference • Video and Audio Conferencing • Document Sharing • Regional Language Interface JioDrive – Y our files are one  touch away • Secured data on the cloud • Access your data on the go from  smartphone, tablet or PC • Simple access, easy storing,  sharing and quick sync JioJoin – Y our smartphone’ s  bridge to VoL TE • A telco-grade smartphone  application that enables Jio’s  latest communication services  • Experience HD Voice, Video calls,  SMS on non-VoLTE devices • Enjoy rich Communication  features like Chat, File Share, etc.
on all Smartphones  • Real-time switch to video or  audio on ongoing call LIFESTYLE APPLICATIONS (APPS) Jio provides smart applications to make life simple, beautiful and secure Jio - Starting up to a Digital Life 15 Jio - Reimagining   Digital Life REIMAGINING EDUCATION  Jio brings multiple possibilities to the world  of education.
Students can connect to high- speed internet anytime, anywhere to attend  virtual classrooms, complete assignments and  projects without having the need to travel.
This  is especially true for those in rural areas without  access to many options in their vicinity.
Similarly,  teachers who want to reach out to more  students can do so effortlessly.
Other services  like text-to-speech will help differently-abled   students to attain higher education.
Jio is envisioned as a connected  network that will change the  way world looks at life.
It will  offer a super high-speed  network and bring the best  digital ecosystem within easy  reach of every Indian.
Jio plans to enable end-to- end solutions that address  the entire value chain across  various digital services.
Jio will transform the way India  interacts with the world and  will help anytime, anywhere  connectivity at a world-class  quality level.
Here are key areas  in which this reimagining and  transformation will happen.
REIMAGINING COMMUNICATION Jio will address the communication needs of  India in ways that were unimaginable until  recently.
The next generation network has  multiple features that makes video, the new  voice.
People will be able to stay in touch  anytime, anywhere with real-time video calls,  multi-party conferencing, real-time chat, location  sharing and multiple safety features.
REIMAGINING HEAL THCARE Jio will address the issues of unavailability of  quality healthcare in many parts of India.
Using  Jio’s video conferencing and cloud-based drive,  doctors will be able to treat patients at faraway  places and access medical records remotely.
Many other possibilities exist in the realm of  healthcare which will enable a better quality of  life for a large number of Indians.
16 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information REIMAGINING INFOTAINMENT REIMAGINING FINANCIAL INCLUSION The world of information entertainment will  be a different one with Jio.
One can access  news, music, full-length movies on the go, all  without interruptions and buffering.
There are  many other possibilities like live-streaming,  shared spaces and opportunities to connect  with friends on chat and interest groups  that will really bring all forms of information  entertainment to the fingertips of consumers.
Live events through real-time streaming will  provide an enhanced experience for both, live  and remote audiences.
REIMAGINING GOVERNANCE With Jio, government officials and policy  makers will be able to administer effective  digital governance.
They can interact with  their constituents, monitor the progress of  development projects and get real-time  information on matters of public importance.
This will usher in greater transparency and  accountability.
With facilities like live WebCast,  they can reach out to a large number of people  from a single location, making better use of   their time.
Jio will play a crucial role in transforming the  way millions of unbanked people will access  financial services.
Jio’s next generation digital  services platform offers enhanced security for  various financial transactions.
Jio’s reach will help  in mass participation in bridging the financial  digital divide.
REIMAGINING ENTREPRENEURSHIP Jio is expected to enhance business productivity  and efficiency in a big way.
Managers will be  able to remain in touch with their teams across  remote locations and geographies.
Real-time  information sharing will mean better reporting  and aid in swifter decision-making and course  correction for businesses.
JioDrive will enable  safe digital storage of voluminous business  data for anytime, anywhere access.
For small  businesses, many of their connectivity hassles  will be addressed and they can use facilities like  video conferencing without having to invest in  expensive hardware and software.
Micro entrepreneurs and farmers will benefit  from direct procurement and price information.
Jio - Reimagining Digital Life 17  Nurturing Digital  Entrepreneurship GENNEXT INNOVATION HUB During the four-month-long programme, GenNext Hub conducts workshops and mentoring sessions for start-ups in the areas of customer  development, market traction, operations, product roadmap, fund raising and pitching.
It also provides expertise in IP , legal, financial compliance,  HR and specific sectorial expertise.
GenNext Hub is uniquely positioned as a global programme that helps start-ups think big and grow fast.
GENNEXT HUB’S WINTER 2014 COHORT START-UPS GENNEXT HUB’S FALL 2015 COHORT START-UPS A passenger safety and engagement platform.
axlerate.com A connected car platform.
mycariq.com A virtual trial room platform.
coitor.com  A personalised education content curation platform.
flexiguru.com  A proprietary location content distribution  company.
fropcorn.com A predictive healthcare analytics company.
360hvpl.com A pre-testing skill assessment company.
interviewmocha.com The world’s first answering engine.
thelightapp.com A last mile logistics solution provider.
loginextsolutions.com An adaptive entrance test preparation platform.
oztern.com An event discovery and engagement social media  platform.
mocioun.com Provides operational intelligence for wind turbines,  met masts, solar plants and other Internet of Things  (IoTs).
algoengines.com India’s first consumer credit analytics and online  management tool to help build healthy credit profile  for individuals.
creditseva.com Mobile app that guarantees to instantly connect  patients to doctors from best hospitals over the phone  in under 1 minute.
curefy.in A centralised procurement solution for the hospitality  industry.
efficientbazaar.com The leading Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending platform from  Israel entering India.
eloan.co.il Mobile and cloud based field force mobility solution to  sales, service and delivery function for visualising real- time activities on the field.
fieldomobify.com A new kind of fitness membership that provides access  to the best gyms and fitness classes in the city.
fiticket.com Enabling offline merchants to accept new age  payments without the need for any additional  hardware or an app and with minimal learning curve.
letsbinge.com The hyper-local advertising platform that helps  businesses to accelerate their sales within the locality  in an easy and affordable way.
pickcel.com An online sports eco-system that helps people to  connect, network, schedule and engage in sports,  fitness and a healthy lifestyle.
playfiks.com A technology powered, intra city, point-to-point  logistics company.
vdeliver.in “At GenNext Hub, RIL is catalysing a unique start-up ecosystem, which rests on the tripod of  talent, technology and trust.
This venture is aimed at spotting and encouraging ‘talent’ , helping  them harness their ‘technology’ and backing them by putting total ‘trust’ in them.
Dr. Raghunath Anant Mashelkar,   Chairman, GenNext Ventures, Board Member, RIL 18 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information COLLABORATIONS SELECT PORTFOLIO COMPANIES GenNext Ventures Fund (GVF) GVF is an arm’s length venture capital fund sponsored by Reliance.
GVF  invests in global start-ups (including India, Israel, UK and the Silicon  Valley) which have the potential to build sustainable businesses,  providing growth capital and scaling impetus.
Value-Add beyond Capital GVF believes ‘capital is merely an enabler’ and supports building  successful businesses in multiple ways, including:  Test-beds/Pilots: Start-ups get test-beds/pilots with Reliance  and other corporate partners of GenNext to test/prove emerging  technologies in real business environment.
Domain Expertise: Leverage Reliance’s diverse industry presence  and expertise to gather strategic insights that may help refine the  start-up’s product, go-to-market strategy, alliances, etc.
Extensive Global Network: Start-ups get access to RIL ’s global  ecosystem for business insights, mentoring and guidance,  international markets, new customers, new partners, etc.
Cross-Portfolio Synergies: Leverage RIL ’s portfolio companies  for cross-industry knowledge and expertise, technology solutions,  alliances and joint Go-to-Market.
Value-added Support: On multiple dimensions including  business planning, team-building, branding and marketing, growth  strategies, global expansion, etc.
GenNext Hub is a Reliance-backed start-up programme powered by  Microsoft Ventures, to catalyse the start-up ecosystem for a digital India.
Launched in September 2014, it has completed two batches of the  programme and has a total of 22 start-ups successfully graduating from  the Hub.
It is headquartered in Reliance Corporate Park, Navi Mumbai.
1(as per United Nations Environment Programme) GVF has selectively invested in India and US based companies that have  developed cutting-edge technologies and are scalable across global  markets.
The founders have impeccable credentials and are passionate  about creating world-class companies.
Selected investments include: Videonetics    A pioneering Video Computing company whose indigenously  developed integrated Video Management Software (VMS) and Video  Analytics (VA) solution are deployed in 70+ airports in India.
The  product can be used for video surveillance, automated number plate  recognition, redlight violation detection and facial recognition.
While its  primary application is in the field of surveillance, the product also has  application in segments like retail and healthcare.
Ecorithm    Ecorithm provides Energy Efficiency solutions i.e.
to diagnose and  optimise energy wastage in building complexes.
Buildings account for nearly 40% of global energy consumption 1  and  produce a larger carbon footprint than all transportation systems  combined.
Ecorithm’s suite of technologies helps analyse complex,  dynamic systems through physics-based pattern recognition and can  be applied to building systems and various other enterprise solutions to  improve operations and minimise energy use.
GenNext Ventures and Ecorithm agreed to collaborate in environmental  design and optimise energy efficiency in buildings in India.
Fall 2015 Cohorts Start-ups Nurturing Digital Entrepreneurship 19  The Reliance Innovation Council (RIC) sets an agenda to actively nurture innovation within Reliance in order to safeguard its standing as  a unique corporate entity and one of the most innovative companies in the world.
In other words, the council – which consists of global  thought leaders, Nobel Laureates, and iconic personalities – provides vision to the innovation movement at Reliance.
Born out of RIC’s  vision, the state-of-the-art R&D centre leads technology development at Reliance.
The Reliance Innovation Leadership Centre (RIL-C) was set-up to serve the innovation vision of the council.
This centre implements  Reliance’s innovation agenda by deploying the best and next transformational innovative practices.
RIL-C leads various programmes to  integrate innovation within Reliance, some of which are mentioned below.
People and Innovation Reliance’s goal is to develop its employees to have the best technical and leadership capabilities in the industry.
Reliance focus on merit- based, long-term career development and are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce to ensure it attract the best talent.
Reliance  recruit talented people from around the world and provide them with formal training and a broad range of global experiences to  develop them into the next generation of Reliance leaders.
Reliance know that delivering outstanding performance requires exceptional  people.
As Reliance strides ahead to transform India’s digital landscape and to improve the quality of life for fellow Indians, Reliance   believes its employees too are possessed with the zeal to transform India.
RELIANCE INNOVATION COUNCIL LEAP RELIANCE INNOVATIONMISSION KURUKSHETRA Leading Expert Access   Programme (LEAP) Innovation thrives within inspired minds.
LEAP was born with the aim of providing  people at Reliance access to global  thought and innovation leaders through  interactive sessions.
From industry  captains to Nobel Laureates, senior  government officials to social crusaders –  and even a Mount Everest summiteer – all  have inspired and mesmerized the people  of Reliance through LEAP .
OUTCOME 34 LEAP speakers have inspired  employees at Reliance through their life  stories and experiences.
IMPACT-INSPIRE Inculcating a culture of thinking big  – about Reliance, the communities it  operates in, and the whole country.
Mission  Kurukshetra (MK) Reliance recognises that every mind is  creative.
Mission Kurukshetra (MK) is a  step towards democratising creativity  and innovation within the organisation.
Through the Mission Kurukshetra  platform, people can submit ideas  and track their progress right up to  implementation.
In addition, businesses  can put up specific challenges seeking  novel ideas and solutions.
The first MK awards held in 2015, in  which 9 winners were felicitated for their  contributions.
OUTCOME MK is now a treasure trove of almost  14,000 employee ideas that have a  combined potential to generate hundreds  of crores of value for the organisation.
IMPACT-ENABLE Enabling a culture of collaborative and  cross-functional innovation.
IMPACT-IMPLEMENT  Sustainable business growth by  encouraging and rewarding innovation.
Read more about Innovation, Research and Technology on Pg.
115 Reliance Innovation Award The awards were presented for the  following projects: Dhirubhai Ambani Game Changer  Award:  Redefining the refining process CK Prahalad Innovation Leadership  Award: Creating a sustainable innovation  culture in Reliance.
The Revolutionary Award:  Demonstrating outstanding innovation  capabilities as a young leader The Innovation for Impact Award is  given under three categories (Business,  Manufacturing and Service) to innovative  solutions provided to real problems that  have been successfully implemented to  scale.
Mission  Kurukshetra 20 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Research and Technology It is innovation that transformed Reliance from a small textile trading firm into India’s  largest private sector enterprise and a Fortune 500 company.
From sparking off the  equity cult in India to setting up the world’s largest grassroots refinery to now ushering  in a digital revolution in India, Reliance has always demonstrated that innovation is in its  DNA.
Reliance’s innovations touch many facets of life in India – be it transportation, retail,  or healthcare.
The company’s bold ambitions for Reliance and for India push to create an  innovation agenda that is even bolder, ensuring that the next wave of growth will remain  innovation-led.
BREAKTHROUGH R&D COMMITMENT R&D ENABLERS OUTCOME IMPACT BIO-CRUDE AND  BIO-CHEMICALS PRODUCING  ALGAE AND CO- PRODUCTS FOR  ENERGY HYDROTHERMAL  LIQUEFACTION CLEAN  ENERGY BENZENE  EXTRACTION  FROM FCC LIGHT  NAPHTHA RIL ’s ‘Algae to bio-crude’  effort aims to develop  technologies for algae  cultivation to convert  biomass to bio-crude  and bio-chemicals.
A collaborative project  with some of the  top universities and  research institutions in  the US to validate and  demonstrate a process  to produce bio-crude  and other value-added  products from algae.
It is a process that uses  high temperature and  pressure conditions  to convert biomass to  bio-crude, imitating the  way Earth made crude  oil millions of years ago.
RIL is the sole industry  partner in the New  Millennium Indian  Technology Leadership  Initiative (NMITLI) with  the Council of Scientific  and Industrial Research  (CSIR) on indigenous  polymer electrolyte  membrane (PEM)  fuel cell technology  development.
RIL entered into a  collaborative project  with IIP (Dehradun) to  co-develop a benzene  extractive distillation  process from FCC Light  Naphtha.
Clean fuels – RIL shall deploy substantial  resources; human capital and money –  in development of clean technologies  including bio-fuels RIL has emerged as an active  patent filer in India Product and Process stewardship  in existing and future business • `1,259 crore spent during the year • State-of-the-art laboratories and 400  plus scientists • External collaboration and internal  crowd sourcing Read more about Breakthrough R&D on Pg.
116 People and Innovation | Research and Technology 21  Through sustainable measures, Reliance creates value for the nation, enhances quality of life across the entire   socio economic spectrum and help spearhead India as a global leader in the domains where it operates.
An Integrated Approach Towards  Sustainable Growth - 5P’s  RIL Growth for all Prosperity (Profit)Transformation (STAR) Enterprise Risk  Management 5P’s SDG – United NationsIntegrated Reporting  Framework  Business Model Process Planet Human Products and Processes Manufactured People Social and Relationship Peace and Partnerships Intellectual Financial OutcomesInput Business  Differentiators Deliverables External  Environment Performance Pg.
128 Pg.
124-127 Pg.
56-102 Pg.
56-102 Strategy  Pg.
24-25 Pg 109-114 Pg.
115-120 Pg.
121 Pg.
122-123 Pg.
107-109 Natural Value Creation - RIL’s business model and outcomes are aligned with integrated reporting framework of IIRC (International Integrated   Reporting Council) and United Nations SDGs.
Clean Energy Ensure maximum use of clean  energy in all the operations -  collaborate with best-available  technologies licensors.
Ensure  benchmarking of energy  consumption across all the sites  with best-in-class technologies and  new emerging technologies.
Opportunity & Diversity As an equal opportunity employer,  promote a culture of transparency,  empowerment and meritocracy.
Empower women by advancing  opportunities in the Company’s  activities and aspire to achieve  15% women workforce by 2030.
Community Development Empowering the underprivileged,  enhancing their access to better  amenities and increasing the  outreach of community initiatives  to 20 million people by 2030 with  the minimum CSR expenditure at  2% of the net profit.
Asset Utilisation Efficient and maximised utilisation  of the assets to optimise energy  consumption through operational  excellence ensuring safe and reliable  operations.
Supply Chain Management Committed to build and maintain  a top-quartile supply chain  with focus on sustainability by  collaborating with suppliers,  helping them build their capacity  and address sustainability issues  through site-level training.
Health Committed to provide healthcare  facilities to all people (on-roll  employees and contract staff )  working across all sites at par  with global standards using  latest technologies and practices  including maintaining medical  history for all.
Customer Satisfaction Aspire to be the most customer-  focused company with the highest  customer loyalty.
GOALS/ENDEAVOURS FOR SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT Safety Work with Industry peers to  define and upgrade standards  on process safety and proactively  promote safety for itself and  across the industry.
Committed  to remain top-quartile  performer in all safety matrices  across all operations.
Ensure  implementation of best-in-class  technologies for real-time  monitoring of operational  parameters for safe, reliable and  efficient operations.
Product Stewardship Develop road-map for each  product in its portfolio based on  continuous engagement with  customers to understand their  current and future requirements  and be pace-setter in adapting  new and emerging technologies.
Management of Environmental  Impact Ensure industry-leading energy  cells at each site working towards  energy security with focus on  reducing consumption and  increased use of clean energy  to progressively reduce GHG  emissions intensity.
Demand  minimum level of HSE compliance  from all stakeholders.
Waste Management Ensure efficient use of solid  catalysts including investment in  development of bio-catalysts to  replace solid catalysts.
Water Management Deploy world-class technologies  across all sites to reduce fresh  water consumption per unit of  production by maximising waste  water recycle and minimising  external discharge.
22 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information During FY 2015-16, RIL has undertaken numerous initiatives contributing to the overall goal of sustainable development.
These include: Planet* • 5.4+ lakh saplings have been planted • 1.1 lakh metric tonnes of soil has been conserved • 14%  in materials recycled • 2.4%  in total GHG emissions per tonne of product • 12.4%  of air emissions (SOx) • 4.7%  in water recycling • 2,500+ acres of greenbelt at Jamnagar Outcome • Mitigating global warming • Promoting use of eco-friendly fuels Peace and Partnerships* • + 24,000 people benefited under skill-building training • Reliance Industries along with nine other companies has committed to  collaborate in a number of areas to reduce their GHG footprint • Reliance joined hands with Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, MSD in India,  Tata Trust and the United States Agency for International Development, to  develop Project ASMAN for improving maternal and child health outcomes Outcome • Global citizenship • Building sustainable livelihoods Prosperity* (Profit) • `43,117 crore  contribution to national exchequer • 20.7%  in PAT to `27,417 crore • `652 crore CSR expenditure   Outcome • Better standard of living • Strengthening infrastructure • Sustainable models of development People* • 15+ lakh training hours • 687 poor and meritorious students financially supported to pursue  higher studies through different scholarship schemes  • 12%  in the number of women employees over last five years • Launched Wave 4 of  the R-HR Transformation journey to strengthen  leadership pipeline Outcome • Healthier and safer working environment • Enhanced employee engagement • Bringing inclusiveness in education * Standalone Products and Processes* • `1,259 crore  R&D expenditure • 36 patents granted during the year • Consistent progress in breakthrough research • Invest to impact a billion Indians Outcome • Innovation culture • Product stewardship An Integrated Approach Towards Sustainable Growth - 5P’s 23  Shareholder Value Reliance drives shareholder  value through active portfolio  management to continuously  enhance the quality of its  business portfolio, consistently  deliver shareholder returns  and maintain a focus on long- term growth potential.
Employee Value Reliance creates value for  its employees, by ensuring  their prosperity as the  organisation grows.
Specifically,  it creates employee value  through continuous  learning, structured career  progression opportunities  and an industry-leading  employee value proposition.
Value Created Strategic Framework  and Outcome Strategic Framework  and Outcome Driving growth, value, innovation and transformation in society Reliance is pursuing its strategy to grow, by leveraging its existing  know-how and asset base and investing in opportunities strategic  to its existing businesses and those of the future.
Reliance initially  focuses on activities and investment in India to take advantage  of the large domestic market, as it currently holds a leadership  position in it.
It builds competencies that can be rolled out on a  global scale.
Reliance’s business creates value for its shareholders,  employees, customers and society, and each new opportunity it  pursues must meet these criteria or it does not invest in it.
Strategy Leadership position in existing business Nurturing and   managing  talent  Investing in new businesses Taking RIL to a global scale Innovation  Transformation  Revenue - US$44.7 billion  Net profit - US$4.2 billion  Profit Growth - 17.2%  R&M: World’s largest refinery  Petchem: Amongst world’s leading    petrochemical producers  Retail: Largest retailer  in India based   on Revenue and Footprint  Investment in excess of US$35 billion     in existing and new businesses   Provides 1.5% approximately  of world’s  transportation fuel  2 nd largest producer of polyester    fibre and yarn in the world  22 start-ups successfully graduated from GenNext Hub  State-of-the-art pan India digital services business    being rolled out by Jio, aimed at significantly    lifting India’s global ranking on mobile broadband    subscriptions  Dividend declared - 105%  Total payout -  `3,095 crore  Monetised investments in   Eagle Ford Midstream JV  RONW (adj.)
for    FY 2015-16 - 16.3%,      300 bps y-o-y  Market Capitalisation -     by `71,856 crore  Launched the final wave of    Reliance-Human Resource    (R-HR) Transformation  Launch of R-University  Imparted >15 lakh    man hours of training Read more in the People section on Pg.
112 24 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Customer Value Reliance drives customer  value through its product  innovation, application and  service levels, ability to deliver  a consistently high consumer  experience and its overall  reputation and brand promise  in the markets it operates in.
Societal Value Society provides Reliance with a  license to operate, and with this  privilege comes a responsibility  to create value.
Reliance drives  societal value through job  creation, both directly and  indirectly, social innovation  through products and services  and its respect for ecology  and environment.
Five Enablers Safe operations, digital technology, capital productivity, operational efficiency and ethics Reliance’s Group Strategy is founded on five enablers.
These enablers are an integral part of all of its businesses.
Safety Use of technology Capital productivity   Aim to achieve zero injuries and incidents in steady-state  operations  R&M - Use of robots and drones to enhance safety  Petchem - Digitised logistic using radio-frequency    identification  Retail - Harnessed online sites   ROCE (adj.)
for FY 2015-16 - 20%,  700 bps y-o-y  Superior credit profile - RIL ratings two notches above    sovereign bonds rating  Optimised financing cost Efficiency in operations Ethics   GRM at 7-yr high - US$10.8/barrel (bbl) outperformed the  Singapore benchmarks by US$3.3/bbl for FY 2015-16   Zero Tolerance - Vigil mechanism and robust   governance and processes   Integrity is one of Reliance’s core values  R&M - Provides high value,    clean transportation   fuels  Petchem - Launched    “Chemistry for Smiles” and    “Transforming Life into    Quality Life”   E&P - Field uptime of KG  D6 is at par with or better  than the global benchmark  Retail - More than 30    million members registered    to Customer Loyalty    Programme  Jio - Network rollout for    over 15 lakh users  Media - 20 million unique    visitors per month on    digital platforms  3 core CSR commitments -   Scale, Impact and   Sustainability  In conformity with the   Sustainable Development    Goals (SDGs)    Impact areas - rural  transformation,  environment, health,    education, sports for  development, disaster  response, arts, culture and  heritage Read more in the CSR report on Pg.
132 Read more in the BRR on Pg.
166 Strategic Framework and Outcome 25  Review of Operations Refining and Marketing `23,598 CRORE RECORD EBIT REGIONAL MARGINS (US$/BBL) PERFORMANCE  IN FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 `15,827 crore `23,598 crore 49.1%  y-o-y 26 Top to Bottom: Aromatics Complex at Jamnagar  • Jamnagar SEZ Refinery  Facing Page, Top to Bottom:  Employee at Jamnagar Refinery • Port Jetty at Jamnagar Petroleum refining and marketing (R&M) is an  integral part of Reliance’s drive for growth and  global leadership in the core energy and materials  value chain.
RIL outperformed Singapore benchmark with a  premium of US$3.3/bbl Rotterdam FY 2014-15 US$5.4/bbl Singapore Complex FY 2014-15 US$6.3/bbl USGC FY 2014-15 US$12.4/bbl FY 2014-15 US$8.6/bbl RIL FY 2015-16 US$11.8/bbl FY 2015-16 US$6.3/bbl FY 2015-16 US$7.5/bbl FY 2015-16 US$10.8/bbl 26 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Read more about Refining and Marketing operations on Pg.
62 US$10.8 bbl   Refining margins outperformed  Singapore benchmark with premium of  US$3.3/bbl US$19.3 billion   Total exports of refined products Over 1,000 Petroleum retail outlets operational  currently    230 KL/month   One of the highest throughputs per  outlet 66 Different crude grades processed   during the year   Petcoke Gasification The petcoke gasification project is on  track towards achieving sustainable long- term energy cost reduction Every 4.3 minutes An aircraft is fuelled by Reliance 80% y-o-y increment in RIL ’s sales to airlines in  terms of volume ACHIEVEMENTS IN FY 2015-16 27 COMPETITIVE STRENGTH • Largest single site refinery:   Crude processing capacity of 1.24  MMBPD • Robust configuration: Nelson  Complexity Index of 12.7 • Ability to sustain high operating  rates: State-of-the-art operating  and maintenance practices • Dedicated world-scale port  facilities: Strong crude and product  freight economics • Ability to process wide range of  challenging crudes: Competitive  feedstock costs • Flexibility to swing product slate:  Agile and opportunistic response  to volatile markets • RIL ’s robust logistics set-up and  proficient product placement  team enables placement of large  volumes of refined product  globally • Integrated supply and trading team  works real-time with the refinery  operations to optimise asset  utilisation Top to Bottom: Aromatics Complex at Jamnagar  • Jamnagar SEZ Refinery  Facing Page, Top to Bottom:  Employee at Jamnagar Refinery • Port Jetty at Jamnagar Review of Operations 27  Petrochemicals RIL offers an extensive range of polymers,  polyesters, fibre intermediates, aromatics and  elastomers providing world-class experiences  to its customers across a range of applications.
End-use sectors include packaging, infrastructure,  agriculture, automotive, housing, and healthcare  among others.
`10,221 CRORE RECORD EBIT PERFORMANCE  IN FY 2015-16 `8,291 crore `10,221 crore 23.3%  y-o-y 24.7 MMT OVERALL PETROCHEMICAL PRODUCTION IN INDIA 22.0 MMT 24.7 MMT 12.3%  y-o-y Review of Operations FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15  Top to Bottom: Petrochemical Cracker  • Safety first practised  Facing Page, Top to Bottom:  Polyester bobbins • Latest take-up winders in the new polyester production unit 28 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Read more about Petrochemicals operations on Pg.
69 COMPETITIVE STRENGTH • World’s leading producer of  petrochemicals with global scale  capacities • 1 1 manufacturing locations in India and 3  in Malaysia • Diversified feedstock mix, with both  naphtha and gas based crackers • Vertical integration from oil and gas to  refining and downstream petrochemical  products • Focus on technology leadership, cost  efficiencies and responsible operational  practices ACHIEVEMENTS IN FY 2015-16 2.3 MMTPA PTA  capacity successfully commissioned   4.65 MMTPA PTA capacity - global capacity   share of 4% 33% Domestic polyester market share 36% Domestic polymer market share World’ s largest   single location bottle grade PET resin  plant at Dahej  Recron Green Gold   is one of the greenest fibres globally Top to Bottom: Petrochemical Cracker  • Safety first practised  Facing Page, Top to Bottom:  Polyester bobbins • Latest take-up winders in the new polyester production unit Review of Operations 29  Oil and Gas Gas Gas 139.1 BCF ~1.26 BCFe/day KG D6 JV PRODUCTION US SHALE JV PRODUCTION 1.8 MMBBL Oil and condensates PERFORMANCE IN FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 1.17 BCFe/day 1.26 BCFe/day 7%  y-o-y Top to Bottom: Control Riser Platform at KG D6 offshore • Floating Production  Storage and Offloading at MA Field location  Facing Page, Top to Bottom: Eagle Ford Drilling site • Employees working at Control  Riser Platform Reliance is one of the largest exploration and  production players in India.
RIL ’s upstream portfolio  consists of onshore and offshore blocks in India as  well as acreages in US Shale play.
`378 CRORE EBIT Review of Operations 30 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Read more about Oil and Gas operations on Pg.
78 COMPETITIVE STRENGTH • Strong offshore capabilities in  India  • Strategic partnership with BP in  the domestic upstream business  • Leveraging the existing  infrastructure, knowledge and  experience  • Achieved materiality in the  unconventional business  • Balanced portfolio with growth  potential  203.8 BCFe RIL ’s share of production (CY 2015) in US shale operations  US$1.07 billion  Monetisation of RIL ’s entire interest in EFS  Midstream LLC for, unlocking significant  value for shareholders  1,040 Shale gas producing wells at the end of  CY 2015   124 BCFe RIL ’s share of production in India 2.61 TCFe RIL ’s share of proved US Shale reserves CBM Project Nearing completion ACHIEVEMENTS IN FY 2015-16 Review of Operations 31  Top to Bottom: Reliance Digital, Hamley’s, Reliance Trends Facing Page: Reliance Fresh Reliance Retail’s nationwide network of  retail outlets delivers a world-class shopping  environment and unmatched customer experience  powered by state-of-the-art technology and  seamless supply-chain infrastructure.
`21,612 CRORE `506 CRORE REVENUE EBIT PERFORMANCE  IN FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2014-15 `17,640 crore `417 crore `21,612 crore `506 crore 29% CAGR FOR 5 YEARS 21.3%  y-o-y 22.5%  y-o-y Retail Review of Operations 32 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information Read more about Retail operations on Pg.
88 COMPETITIVE STRENGTH START-UPS AND INITIATIVES • Launched www.ajio.com, the  curated fashion and lifestyle  e-commerce platform • India ke Hunger ki Bajao  - Reliance  Fresh has joined hands with  Akshay Patra, an NGO which serves  nutritious meals to over 1.4 million  children in more than 10,000  schools across 10 states of India • During the year, Reliance Retail  launched ‘LYF’ its own brand of 4G  LTE smartphone and 4K televisions • For pan India distribution set-up  over thousand distributors were  on-boarded with another 1,20,000  device outlets signed • Launch of 2 new renowned  international brands - BCBG MAX  Azria and Juicy Couture • Integrated ‘offline-online’ model to  differentiate customer experience   • Experience in managing multiple business  models of retail, wholesale, licensing, joint  ventures and emerging multi-channel  commerce • Ability to manage complexity, scale, speed  and diversity across retail concepts and  operating environments • Best-in-class infrastructure of IT systems  and supply chain enabling scale, speed and  efficiency • Largest portfolio of international brands  making Reliance Retail a partner of choice 3,245 Stores operated with over 12.8 million  square feet of retail space across India  and currently operating 3,383 stores 624   New stores added during the year 40+  Brands portfolio span across the entire  spectrum of luxury, bridge to luxury,  high-premium and high-street   lifestyle space 30 million  Registered members under customer  loyalty programme Over 500 Cities and towns covered Reliance Retail 2.0 initiatives  Encompassing Fashion and Lifestyle  e-commerce, development of market  place platforms and building of a  distribution ecosystem for 4G devices  are on track and are being rolled out in a  phased manner Largest cash and carry player Reliance Market continues to build on its  leadership position as the largest cash  and carry player ACHIEVEMENTS IN FY 2015-16 Review of Operations 33  Digital Services Jio promises to shape the future of India by  providing end-to-end digital solutions for  businesses, institutions and households and  seamlessly bridging the rural-urban divide.
Review of Operations 846.1 MHz 8 ,10 0 KM 2,50,000+ KM ~5,00,000 SQ.
FT. 29 STATES SPECTRUM INFRASTRUCTURE PRESENCE 18,000+ towns 1,50,000+ villages Cable System - Bay of Bengal Gate Largest fibre network Integrated data centres 34 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information COMPETITIVE STRENGTH • With proposed investment outlay of over `1,50,000 crore,  Jio is the world’s largest start-up.
Jio is rolling out the largest  Greenfield LTE deployment in the world  • Most sophisticated and one of the largest telecom networks in  the country • First telecom operator to hold pan India Unified License, holds  846.1 MHz of liberalised spectrum across 800 MHz, 1800 MHz  and 2300 MHz bands • Customer offering is built on four key strategic dimensions -  widest coverage of Long Term Evolution (LTE) services, superior  network quality, transformational data capacity and affordable  services • Next generation network which is amongst the best in the  world with advanced features such as Software Defined  Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV).
Ready for future evolution of technology including transition to  5G with minimal additional capital expenditure in the network Read more about Digital Services operations on Pg.
94 ACHIEVEMENTS FOR FY 2015-16 • As part of the trial launch currently over 15 lakh users are   co-creating the Jio experience • Launched along with partners, state-of-the-art 8,100 km cable  system, the Bay of Bengal Gateway (BBG).
It provides direct  connectivity to South East Asia and the Middle East, then  onward to Europe, Africa and Far East Asia through seamless  interconnection with existing cable systems • Direct physical presence across all 29 states • Largest fibre network (more than 2,50,000 route km) and  highest amount of LTE-ready spectrum as compared with the  current industry players • Built nearly half-a-million square feet of cloud data centres and  a multi-terabit capacity international network Review of Operations 35  Media and  Entertainment Network18 is one of India’s leading Media and  Entertainment (M&E) players, with a presence  across several businesses including television  content production and distribution, theatrical  exhibition of films and media services.
Review of Operations `3,403 CRORE `182 CRORE INCOME FROM OPERATIONS  EBIT PERFORMANCE  IN FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2014-15 `3,127 crore `143 crore `3,403  crore `182 crore 27.
3%  8.8%  Top to Bottom: Newsroom, CNBC TV18 Studio, CNBC Awaaz Studio 36 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 02 54 256 379 Financial   Statements 55 147 Management  Review 380 396 Shareholder  Information • Consumers engagement with a diverse content platter  – for younger and more aware customers • Network alliance – Unique mix of national and regional  content • International Collaboration – Best-in-class content, diverse  genres, digital content and services • Innovation – Early adopter of latest technology including  customer analytics • Creation of new platform – Platform agnostic approach  enables wider reach • Speed and agility – Keeping viewers ahead in life STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES ACHIEVEMENTS FOR FY 2015-16 • New android and iOS app was launched for   MoneyControl.com and Overdrive • Firstpost.com was one of the first publications to go on the  Google AMP platform • Homeshop18  continued to expand geographically by  strengthening its distribution network and it reaches to more  than 55 million viewers on TV • Forbes continued to engage audience with its rich content  and special events and issues.
Forbes India saw the highest  number of subscriber copies circulated for any month in   Dec 2015 • New additions:   ETV News Odia regional news channel was launched in 2015  Colors Infinity, an English general entertainment channel was  successfully launched with premium international content • Viacom18 Motion Pictures produced and released films  ‘Gabbar is Back’, ‘Margarita with a Straw’, ‘Drishyam’ and ‘Manjhi’  which were well received from critics and audience alike • IBN Lokmat bagged the prestigious ‘Ramnath Goenka  Excellence in Journalism Awards’ • CNBC Awaaz  conducted the first of its kind technology  awards ‘Tech Guru Awards’ • Colors is amongst the most widely viewed channel in its  genre • Firstpost.com - India’s first and the biggest digital-only  newsroom  • HomeShop18 has been acclaimed as the ‘Trend Setter in  Shopping Channels’ at the 7th BCS Ratna Awards in March 2016 START-UPS AND INITIATIVES COMPETITIVE STRENGTH • CNBC-TV18 1 and CNBC Awaaz 2 maintained No.1 position  in their respective genres with a market share of 50% and 63%,  respectively • CNN-News18 3  was the No.
1 General English News channel on  Budget Day, with 35% market share, continued to be a dominant  player in English General News reaching out to more than 33  million viewers4 • Nick5 continued to lead the Kids genre with a viewership share  of 30% • Vh1 6 was the No.1 in the English entertainment and music  genre with 24% • History TV187 continues to be amongst the top 2 players in  the genre across 6 Megacities, with a viewership share of 24%  • BookMyShow 8, India’s largest entertainment ticketing  company recorded an average of 71 million visits per month.
It  was sole ticketing partner for ICC T20 World Cup 2016 • Network18’s bouquet of more than 30 television channels  offers a unique mix of national and regional channels, catering to  diverse genres • ‘Overdrive’, ‘Better Photography’ and ‘Better  Interiors’, Network18’s  Publishing division reached out to over  1 million readers on a monthly basis across platforms8 Read more about Media and Entertainment operations on Pg.
99 1.
BARC| India/ India Urban| NCCS A 22+ male| 1st Jan-31st Mar’16, 24hrs 2.
BARC|HSM| NCCS AB 22+ male 1st Jan-31st Mar’16, 24hrs 3.
BARC, Cumulative Cov [Mns], NCCS 4+, 1st Jan-31st Mar’16, 24 Hrs, All Days, All India Sources 4.
BARC, Cumulative Cov [Mns], NCCS 4+, 1st Jan-31st Mar’16, 24 Hrs, All Days, All India 5.
BARC: 4-14, All India, NCCS ABC (0700-2200hrs) for weeks 41, 2015 to 13, 2016 (period for  which BARC individual ratings are available) 6.
BARC: TG: 15-40, NCCS AB, market: 6 mega cities; time period: all days, 0200-2559 hrs., weeks  41, 2015 to 13, 2016 7.
BARC: week 12-13, 6 mega cities, NCCS AB 15 +, all India, all days, avg weekly GTVTs 8.
Internal Data Analysis Review of Operations 37  Reliance Foundation Reliance ushers change through focus areas: rural transformation,  environment, health, education, sports for development, disaster  response and arts, culture and heritage.
The Company’s CSR  initiatives are guided by three core principles of scale, impact and  sustainability leading to maximisation of societal value.
All along,  leveraging of technology helps create a multiplier effect for the  socio economic development of the marginalised communities.
Reliance’s CSR initiatives, in compliance with schedule VII of the  Companies Act, 2013, are driven by a professional team of 450  experts.
Over the past years, the CSR expenditure has been more  than 2% of the net profit.
Reliance’s approach to social development is aligned to the five  broad dimensions of sustainability as under.
Planet: Water harvesting and conservation, provision of clean  drinking water, energy conservation, environment protection and  cleanliness.
People: Providing access to quality education, scholarship  opportunities for pursuing higher education, promoting skills in  sports, ensuring access to quality healthcare including maternal  and child health services, and improving food and nutrition  security.
Products and Processes: Process improvements through  technology and innovations for optimal outcomes.
Prosperity: Promoting sustainable agricultural practices, skill  building for alternative livelihoods, employment and income  generation.
Disaster relief to mitigate human suffering during  natural calamity.
Peace and Partnerships: Aligning with organisations and  governments for synergistic efforts for larger impact.
All these initiatives has impacted the lives of over 6 million people  so far, across 14 States and 2 Union Territories, covering more than  10,500 villages.
Key highlights of CSR initiatives through Reliance Foundation and  manufacturing locations for FY 2015-16: • Livelihoods of more than 19 lakh farmers and fisherfolks  enhanced with support from Reliance.
• Over 17,000 people supported to reach nutrition self-sufficiency • 6,749 Ha of land was brought under improved cultivation practices Rural Transformation • Over 5.4 lakh saplings planted • 103 lakh cubic metre of rainwater harvesting capacity created • 107 villages secured for drinking water through sustainable rainwater  harvesting initiatives • Supported rehabilitation of 8 villages from tiger reserve forest Environment • Over 5 lakh health consultations provided to patients through  Reliance managed hospitals, mobile and static medical units and  various health camps • 8,480 women screened for anaemia of which over 3,165 diagnosed  and received follow up treatment for it • 12,283 children were screened for malnutrition of which 1,459  received follow-up for malnutrition • Reliance entered into a consortium to set-up Project ASMAN for  improving maternal and child health outcomes Health • Provided scholarships to over 687 meritorious students to pursue  higher education • Education for All initiative reached out to 85,000 children Education • Engaged with over 19 lakh youth  across 18 cities who were  encouraged to adopt healthy and active lifestyle by integrating  basketball into their physical education curriculum • 23 children were awarded scholarships under Young Champs  programme for developing football abilities Sports for Development • Over 1.46 lakh individuals across 218 villages in seven districts  reached through disaster relief measures • 25 villages supported in the journey towards drought proofing Disaster Response • Extended support to the annual concert, “Abbaji” , organised by Ustad  Zakir Hussain in the memory of his father, Ustad Allah Rakha Khan.
This concert featured renowned musicians who came together to pay  tribute to the legendary Guru Arts, Culture and Heritage 38 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Rural TransformationEnvironmentHealthEducationDisaster Response Sports for  development Arts, Culture   and  Heritage  HEAL TH SAFETY AND   ENVIRONMENT CAPITAL RESOURCES  SUSTAINABILITY Awards and Recognition Smt.
Nita M. Ambani named the  most powerful businesswoman in  Asia by Forbes RIL is top Indian Company and 14th  on the Platts Top 250 Global Energy  Company List (2015) Shri Mukesh D. Ambani was awarded  the prestigious Othmer Gold Medal by  Chemical Heritage Foundation, USA Shri Mukesh D. Ambani was elected as  a Foreign Member of the prestigious  US National Academy of Engineering QUALITY • Won the ‘Quality Achievements  Award’ under GOLD Category by  ESQR (European Society for Quality  Research) • Won ‘Lean and Six Sigma Excellence  Award 2015 (LSSEA 2015)’  organised by Symbiosis Centre For  Management and Human Resource  Development (SCMHRD) CORPORATE SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILITY • Won the ‘Platts Global Energy Award’  in the Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) category • Awarded the ‘Prestigious Porter Prize  2015’ for its outstanding contribution  to the society • Nepal Red Cross Society appreciated  the Foundation for its relief measures  after the earthquake shattered  thousands of lives in the country • Won the ‘Global CSR Excellence and  Leadership Awards - 2016’ under  the ‘Best use of Corporate Social  Responsibility practices’ under the  category of the Manufacturing sector  during the World CSR Congress in  Mumbai • Awarded ‘Rashthra Vibhushan  Gold Award’ 2015 towards Health  Excellence • Won the ‘14th Annual Greentech  Safety Award 2015’ • ‘Project sponsor of the Year’   - 2015 from the Asset • ‘Best Syndicated Loan of The Year’  Award from the Asset as Well as  Asia Pacific Loan Market Association  (Aplma) for US$1.5 billion Syndicated  Loan Refinancing • Winner of ‘Golden Peacock Global  Award for Sustainability’ for the year  2015 • Rated ‘Platinum in the CII Sustainable  Plus’ Ratings – 2015 Read more about Awards and Recognition on Pg.
129 40 Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting Up to a digital life.
.
148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 380 396 Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 41 02 54 55 147 Company Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh D. Ambani Executive Directors Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani P .
M. S. Prasad Pawan Kumar Kapil Non Executive Directors Mansingh L. Bhakta Yogendra P .
Trivedi Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Nita M. Ambani Raminder S. Gujral  Chief Financial Officer Alok Agarwal Joint Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Group Company Secretary and  Chief Compliance Officer K. Sethuraman Auditors Chaturvedi & Shah Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Rajendra & Co Solicitors & Advocates  Kanga & Co BANKERS Allahabad Bank Andhra Bank Bank of America Bank of Baroda Bank of India Bank of Maharashtra Canara Bank Central Bank of India Citibank N.A Credit Agricole Corporate  and Investment Bank Corporation Bank Deutsche Bank The Hong Kong and Shanghai  Banking Corporation Limited HDFC Bank Limited ICICI Bank Limited IDBI Bank Limited Indian Bank Indian Overseas Bank Oriental Bank of  Commerce Punjab National Bank Standard Chartered Bank State Bank of Hyderabad State Bank of India State Bank of Patiala Syndicate Bank The Royal Bank of Scotland Union Bank of India Vijaya Bank MAJOR PLANT LOCATIONS Dahej Mfg.
Division P .
O. Dahej,   Taluka: Vagra,   District Bharuch - 392 130,  Gujarat, India Jamnagar  Village Meghpar/Padana,  Taluka Lalpur,   Jamnagar - 361 280,   Gujarat, India KG D6 Onshore Terminal Village Gadimoga,   Tallarevu Mandal,   East Godavari District – 533 463,   Andhra Pradesh, India Patalganga Manufacturing  Division B-1 to B-5 & A3, MIDC Industrial Area,  P .
O. Rasayani, Patalganga – 410 220,  District Raigad, Maharashtra, India Hazira Manufacturing Division Village Mora,   P .
O. Bhatha, Surat-Hazira Road,   Surat - 394 510,  Gujarat, India Jamnagar SEZ Unit Village Meghpar/Padana,   Taluka Lalpur,  Jamnagar - 361 280,   Gujarat, India Nagothane Manufacturing Division P .
O.
Petrochemicals Township, Nagothane - 402 125, Roha Taluka, District Raigad,  Maharashtra, India Vadodara   Manufacturing Division P .
O.
Petrochemicals,   Vadodara - 391 346,  Gujarat, India REGISTERED OFFICE REGISTRARS & TRANSFER AGENTS 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,  222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai 400 021, India  Tel: +91 22 2278 5000 | Fax: +91 22 2278 5111  e-mail: investor_relations@ril.com | Website: www.ril.com Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,  Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 500 032, India  Tel: +91 40 6716 1700 | Toll Free No.
: 1800 425 8998 | Fax: +91 40 6716 1680    e-mail: rilinvestor@karvy.com Website : www.karvy.com 42nd Annual General Meeting on September 1, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar,  19, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020.
BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Yogendra P .
Trivedi (Chairman) Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai  Raminder S. Gujral Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee Yogendra P .
Trivedi (Chairman) Nikhil R. Meswani Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Stakeholders Relationship  Committee Yogendra P .
Trivedi (Chairman)  Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani Prof. Ashok Misra Finance Committee Mukesh D. Ambani (Chairman) Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani Human Resources,   Nomination and  Remuneration Committee Adil Zainulbhai (Chairman) Yogendra P .
Trivedi Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Health, Safety and   Environment Committee Hital R. Meswani (Chairman) Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur P .M.S.
Prasad Pawan Kumar Kapil Risk Management Committee Adil Zainulbhai (Chairman) Hital R. Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad Alok Agarwal Srikanth Venkatachari Awards and Recognition  | Company Information Annual Report 2015-16 42 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Major Products and Brands Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses REFINING AND MARKETING REFINING Propylene Feedstock for polypropylene Naphtha Feedstock for petrochemicals such as ethylene, propylene &  fertilisers, etc.
and as fuel in power plants Gasoline Transport fuel Superior Kerosene Oil Domestic fuel High Speed Diesel Transport fuel Sulphur Feedstock for fertilisers and pharmaceuticals Petroleum Coke Fuel for power plants and cement plants Alkylate High Octane blend stock for gasoline PETROLEUM RETAIL GAPCO Petroleum Retail Retail distribution of fuels Reliance Gas Liquefied Petroleum Gas  (LPG)  Domestic, commercial and industrial fuel Reliance  Petroleum Retail Transportation fuels Retail distribution of fuels Reliance  Aviation Jet / Aviation Turbine Fuel Aviation fuel Auto LPG Auto LPG Auto fuel outlet Trans Connect Fleet Management Services Fleet Management Solutions A1 Plaza Highway Hospitality Services Highway food plaza R-Care Vehicle care services Vehicle service, repair and preventive maintenance Qwik Mart Convenience shopping Shopping of beverages, snacks, gifts on highways Refresh Foods Passengers amenities/food court on highways Relstar Lubricants  Lubricants PETROCHEMICALS POLYMERS Repol Polypropylene (PP) Woven sacks for packaging of cement, food-grain, sugar, fertiliser;  leno bags for packaging of fruits & vegetables, TQ & BOPP films  for packaging of  textiles, films and containers for processed  food, FMCG, office stationery; components for automobile and  consumer durables, moulded furniture, luggage, housewares,  geo-textiles & fibres for non-woven textiles and pipes.
Major Products & Brands Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 43 02 54 55 147 Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses POLYMERS Relene Polyethylene (HDPE,   LLDPE & LDPE) Woven sacks, raschel bags for packaging of fruits & vegetables,  containers for packaging of edible oil, processed food, FMCG,  lubricants, detergents, chemicals, pesticides; industrial crates  & containers, carrier bags, housewares, ropes & twines; pipes  for water supply, irrigation, process industry & telecom; films  for packaging of milk, edible oil, salt, processed food, roto- moulded containers for storage of water, chemicals storage  and general purpose tanks, protective films and pipes for  agriculture, cable sheathing, lids & caps and master batches.
Ethylene Vinyl Acetate   Copolymer (EVA) Footwear   Reon Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC)  Pipes & fittings; door & window profiles, insulation & sheathing  for wire & cables, rigid bottles & containers for packaging  applications, footwear, flooring, partitions, roofing, I.V.
fluid & blood bags and calendered films for pharmaceutical  applications.
Relpipe Poly-Olefin HDPE and   PPR pipes Irrigation, water supply projects, sewerage and drainage,  mines, coal fields, industrial water/fluids/effluents  transportation, gas distribution network, telecom cable ducts  and micro ducts for FTTx, plumbing & construction.
Relflex™  Elastomers Synthetic Rubbers Tyres, Footwear soles & heels, belts, hoses etc.
Relflex™ Cisamer  PBR Polybutadiene Rubber (PBR) Automotive Tyres, Tyre treads, Cycle Tyres, Conveyor & V-Belts,  Sports Goods, Dock Fenders, HIPS etc.
Relflex™  Stylamer SBR Styrene Butadiene Rubber (SBR) Tyres, Footwear, Conveyor belts, Hoses, Mechanical rubber  goods etc.
CHEMICALS Relab Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB)  Detergents POLYESTER & FIBRE INTERMEDIATES Paraxylene (PX) Raw material for PTA Purified Terephthalic Acid (PTA) Raw material for polyester Mono Ethylene Glycol (MEG) Raw material for polyester Recron® Polyester Staple Fibres, Polyester  Filament Yarns, Speciality Polyesters Apparel, Home textiles, Technical textiles & Non-wovens Recron® IDY Polyester high-tenacity industrial  yarns Conveyor belts, ropes, geo-grids, seat-belts, lashings, slings,  industrial fabrics etc.
Recron® SHT Polyester Super High Tenacity Fibres Hi-Strength, Low-shrinkage Sewing threads for apparel, home  and industrial applications Annual Report 2015-16 Major Products and Brands (Continued)  44 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses POLYESTER & FIBRE INTERMEDIATES Recron® Fancyy Innovative Polyester Filament yarns Value-added fine quality fashion fabrics with unique weave  patterns, textures and hand-feel.
Recron® Stretch Stretch yarns  for comfortable fit  and freedom of movement Blouse material, denim, shirting, suiting, dress material, T-shirt,  sportswear, swimwear, medical bandages & diapers Recron® Cotluk Cotton Look, Cotton Feel Yarns Dress material, shirting, suiting, furnishing fabric, curtain &  bed sheet Recron®  Dyefast Can dye at boiling water  temperature with  high colour  fastness Ladies outerwear, feather yarn for knitted cardigan, decorative  fabric & home furnishing Recron®  Superblack Dope dyed black  with high consistency in shade Apparel, automotive, non-woven & interlining Recron®  Superdye Bright, brilliant colours  and soft feel, low pill Woven & knitted apparel, furnishing & home textile   Recron® Kooltex Moisture management yarns Active sports and high performance wear Recron® Fibrefill Hollow fibres with high bounce and  resilience Pillows, cushions, quilts, mattresses, furniture, toys  & non- wovens Recron® 3D  Conjugate Virgin superwhite fibres with a  unique spiral structure Sleep and comfort products, Furniture, Toys & Beddings Recron® 3S Secondary Reinforcement Products Construction industry (concrete/mortar), cement (sheet &  pipe), paper industry (conventional & speciality), battery  industry, wetlaid industry (wall papers, filtration, wipes &  hygiene products) & Asbestos replacement Recron® Certified Quality Certified Sleep Products Pillows, cushions, blankets & quilts  Recron® Low Pill Polyester Tow & Staple Fibre with  unique low pill properties High-end worsted suitings, upholstery fabrics & socks Recron®  FeelFresh Anti microbial fibres & yarns Active sportswear, Intimate apparel, socks, home furnishings  & garments used in healthcare industry Recron® Micrelle Bi-component filament yarns Super soft and ultra comfortable fabrics Recron®  Recrobulk Hi-bulk fibres for  soft-feel & warmth Sweaters, pullovers, cardigans, shawls & jackets Recron®   GreenGold  Eco-friendly fibres made  from 100%  post-consumer polyester waste Apparel & home textiles Recron®  Spunlace Speciality polyester fibres High quality non-woven products for the healthcare &  hygiene industry Recron®  RecoSilk Speciality Polyester Filament Yarns Ideal for dress materials, velvet, sarees, embroidery threads  with a silken shimmer and in swathes of colour.
Recron® FR Flame retardant Fibres & Yarns Institutional textiles for hospitality, entertainment, transport,   safety etc.
Also used in home textiles, fill & comfort products.
Recron®  Duratarp Polyester Fibres with increased  abrasion resistance for better water  proof, tear proof and fade- proof  qualities Tarpaulin, Tents & Awnings Major Products & Brands Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 45 02 54 55 147 Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses POLYESTER & FIBRE INTERMEDIATES Recron®  Safeband Structurally modified polyester fibre  with antimicrobial and antifungal  properties Crepe, Rolled Bandages & Surgical Dressings  Relpet® Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET) Packaging for bottled water, beverages, confectionary,  pharmaceutical, agro-chemical and food products OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Crude Oil and Natural Gas Refining, power, fertilisers, petrochemicals and other  industries RETAIL OWNED Reliance Retail Reliance Retail Organised retail Reliance Fresh Food & Grocery Specialty Store Fresh vegetables, grocery, general and convenience  merchandise Reliance Smart Hypermarket  Grocery, clothing, footwear, electronics and general  merchandise Reliance Market Wholesale Store Grocery, clothing, footwear, electronics and general  merchandise Reliance Digital Electronics Specialty Store Computers, mobiles, entertainment, gaming merchandise   Reliance Digital  Xpress Mini Specialty Store for mobility &  communication Products and Services relating to mobility needs through  smart phones, tablets, accessories, peripherals iStore Exclusive Apple Store Range of Apple products Reliance Resq Digital Service Center Services (Guidance, Installation, Maintenance & Repair) for  Digital products Reliance Jewels Jewellery Specialty Store  Fine jewellery Reliance Trends Apparel Specialty Footwear  for men, women and kids, sports, handbags and  accessories Reliance  Footprint Footwear Specialty Store Men, ladies, children footwear, sportswear, handbags and  accessories LYF Connectivity devices and consumer  electronics 4G Devices i.e.
Smartphones, Wifi, Dongle, etc., television Annual Report 2015-16 Major Products and Brands (Continued)  46 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses EXCLUSIVE BRAND PARTNERSHIP Ermenegildo  Zegna Italian Luxury Men’s Clothing Apparel, Accessories and Footwear for Men Paul & Shark Italian luxury sportswear brand Apparel, Accessories and Footwear for Men Thomas Pink British Shirt Authority  Apparel and Accessories for Men Brooks Brothers American icon that has redefined  & shaped classic American style for  nearly two centuries Apparel and Accessories for Men Diesel Iconic Italian Lifestyle Brand Apparel, Accessories and Footwear Kenneth Cole Urban fashion & Lifestyle brand that  exudes metropolitan lifestyle of New  York city Apparel, Accessories and Footwear Superdry Fashion brand that fuses design  influences from Japanese graphics  and vintage Americana, with the  values of British Tailoring Apparel, Accessories and Footwear Dune Distinctive Fashion footwear &  Accessories Accessories and Footwear for Men and Women Steve Madden Fashion forward Footwear &  Accessories Brand Accessories and Footwear for Men and Women B CBG Max Azria Contemporary women’s clothing  brand  Apparel, Accessories and Footwear Juicy Couture Casual luxury lifestyle brand  Apparel, Accessories and Footwear Hamleys The finest toy shop in the world Toys Vision Express Optical Specialty Store Spectacles, Sunglasses, Contact Lenses Marks & Spencer International Apparel, Accessories &  Home Products Store Apparel for Women, Men and Children, Lingerie, Beauty and  Home Décor Payless Affordable Fashion Footwear  Specialty Store Mens, ladies, kids and sports footwear, handbags and  accessories Quiksilver Quiksilver is a premium youth  lifestyle and culture clothing brand  representing action sports  Apparel, Accessories, Footwear, Skateboards & Surfboards Roxy Roxy is a global lifestyle brand,  offering products for every aspect of  an active girl’s life, the key ingredient  of the products being the inimitable  Roxy spirit.
“Daring, confident,  naturally beautiful, fun, alive” Apparel, Accessories, Swimwear, Footwear for girls Major Products & Brands Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 47 02 54 55 147 Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses EXCLUSIVE BRAND PARTNERSHIP DC Founded by Ken Block and Damon Way  in 1993, DC is a leader in performance  skateboarding shoes and renowned  action sports and stands as a global  brand whose product line has  expanded to include men’s, women’s  and kids’ skateboarding and lifestyle  shoes, apparel, snowboards, snowboard  boots, outerwear, and accessories.
Apparel, Accessories, Footwear, Skateboards GAS GAS is an Italian clothing brand  offering quality products for  intelligent, aware consumers, with an  international, cosmopolitan attitude.
Apparel, Accessories, Footwear for men & women MUJI Iconic Japanese lifestyle brand Accessories, Home, Apparel, Travel, Beauty, Stationery REISS Affordable luxury fashion brand  Apparel,Accessories and Footwear Hunkemoller Leading European lingerie brand  Lingerie, Nightwear, Swimwear, Accessories Kate Spade Accessible luxury for women  Handbags, Small Leather Goods, Apparel, Footwear ICONIX Diversified portfolio of fashion and  home brands Apparel, Footwear, Accessory, Home Fashion TEXTILES OWNED Vimal Suitings, Shirtings, Readymade  Garments  Fabrics, suits, jackets, shirts & trousers Vimal Gifting Ready-to-stitch, take away fabric in  gift packs Fabrics V2 Ready-to-stitch,  Take away fabric Fabrics DEO2 Anti-Microbial Fabric Finish  Technology Fabrics, suits, jackets, shirts & trousers LICENSED Georgia Gullini Suitings, Shirtings Fabrics Annual Report 2015-16 Major Products and Brands (Continued)  48 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses DIGITAL SERVICES Jio Connected Intelligence Jio is an ecosystem - of best-in-class devices,  applications, networks.
And the sum of its parts, is  greater than the whole, a network effect by design MyJio  Gateway to Jio Apps MyJio is The One App to rule them all - everything  from signing up and paying bills to topping up and  managing all your account JioPlay Instant access to TV  Programmes With JioPlay watch LIVE TV (including HD) on smartphones  and tablets, set reminders and even Catch-Up with missed  programs JioOnDemand  Entertainment at your fingertips One-stop platform for HD content across various languages  and genres with adaptive streaming anytime, anywhere JioBeats  Music for you.
Anytime,  Anywhere Music comes alive with JioBeats.
With an unmatched  library and built-in intelligence to enhance music listening  experience JioMags There is always more to read Rich library of premium magazines to provide an experience  of reading a real magazine.
Ability to listen to articles,  highlight, underline, bookmark.
Podcasts and videos to go  with your articles JioXpressNews Stay Updated.
Stay ahead News of the world, customised just for you.
User selected  preferences, such as language, publications and categories of  news, drives what makes the cut JioChat An efficient way to stay  connected A OTT app that has unique features like multi-party video  conferencing, audio and video notes, large-size group (500  members), regional stickers, and interface in 10 Indian  languages, doodles, and file-sharing JioDrive You files are one touch away Store online securely all your photos, videos, docs, songs  organized at one place JioJoin Make any phone VoLTE ready A telco-grade smartphone app JioJoin enables customers to  enjoy Jio’s latest communication services like HD Voice, Video  calls, SMS on non-VoLTE devices JioMoney Experience cashfree living Jio Money helps consumers by digitizing everyday  transactions to make smart, simple and secure payments JioSecurity Protect your phone, secure your  data Your power against threats to digital life.
Award winning app  advisor and anti-virus protects your device 24x7 proactively  against risk apps and virus attacks JioNews  Your News, Your language Read newspapers with editions from all major publications  available in multiple languages.
You can personalize your  reading by setting up your for auto-download Major Products & Brands Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 49 02 54 55 147 Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT TV CHANNELS  CNBC TV18  English Business News Channel  English Business news  CNBC Awaaz  Hindi News Channel  Hindi Business news CNBC Bajar Gujarati News Channel Gujarati Business news  CNN IBN English General News Channel  English language news and current affairs IBN 7 Hindi General News Channel Hindi language news channel News18 India English General News Channel News from India for Indian diasporas outside IBN Lokmat Marathi  News Channel  National and International news for Marathi viewers ETV  Urdu Regional News Channel  Urdu news channel ETV Rajasthan Regional News Channel  Rajasthani  news channel ETV   Bihar Jharkhand Regional News Channel  Regional news for Bihar and Jharkhand ETV   Uttar Pradesh  Uttarakhand Regional News Channel  Regional news for Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand ETV  Madhya Pradesh  Chhattisgarh Regional News Channel  Regional news for Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh ETV News  Gujarati Regional News Channel  Gujarati news channel ETV News  Kannada Regional News Channel  Kannada news channel ETV News Bangla Regional News Channel  Bangla news channel Annual Report 2015-16 Major Products and Brands (Continued)  50 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses TV CHANNELS ETV Haryana  Himachal  Pradesh Regional News Channel  Regional news for Haryana and Himachal Pradesh ETVOdiya Regional News Channel  Oriya news channel Colors Hindi general Entertainment Channel  Hindi mass entertainment channel  Colors Infinity English Entertainment Channel  English entertainment for inclusive family viewership Rishtey Hindi general Entertainment Channel  Hindi mass entertainment channel MTV India Music Channel  Music destination for the youth Vh1 English Music and Lifestyle Channel  English music destination for the youth Comedy Central English Entertainment Channel  English entertainment for inclusive family viewership Nickelodeon Kids Channel  Comedy destination for kids Sonic Kids Channel  Action and adventure entertainment for kids and young adults Nickelodeon  Junior Kids Channel  Entertainment aimed at pre-school kids Colors Marathi Regional Entertainment Channel  Marathi entertainment channel Major Products & Brands Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 51 02 54 55 147 Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses TV CHANNELS Colors Kannada Regional Entertainment Channel  Kannada entertainment channel Colors Bangla Regional Entertainment Channel  Bangla entertainment channel Colors Gujarati Regional Entertainment Channel  Gujarati entertainment channel Colors Odia Regional Entertainment Channel  Oriya entertainment channel History TV18 Infotainment Channel Factual Entertainment channel FILMED ENTERTAINMENT Viacom18 Motion  Pictures Filmed Entertainment  Acquisition, production, syndication, marketing and distribution  of full length feature films within India and distribution of Indian  films in several international markets CONTENT ASSET MONETIZATION IndiaCast Multi-platform ‘Content Asset  Monetization’ entity International Channel distribution, advertising sales on  international Channels and content Syndication DIGITAL CONTENT Moneycontrol Financial news and services portal Comprehensive  financial information, news and in-depth  analysis across asset classes IBNLive News and entertainment portal Real-time coverage, sports updates, entertainment buzz, anchor  blogs & chats and Live TV for CNN-IBN, IBN7 and IBN-Lokmat Firstpost Online news and views website  Digital newsroom powered by expert writer-editors across the  country and the globe  News18.com Regional news website Web, mobile & tablet service with focus on news at the state &  city level Annual Report 2015-16 Major Products and Brands (Continued)  52 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Business/Brand Product / Service Brand Logo  End Uses FILMED ENTERTAINMENT In.com News and entertainment portal Content & videos of Network18 entertainment channels and  websites and popular third party websites Burrp Lifestyle portal Social lifestyle portal for metropolitan Indian market DIGITAL COMMERCE HomeShop18 Retail platform TV | WEB | MOBILE Integrated virtual shopping  on Internet, Television and Mobile BookmyShow Online ticket booking platform Online ticket booking for movies, plays, sporting events and  shows PUBLISHING BUSINESS Forbes India Business Magazine Lifestyle magazine targeting India’s affluent and influential  individuals Better  Photography Photography Magazine Magazine for photography enthusiasts Better Interiors Interiors Magazine Magazine for interiors ideas and design Overdrive Auto Publication  Publication for auto enthusiasts and users ALLIED BUSINESS Topper Learning Education T   PPER LEARNING Get More Marks Educational content for K-12 students Colosceum Production House CO L OSCEUM MEDIA PRIV A TE LT D Content producers specializing in TV and filmed entertainment Capital 18 Investment Investment arm of Network18 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 53 02 54 55 147 Major Products & Brands | Product Flow Chart Product Flow Chart Styrene Annual Report 2015-16 54 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Financial Highlights    R IL  Standalone  ` in crore $ Mn 2015-16 14-15 13 -14 12 -13 11-12 10 -11 09 -10 08 - 09 07- 08 06 - 07 Revenue From Operations  37,920  251,241  340,814 401,302 371,119 339,792 258,651 200,400 146,328 139,269 118,354  Total Income  39,065  258,823  349,535 410,238 379,117 345,984 261,703 202,860 148,388 144,898 118,832  Earnings Before Depreciation, Finance  Cost and Tax Expenses (EBDIT)  7,203  47,721  40,323  39,813  38,785  39,811  41,178  33,041  25,374  28,935  20,525  Depreciation and Amortisation  1,444  9,566  8,488  8,789  9,465  11,394  13,608  10,497  5,195  4,847  4,815  Exceptional Items   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -370  4,733  -  Profit For the Year  4,138  27,417  22,719  21,984  21,003  20,040  20,286  16,236  15,309  19,458  11,943  Equity Dividend %*  105  105  100  95  90  85  80  70  130  130  110  Dividend Payout  467  3,095  2,944  2,793  2,643  2,531  2,385  2,084  1,897  1,631  1,440  Equity Share Capital  489  3,240  3,236  3,232  3,229  3,271  3,273  3,270  1,574  1,454  1,393  Equity Share Suspense Account   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  69  -  60  Equity Share Warrants   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  1,682  -  Reserves and Surplus  35,761  236,936  212,923 193,842 176,766 162,825 148,267 133,901 124,730  78,313  62,514  Networth  36,250  240,176  216,159 197,074 179,995 166,096 151,540 137,171 126,373  81,449  63,967  Gross Fixed Assets  55,711  369,111  311,815 264,281 232,270 205,493 221,252 228,004 218,673 127,235 107,061  Net Fixed Assets  35,965  238,289  190,316 151,122 128,864 121,477 155,526 165,399 169,387  84,889  71,189  Total Assets  69,085  457,720  397,785 367,583 318,511 295,140 284,719 251,006 245,706 149,792 117,353  Market Capitalisation  51,121  338,703  266,847 300,405 249,802 244,757 342,984 351,320 239,721 329,179 198,905  Number of Employees  24,121  24,930  23,853  23,519  23,166  22,661  23,365  24,679  25,487  24,696  Contribution to National Exchequer  6,508  43,117  33,322  31,374  28,950  28,197  28,719  17,972  11,574  13,696  15,344  $ Mn 2015-16 14-15 13-14 12-13 11-12 10-11 09-10 08-09 07-08 06-07 Earnings Per Share - (`)  [excluding Exceptional item]* 1.28 84.7  70.2  68.0  64.8  61.2  62.0  49.7  49.7  105.3  82.2  Turnover Per Share - (`) 11.70 775.30  1,053.3  1,241.7  1,149.5  1,037.8  790.5  612.9  464.9  958.1  814.2  Book Value Per Share - (`) 11.19 741.20  668.0  609.8  557.5  507.3  463.2  419.5  401.5  560.3  440.0  Debt : Equity Ratio 0.45:1  0.45:1  0.45:1  0.40:1  0.41:1  0.44:1  0.46:1  0.63:1  0.45:1  0.44:1  EBDIT / Gross Turnover % 19.0 19.0  11.8  9.9  10.5  11.7  15.9  16.5  17.3  20.8  17.3  Net Profit Margin % 10.9 10.9  6.7  5.5  5.7  5.9  7.8  8.1  10.5  14.0  10.1  RONW % ** 16.3 16.3  13.4  12.9  12.8  13.4  15.5  16.4  21.6  28.8  23.5  ROCE % ** 20 20  12.7  11.5  11.2  11.6  13.2  13.9  20.3  20.3  20.5  In this Annual Report $ denotes US$ 1US $ = ` 66.255 (Exchange rate as on 31.03.2016) * Adjusted for issue of Bonus Shares in FY 2009-10 in the ratio of 1:1 ** Adjusted for CWIP and revaluation Key Indicators Sustainable Future and  Growing Responsibly Yearly Review Pg.
No.
Title What’s inside 56/ Overview Macro-economic environment - global and domestic 57/ Highlights and Key  Events Brief overview of business performance and achievements 60/ Financial Performance  and Review Financial information (consolidated and standalone) and discussion on key  parameters  62/ Business Performance 62/ Refining and Marketing 69/ Petrochemicals  78/ Oil and Gas (E&P) 88/ Retail 94/ Digital Services 99/ Media and Entertainment Analysis and description of all major business segments of Reliance covering  strategic advantages and competitive strengths.
The discussion structure covers  the environment the business operated in and how Reliance’s business model  and operational excellence helped achieve a strong overall financial performance.
In addition growth plans and strategy is elaborated for each business segment  including digital services – the new growth platform  Care for environment and social wellbeing of local communities is an integral part of  Reliance’s operations 103/ Liquidity and Capital  Resources Insights into Reliance’s financing strategy covering resource raising, capital and risk  management framework 106/ Growing Responsibly  (5P’s) 107/ Planet 109/ People 115/ Products and Processes 121/ Prosperity (Profit) 122/ Peace and Partnerships Highlights Reliance’s approach towards sustainable and responsible growth  focusing on planet, people, products and processes, prosperity and peace and  partnership  123/ Risk and Governance 124/ Enterprise Risk  Management  128/ Smart Transformation at  Reliance (STAR) Provides overall perspectives on key strategic risk and governance including the  strategy to mitigate risk in Volatile, Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous (VUCA)  business environment The STAR programme covers Reliance’s strategy to build competitive advantage  and use technology for its benefit 129/ Awards and  Recognitions Reliance’s achievements and efforts in multiple areas are recognised by various  domestic and international agencies 131/Glossary Management’s Discussion  and Analysis Annual Report 2015-16 56 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT The report contains forward-looking statements, identified by  words like ‘plans’ , ‘expects’ , ‘will’ , ‘anticipates’ , ‘believes’ , ‘intends’ ,  ‘projects’ , ‘estimates’ and so on.
All statements that address  expectations or projections about the future, but not limited  to the Company’s strategy for growth, product development,  market position, expenditures and financial results, are  forward-looking statements.
Since these are based on certain  assumptions and expectations of future events, the Company  cannot guarantee that these are accurate or will be realised.
The Company’s actual results, performance or achievements  could thus differ from those projected in any forward-looking  statements.
The Company assumes no responsibility to publicly  amend, modify or revise any such statements on the basis of  subsequent developments, information or events.
The Company  disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking  statements, except as may be required by law.
OVERVIEW FY 2015-16 saw oil prices continue their decline, as the over- supply situation continued in global oil markets.
Organisation  of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided not to cut  production even in the face of persistent US production, as  operational break-evens declined further.
The slowdown in China, as the economy tries to rebalance from  export/investment orientation to consumption, is having knock- on impact on the rest of the world.
In particular, other emerging  economies who are dependent on Chinese demand to propel  their own growth are facing headwinds.
In FY 2015-16, resilient urban private consumption (reflected  in higher passenger vehicle sales and air traffic growth), and  public expenditure were the primary drivers of growth.
Global  oil demand of 1.8 million barrels per day (mb/d) in Calendar Year  (CY) 2015 was at a five year high as low prices and demand for  light distillates continue to fuel demand growth.
Gasoline demand  accounted for nearly half of the global oil demand growth with  double-digit demand growth in India and China.
During CY 2015,  Petrochemical Plant at Hazira manufacturing division Management’s Discussion and Analysis 57 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis the US saw record auto sales (+5.7% y-o-y).
Global demand for jet  fuel increased 6.5% led by higher air miles travelled.
Medium-term prospects for developed markets remain subdued  due to low investment, unfavourable demographics, and weak  productivity growth.
Britain’s exit from EU may further impact  outlook for developed economies.
Emerging economies also  remain vulnerable to further declines in commodity prices and  sharp appreciation of the dollar, which could further strain  corporate balance sheets in some countries.
India overtook China to become the fastest growing major  economy in the world.
The growth recovery in the Indian  economy has, however, been gradual and asymmetric.
Major  headwinds to the Indian economy have been in the form of slow  agricultural growth due to two consecutive poor monsoons and  sharp contraction in exports due to weak global demand and  lower commodity prices.
The Reserve Bank of India has been  easing monetary policy as retail inflation has trended lower and  the Central Government has adhered to the fiscal consolidation  path.
However, policy rate transmission has been poor due to  stressed bank balance sheets amongst other reasons.
The fall  in oil prices was a major terms of trade boost for the Indian  economy.
This has resulted in a marked improvement in India’s  fiscal and external balance position while boosting domestic  consumption.
In FY 2015-16 India oil demand grew 10.9% led  by gasoline at 14.1%, diesel at 7.5%, jet kerosene at 8.8% and  naphtha at 20.7%.
Petrochemical demand was also robust with  polymer demand growth at 15%.
HIGHLIGHTS AND KEY EVENTS The benefits of low commodity and crude oil prices for RIL ’s  downstream business outweighed the impact of these factors  on the upstream segment during FY 2015-16.
The refining  business delivered a standout performance with record profits  underpinned by a multi-year high Gross Refining Margin (GRM)  and a record crude throughput.
The petrochemicals business  also delivered a steady performance aided by strong polymer  markets and better volumes.
The retail business continued on its  high growth trajectory – scaling annual sales of `21,612 crore,  up 22.5% y-o-y.
RIL is nearing the end of the biggest capex cycle in its history and  in the history of the Indian corporate sector.
Projects worth over  US$35 billion will be coming to fruition in FY 2016-17.
Reliance  Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL/Jio), a subsidiary of RIL is conducting  extensive beta launch testing and stabilisation of its digital  services network to create a world-class customer experience.
REFINING AND MARKETING – ROBUST  PERFORMANCE The refining business had another stellar year - achieving  record profits and seven-year high GRM aided by a favourable  crude price environment and superior configuration of its  refineries.
Crude prices were at 12-year lows on oversupply,  with OPEC further increasing its production to 31.4 mb/d in   CY 2015 as against 30.3 mb/d in CY 2014.
The low crude price  environment contributed to strong consumption trends in end  products with global oil demand reaching a five-year high.
RIL ’s  active optimisation of the crude basket helped to take advantage  of the relative strength in products.
Inherent flexibility in product  slate combined with global reach in placement helped RIL in  taking benefit from the volatility in commodity markets.
This  excellence in operations helped in achieving refining margins  of US$10.8/barrel (bbl), which significantly outperformed the  Singapore benchmark by US$3.3/bbl for the year.
Currently over  1,000 Retail Outlet are operational and RIL achieved industry  leading average retail throughput per outlet.
Furthermore,  the petcoke gasification project is on track towards achieving  sustainable long-term energy cost reduction.
PETROCHEMICALS – STEADY PERFORMANCE AND  CAPACITY EXPANSION  Petrochemicals business delivered strong earnings on the back  of a strong polymer market and higher volumes.
Indian polymer  consumption improved significantly during the year with product  margins being well above five-year averages.
The demand growth  rate in India surpassed that of China across all polymers for the  first time.
During the year, RIL added significant volumes in the polyester  chain with the start-up of the 2.3 MMTPA PTA plants (Purified  Terephthalic Acid) and the 650 KTA PET plant (Polyethylene  Terephthalate).
The PET resin plant is one of the largest bottle- grade PET resin capacity at a single location globally, making  Reliance a leading PET resin producer globally.
RIL ’s total PTA  capacity has increased to 4.65 Million Metric Tonnes per Annum  (MMTPA), with a global capacity share to 4%.
The integration of  the new PTA plant and PET plant will provide significant logistical  advantage to RIL.
Even in a lower crude oil scenario, the advantage of having  light-feed crackers remains significant.
The Refinery Off Gas  Cracker (ROGC) and ethane import project are on schedule, to  be completed by the second half of FY 2016-17.
Along with the  aromatics chain expansion, these projects will propel RIL to be  among the largest petrochemical companies in the world.
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION -  MACRO HEADWINDS IMPACT PERFORMANCE INTERNATIONAL: SHALE GAS  The overall macro environment remained challenging for the  shale gas business in CY 2015.
Weak global demand (especially  from China) and increased global supplies from both non-OPEC  and OPEC producers impacted realisations adversely putting  pressure on commodity prices.
In response, Reliance reduced  activity levels across all Joint Venture (JVs) and targeted drilling  Annual Report 2015-16 58 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
on sweet spots.
Zero drilling strategy continued for Carrizo  JV.
At Chevron JV by end of Q4 CY 2015, all rig operations  were stopped and Pioneer JV had only five rigs operational by  the end of the year (all released during Q1 CY 2016).
During   CY 2015, gross JV production averaged at ~1.26 Billion of  Cubic Feet Equivalent (Bcfe)/day, reflecting growth of 7% y-o-y.
Reliance Holding USA Inc., which mainly comprises the shale  business, delivered Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) of  `316 crore in CY 2015 compared to `1,949 crore in CY 2014.
Operational trends remained strong though drilling and  completion activities were slowed down and continuous focus  was maintained on growing asset value through reduction in  well cost and operating expenditures.
The monetisation of RIL ’s entire interest in EFS Midstream LLC  enabled Reliance to unlock significant value for its shareholders  in CY 2015.
DOMESTIC OIL AND GAS Lower realisation for liquids and decline in natural gas production  has impacted segment EBIT and revenue.
Continuous well  management activity is being undertaken for production  sustenance and augmentation.
During the year, RIL made significant steps towards completing  Phase-1 development activities in the Coal Bed Methane (CBM)  project.
RIL also completed Shahdol–Phulpur pipeline and  testing and commissioning is under progress.
RETAIL BUSINESS – GAINING LEADERSHIP Reliance Retail continued its steady growth momentum with  total revenue increasing by 22.5% to `21,612 crore and delivering  EBIT of `506 crore.
The Company expanded its store network to  3,245 stores adding 624 stores during the year with more than   1,700 stores operating under the digital retail concept.
It is  currently operating 3,383 stores.
During the year, it also launched 4 th  Generation (4G) Long Term  Evolution (LTE) smartphones under the ‘LYF’ brand, offering the  latest in smartphone technology at affordable rates for all market  segments.
LYF phones already accounts for 7.1 percent of India’s  smartphone market and is the fifth largest smartphone company  by shipments.
Reliance Retail continues to optimise its network operations  across retail concepts serving the grocery category.
Reliance  Trends now has 271 stores and continues to consolidate its  strength as a value fashion retailer.
During the year it partnered  with a globally renowned fashion house to augment its in-house  product design capabilities, thus bridging gaps in merchandise  offerings by bringing global fashion trends to the Indian market.
Reliance Market continues to build on its leadership position  as the largest cash and carry player, serving a partner base of  over 2 million registered members.
Reliance Retail 2.0 initiatives  encompassing Fashion and Lifestyle e-commerce, development  of market place platforms and building of a distribution ecosystem  for 4G devices are on track and are being rolled out in a phased  manner.
DIGITAL SERVICES – THE DIGITAL INDIA DREAM Jio is rolling out a state-of-the-art pan India digital services  business.
This includes  fixed and wireless broadband  connectivity services offering superior voice and data quality  on an all-Internet Protocol (IP) network.
In addition, Jio will  offer end-to-end solutions encompassing the entire digital  value chain across domains such as education, healthcare,  security, communication, financial services, Government-citizen  interfaces and entertainment.
Jio’s key service objective is to provide anytime, anywhere  access to innovative applications and high-speed internet  services, thereby propelling India on to global leadership in the  digital economy.
Jio will bring India into the era of “visuality” ,  where video will replace voice as the preferred medium of  communication.
Jio will have one of the most comprehensive  and powerful video networks in the world.
Jio’s customer offering is built on four key strategic dimensions:  the widest coverage of LTE services, superior network quality,  transformational data capacity and affordable services.
Jio’s  deployment of LTE, fibre to the home (FTTH) and Wireless Fidelity  (Wi-Fi) will make high-speed broadband access widely available  to customers across India.
This type of broadband network offers  high capacity and low latency access to services at an affordable  price, a first for most Indian customers.
Jio will enable IP-centric  and content-focused services, with the ability to offer rich,  multimedia communication and digital services.
Jio is in stabilisation phase of this large and complex network and  is also testing it’s services end to end for ensuring highest quality  of customer service and experience.
Jio took significant strides  this year by real-time testing its service propositions across  the country.
Reliance Group employees, channel partners and  vendors were amongst the first to test the true LTE experience as  part of the trial launch and test programme.
Results have been  positive with high consumption trends across data and voice.
Jio now has over 15 lakh trial users.
The current average  monthly data and voice consumption per user is in excess   of 26GB and over 355 minutes respectively with rapidly  increasing trends.
The substantial feedback gained from the users will be used to  create a compelling service for all customers.
Jio has also entered  into agreements with various state and local authorities to  provide Wi-Fi services.
In addition, Jio is looking to partner with  colleges and institutions across India to provide Wi-Fi facilities.
59 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT In the Media business, Network18 Media and Investments  reported consolidated revenue and EBITDA of `3,403 crore and  `271 crore, respectively, for FY 2015-16.
Network18 business news channels (CNBC TV18, CNBC Awaaz),  general news channels (CNN-News18) and entertainment  channels (Colors, Vh1, MTV, Nick) continued to be leaders in their  respective genres, reaching out to over 550 million viewers.
Network18 continued to witness strong growth in its digital  media content.
It attracted over 20 million unique visitors per  month through the year.
Greater Internet and mobile penetration  has helped in achieving rapid growth of online media channels  like Firstpost, Moneycontrol, BookMyShow, IBNLive and News18  websites in the broadcast business.
Financial news channels  retained their dominant leadership position in India, continuing  to be the No.1 financial news channels in their genres.
Viacom18, the general entertainment joint venture, launched  VOOT, an exclusive digital video destination, in March, 2016.
The  Network18 rebranding exercise has started bearing results with  Colors emerging as India’s No.1 pay channel with a viewership  share of 13% in December 2015.
Overall, Network18 had a strong  year with greater emphasis being laid on continued long-term  profitability.
OTHER CORPORATE HIGHLIGHTS LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES During FY 2015-16, RIL re-priced US$2.2 billion from Export  Credit Agencies (ECA)-backed facilities from UK Export Finance  (UKEF), Export Development Canada (EDC), Compagnie  Française d’assurance pour le Commerce Extérieur (COFACE)  and Euler Hermes.
Additionally, US$2.67 billion of foreign  currency loans were refinanced thereby resulting in interest  savings over the remaining life of these loans.
RIL priced a   Regulation S offering of US$200 million 5% Senior  Unsecured Callable Notes due 2035 denominated  in US dollar, which were issued primarily to  Taiwanese life insurance companies and listed on the   Taipei Exchange.
RIL became the first private sector energy Company globally to  issue US$225 million 2.512% Notes due 2026, guaranteed by the  Export-Import Bank of the United States (“Ex-Im Bank”).
This was  the first such issuance out of India.
Its subsidiary, Jio tied up US$750 million Korea Trade Insurance  Corporation (K-SURE) supported ECA financing with availability  period of two years and a door-to-door tenure of 12 years, which  became the largest financing deal globally in the telecom sector  supported by K-SURE as well as the longest tenure telecom  financing supported by K-SURE.
The US$750 million K-EXIM backed financing tied up by Jio in   FY 2014-15 won the “Best Telecom Deal” award from The Asset.
FINANCIAL INCLUSION RIL has been awarded in-principle license for roll-out of  Payments Bank in JV partnership with State Bank of India (SBI).
Subsequently, the subscription and shareholders’ agreement  was signed by RIL as promoter with a 70% equity contribution  and SBI as JV partner with a 30% equity contribution in   June, 2016.
The proposed JV will enable ubiquitous banking coverage in  particular payment services.
Low cost distribution via technology  and high volume transactions (low value) protocol are the basic  tenets of this initiative.
The primary objective is to create an  ecosystem that covers the daily need of every strata of society  and fulfil all their financial and banking needs in an affordable  manner.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY During the year, Reliance contributed `652 crore towards  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) which is 2.38% of profit  after tax  for the year.
The Company’s CSR initiatives are guided by three core  principles of Scale, Impact and Sustainability.
Reliance focuses  on ushering in change through the following focus areas: Rural  Transformation, Environment, Health, Education, Sports for  Development, Disaster Response and Art, Culture and Heritage.
Gadag light for education Annual Report 2015-16 60 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND REVIEW SRIKANTH  VENKATACHARI “Reliance achieved strong results in a falling oil prices environment which  benefited its downstream businesses significantly.
This accomplishment  came on the back of improved operational performance and prudent risk  management.
Growth is a key part of its strategy, and Reliance is in the final leg  of the largest ever capital expenditure programme in India’s corporate history.
Reliance has successfully funded this capex while maintaining investment grade  credit ratings.
Reliance remains focused on improving shareholder returns and  maintaining an optimal capital structure.
” ALOK AGARWAL CONSOLIDATED AND STANDALONE FINANCIAL INFORMATION – CONSOLIDATED AND STANDALONE Particulars Consolidated Standalone FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 ` in crore US$ in billion ` in crore ` in crore US$ in billion ` in crore Revenue from Operations 2,96,091 44.7 3,88,494 2,51,241 37.9 3,40,814 PBDIT 52,503 7.9 45,977 47,721 7.2 40,323 Cash Profit 40,737 6.1 36,291 37,465 5.7 31,832 Segment EBIT 35,770 5.4 28,674 33,942 5.1 25,660 Net Profit 27,630 4.2 23,566 27,417 4.1 22,719 Cash and Marketable Securities 86,033 13.0 84,472 75,436 11.4 78,291 Fixed Assets 4,19,722 63.3 3,18,523 2,38,289 36.0 1,90,316 Gross Debt 1,81,079 27.3 1,60,860 1,07,130 16.2 97,617 Reliance achieved a consolidated turnover  of ₹2,96,091 crore  (US$44.7 billion) for the year ended 31st March, 2016, a decrease  of 23.8%, as compared to ₹3,88,494 crore in the previous year.
The decline in turnover reflects a sharp fall in feedstock and  product prices during the year, partially offset by record crude  throughput and higher petrochemicals volumes.
Crude oil price  (brent) averaged at US$47.4/bbl in FY 2015-16, a fall of 45% on  y-o-y basis.
With decrease in oil and product prices, exports from  India were lower by 35.8% at ₹1,46,855 crore (US$22.2 billion) as  against ₹2,28,651 crore in the previous year.
Revenue from the Refining and Marketing segment  decreased by 30.9% y-o-y to ₹2,34,946 crore (US$35.5  billion) including inter segment transfers, reflecting sharp  fall in average crude oil prices during the year.
Refining EBIT  increased by 49.1% y-o-y to a record level of ₹23,598 crore  (US$3.6 billion), supported by seven-year high GRM.
Revenue from the Petrochemicals segment  decreased by  14.9% y-o-y to ₹82,410 crore (US$12.4 billion) reflecting  lower product prices resulting from sharp decline in crude  and feedstock prices.
This was partially offset by higher  volumes mainly on account of start-up of new PTA and PET  capacities during the year.
Petrochemicals segment EBIT was  at a record level and increased by 23.3% y-o-y to ₹10,221  crore (US$1.5 billion), supported by strong polymer deltas,  favourable naphtha cracking economics and rebound in  Monoethylene Glycol (MEG) and Paraxylene (PX) deltas.
Revenue from the Oil and Gas segment  decreased by 34.7%  y-o-y to ₹7,527 crore (US$1.1 billion) including inter segment  transfers, reflecting the low commodity price environment.
The segment EBIT for the year declined sharply by 88.1%  to ₹378 crore (US$57 million).
The segment profitability  was impacted by lower oil and gas price realisations and  decrease in domestic upstream volume.
US shale operations  were impacted by low commodity prices despite marginally  higher volumes.
61 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis   Reliance Retail reported a turnover of ₹21,612 crore (US$3.3  billion) against ₹17,640 crore during the same period  last year, registering a robust growth of 22.5%.
Revenue  Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) over the last five  years has sustained at 29%.
The business delivered highest  ever Profit Before Depreciation, Interest and Tax (PBDIT)  of ₹891 crore in FY 2015-16 as against ₹784 crore in the  previous year.
EBIT for the year stood at ₹506 crore, up 21.3%  y-o-y.
Operating profit before other income and depreciation   increased by 18.4% on a y-o-y basis to ₹44,257 crore (US$6.7  billion) from ₹37,364 crore in the previous year.
Strong operating  performance from the refining and petrochemicals business led  to higher operating profits.
Other income  was lower at ₹7,612 crore (US$1.15 billion) as  against ₹8,495 crore in the previous year due to change in  investment mix.
Interest cost  was higher at ₹3,608 crore (US$545 million) as  against ₹3,316 crore in the previous year due to higher average  debt level and average exchange rates during the year.
Depreciation (including depletion and amortisation) was  higher by 11.9% to ₹12,916 crore (US$1.9 billion) as compared  to ₹11,547 crore in the previous year primarily on account of  capitalisation of petrochemicals projects and higher depletion in   shale gas business.
Profit after tax including exceptional items was higher by 17.2%  at ₹27,630 crore (US$4.2 billion) as against ₹23,566 crore in the  corresponding period of the previous year.
Basic and Diluted earnings per share  (EPS) for the year was   ₹93.8 as against ₹80.1 in the previous year.
The Company has declared dividend of ₹10.5 per fully paid up  equity share of ₹10/- each, aggregating ₹3,717 crore (US$561  million), including dividend distribution tax.
Reliance’s fixed assets stood at ₹4,19,722 crore (US$63.3 billion)  as on 31 st March, 2016.
This includes fixed assets of ₹1,81,433  crore of its subsidiaries mainly in Jio, Reliance Holding USA and  Reliance Retail.
Capital expenditure  for the year ended 31 st March, 2016  was ₹1,12,995 crore (US$17.1 billion) including exchange rate  difference capitalisation.
Capital expenditure was principally on  account of ongoing expansions projects in the petrochemicals  and refining business at Jamnagar, Dahej and Hazira and projects  in, Jio and US Shale gas.
Reliance’s gross debt was at ₹1,81,079 crore (US$27.3 billion).
This  includes standalone gross debt of ₹1,07,130 crore and subsidiary  debt mainly raised by Reliance Holding USA (₹36,951 crore), Jio  (₹33,187 crore), Recron Malaysia (₹1,295 crore), Independent  Media Trust Group (₹1,101 crore), Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited  (₹700 crore) and Reliance Retail (₹734 crore).
Cash and marketable securities were at ₹86,033 crore (US$13.0  billion) resulting in net debt at ₹95,046 crore (US$14.3 billion).
RIL ’s standalone revenue from operations  for FY 2015-16 was   ₹2,51,241 crore (US$37.9 billion) a decrease of 26.3% on y-o-y  basis.
Standalone profit after tax was at ₹27,417 crore (US$4.1  billion) an increase of 20.7% against ₹22,719 crore in the previous  year.
EPS on standalone basis for the year was ₹84.7 as against  ₹70.2 in the previous year.
Reliance’s consolidated revenue from operations  includes  revenue from its subsidiaries mainly from Reliance Retail  Ventures Limited of `21,612 crore, GAPCO `11,723 crore and  Reliance Holding USA Inc. (Shale) `3,256 crore.
Further in  addition to standalone profit after tax, consolidated profit after  tax was contributed mainly by Reliance Retail Ventures Limited  of `212 crore.
Indian Accounting Standard RIL and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have  adopted Ind AS (the converged IFRS) with effect from April 1,  2016 pursuant to notification issued by Ministry of Corporate  Affairs (MCA) notifying Companies (Indian Accounting Standard)  Rules 2015 alongwith the subsequent clarification and  amendment by MCA.
The Company has assessed the effect of  transition on reported reserves and surplus as on April 1, 2015  and the significant areas impacting the financial statement are;    Change in accounting policy for Oil and Gas Activity – From  Full cost method to Successful Efforts Method   Availing fair value as deemed cost exemption for Property,  plant and Equipment    Deferred tax impact of transition adjustments together with  Ind AS mandate of using balance sheet approach (against  profit and loss approach in the previous GAAP)   Other non-significant adjustments includes; fair valuation  of ESOP , present valuation of asset retirement obligations,  fair value of financial assets.
Besides, there will be change  in presentation of financial statements with additional  disclosures.
Annual Report 2015-16 62 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Panoramic view of Jamnagar Refinery “Refining segment created value through achieving a record EBIT of `23,598 crore with GRM of US$10.8/bbl, the highest in last 7 years.
It outperformed Singapore benchmark by US$3.3/bbl.
RIL ’s crude throughput for the year was at 69.6 MMT.
This is a testimony to RIL ’s  competitive advantage of higher efficiency, unparalleled operational excellence and world-class assets at Jamnagar complex.
RIL  undertakes regular initiatives focusing on debottlenecking, capacity enhancement and yield improvement to enhance its competitive  strengths.
RIL ’s refinery complex at Jamnagar is the world’s largest refinery at a single location and provides approximately 1.5% of world’s  transportation fuels.
In terms of capex and growth plan, during the year RIL focused on expeditious completion of construction work of petcoke gasification  project to enhance energy self-sufficiency.
”  `23,598 crore Refining EBIT increased by 49.1% y-o-y C BORARHITAL R. MESWANI SRINIVAS   TUTTAGUNTA P .
RAGHAVENDRAN REFINING AND MARKETING (R&M)  63 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES AND COMPETITIVE STRENGTH RIL’s state-of-the-art re/f_ineries are supported  by an advanced logistics infrastructure,  including a marine facility, giving access to  berthing of ships, ranging from small  chemical carriers to Very Large Crude Carriers  (VLCCs), thus allowing it to bene/f_it from  strong crude and product freight economics,  along with enhanced cost competitiveness.
RIL excels in managing and utilising its assets  most eﬃciently to generate superior returns .
While maintaining highest standards of  safety, the Company ensures high on-stream  factor with focus on improving energy  eﬃciency  and reducing operating and  maintenance cost.
RIL undertakes regular initiatives focusing on  debottlenecking, capacity enhancement and  yield improvement to enhance its  competitive strengths.
Examples in FY  2015-16 include:  R evamp of reformer to boost production  of gasoline and paraxylene  P rojects to improve propylene recovery  Change in catalysts in Diesel Hydrotreater  to increase production of Ultra Low  Sulphur Diesel (ULSD) in Domestic Tariﬀ  Area (DTA) re/f_inery  A dditional diesel recovery from Vacuum  Distillation Unit (VDU) and Vacuum Gasoil  Hydrotreater (VGOHT) in DTA re/f_inery RIL’s re/f_inery at Jamnagar is among the  largest and most complex re/f_ining assets  globally, with a design capacity for  processing 1.24 million barrels of crude per  day (MMBPD) and a Nelson Complexity Index  of 12.7.
The re/f_inery’s superior con/f_iguration  gives RIL the ability to process a wide variety  of crude and meet diﬀerentiated and  stringent product speci/f_ications.
Additionally, RIL has signi/f_icant /f_lexibility to  alter the product mix, thereby capturing  opportunities arising due to the evolving  market dynamics.
RIL’s asset /f_lexibility and logistics  infrastructure allow optimisation of crude  portfolio to tap the changing market  conditions.
With inherent design /f_lexibility,  RIL optimises the crude diet, sourcing the  most advantageous crude globally.
During  FY 2015-16, new initiatives were launched to  enhance the /f_lexibility of RIL’s assets and  enable them to process even heavier and  higher contaminant content value additive  crude.
RIL entered into a long-term supply  contract for Basrah Heavy crude improving  overall cover for heavy crude on long-term  basis.
RIL’s global outreach, including trading  oﬃces at key locations like Houston, L ondon,  Singapore and Mumbai, gives it a broad  coverage for crude supplies and product  sinks.
Tankages at major trading hubs allow  RIL to move its selling point closer to  consumption hubs and improve  responsiveness to market needs.
Logistics  and supply-chain Operational  excellence Other  initiatives  Reﬁnery  conﬁguration Crude selection  and sourcing Market  access Annual Report 2015-16 64 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT ROBUST OIL DEMAND GROWTH ON LOW OIL PRICES Global oil demand grew by 1.8 mb/d in CY 2015, the highest  in the last five years; and significantly higher than the previous  year’s growth rate of 0.9 mb/d.
Low oil prices and increase in  demand for light distillates fuelled the oil demand growth.
Oil  demand grew continuously through the year, peaking at 2.3  mb/d in Q3 CY 2015, before tapering down to 1.4 mb/d in Q4  CY 2015.
During CY 2015, the growth in oil demand came from both  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  (OECD) and Non-OECD countries.
Nearly 50% of the global oil  demand growth came from China and India.
Particularly in India,  CY 2015 gasoline demand grew at a rate of around 12.5% over  previous year.
The US alone registered a growth of 0.3 mb/d for  CY 2015.
Even European demand grew by 0.25 mb/d in CY 2015,  reversing the trend of demand decline seen in previous years.
Chinese demand grew by 0.7 mb/d in CY 2015, which was  higher than the growth of 0.4 mb/d seen in CY 2014.
However,  the growth was driven by light distillates rather than middle  distillates, unlike in previous years.
Indian demand grew by 0.25 mb/d in CY 2015.
This figure is  significantly higher than the previous year’s growth of 0.08  mb/d.
The growth was seen in both gasoline and diesel.
(US$/bbl) FY 2015-16 US$47.4/bbl FY 2014-15 US$85.4/bbl Brent Average OIL PRICES 120 100 80 60 40 20 Jan-14 Mar-14 May-14 Jul-14 Sep-14 Nov-14 Jan-15 Mar-15 May-15 Jul-15 Sep-15 Nov-15 Mar-16  Brent  Dubai  WTI Jan-16 Source : Platts Asian Cracks US$/bbl Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15  Naphtha -0.5 -1.2 7.1 6.1 2.9 -1.5  Gasoline 19.8 19.3 18.7 18.8 19.2 14.5  Jet 13.5 10.9 14.1 11.7 12.5 15.9  Gasoil 13.7 10.8 13.8 9.6 12.0 15.7  Fuel Oil -4.9 -9.0 -7.3 -5.8 -6.7 -8.4 Source: Platts OVERSUPPLY IN OIL MARKET CONTINUES Global oil supply expanded by 2.7 mb/d in CY 2015, following  hefty gains of 2.3 mb/d in CY 2014.
In contrast with CY 2014,  when non-OPEC producers made up most of the gain, in CY  2015 growth was evenly divided between OPEC and non-OPEC  producers.
By Q4 CY 2015, the growth in total supply had eased  to 0.2 mb/d, with non-OPEC production pegged below previous  year levels for the first time since September 2012.
Persistent oversupply in the oil market overshadowed geo- political tensions and social unrest in several major oil exporting  countries in the Middle East and Africa.
Consistent increase in supply from the US accelerated the  oil supply growth.
It grew by 0.9 mb/d in CY 2015 contrary to  expectations of decline due to lower oil prices.
The supply  growth was also helped by increased production in Saudi Arabia  (0.6 mb/d) and Iraq (0.6 mb/d).
Russian production also rose  up to 11.1 mb/d in CY 2015.
Brazil posted strong growth in oil  production as well.
An estimated 1 billion barrels of oil was added to global inventories  over FY 2014-15 levels due to imbalance in demand and supply.
PERSISTING OVERSUPPLY PUSHING DOWN PRICES Oil prices averaged US$47.4/bbl in FY 2015-16, compared to   US$85.4/bbl in FY 2014-15.
Despite record demand growth, oil  prices dropped due to persistent growth in non-O PEC  supplies  and also increase in supplies from OPEC in a bid to capture  market share.
The steep fall in crude prices has led to a reduction  in planned upstream investments.
The decline in production of  US shale oil did not materialise in FY 2015-16, due to efficiency  gains and cost reduction by producers.
However, decline in other  high-cost E&P investments by oil majors could have long-term  consequences on future crude supplies.
HIGH REFINING MARGINS DRIVEN BY LIGHT DISTILLATE  CRACKS Low oil prices and low energy costs resulted in strong growth in  oil demand and higher margins during FY 2015-16.
The demand  growth was pronounced in light distillates, particularly gasoline.
Lower oil prices and higher margins led to an increase in average  refinery utilisation rates in key regions.
LIGHT DISTILLATES Light distillates prices were strong throughout the year.
Gasoline  demand growth also continued throughout the year, aided  by low pump prices.
It contributed around 40% of global oil  demand growth, with the US, China and India contributing 70%  of incremental gasoline demand.
The key factor contributing to the surge in gasoline demand was  increase in the US demand during driving season (~3.5% higher  passenger miles in CY 2015), supported by improving passenger  car sales (the US hit a record sale of 17.47 million vehicles,  65 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis breaking the mark of 17.41 million vehicles in CY 2000).
Total  car sales in China grew by ~3.5% in CY 2015.
While passenger  car sales grew at ~ 5.8%, SUV sales registered strong growth  throughout the year, at an average rate of 50% contributing  to the higher gasoline demand growth.
With an increasing  consumer preference for gasoline powered passenger cars, the  positive trends in gasoline demand is expected to continue.
Shortage of blending components (reformate and alkylate) in  Atlantic basin and few unplanned outages also contributed to  elevated gasoline cracks.
Strong petrochemical demand with improved naphtha cracking  economics and blending in gasoline pool resulted in higher  naphtha cracks.
MIDDLE DISTILLATES Middle distillate (both diesel and jet/kerosene) margin  weakened in FY 2015-16 over the previous year.
Demand growth  in China was lacklustre due to lower GDP growth as well as its  shift towards a consumption-led economy from an industrial  one.
India’s diesel demand, however, was strong with growth at  a four-year high of 7.5%.
Higher refinery utilisation incentivised by light distillates cracks  and additional supplies from new refineries resulted in an  oversupplied market.
The Middle Eastern refiners have stabilised  over the year and are high gasoil yielding.
Mild winter towards  the year end also affected middle distillate consumption.
FUEL OIL Fuel oil bunker demand was supported by low outright prices;  however, sulphur spec change in marine fuels in Emission Control  Areas (ECA) weighed on fuel oil demand.
Demand from Chinese  Teakettle refineries was also lower as most of these refineries  were allowed to import crude oil.
RIL CONTINUED TO OUTPERFORM REGIONAL  BENCHMARKS RIL outperformed Singapore benchmark yet again, with a  premium of US$3.3/bbl over the benchmark during FY 2015- 16.
The R&M business posted record earnings driven primarily  by strong product demand and lower energy costs.
Superior  configuration and asset optimisation enabled RIL to take  advantage of the oversupplied crude market.
Relative performance against benchmarks was underpinned  by RIL ’s ability to secure higher value product yields, using a  wider selection of crudes and focus on operational efficiencies.
Flexibility in crude processing and product slate with robust risk  management helped in posting record margins.
REFINING M ARGINS VIS-À-VIS GLOBAL BENCHMARKS RIL was able to fully capitalise on the market conditions, through  its operational excellence,   higher efficiency and well-executed  strategies around crude sourcing and product placement.
Continuing its emphasis on processing challenging and most  advantageous crudes, RIL processed 5 new crude grades this  year leading to over 145 crude grades processed till date.
Total 66  different crude grades were processed during the year.
Over the  years RIL have demonstrated its ability to process challenging  crude grades with sulphur content of over 5%, Total Acid Number  (TAN) of 5 (mgKOH/), viscosity of ~ 5000 cst and an American  Petroleum Institute (API) gravity as low as 10 0.
The crude sourcing strategy was driven by continuous  adjustment of sourcing pattern based on relative economics.
The  ability to operate at high utilisation levels and switch product  slate to suit market conditions enabled RIL to capture margin  optimisation opportunities in the market.
Overall, effective utilisation of secondary processing units,  innovative approach to optimise logistics cost and utilisation,  production flexibility to swing to higher net-back products and  sourcing of best-value crude and feedstock enabled RIL to sustain  its performance even in a challenging margin environment.
Regional Margins (US$/bbl) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 Singapore Complex 7.5 6.3 5.9 RIL GRM 10.8 8.6 8.1 Rotterdam (Brent) 6.3 5.4 3.9 USGC (WTI) 11.8 12.4 13.3 Source: Reuters Crude storage tank farm Annual Report 2015-16 66 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE* FY 2015-16 ( ` in crore) FY 2015-16 (US$ in billion) FY 2014-15 ( ` in crore) %  change Revenues 2,34,946 35.5 3,39,890 (30.9%) EBIT 23,598 3.6 15,827 49.1% EBIT (%) 10.0% 4.7% *Consolidated basis REFINERY SALES (FY 2015-16) (in MMT)  Exports   Captive   Domestic (Retail/Bulk + PSU + Industrial) (Previous Year 4.7%) 10% EBIT Margin 15.4 41.310.9 Use of drone FY 2015-16 revenue from the R&M segment decreased by 30.9%  y-o-y to `2,34,946 crore (US$35.5 billion), reflecting lower average  oil prices during the year.
Refining EBIT increased by 49.1% y-o-y  to a record of `23,598 crore, supported by low energy prices,  strong light product cracks, favourable crude differentials and  stable middle distillates.
RIL ’s GRM for the year stood at US$10.8/ bbl, against US$8.6/bbl in the previous year.
During the year, RIL  processed 69.6 MMT of crude due to maximisation of on-stream  factor, optimisation of crude slate and maintenance turnarounds  and shutdowns.
Total exports of refined products have been  US$19.3 billion this year, compared to US$32.5 billion in the  previous year.
In the sales composition, share of domestic sales  (including captive supplies) went up to 46% in current year as  compared to 40% in last year in value terms.
RIL ’s GRM for the year stood at   US$10.8/bbl – seven–year high REDEFINING CHALLENGES, DELIVERING RESULTS Enhanced safety in high risk jobs through use of full scale version  of robot for catalyst unloading in inert atmosphere and use of  drone in DTA Sulfur acid gas flare stack for inspection are under  progress.
Additionally, implementation of 3D Modelling Heater Tube  Cleaning device for eliminating manual improvement and  Microwave technique for Corrosion Under Insulation (CUI)  inspection for elimination of removal of insulation is being  installed.
Naphtha splitter divided wall column is implemented to improve  Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC) Naphtha Splitter side cut Final  Boiling Point (FBP) and yield to maximise PX production with  minimum energy spent.
67 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis PETROLEUM RETAIL  MARKET ENVIRONMENT In October 2014, Government of India (GoI) announced  deregulation of High Speed Diesel (HSD) prices leading to re- opening of fuel retailing outlets by the private sector.
Post  announcement of deregulation, prices of Motor Spirit (MS) and  HSD are being changed in-line with international prices.
This has  presented an opportunity for RIL to re-enter the domestic retail  market and ramp up volumes to compete with local players.
Between FY 2006-07 and FY 2015-16, industry transportation  fuel volumes have significantly increased from 52 MMT to   96.4 MMT.
Demand for transportation fuels is expected to grow  directly in relation with growth in the country’s GDP .
The retail  network has increased from 34,844 outlets in 2006-07 to over  55,000 outlets (as on 31 st March, 2016) with majority owned by  public sector units.
In line with its trend of delivering superior customer experience   and assured quality and quantity through state-of-the-art  technology and automation, RIL continued the re-commissioning  of its retail petroleum network during the year.
Over 1,000 retail  outlets are now operational.
The encouraging customer response and growing popularity  of the Reliance brand has motivated many channel partners to  join Reliance in this exciting journey, thereby fuelling Reliance’s  growth.
LEVERAGING ROBUST IT PLATFORM Focus is on leveraging RIL ’s robust IT platform and latest Jio  technology to upgrade the fleet management programme and  thereby provide convenience to RIL ’s customers through mobile  platforms and be future-ready to deliver value-added services.
The coming year would see RIL increasing its retail footprint  with focus and energy towards further enhancing customer  experience by delivering stronger segment specific value  propositions/offerings.
RIL plan to launch aggressive customer  acquisition programmes to quickly re gain targeted market  share.
OPERATING STRATEGY AND VALUE PROPOSITION Consistent and superior customer experience through technology  coupled with launch of aggressive communication campaigns and  Instant reward schemes helped create a market buzz and quick  ramp up of volumes.
RIL ’s fuels undergo stringent quality checks at various stages  of product movement right upto the feeding terminals and to  the Retail Outlets.
RIL ’s real-time network at 100% of the Outlets,  ensures online monitoring and centralised control system.
The combination of latest technology, well-defined processes,  value propositions with right channel partners and personnel  ensures consistent delivery of superior customer experience.
RIL ’s key differentiator is the unique fleet management programme,  Trans-Connect, which provides fleet management solutions aimed  at revolutionising the way commercial vehicle owners operate.
This provides tangible benefits to the fleet owners by reducing the  working capital expenses, complete control over the fuel and non- fuel expenses of their entire fleet and smart analysis supporting  better decision making.
retail outlets are operational Over 1,000 Annual Report 2015-16 68 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
AVIATION TURBINE FUEL (ATF) In FY 2015-16, the demand growth for jet fuel in India was robust  at 8.8%, driven by a 20% growth in domestic passenger traffic.
RIL has a presence across 25 airports in India in the ATF business.
RIL ’s operations encompass storage, into-plane, and hospitality  and operation and maintenance services.
In FY 2015-16, the  Company’s sales to airlines increased 80% y-o-y in terms of  volume with the business fuelling an aircraft every 4.3 minutes.
Additionally, RIL is expanding its operations to maintain the  growth momentum.
OUTLOOK For FY 2016-17, Reliance will primarily focus on two key areas: Increasing turn-in at RIL Retail outlets:   Establish a pan India footprint by recommissioning the  entire network of 1,400 Retail Outlets (ROs) and expand  network beyond that in the FY 2016-17.
Continue achieving one of the highest per pump  throughputs, which is currently at 230 KL/month, amongst  key competitors and enhance customer experience and  value propositions/offerings.
Sales to airlines increased by 80%  y-o-y fuelling an aircraft every 4.3  minutes  GAPCO The GAPCO Group owns and operates large storage facilities and  retail distribution networks in Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya.
The group has significantly improved its standing in the  East African market and has emerged as a key supplier to its  neighbouring countries.
During CY 2015, GAPCO sold 3.7 million kilolitres (mkLs) of  petroleum products, a growth of about 32% over preceding year  and highest since acquisition.
Gapco Kenya received the award of highest importer of  petroleum product at Mombasa Port, consecutively for the third  year.
Gapco Tanzania also bagged its first international contract for  into-plane fuelling of two international airlines at Julius Nyerere  International Airport, Dar-Es-Salaam.
In May 2016, Reliance Exploration and Production DMCC  (REPDMCC), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of RIL and  Total, have executed agreements for the sale of the entire 76%  interest held by REPDMCC in the Mauritius-incorporated GAPCO.
The proposed transaction is subject to regulatory approvals  and other closing conditions that are customary for similar  transactions.
CAPEX AND GROWTH PLAN PETCOKE GASIFICATION Petcoke gasification project uses low value petroleum coke as  feed and converts it into high value syngas.
This syngas is used  to produce hydrogen, fuel for power and steam and heater  fuel.
Syngas will also be used directly as a fuel to meet energy  requirements.
With the commissioning of gasification project, the Jamnagar site  would significantly reduce its external fuel dependency, thereby  increasing the self-sufficiency for most of the energy requirement.
Additionally, gasification project would lay foundation to  manufacture various other value-added chemicals like acetic acid.
The gasification project is based on the ‘E-gas technology’  (Licensor - CB&I) and has operational flexibility to use coal and  petcoke as feedstock.
This will further enhance profitability by  taking advantage of using lowest cost feedstock.
Engineering and procurement activities are nearing completion  and construction activities are in full swing to meet the project  timelines.
Several systems like storage dome, stacker/re claimer  and the water treatment plant are completed and other systems  like the rod mills, Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP), flare stack and  cooling towers are nearing completion.
Construction resources are being further enhanced for early  commissioning of other critical systems like Air Separation Unit  (ASU), Sulphur Recovery Unit (SRU) and Super Heater.
RIL is  looking forward to an accelerated commissioning of the project  to significantly enhance the profitability of the refinery complex.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR INITIATIVES AT JAMNAGAR MANUFACTURING  DIVISION During FY 2015-16, hygienic potable water outlets were installed  to improve access to drinking water at Jamnagar.
Other focus  areas included digital education and healthcare services for the  underprivileged sections of the society.
30 reverse osmosis plants and 14 potable water storage  tanks were constructed in local schools.
193 computers were distributed in 35 schools.
The mobile eye clinic facility catered to 27,201 outpatients  and provided 521 cataract surgeries free of cost.
24,965 persons provided skill development training.
Impact   Availability of drinking water improved in schools.
Improved access to quality health care services.
Student from marginalised communities get access to  better education and skill development training.
69 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis PETROCHEMICALS Petrochemicals Manufacturing Site “Global petrochemical industry faced a challenging year with volatile oil price environment.
RIL achieved record EBIT of `10,221 crore (up  23.3% y-o-y) and production of 24.7 MMT for the year.
Further integration across polyester chain was achieved with commissioning of PET  and PTA capacity at Dahej during the year.
RIL commands top decile position in the polymer business, with 36% domestic market share.
Consolidating its leadership position,  Reliance undertook expansion as well as development projects, commissioning of 2.3 MMTPA PTA and 650 KTA PET resin plant at Dahej  and debottlenecking of PP plant was done to augment the capacity by 60 KTA.
With customer centricity as a core value, this year Reliance  has adopted the expression of ‘Chemistry for Smiles’ on the back of the motto - ‘Transforming Life into Quality Life’ , to grow jointly with the  customers and add value to the intangible emotions of life for the end-consumers.
Reliance deploys world-class technologies across all  sites to reduce fresh water consumption per unit of production by maximising waste water recycle and minimising external discharge.
“ VIPUL SHAHNIKHIL R. MESWANI `10,221 crore Petrochemicals EBIT was at a record level in FY 2015-16.
Annual Report 2015-16 70 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES AND COMPETITIVE STRENGTH Integr ation Leadershi pGlobal scale RIL is amongst the world's leading  producer of petrochemicals with global  scale capacities across polymers,  polyester, /f_ibre intermediates,  elastomers and aromatics.
RIL has 11 manufacturing locations in  India and 3 in Malaysia.
Integration between re/f_ining and  downstream petrochemical products is  among RIL’s key competitive advantages.
The deep integration within each chain  helps RIL mitigate the impact of price  volatility in the global energy and  chemical industry.
RIL also has a diversi/f_ied feedstock slate,  with both naphtha and gas based  crackers, which helps mitigate risk  involved with feedstock sourcing and  margin volatility.
A relentless focus on safety and  continuous improvement helps RIL in  achieving industry-leading pro/f_itability  across business cycles.
RIL’s focus on technology leadership,  cost eﬃciencies and responsible  operational practices, while maintaining  high operating discipline is key in  maintaining domestic market  leadership in its major product lines,  and is a source of sustainable  competitive advantage.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT The decline in global energy prices witnessed during the second  half of FY 2014-15 continued throughout FY 2015-16 leading  to a steep decline in petrochemical feedstock and product  prices.
The magnitude of the drop in commodity petrochemical  prices was felt across the petrochemical chain, impacting the  cash economics of various projects including Coal to Olefins/ Methanol to Olefins (CTO/MTO) and Propane De-Hydrogenation  (PDH) units coming up globally.
Even though fears of global  economic slowdown prevailed, softer product prices contributed  to improved downstream demand.
OLEFINS AND POLYMERS Ethylene and propylene are the key petrochemical raw materials  used in manufacturing of polymers like Polypropylene (PP),  Polyethylene (PE), Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and chemicals like  ethylene oxide and ethylene glycols.
Global demand for ethylene increased by 3.6% y-o-y to 141  million tonne (MMT) in 2015.
Global ethylene operating rates,  which are indicative of the margin environment, improved  marginally on a y-o-y basis to 89.1% in 2015, sustaining above  the five-year average of 86.1%.
GLOBAL ETHYLENE SUPPLY/DEMAND 2015  Production by feedstock Demand by end use Production : 142 MMT Demand : 141 MMT Naphtha 44% PE 61% Ethane 36% Ethylene Oxide 15% Propane 9% EDC 10% Butane 5% EBZ 6% Others 6% Others 8% Source: IHS Global ethylene supply demand is expected to remain tight in  the medium-term.
However, the new capacities in US, based  on low cost ethane from shale gas production, will determine  market dynamics beyond 2018.
Asian propylene is likely to face supply pressure in 2016 since  the oversupply situation that emerged in 2015, is expected to  continue into 2016.
The year 2015 saw addition of around 2 MMT  of new PDH capacity addition in Northeast Asia with another 2  MMT likely to become operational in 2016.
Most of these units  are running at sub-par levels due to increased competitiveness of  naphtha crackers.
Naphtha cracker operating rates were higher  in 2015 with an improvement in naphtha cracking fundamentals  and a healthy demand environment.
Reliance sources a major  part of its propylene requirement from refinery operations to  produce PP , taking full advantage of refinery integration.
Lower crude oil prices resulted in a flattening of the global  ethylene cash cost curve as naphtha prices tracked crude during  the year.
This improved the cash cost economics of liquid based  crackers as against crackers based on other feedstocks.
Lower  crude prices also impacted the competitiveness of coal-to- chemicals plants with erosion of the spread between coal and oil  prices.
In such a scenario, even though the advantage of US gas  crackers has reduced, it still remains healthy.
GLOBAL POLYOLEFIN AND PVC DEMAND (In MMT) CY 2015 CY 2014 % growth PP 63 59 7% PE 88 85 4% PVC 41 40 1% Ethylene 141 137 3% Propylene 98 89 10% Source: IHS 71 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Global thermoplastics market in 2015 was estimated at 240  MMT.
PE accounted for 37%, PP 26% and PVC 17%, of the market.
Demand for the PE, PP and PVC combined grew by 4.2% during  2015 driven by Asia and the Middle East.
With continuing strong  consumption demand, China (7%) and India (15%) were key  drivers of Asian polymer demand growth.
The global demand for  these polymer products is estimated to grow at a CAGR of 4.2%  over 2015-20 period.
PRICE AND DELTA ENVIRONMENT A. POLYMER CHAIN   Average naphtha prices in Asia were lower in FY 2015- 16 tracking drop in crude oil prices.
However, decrease in  naphtha prices was lower than the decrease in crude oil  price due to stable demand and lower operating rates of  increasingly non-competitive CTO/MTO units.
On a y-o-y  basis, ethylene prices were down by 15% and lagged the  decline in feedstock naphtha prices, which was down 41%  during the same period.
Ethylene supply in Asia is likely to  stay tight as demand stays stable amid scrapping of some  older production units and no major cracker expansion  planned in the region.
SOUTHEAST ASIA POLYMERS DEL TAS (US$/MT) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 HDPE-Naphtha 768 694 PP-Propylene 306 277 PVC-EDC-Naphtha 440 453 Source: Platts   Polymer deltas remained healthy during FY 2015-16, as  feedstock prices declined sharply and demand remained  stable.
On a y-o-y basis, PP deltas improved sharply as decline  in propylene prices (with additional supply from PDH units  in China) was sharper than the decline in polypropylene  prices, which were supported by stable demand.
PE delta  also remained strong on a y-o-y basis as feedstock prices  tracked falling crude oil price.
Relatively higher ethylene  prices compared to naphtha helped in supporting High  Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE) prices, resulting in high HDPE- Naphtha deltas.
PE and PP deltas were at the highest level  achieved in the last 10 years.
PVC delta softened on account  of weak end product price with slower demand growth,  coupled with relatively stronger Ethylene Dichloride (EDC)  prices.
B. POLYESTER CHAIN   Polyester:    Polyester sector experienced a challenging year amid  high feedstock volatility, capacity overhang and a slowing  Chinese economy.
However, healthy demand for fibres and  filament from western markets provided some support in an  otherwise lacklustre market outlook.
Polyester fibre and yarn markets strengthened at beginning  of the year backed by firm prices and replenishment by  downstream players.
This trend weakened in line with  decline of crude through the year which impacted fibre  intermediates and polyester prices which was further  impacted due to tight liquidity, cautious demand and high  inventory.
The low prices saw a partial revival in demand  which helped alleviate some margin pressure and further  supported by a recovery in energy prices from end of  January, 2016.
Chinese downstream replenishment demand,  post lunar holidays, boosted polyester demand sentiments  while demand for textiles and apparels in western markets  remained healthy with the USA showing an improvement in  CY 2015 import volumes by 7% y-o-y and specifically man- made fibre based imports grew at 9%.
Polyester filament  and fibre market remained balanced with a capacity growth  of 2.1 MMT compared with a demand growth of 2.2 MMT.
Cotton acreage declined during the crop year FY 2015-16  (Aug-Jul) following lower prices last year which resulted in  lower production estimates while consumption is estimated  to be stable.
Consequently, cotton prices have remained  mostly stable.
The softening in polyester prices made cotton  less competitive for blending, thereby reducing its share in  the fabric basket.
Global cotton acreage is unlikely to rise  drastically in coming years and given limited developments  in technology to improve yields, cotton production and  consequently demand will witness only modest growth.
Cotton will retain barely 25% share of global fibre demand  by CY 2020 compared to 30% in CY 2015.
Global PET demand remained healthy supported by  favourable weather in major end use markets.
Western  economies witnessed better seasonal demand backed by  economic growth leading to rise in beverage consumption.
USA has levied anti-dumping duty on PET imports from  China, Canada, India and Oman for a period of five years  and has also issued a countervailing duty (CVD) on China  and India.
The net PET capacity increased by 1.4 MMT  against a demand growth of 0.9 MMT on a y-o-y basis.
With  PET softening on back of lower crude, recycled PET lost its  advantage as an alternative feedstock to virgin resin and  saw reduced use by brand owners for their packaging needs.
The average PET prices declined 20% y-o-y and margins  declined by 14% y-o-y.
Fibre Intermediates:   Fibre intermediates saw fluctuating demand patterns in the  earlier part of the year due to volatile energy prices which  was driven by lack of clear signals from upstream.
During the  middle of the year some discipline amongst leading Chinese  producers and shutdowns of some plants in China and South  Korea based on economic considerations gave stability to  the market.
The later part of the year also saw some plants  Annual Report 2015-16 72 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
going for planned outages which led to tightness in the  market and provided stability to Purified Terepthalic Acid  (PTA) and Paraxylene (PX) deltas.
The market sentiment also  firmed up towards the last quarter owing to strengthening  of the crude oil prices and a pickup in downstream demand  post the Chinese Lunar New Year.
POLYESTER AND FIBRE INTERMEDIATES DEL TAS (US$/MT) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 PX 365 354 PTA 104 108 MEG 440 384 POY 227 401 PSF 196 214 PET 133 155 Source: Platts and ICIS   PX markets remained largely balanced with capacities close  to 4 MMT (~8% of global base) shut in Asia owing to economic  reasons and environmental issues.
The PX market was also  supported by a very strong gasoline market throughout the  year which constrained the feedstock reformate availability  for PX production.
However, fluctuating crude oil till end  of January, 2016 resulted in cautious demand and capped  price gains and lack of Asian Contract Price (ACP) settlement  for a major part of the year, due to volatile energy markets,  did not help the markets also.
Prices declined 35% y-o-y but  deltas increased by 3% y-o-y and were still well above the  breakeven level.
CY 2015 witnessed net capacity growth  of 2.8 MMT compared to estimated demand growth of 2.5  MMT.
PTA market was slightly more balanced in this financial  year as compared to the previous few years supported by  production discipline and economically unviable capacites  closing down especially in China.
Non-functioning PTA  capacity as of March, 2016 was nearly 15 MMT (~18% of  global base) which is unlikely to restart soon.
Combined  with the producers’ resistance to further margin losses,  resulted in increase in price stability and minimal decline  in margins.
PTA prices declined 23% y-o-y while delta fall  was 4% compared to last year.
CY 2015 witnessed reduced  operating rates with net capacity addition of 8.4 MMT  against a demand growth of 2.6 MMT.
MEG markets were supported by supply shortage from  plant outages and low Chinese port inventories during the  first half of FY 2015-16 due to which margins during the  first half remained at higher levels.
However, with falling  polyester and PTA prices, MEG prices and deltas declined in  the second half of FY 2015-16.
The Asian MEG market was  also impacted by growth in Chinese imports and rising tank  inventories in the second half of the year.
Driven by the  strong first half, MEG margins improved 14% on a y-o-y basis  despite a price fall by 16%.
The net global capacity addition  of 2.5 MMT in CY 2015 was higher than the estimated  incremental demand growth of 1 MMT.
C.  ELASTOMERS   Butadiene:    During 2015, the global capacity of butadiene was at  15.3 MMTPA with a ~75% operating rate.
Over 2/3 rd  of the  application for butadiene is from PolyButadiene Rubber  (PBR) and Styrene Butadiene Rubber (SBR).
Dynamics of PBR  and SBR in turn are driven by automobile and tyre industry.
Owing to ample availability from high operating rates of  naphtha cracker and lower demand from downstream  market, margin for butadiene manufacturers remained  under pressure.
PBR AND SBR:     Demand for both PBR and SBR is largely driven by auto and  tyre sector.
Globally consumption of both PBR and SBR for FY  2015-16 grew at a slow pace but is expected to grow at 4-6%  in 2016 driven by improving auto and tyre scenario in the  USA, West Europe and India.
New capacity addition over last  two years, coupled with the slowdown in global economy,  especially China, kept the operating rates of PBR and SBR  plants at lower levels (~70%) and margins suppressed.
Major  manufacturers in China and Korea operated plants at lower  rates of 40-50% due to weak regional demand.
With major  natural rubber producing countries restricting exports and  no new capacities coming up, operating rates are expected  to improve lending support to margins.
DOMESTIC SCENARIO  A.  POLYMER CHAIN   India’s polymer market growth has been robust driven  by rising urbanisation, increasing income levels and  infrastructure investment, making India among the world’s  fastest growing polymer markets with a five-year CAGR of  6.7% (2010-2015).
India is the second largest contributor to  polymer demand in Asia, with demand growth rate ahead of  China.
Despite strong growth over the last few decades, the  domestic market remains under-penetrated compared to  other Asian developing countries.
Government’s initiatives  like ‘Make in India’ campaign, ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’  and renewed focus on infrastructure spending will further  boost the market growth across sectors like capital goods,  manufacturing, agriculture and infrastructure.
In India, polymer dema nd continued to be healthy during FY  2015-16, further supported by lower absolute prices towards  the end of the year.
During FY 2015-16, India’s polymer  demand was higher by 15%.
PP demand grew by 19.6%  y-o-y with a good demand across all sectors including raffia  packaging, nonwoven, multifilament, automotive, hygiene  applications and appliances sector.
PE demand was higher  by 13.6% due to firm demand from flexible packaging,  moulded products and paper/woven sacks lamination  packaging sector.
PVC domestic demand was higher by  10.5% with higher demand from pipe and calendaring  73 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis sector.
Overall, with improving business sentiment and a  revival in domestic investment cycle, demand is likely to see  similar growth in the medium-term.
B. POLYESTER CHAIN   Feedstock fluctuations in the international markets and  the price drop in the later part of the year led to cautious  buying behaviour by the industry and additionally, severe  cash crunch and longer cash cycles resulted in need-based  buying.
Overall polyester demand increased by 5% during  the year, led by Fully Drawn Yarn (FDY) and PET but the  overall growth was constrained by high volatility of prices  and reduced liquidity with customers.
FDY witnessed healthy growth from warp knitting segments,  while PET witnessed better growth owing to delayed  monsoons during the first half.
Shipments during the  second half were limited on account of the price volatility  and lean season.
Domestic cotton production increased during the seasonal  year, owing to higher acreage, making India the largest  producer globally which resulted in prices dropping by  2% during the year which was further accentuated by  declining exports to China.
However, the larger scale drop  in the polyester prices has made polyester more lucrative as  compared to cotton.
Indian polyester industry will be in advantageous  position with growth of consumer demand and strong  manufacturing base enabling India to serve as regional  polyester manufacturing hub.
The polyester demand is  expected to reach a level of around 7 MMT, at a CAGR of ~7%  by the end of 2020.
C. ELASTOMERS   Butadiene: Indian butadiene demand grew by ~30% to   225 KT as against an installed capacity of 435 KTPA, with  excess production catering to export markets.
Domestic  demand growth increase was primarily due to higher  operating rates in downstream plants which came on- stream in FY 2014-15.
PBR: India’s demand for PBR in 2015 grew marginally to   195 KT and is expec ted to grow at ~8% in 2017.
Reliance has  successfully placed the material from new PBR capacity in  domestic market reducing India’s dependence on imported  material.
SBR: India’s demand for SBR is estimated at 255 KT and is  likely to grow at 6-8% annually in the medium-term.
Product  from Reliance’s new SBR has been well received in the market.
Indian imports have reduced and are expected to reduce  further as domestic capacity operates at higher rates.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE* FY 2015-16 (` in crore) FY 2015-16 (US$ in billion) FY 2014-15  (` in crore) %  change Revenues 82,410 12.4 96,804 (14.9%) EBIT 10,221 1.5 8,291 23.3% EBIT (%) 12.4% 8.6% * Consolidated basis Reliance’s overall petrochemicals production in India during FY  2015-16 was at a record 24.7 MMT.
Reliance also recorded the  highest ever polymer production of 4.6 MMT in FY 2015-16.
POLYMER PRODUCTION (Production in KT) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 PP 2,802 2,685 PE 1,058 969 PVC 721 649 Reliance has on overall market share of 36% in the Indian  polymer market.
Reliance is the world’s sixth largest producer of  PP .
During FY 2015-16, the Company produced 2.8 MMT of PP .
Reliance has a pre-eminent position in the domestic PP market  with 51% share.
Reliance produced total PE of 1.1 MMT during  the year and has market share of 18% in HDPE, 32% in Linear  Low Density Poly Ethylene (LLDPE) and 35% in Low Density Poly  Ethylene (LDPE).
With 25% market share in the overall PE market,  Reliance is the leading PE producer in India.
Reliance’s total PVC  production was at 0.7 MMT and it has 27% market share in the  domestic market.
Reliance placed significant volumes of PP in  the international market while PE and PVC are largely sold in the  domestic market.
In the endeavour to excel in operational performance,   debottlenecking of PP plant was done to augment the capacity  by 60 KTPA.
New PP catalysts were also developed in-house  which helped in improving the quality and reducing the cost.
Polyester bobbins at Silvassa manufacturing division Annual Report 2015-16 74 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
POLYESTER AND INTERMEDIATES PRODUCTION POLYESTER PRODUCTION (Production in KT) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 POY 771 852 PSF 628 621 PET 797 374 During the year, RIL commissioned its 650 KTA PET (Polyethylene  Terephthalate) resin plant at Dahej, Gujarat.
This addition has  made the Dahej PET facility one of the largest bottle-grade PET  resin capacity at a single location globally and consolidating  Reliance’s position as a leading PET resin producer with a global  capacity of 1.13 MMTPA.
RIL ’s polyester production which has  a steep jump in this financial year was driven mainly by the  increase in PET production despite a decrease in filament yarn  production due to planned turnarounds.
FIBRE INTERMEDIATES PRODUCTION (Production in KT) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 PX 2,329 2,169 PTA 3,365 2,074 MEG 737 635 RIL Intermediates production significantly improved compared  to last year mainly due to the successful commissioning of 2.3  MMTPA PTA at Dahej during the year.
With the commissioning  of new PTA units, RIL strengthened its polyester chain business  further.
The principles of integration for feedstock with PX  plant and downstream integration with polyester will provide  significant logistics and cost advantage.
RIL ’s Malaysian operations improved performance through  emphasis on premium markets.
Malaysian free trade agreement  with Turkey helped to position the products at premium over  Asia prices.
Enhanced textile operations helped to capture higher  value addition within the system.
In addition non-traditional  markets were developed for better price realisation.
PTA supplies  were concentrated near production site to enhance profitability  through optimal logistics cost.
ELASTOMER / CHEMICALS PRODUCTION (Production in KT) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 PBR 112 101 Butadiene 187 172 RIL ’s new elastomer capacity is positioned to satisfy more than  50% of India’s general purpose synthetic rubber demand.
Grades  from the newly commissioned SBR plant in India during FY 2015- 16 have been well received in the market.
Petrochemicals develops  various polymer formulations  for these innovative crop and  fruit covers in addition to a wide  range of other products,  thereby, helping India become  more food-suﬃcient.
Reliance petrochemicals  develops various polyester  formulations for speciality /f_ibres  and yarns that help reduce drag,  enabling better performance.
The DNA of Food  Abundance has RIL’s  Polymers in it.
The DNA of Sporting  excellence has RIL’s  Polyester in it.
The DNA of Saving Lives  has RIL’s PET in it.
The DNA of Mobility has  RIL’s Elastomers in it.
Reliance PET also saves life,  inside essential medical devices  like surgical sutures, implants &  intra cardiac devices, which  contribute to become the  building blocks of life saving  medical equipment.
Reliance elastomers are the  foundation of the most of the  cars, tractors, trucks, and  two-wheeler tyres in India.
Reliance petrochemicals  develops diﬀerent elastomer  formulations for specialised  grades of synthetic rubber that  help everyone be mobile, active  and productive.
TRANSFORMING LIFE INTO QUALITY LIFE - ‘CHEMISTRY FOR SMILES’ The research and development at Reliance endeavours to partner with its customers in developing products and services that bring  smiles on the faces of end-consumers, adds value to life.
Since chemistry is the foundation of Reliance Petrochemicals, Reliance refers  to journey as ‘Chemistry for Smiles’.
To put this in practice, RIL has adopted the business-to-business-to-consumer (b2b2c) model to  address the needs of the whole range  of customers.
75 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis CREATING CUSTOMER VALUE THROUGH INCLUSIVE  GROWTH Reliance has been a forerunner of inclusive growth, practices and  continues its efforts towards the holistic growth of its customers  and clients.
Reliance has helped customers with technical know- how for better product quality and higher throughput.
Reliance  delivers its products and services in a manner that ensures  Reliance customers look upon it as their trusted advisor and  solution provider.
This relationship with its customers is what  differentiates Reliance from its competitors.
Digitisation will position Reliance at very competitive position  in terms of cost reduction, transparency, real-time analysis,  advanced planning and optimisation, and cohesive customer  engagement.
Some of the digitisation initiatives include: 1.
Adoption of  Vendavo for price and margin optimisation,  2.
Enabled logistics process digitisation through Radio- frequency identification (RFID), 3.
Continuous environment monitoring system integrated  with Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB)/Central  Pollution Control Board (CPCB),  4.
Adoption of the Meridium Asset Performance Management  (APM) system NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS Reliance has continued to add new products to its range of  deliverables to the customers.
Polymers 1.
Reliance has continued to solve civil engineering problems  through geo-synthetics to stabilise terrain, which can be  applied in several sectors including roads, railways and  coastal and river areas.
2.
In-house development of Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride  (CPVC) technology for value addition and to contribute to  the ‘Make in India’ mission.
Adding value to intangible emotions  of life through a journey called  ‘Chemistry for Smiles’ 3.
Reliance is developing an innovative multilayer film for milk  packaging where milk in a pillow pouch can be stored for 30  days without refrigeration.
Polyesters: Reliance regards itself as an integral part of the  “Make in India” campaign and has taken various steps in product  innovation and new developments.
1.
Reliance enjoys very high domestic market share in the  spun sewing thread market and is now co-branding with  Precot Meridian from South India, for super specialty sewing  threads.
More avenues of growth are being discussed with  other enthusiastic producers as well.
2.
Reliance has introduced varied yarns for the fashion industry  like Recron® Skylark, Recron® Seawave, Recron® Blackstone,  Recron® CTS, 3.
Under the Recron Certified Products umbrella, RIL  introduced scientifically designed T-Life cushion for seating.
Reliance also focuses on reducing environmental pollution by  adopting recycling methods.
PET bottles are recycled into regular  usable products for day-to-day lives.
Under the banner of “Recron  Green Gold” Reliance manufactures one of the greenest fibres  in the world with the lowest carbon footprint.
Additionally,  90% of the water used in the process is also recycled.
Elastomers: For driving customer value, new products have  been developed and are in process of getting commercialised.
1.
Cobalt based PBR Cisamer 1220 L:  The elastomer is designed  for niche applications that demands better physical  properties, lower heat build-up, lower rolling resistance and  superior abrasion resistance.
2.
Cobalt based PBR Cisamer 1220 H:  The product has less gel  content and is manufactured at Vadodara Manufacturing  Division for high-impact polystyrene application.
3.
Neodymium Based PBR Cisamer 700: This product  is manufactured for the first time in India at Hazira  Manufacturing Division and is specially being targeted  for low rolling resistance and procured tread rubbers with  abrasion resistance.
4.
Styrene Butadiene Rubbers (SBR 1783 and SBR 1723): This  product is mainly designed for usage in high performance  tyres which provide improvement in wet traction/ rolling  resistance.
All above grades are in use or/under evaluation by customers.
CAPEX AND GROWTH PLANS During the year Reliance commissioned 2.3 MMTPA PTA plant  at Dahej in two phases.
In addition, Reliance also commissioned  11 KTA of specialty staple fibre (Recron 3s) plant at Patalganga;  targeted at the value added wall paper segment.
These  expansions follow the earlier expansion of PFY, PTY and PET  capacities.
Reliance is also expanding its technical textiles  portfolio by setting up a new Industrial Yarn plant at Patalganga.
PX at Jamnagar SEZ expansion is progressing as per plan with  the project ready for start-up in 2H FY 2016-17.
Annual Report 2015-16 76 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
REFINERY OFF-GAS CRACKER (ROGC):  India’s PE demand growth has been robust and expected to  grow by 8-10% in the medium-term.
Even with new capacities  being added, domestic demand would ensure that the market  remains supply-constrained.
Reliance is setting up new ROGC  with Ethylene capacity of 1.5 MMTPA along with matching  downstream PE and MEG facilities and incremental PP output  at Jamnagar.
The cracker will use low-cost off gases from RIL ’s  refinery as feedstock to produce Polyethylene and MEG.
This  will lead manifold increase in value.
This not only provides  competitive cost advantage but also gives additional feedstock  flexibility to the petrochemicals business.
Downstream PE  capacities enhances Polymer business profitability and MEG adds  to the integrated chain margin for its in-house consumption in  Polyester business.
Since the Cracker is located at Jamnagar which houses two large-  scale refineries, the quantity of off-gases which would be fed to  the ROGC makes it not only amongst the world’s largest ethylene  crackers but also an integrated Refinery-Petchem model which is  unique.
Apart from the economies of scale, by utilising low value  refinery off gases as feed, ROGC would be in the top quartile in  terms of-global cost competitiveness across ethylene crackers.
The ROGC Project and the downstream units are in advanced  stages of completion with involvement of renowned EPC  companies including Fluor, Bechtel, Technip, Tecnimont, Foster  Wheeler, Linde, Jacobs, and Aker to name a few.
The ROGC  project is expected to be ready for start-up in 2H FY 2016-17.
ETHANE PROJECT: As a part of providing feedstock flexibility and long-term supply  security to the existing crackers, Reliance initiated a project for  import of ethane from the US.
This will also ensure long-term  feedstock competitiveness.
The project involves sourcing 1.5  MMTPA of ethane from US, shipping it to Dahej terminal and  feeding its crackers in Dahej, Hazira and Nagothane.
For sourcing Ethane from US, Reliance has executed storage and  capacity agreements for liquefaction and export of ethane with  a terminal in North America.
For shipment of ethane from United States Gulf Coast to India,  Reliance has ordered six state-of-the-art Very Large Ethane  Carriers (VLECs), which will be the largest Ethane vessels ever  built in the world.
For construction supervision, Reliance has  entered into agreements with one of the world’s largest and  reputed shipping companies Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines, Ltd (MOL).
First  ethane vessel delivery is expected as per schedule in 2H FY 2016- 17.
MOL will also operate and manage the vessels after they are  built and delivered.
For unloading and storage of ethane at Dahej, Cryogenic Ethane  Storage tank is being built at Dahej complex.
For transporting of ethane to Hazira and Nagothane complexes,  pipeline between Dahej to Nagothane with a spur line to Hazira.
The crackers at Hazira, Nagothane and Dahej will also undergo  required modifications to process ethane as feed in their units.
The ethane project will augment feed alternatives for crackers  and would provide opportunity for Reliance to take advantage  in an increasingly dynamic feedstock market and operate with  most optimal cost.
The project would provide a cheaper source of  feed to add value by multiple times from ethane to downstream  polymers and chemicals.
Post completion of petrochemical expansion plans, Reliance is  likely to be among the top 10 global petrochemical producers by  capacity and earnings potential.
The expansions are world-scale and use state-of-the-art  technology, which ensures advantageous cost of operations  alongside savings in packing and logistic costs.
Being strategically  located close to the consumption centres allows for easy access  and benefits the targeted markets with an economical and  reliable source of raw materials.
Reliance is setting up a new Refinery Off-Gas Cracker  (ROGC) with ethylene capacity of 1.5 MMTPA 1.5 MMTPA  77 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis DIGITISATION: With focus on customer centricity and sales force enablement,  RIL is on the path of digitising various processes:   NextGen applications have been developed to support  mobility for customers, agents and sales force   E-biz Customer Relationship Management (CRM) will  enhance customer experience   Enablement through digitisation and automation in supply  chain and manufacturing   With 4G services being launched by a number of service  providers in the country, there is a huge requirement of  telecom duct that is being serviced by PE pipe producers  and RIL being the largest PE producer in the country has a  big role to play.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR INITIATIVES The CSR initiatives carried out in the petrochemical locations are  pertaining to skill development including computer education  to students from marginalised sections across neighbouring  villages, safe driving practices among truck drivers, healthcare  and greenbelt initiatives.
22,000 truck drivers were trained on driving safety in Hazira  during FY 2015-16.
Over 4,500 patients admitted to the Community Care Centre  and Reliance AIDS Care Hospital till date.
Eye check-ups carried out in which 859 villagers benefited  around Hazira during FY 2015-16.
Over 22,000 trees were planted across various villages.
As part of its sustainable business practices, Reliance’s Industry  leading energy cells ensures at each site working towards energy  security with focus on reducing consumption and increased use  of clean energy to progressively reduce GHG emissions intensity.
Under the banner of “Recron Green Gold” Reliance manufactures  one of the greenest fibres in the world with the lowest carbon  footprint.
Additionally, 90% of the water used in the process is  also recycled.
Impact   Improved access to quality healthcare services.
Enhanced awareness about defensive driving and road  safety.
Enhanced employability of local youth.
Eye checkup camp Annual Report 2015-16 78 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Control riser platform KG D6 US$1.07 billion Monetised EFS Midstream Investments AJAY KHANDELWALP .
M. S. PRASAD “Reliance has responded to major headwinds caused by the global commodity price environment through effective production  management with the motto of “Keep wells flowing” and through optimisation of Capex and Opex.
Field uptime of KG D6 is at par or better  than global benchmarks.
Reliance CBM project, country’s first large-scale unconventional project, has commenced testing the Phase 1 facilities in the first quarter of  FY 2016-17.
Shahdol-Phulpur Pipeline, which connects Central India to the national gas grid has also been completed and the testing and  commissioning activities are in progress.
The positive steps taken by the Government of India towards promoting oil and gas industry are  expected to give a boost to Petroleum and Hydrocarbon Sector.
In Shale gas business, Reliance successfully managed the weak commodity price environment through high-grading the development and  lowering well costs and operating cost.
The EFS Midstream investment, which after successfully supporting initial growth phase of Eagle  Ford business, was at the right life stage for monetisation and its interest was sold to Enterprise Product Partners at US$1.07 billion.
Support to the neighbouring communities through programs in the field of health, education, skill development and infrastructure  development were some of the major initiatives as part of the CSR activity.
” 79 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES AND COMPETITIVE STRENGTH Reliance’s upstream business encompasses the complete chain of activities from acquisition to exploration, development and  production of hydrocarbons, including Shale Gas operations in the United States.
Reliance has an advantageous position in offshore  (deep-water) capabilities, coupled with the knowledge of operations in unconventional areas such as CBM and shale gas.
Strong offshore  capabilities in India Balanced  portfolio with  growth potential Materiality in the  unconventional  business Leverage existing  infrastructure,  knowledge and  experience Strategic  partnership with  BP in the domestic  upstream business KG D6 /f_ields commis- sioned in 2008 were the  /f_irst green-/f_ield  deepwater oil & gas  production facility  developed in India.
These /f_ields have now  completed over eight  years of uninterrupted  production.
Reliance has drilled over  hundred exploratory  wells in India’s oﬀshore  basins.
RIL and BP formed a  transformational  partnership in the oil and  gas business in 2011.
The partnership aims to  combine BP's  deep-water exploration  and development  capabilities with  Reliance's exceptional  project management  and operations expertise.
Reliance has over 20  years of experience in  the exploration and  production business.
Over the years it has built  a large knowledge base  of diﬀerent oil and gas  basins across the globe.
There has been  signi/f_icant infrastructure  built up which will be  leveraged upon for  future development  projects.
With the development of  the Sohagpur Blocks in  Madhya Pradesh,  Reliance is all set to  become the biggest  producer of Coal Bed  Methane in India.
Through its three  non-operated JVs,  Reliance has signi/f_icant  presence in the US Shale  gas business.
Reliance has signi/f_icant  presence in both  Conventional and  Unconventional plays.
The portfolio comprises  of Blocks in various  stages of the Asset Life  Cycle across the globe.
Value generation will be  done through  development projects in  deepwater for  exploitation of  discovered resources.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT Increased global supplies (from non-OPEC producers, incl., US  Shale producers) coupled with OPEC’s focus on market share  led to sustained weakness in oil markets.
Benchmark West  Texas Intermediate (WTI) prices dropped to a multi-year low of  US$34.6/bbl in Dec’ 15 and averaged at US$48.8/bbl in CY 2015,  reflecting a fall of 40% y-o-y in CY 2015.
Meanwhile, Natural Gas  prices too remained volatile with a downward bias, on the back  of record gas production, high storage levels and a relatively  warm winter.
US natural gas prices averaged 39% lower in CY  2015 to US$2.67/Million British Thermal Units (mmbtu).
Asian  Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) prices were also subdued with start- up of Australian LNG projects keeping the market well supplied.
The fall in oil prices has resulted in many projects getting  deferred or cancelled.
It is estimated that nearly US$380-US$400  billion worth of projects have been cancelled or deferred setting  the stage for a price recovery in the later part of the decade.
Most  of these projects are in deep-water, LNG and oil sands.
Low oil  prices are also straining the budgets of many oil producers in  Latin America, Middle East and in Europe.
The Capex budgets of many upstream players have been  reduced.
Most of the spending cuts have happened in North  America, Europe and Russia.
Spending could fall further if prices  continue to hover around US$30-US$40/bbl.
India is amongst the fastest growing energy markets of the  world.
India’s gas demand is expected to increase from 51 Billion  Cubic Metres (BCM) at an annual rate of 6% per annum to touch  68 BCM or about 186 Million Metric Standard Cubic Meter per  Day (MMSCMD) by 2020.
India’s gas demand grew by 2.6% in CY  2015.
India’s current gas consumption is about 128 MMSCMD.
India needs US$240 billion of investment in the upstream  sector to unlock the full potential of its oil and gas blocks.
(Source: International Energy Agency 2015).
Investments  in upstream oil and gas likewise face challenges: the most  promising of India’s remaining hydrocarbon resources are largely  offshore, are technically complex to exploit and involve relatively  high-cost projects.
Few initiatives have been taken by Indian  Government to promote the Indian oil and gas industry.
New gas pricing policy for production from difficult areas  which includes marketing and pricing freedom.
Changes in Section 3 of Central Sales Tax (CST) Act 1956,  increases flexibility in the sale of gas to customers in  different geographies.
Policy of extension of Production Sharing Contract (PSC) for  Pre- New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP) Blocks.
New Hydrocarbon Exploration Licensing Policy (HELP)  based on revenue sharing model.
Annual Report 2015-16 80 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
BUSINESS AND COMPETITIVE POSITION The Company’s oil and gas assets include KG D6, Panna-Mukta, Tapti and two Coal Bed Methane (CBM) blocks in addition to other  domestic and international blocks.
RIL also has three joint ventures in North American shale plays with Pioneer Natural Resources,  Chevron and Carrizo.
OIL AND GAS PORTFOLIO Block Country Partners RIL Stake JV Acreage (in acres) Conventional* KG-DWN-98/3 India NIKO - 10%, BP - 30% 60% 5,46,350 Panna Mukta India BG - 30% ; ONGC - 40% 30% 2,98,256 Mid and South Tapti India BG - 30% ; ONGC - 40% Note 1 30% 3,63,492 Other Blocks NEC-OSN-97/2 India NIKO - 10%, BP - 30% Note 2 60% 10,23,016 CY-DWN-2001/2 India BP - 30% Note 3 70% 16,95,142 CB-ONN-2003/1 India BP - 30% 70% 1,17,622 GS-OSN-2000/1 India Hardy - 10% 90% 1,48,263 International Block 39 Peru Perenco - 55%, PetroVietnam -35% 10% 2,13,746 M17 Myanmar UNRD 4% 96% 35,01,976 M18 Myanmar UNRD 4% 96% 32,92,159 CBM* SP(East)-CBM-2001/1 India - 100% 1,22,317 SP(West)-CBM-2001/1 India - 100% 1,23,552 Shale Pioneer JV USA Pioneer – 46.4%, Newpek – 8.6% 45% 1,51,448 Chevron JV USA Chevron – 60% 40% 2,21,902 Carrizo JV USA Carrizo – 40% 60% 45,687 * Conventional and CBM acreage converted into acres using 1 sq.
km.
= 247.1053 acres Note 1: Tapti wells ceased to flow towards the end of FY 2015-16.
Note 2: During the year NIKO withdrew from Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) accordingly RIL and BP assume it’s Participating Interest (PI).
Assignment is underway.
Note 3: RIL has relinquished Block CY-DWN-2001/2 (CYD5) in Q1 FY 2016- as the discovery D56 is techno-economically challenging for development and consequently assessed   to be non-commercial.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE - DOMESTIC* FY 2015-16 (` in crore) FY 2015-16 (US$ in million) FY 2014-15 (` in crore) %  change Revenues 4,259 643 5,507 (22.7%) EBIT 82 12 1,250 (93.4%) EBIT (%) 1.9% 1.9% 22.7% * Consolidated basis Revenues for the domestic oil and gas operations for the year  were at `4,259 crore, a decline of 22.7%.
This was largely on  account of decline in production and lower crude oil and gas  price realisation.
EBIT for the year declined by 93.4% on y-o-y  basis to `82 crore on account of the lower realisations and  decline in production.
124 BCFe  RIL ’s share of production in India PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE JV Production Units of  measurement  FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 KG D6 Oil MMBBL 1.5 2.0 Gas BCF 139.1 157.6 Condensate MMBBL 0.3 0.3 Panna- Mukta Oil MMBBL 6.9 7.2 Gas BCF 68.7 70.7 Tapti Gas BCF 3.3 14.3 Condensate MMBBL 0.1 0.2 RIL ’s share of production in India during the financial year was  124 BCFe.
RIL ’s motto is to “Keep wells flowing” .
RIL ’s endeavour is to recover  every cubic feet of gas or barrel of oil at marginal cost.
Field up  time of KG D6 is at par or better than global benchmark.
81 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis KG D6 gas production declined by 12% for the year to 139.1 BCF.
Fall in production was mainly due to natural decline in the fields  coupled with sand ingress in MA wells.
This was partly offset  by incremental production from side tracks in well A1 ST and  substitute well B7 Sub and field and well management efforts in  D1-D3.
Panna-Mukta field produced 6.9 MMBBL of crude, a reduction  of 4% on y-o-y basis and 68.7 BCF of natural gas, a marginal  reduction of 3% on y-o-y basis.
JV has been able to sustain the  FY 2014-15 levels of production despite various unplanned  shutdowns.
The major gains in production were achieved due  to incremental gains from Mukta A wells, new workovers and  completion of MB development and better gas compression  system performance.
Tapti wells ceased to flow towards the end of FY 2015-16.  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS  Reliance and Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE), an  enterprise of the Government of Myanmar, had signed  production sharing contracts for two offshore blocks (M17 and  M18), last year.
Reliance has carried out the environment impact  assessment for the blocks.
NORTH AMERICAN SHALE GAS OPERATIONS BACKGROUND The year under review was one of the most challenging years in  recent history for the global oil and gas industry and for the North  American Shale players, as sustained fall in benchmark prices and  continued high differentials drove weak realisation and proved  to be strong headwind for the industry.
The industry responded  well with remarkable cuts in capital spending and thrust on cost  reduction by leveraging weak market conditions for services.
The Company is competitively positioned within the US Shale  industry given its presence in the Eagle Ford and Marcellus  Shale plays, which are among the most competitive shale plays  in the US.
The Company effectively dealt with macro headwinds  through slowdown in development activity and capex.
Focus  was on conserving cash and minimising development activity,  without losing optionality on resources.
Simultaneous focus was  on improving efficiencies and costs, by leveraging weak market  conditions as well as initiatives for preserving value at each of its  joint ventures.
Accordingly, Reliance along with its partners successfully  reduced activity levels across JVs.
Zero drilling strategy  continued at Carrizo JV while the Chevron JV achieved gradual  ramp-down to reach zero rig operations by the year-end.
Pioneer  JV ended the CY 2015 with 5 rig operations, compared to 6 rigs  at the beginning of the year and 9-10 rig operation during CY  2014.
Reliance’s aggregate investments into the business stood  around US$900 MM during CY 2015, reflecting a fall of 25% y-o-y.
Reliance has further reduced activity levels during 1H 2016 with  Zero rigs in operation across all JVs, but is ensuring preparedness  for ramp up when market conditions improve.
Remarkable improvement in efficiencies and development costs  was a key success area during the year for all JV partners.
Helped  by focused efforts on renegotiating service costs and use of  advanced technology, Reliance JV’s achieved around 25% drop  in well costs, compared to their average levels in CY 2014.
In an important strategic move, Reliance successfully completed  monetisation of its investments in the Eagle Ford Midstream  JV.
EFS Midstream LLC was jointly owned by Reliance and  Pioneer Natural Resources.
EFS provided gathering, treating and  compression services and condensate stabilisation operations  for the Reliance-Pioneer Upstream Joint Development in the  Eagle Ford Shale.
The JV had reached development maturity and  transitioned from a ‘development’ mode to ‘stable operations’  mode, generating free cash flows since CY 2013.
Its monetisation  thus provided a significant opportunity for unlocking value  for Reliance shareholders.
In a joint transaction with Pioneer,  Reliance sold its entire interest in EFS Midstream to an affiliate  of Enterprise Product Partners L.P ., for an aggregate sum of  US$1,073 MM, to be paid in two tranches.
Enterprise is a leading  midstream operator and will continue to provide services to  Reliance upstream JV.
The transaction was closed effective on  July 1, 2015 and the sale proceeds were used for part funding of  capex and repayment of existing debt.
Eagle Ford Drilling Site Annual Report 2015-16 82 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE - US SHALE* CY 2015 (` in crore) CY 2014 (` in crore) Revenues 3,256 6,010 EBIT 316 1,949 EBIT (%) 9.7% 32.4% * Consolidated basis OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE  Operationally, the business continued its strong performance  during CY 2015.
The shale gas business effectively managed the  sharp downturn in prices through reduction in activity levels and  lowering costs.
Focus was on liquidating existing well inventory  to bring more wells online than drilled and delivering wells at  much lower well costs.
The joint ventures drilled 136 wells and put 202 wells on  production, taking the cumulative number of producing wells to  1,040 at the end of CY 2015.
Drilling and completion activities  were slowed down across JVs gradually during the year and  is being further slowed in CY 2016.
Reliance is committed to  ensuring preparedness for ramp up across JVs, when market  conditions improve.
Gross JV production aggregated at ~1.26 BCFe/d for all 3 JVs  and reflected a growth of 7% over the levels achieved in CY  2014.
Reliance’s share of production was 203.8 BCFe in CY 2015,  compared to 194.8 BCFe in CY 2014.
Reliance’s share of Net  Sales volume stood at 171 BCFe, compared to 168 BCFe in CY  2014.
Slower pace of growth reflected the impact of conscious  slowdown in development activities across JVs in view of  challenging market conditions.
Variable production strategy (at  Carrizo JV) that curtailed production to prevent uneconomic  realisation also i mpacted volumes during the year.
Gross JV production aggregated at  ~1.26 BCFe/d for all 3 JVs reflecting  a growth of 7% over the levels  achieved in CY 2014 FINANC IAL PERFORMANCE Financial performance of the Shale Gas business was impacted  by strong macro headwinds with sharply lower price realisation  driven by weak benchmark prices for natural gas (Henry Hub (HH))  and condensate (WTI) that tested multi-year lows during the year.
WTI oil prices averaged 48% lower at US$48.8/bbl in CY 2015  while HH Gas prices averaged 40% lower at US$2.67/mmbtu  during this period.
Benchmark differentials remained high  for both gas and condensates adding pressure on realisation.
Reliance focused on proactive hedging to mitigate pressures  while focusing simultaneously on export of Condensates that  offer superior netbacks.
These could offset the impact of weak  prices only partially.
A verage unit realisation thus dropped to  US$2.42/Mcfe in Q4 CY 2015 reflecting 47% y-o-y decline.
For the  full year CY 2015, the realised price was US$3.01/Mcfe impacting  revenues, earnings and cash flows.
AVERAGE REALISATION (US$/Mcfe) 6.58Q2 CY14 5.69Q3 CY14 7.01Q1 CY14 4.6Q4 CY14 3.43Q1 CY15 3.51Q2 CY15 2.81Q3 CY15 2.42Q4 CY15 47% DECLINE Y-O-Y The decline is in line with weak oil prices.
The business  managed it through effective production management and  optimisation of capex and opex.
CAPEX AND OPEX TRENDS 331.0Q2 CY14 321.0Q3 CY14 299.0 1.88 1.89 1.52 Q1 CY14 255.0Q4 CY14 234.0Q1 CY15 275.0Q2 CY15 210.0Q3 CY15 183.0Q4 CY15 1.65 1.68 1.60 1.58 1.46  Capex (US$MM)  Unit Opex (US$/mcfe) 83 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Opex trends remained encouraging across JVs.
Tight control over  costs and improvement in efficiencies helped achieve sequential  improvement in lease operating costs and overheads.
Absolute  opex were lower by over 4% across JVs, but could offset the  impact of lower prices only to some extent.
Consequently, reflecting lower realisation, business Earnings  Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)  dropped by over 60% y-o-y to US$299 million (excluding  exceptional items) in CY 2015.
At year-end CY 2015, Reliance’s share of proved reserves stood  at 2.61 Trillion Cubic Feet equivalent (TCFe).
Reserves could  have been higher but for decelerated pace of development and  certain technical and operational issues.
Reliance’s Shale Gas Business continues to effectively manage  current adverse macro environment through disciplined  investment and by realising efficiency gains.
Focus remains on  preserving long-term value through innovative practices on well  spacing, high impact completions and optimising recoveries by  targeting new horizons and improving costs and performance  with longer laterals.
Pioneer JV The Eagle Ford Shale JV with Pioneer pursued various cost  reduction and efficiency improvement initiatives, apart from  new development initiatives aimed at improving recoveries and  optimising well inventories.
Outcome of various development  initiatives are being studied for optimising forward development  strategy.
Thrust on further reducing well costs continues.
Producing well count improved to 612 at the year-end, as  compared to 499 well at the end of CY 2014.
Gross JV production  stood at 256 BCFe while Reliance share of net sales volume was  at 96.5 BCFe, compared to 98.3 BCFe in CY 2014.
Modest growth in production and sales volumes despite  higher number producing wells were attributed to production  interruptions for offset frac’ing, and natural decline of Proved  Developed Property (PDP) wells.
The share of liquids dropped from 68% to 65% in CY 2015, as  the JV decided to reject ethane from the Natural Gas Liquid  (NGL) stream to mitigate low realisation.
Ethane rejection helped  in recovering richer NGL barrels, in turn improving average  realisation of NGL barrels apart from improving calorific value   of Gas.
JV achieved over 25% reduction in well costs compared to average  well costs in CY 2014, through renegotiation of service contracts,  improvement in efficiencies as well as success of several new  initiatives focused on better completion technologies, 2-string  casing design and efficient pad operations.
Improved cost  efficiencies helped in drilling more for less during the year and  thus managing the depressed oil price environment.
Chevron JV The JV demonstrated improvement in efficiencies and costs,  through sustaining momentum in a low activity environment.
Slow pace of improvement and long cycle time remains a key  challenge at the JV.
The challenging macro environment is  adding further pressure in ensuring profitable development of  Reliance core acreages at this Marcellus JV.
Producing well count improved to 346 at the year-end, as  compared to 257 wells at the end of CY 2014.
Gross JV production  stood at 166 BCFe, refl ecting growth of over 36% y-o-y.
Reliance  share of Net Sales volume stood at 56.5 BCFe, compared to 44.7  BCFe in CY 2014.
Remarkable reduction in operating costs and average well costs  as well as some improvement in cycle time were key achievements  during the year.
JV achieved over 24% reduction in well costs  compared to CY 2014 averages and demonstrated gradual  reduction over the quarters reflecting increased execution  efficiency on pads, water transportation and procurement gains.
In addition, successful use of advanced technology enabled  improvements in drilling and completion of wells (e.g.
use of  rotary steering tools for improved lateral placement and use of  diverting tools for improved proppant placement).
JV is pursuing zero rig development and liquidating frac  inventory in view of the challenging pricing environment, while  it continues to work on various operational and cost efficiency  improvement initiatives to maximise well recovery and decrease  well cost.
Carrizo JV Reliance Marcellus JV with Carrizo pursued ‘zero development’  and ‘variable production’ strategy during the year, in view of  the prevailing challenging price environment in the North East  region.
Initial development activities in the Northeastern Pennsylvania  (NEPA) region have matured and its future growth is expected  to come from infill drilling in the NEPA region and potential  development of acreages in the C-counties.
The JV decided to  defer development activities and stay focused on optimising  production from existing wells in the NEPA region.
Gross JV production of 37 BCFe reflected a fall of 33% y-o-y and  reflected the impact of production curtailments carried out to  prevent uneconomic realisation during the year.
JV managed  volumes as a function of price/netback and shut-in wells to  ensure minimum volumes without impacting well integrity  issues.
As a result, Reliance share of net sales too reflected a 32%  y-o-y fall to 18.5 BCFe in CY 2015.
Annual Report 2015-16 84 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
CAPEX AND GROWTH PLANS  KG D6 APPRAISAL OF MJ1 DISCOVERY As a part of the appraisal programme for the D-55 discovery,  continuous evaluation of results of 3 wells were carried out  extensively.
In addition, enhanced imaging for reservoir  character isation and conceptual engineering/Pre Front-End  Engineering Design (FEED) studies has also been completed.
Based on these appraisal efforts, the JV believes that the  discovery is commercial and has submitted Commerciality  Report to Management Committee (MC) for its review, leading  to a reserves accretion of about 1 TCFe in the current fiscal.
RIL has reduced opex by more than  20% for same level of operations  and is now focusing on optimising  capex for future development DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS – R-CLUSTER Considerable work towards optimisation of design and  associated costs has been carried out during the year by Reliance  along with JV partners to enhance the project robustness.
SATELLITE CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT During the year, based on GoI policy on testing requirement,  Reliance along with JV partners has performed Drill Stem Test  (DST) operations in discoveries D29 and D30.
The results are in  line with the expectation.
In view of smaller and scattered nature  of the accumulations, these discoveries are conceptualised  to be developed in an integrated manner with the 4 Satellite  discoveries.
The JV has submitted commerciality report to MC in  Q1 FY 2016-17.
PRODUCTION AUGMENTATION EFFORTS IN EXISTING  PRODUCING FIELDS (D1, D3 AND D26) Reliance has put its best endeavours to operate through  challenging E&P environment both global and domestic.
While  the D1-D3 and D26 (MA) fields are experiencing natural declines,  a commendable job has been done to “keep wells flowing” .
Reliance strives to recover every cubic feet of gas or every barrel  of oil at marginal costs.
D1-D3 field continues to produce from eleven wells.
To maximise  the life and recovery from the field, two well intervention jobs  were successfully completed, i.e., Side-track job A1 ST and  Substitute well B7 Sub.
In addition, one well B6 was successfully  activated.
Further measures through field and well management  are being undertaken to extend field life and maximise recovery.
In D26 field, given the sand ingress surprise in MA5H Side Track  and water ingress in MA2, additional side tracks have been  matured and drilling campaign has commenced in Q1 FY 2016- 17 to augment production and maximise the recovery from the  field.
RIL is leveraging deflation in markets to maximise benefits.
RIL  has already reduced opex by more than 20% for same level of  operation and are now focusing on optimising capex for future  development.
PANNA-MUKTA The Panna-Mukta field is a major contributor to the E&P revenue  and profitability and has entered into the last four years of its  contract period.
The PSC extension policy announced by the  Government will extend the contract period up to the economic  life and maximise the recovery from the field.
JV partners are  exploring options in line with the policy.
During the year, the  following activities were carried out to sustain production from  this field:  Completed work-over of 7 wells.
6 wells were drilled and put on production as part of Mukta-B  development during the year.
The MA-MB line was completed in Mukta that helped  resuming production from MA platform.
PE-PF gas lift line was installed in the Panna field leading to  revival of 2 sick wells and sustenance of production from  flowing wells at PF platform.
TAPTI Tapti cessation of production occurred in March, 2016.
In line  with the PSC, Reliance along with its partners has issued an  abandonment notice to the Government in December 2013.
JV  partners also started allocating funds for site restoration activity.
With the signing of Tapti Asset Transfer Agreement (TATA), with  ONGC, as a Government nominee, Tapti JV has handed over   the process facilities and the export pipelines for its Daman  development project during Q1 FY 2016-17.
As part of the site  restoration of Tapti block, Tapti JV will commence necessary  decommissioning and abandonment activities (the first of its  kind in India’s E&P industry) for the balance of the facilities in FY  2016-17.
OTHER NELP BLOCKS NEC 25 During the year, based on GoI policy on testing requirement,  Reliance along with JV partners has performed DST operations  in discovery D32 in the block.
The Declaration of Commerciality  (DoC) has been submitted to Management Committee in   Q1 FY 2016-17.
During the year Niko withdrew from PSC and  JOA.
Pursuant to the provision of the JOA, RIL and BP agree to  assume Niko’s PI of 10% in the ratio of respective PI of BP and RIL.
The process of assignment is underway.
CB 10 The block was awarded under the NELP-V licensing round and is  the only conventional on-land block operated by Reliance.
Post  85 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis completion of phase-I of the exploration period, Reliance made  eight oil discoveries out of 18 wells drilled in this block, and the  Government has approved Reliance and its partner to enter into  exploration phase-II in January, 2015.
Reliance has extensive  plans towards drilling to explore and augment additional  resources.
During the year, the Field Development Plan for seven oil  discoveries was submitted and is awaiting approval.
RIL CBM project is country’s first  large-scale unconventional project CBM (SOHAGPUR EAST AND SOHAGPUR WEST) DEVELOPMENT PROJECT RIL has commenced test production and pre-commissioning and  commissioning activities from Sohagpur (West) block.
RIL CBM  project is country’s first large-scale unconventional project.
The  execution is full of challenges due to lack of infrastructure and  challenging terrain.
As part of initial development, RIL plans to  start test production of CBM with more than 200 wells spread over  450 sq.km.
It has setup two gas gathering stations and eight water  gathering stations for collection of gas and water respectively  and has laid India’s largest HDPE gas gathering network.
RIL CBM  project is probably the largest surface footprint project in E&P  sector in India.
RIL through its commitment to societal values  has carried out effective local community engagement and  has implemented various community development programs  including education, health and hygiene, livelihood support,  training of local community, etc.
Coal Bed Methane project at Shahdol CBM SHAHDOL-PHULPUR GAS PIPEL INE PROJECT  Reliance Gas Pipeline Limited, a subsidiary of Reliance, has  completed the pipeline laying work for the entire 302 km  Shahdol-Phulpur Pipeline from Shahdol (MP) to Phulpur (UP)  and testing and commissioning activities under progress.
This pipeline will help Central India in getting connected with  national gas grid.
Completed the pipeline laying work for the entire 302 km  Shahdol-Phulpur Pipeline from Shahdol (MP) to Phulpur (UP).
This pipeline will help Central India in getting connected  with national gas grid.
302 km Pipeline UPDATE ON ARBITRATION AND OTHER LEGAL  ISSUES DOMESTIC GAS PRICING ARBITRATION In October 2013, Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)  approved a new gas pricing formula for a period of five years  based on the recommendation of the Rangarajan Committee  Report on ‘The Production Sharing Contract Mechanism in  Petroleum Industry’ .
The Domestic Natural Gas Pricing Guidelines,  2014 were notified by the Government on 10 th  January, 2014.
The  price under the new formula was to be applicable from 1 st April,  2014, including the gas produced from block KG-DWN-98/3 (’KG  D6 Block’) where the previous approved price expired on 31 st  March, 2014.
The gas price under these guidelines was to be  notified by the Government by March, 2014.
There was continued delay on the part of the Government in  notifying the price in accordance with the approved formula.
RIL,  BP and NIKO issued a Notice of Arbitration on 9 th  May, 2014 to the  Government of India, seeking declaration that the Contractor  has the right to sell gas produced from KG D6 Block at approved  competitively determined, arm’s length prices, and that the  Government approved the price under the ‘Domestic Natural  Gas Pricing Guidelines 2014’ notified on 10 th  January, 2014, in  terms of the Production Sharing Contract (PSC).
Annual Report 2015-16 86 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
On 18 th  October, 2014, in supersession of its earlier notification of  10 th  January, 2014, the Government notified the New Domestic  Natural Gas Price Guidelines 2014.
In RIL ’s view, the methodology  used for valuation of gas under these guidelines, does not reflect  true arms- length market price of gas in India as required under  the PSC signed with the Government.
Without prejudice to any of  its rights and contentions, RIL is complying with the guidelines.
RIL and Government of India have nominated their respective  arbitrators and the two nominated arbitrators have not been  able to agree upon a presiding arbitrator.
RIL, BP and Niko have  filed an application for appointment of the presiding arbitrator  before the Supreme Court of India and the same is presently  pending consideration.
KG D6 ARBITRATION AND OTHER LEGAL ISSUES RIL sought Government’s confirmation that no action was being  planned following news reports that the Government may curtail  the Company’s entitlement to recover its costs on the basis of  there being a shortfall in production from levels specified in the  development plan.
According to the Company, the PSC permits  full ‘cost recovery’ of its costs of exploration, development and  production from the value of petroleum produced from the KG  D6 Block.
RIL on behalf of all contractor constituents - namely Niko (NECO)  Limited (NIKO) and BP Exploration  Alpha Limited (‘BP‘)  (together,   the ’Claimants‘)  served an arbitration notice  on  the  Government  on 23 rd  November,  2011 (‘Cost  Recovery  Arbitration‘).
Both the  Claimants and the Government have appointed arbitrators and  on 23 rd  September, 2014, the Supreme Court nominated Hon’ble  Michael Kirby AC CMG as the presiding third arbitrator.
Claimants’  have filed their Statement of Claim and in response Government  has filed its Statement of Defence.
Claimants are in the process of  filing their Reply and Defence to Counterclaims.
Three public interest litigations have been filed before the  Supreme Court of India against the Company in relation to the  production sharing contract for KG D6 Block seeking substantially  similar reliefs in the nature of; (i) disallowance of cost recovery  under the production sharing contract for KG-D6 Block; (ii)  quashing the Government’s decision to approve the certain gas  price formula, and (iii) termination of production sharing contract  for KG D6 Block on the basis that the Company has not achieved  the committed production.
In the views of both the Company  and the Government, point (ii) in the public interest litigation no  longer survives in view of the revised pricing guidelines issued  by the Government on 18 th  October, 2014 and being a matter  of arbitration.
Petitioners have also requested the Supreme  Court to stay the Cost Recovery Arbitration.
The Company has  submitted that the underlying issues which have been flagged  by the Petitioners are already subject matter of Cost Recovery  Arbitration and the Gas Price Arbitration and the same need to  be heard by the arbitral tribunal.
PMT ARBITRATION In December 2010, the Company and BG Exploration and  Production India Limited (together, the ’Claimants‘) referred a  number of disputes, differences and claims arising under two  Production Sharing Contracts entered into in 1994 among the  Claimants, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONCG)  and  the Government (the ’PSCs‘)  to arbitration.
The disputes relate  to, among other things, the limits of cost recovery, profit sharing  and audit and accounting provisions of the PSCs.
The value of  the Claimants’ claims exceeds US$500 million.
The Government’s  defense dated 31 st  January, 2012 raised certain jurisdictional  objections and asserted a number of substantial counterclaims,  including claims for underpayment of profits and failure to  complete agreed work programmes.
The parties agreed by consent that the juridical seat of the  arbitration would be London, England.
Following an initial merits hearing in May 2012, the Tribunal  passed a number of final partial awards, largely in the Claimants’  favour.
The Government challenged the Tribunal’s awards/ determinations under Part I of the Indian Arbitration and  Conciliation Act 1996 before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court.
These challenges were ultimately dismissed after the Claimants  prevailed in a Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Hon’ble  Supreme Court on 28 th  May 2014.
The Government filed a Review  Petition before the Supreme Court against this judgment, which  was unsuccessful, and also filed a Curative Petition before the  Supreme Court seeking reconsideration of the judgment which  was also dismissed.
ONGC, another constituent of Contractor  under the PSCs but not a party to the arbitration (as ONGC was  directed by the Government of India at the inception to be bound  by any award and not to participate in the arbitration) had filed  an intervention application in the disposed off Government SLP  on the basis that there are certain factual and legal errors in the  judgment and ONGC needs to present its position before the  court however the same was also disposed off.
GoI filed another  application before the Supreme Court stating that certain  observations made by the Court in its judgment may have far  reaching implications on the Government’s rights and the same  may be expunged, however, since the Court was not inclined to  entertain GoI’s request, the GoI has withdrawn its application.
Arbitration hearings on the merits are complete and the Tribunal  has indicated that they would be publishing the award in July  2016.
Once award on merits is published, Parties will be heard by  the Tribunal on the Cost Recovery Limit (CRL) increase request of  the Claimants (if necessary) and quantum.
Given the complexity  of issues involved, the hearings on CRL increase and quantum  will take a few months to be heard leading to a final arbitral  award on adjustments required to the Cost and Profit Petroleum  due to the Parties.
87 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis YEMEN ARBITRATION Considering the deteriorating security situation in Yemen,  consortium of Reliance Exploration and Production DMCC  and Hood Energy Limited declared Force Majeure thereby  suspending its obligations under the Production Sharing  Agreements (“PSAs”) for the Yemen blocks 34 and 37 and  subsequently terminated the PSAs on account of continued Force  Majeure.
Yemen Government issued demands under the Letters  of Credit (“LCs”) established pursuant to the terms of the PSAs on  account of alleged non-performance of PSA obligation.
Reliance  and Reliance Exploration and Production DMCC have obtained  injunction from Hon’ble Bombay High Court for restraining  bankers from honouring any demand of Yemen Government  under the LCs during Force Majeure period.
Reliance Exploration  and Production DMCC and Hood Energy Limited have also  initiated Arbitration proceedings against Yemen Government  under the terms of the PSAs and the arbitration proceedings are  presently underway.
DISPUTE WITH NTPC  NTPC had filed a suit for specific performance of a contract for  supply of natural gas by RIL.
The main issue in dispute is whether  a valid, concluded and binding contract exists between the  parties for supply of Natural Gas of 132 Trillion BTU annually for a  period of 17 years.
Cross examination of NTPC’s witness has been  completed and RIL ’s fact witness is to be examined by NTPC.
ONGC GAS MIGRATION CLAIM ONGC filed a Writ Petition before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court  alleging that RIL, through wells located in proximity to the  border of KGD6, has extracted gas from ONGC operated blocks  KG DWN 98/2 (KGD5) and G4 PML.
RIL and ONGC, in consultation  with Director General of Hydrocarbons, appointed DeGolyer  and MacNaughton (D&M) as an independent expert to ascertain  whether there has been migration of gas across RIL and ONGC  blocks.
The Writ Petition was disposed of with a Direction to  the Parties to cooperate with D&M in preparing its report and  the Government to take decision (if any) on the said report.
Following submission of its report by D&M, Government of India  appointed a one man committee headed by Mr Justice (Retd) AP  Shah to examine the D&M report and make recommendations.
The proceedings of the Committee are concluded and it is  expected that the Committee will in due course make its  recommendations known, at which stage RIL will consider what,  if any, action it requires to take.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR INITIATIVES At exploration and production sites, there was significant focus  on skill development, enhancing the education infrastructure,  promotion of higher education and greenbelts.
Computer Aided  Literacy Centres were one of the major initiatives in these sites.
The Reliance’s Information Services also benefited the local  farmers and fisherfolks in a big way.
800 youths and community members benefited from the  Village Knowledge Centres.
3,500 students have benefited from the computer aided  learning facility.
Over 2 lakh trees were planted in and around the site.
223 poor and meritorious students were provided  scholarship to pursue higher studies.
Impact  Enhanced employability of local youths.
Reduction in school dropout rates.
Reinforced sustainable environmental practices.
Students at Gadimoga School Annual Report 2015-16 88 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
MAJOR BUSINESSES Reliance Smart at Jamnagar RETAIL BUSINESS “Reliance Retail, the core of RIL ’s consumer-facing businesses, has become an essential part of its customer’s lives through state-of-the- art stores, countless choices, competitive value proposition and superior quality.
Reliance Retail is India’s largest retailer by revenues.
Continuing on the growth orbit, Reliance Retail posted a record EBIT of `506 crore, expanded its reach through new store additions and  launch of its exclusive e-commerce website www.ajio.com.
Reliance Fresh, India’s leading neighbourhood supermarket chain, continues to be one of the ‘Most trusted service brands’ in the country  and a preferred choice for its customers day to day Fresh and dairy needs and monthly purchases.
This year Reliance re-launched its  destination stores as Reliance SMART which offers abundance in choice and upfront big value and savings.
Reliance works closely with its  vendor partners in Reliance’s continuing growth story of meeting customer needs pan India.
The year also marked the launch of ‘LYF’ smartphones and 4K televisions as part of the giant strides that RIL is taking to mobilise the  potential of Digital India, harnessing the synergies brought by Reliance Jio and Reliance Retail.
” `506 crore Retail EBIT increased by 21.3% y-o-y BRIAN BADESUBRAMANIAM V. DAMODAR MALL AKHILESH PRASAD JOHN WILCOX  89 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES AND COMPETITIVE STRENGTH Since its inception in 2006, Reliance Retail has grown to cater to millions of customers and thousands of farmers and vendors.
Reliance Retail is the retail initiative of Reliance Industries and an epicentre of its consumer facing businesses.
It has in a short time  forged strong and enduring bonds with millions of consumers by providing them unlimited choice, outstanding value proposition,  superior quality and unmatched experience.
Multi-channel  strategy State-of-the-art  Infrastructure Partner of ChoiceAdaptive / Agility To serve customers  across diverse shopping  needs, Reliance Retail  has adopted a  multi-retail concept  strategy thereby  oﬀ ering products to  consumers across the  country.
Reliance Retail operates on a  framework that fosters rapid  adaptation to ever changing  external environment whether it  pertains to technology  evolution, consumer experience  or the way shopping habits are  changing.
This has helped  Reliance Retail in maintaining its  market leadership by anticipat- ing and responding quickly to  ever evolving customer and  market dynamics.
Reliance Retail has  emerged as the partner  of choice for Internation- al brands and has  established exclusive  partnerships with many  revered international  brands.
Reliance Retail has built  state-of-the-art  infrastructure supporting  business systems and  supply chain.
Its highly  trained people and  robust processes ensure  consistent execution.
Reliance Retail has  adopted multi-channel  strategy and has  integrated ‘oﬄine -online’  model to truly diﬀ erenti- ate the customer  experience.
Multi-retail  concept MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND OUTLOOK India’s economy is the world’s 7th largest by nominal GDP and the  3rd largest by Purchasing Power Parity (PPP).
India is one of the  fastest growing major economies in the world with an average  growth rate of more than 7% over the last decade.
The growth prospects of the Indian economy are positive due  to its young population, corresponding low dependency ratio,  healthy savings and investment rates and increasing integration  into the global economy.
India has topped the World Bank’s  growth outlook for the first time with the economy having  grown 7.6% in FY 2015-16.
India is the 5 th largest retail market in the world.
The market is  highly fragmented, with an estimated 15 million traditional  Kirana stores making up the unorganised sector and contributing  to nearly 90% of the estimated US$600 billion retail market.
This  very structure in combination with an improving economy and  growth drivers such as favourable demographics, urbanisation  and shift in consumer shopping behaviour has opened a large  window of opportunity for modern retail formats to grow.
By  2020, the Indian retail market is expected to nearly double to  US$1 trillion (Source: Retail 2020: Retrospect, Reinvent, Rewrite  by BCG and RAI, 2015).
Reliance Retail’s customer loyalty  programme enjoys patronage of  over 30 million registered members Modern retail contributes to a mere 10% of the retail market  in India, but is estimated to experience steady growth (Source:  Retail 2020: Retrospect, Reinvent, Rewrite by BCG and RAI, 2015).
Factors such as favourable demographics, rising disposable  income, exposure to international lifestyle are some of the  reasons contributing to the growth.
The e-commerce sector in India is expected to be in the range  of US$22 billion in 2015.
E-Tailing, which comprises of online  retail and online marketplaces, has become the fastest-growing  segment in the larger market, having grown at a compounded  annual growth rate of around 56% over 2009-2014.
The size  of the e-Tail market is pegged at US$6 billion in 2015.
(Source:  e-commerce in India by PWC).
OPERATING STRATEGY Reliance Retail is India’s largest retailer by revenues as well as  by retail footprint.
To serve customers across diverse shopping  needs, Reliance Retail has adopted a multi-retail concept  strategy thereby offering products to consumers based on their  shopping habits.
Reliance Retail operates chain of convenience  stores, supermarkets, wholesale cash-and-carry and specialty  stores.
Some of the guiding philosophies to Reliance Retail’s  operating strategy are:    Customer Centricity:  Reliance Retail has embraced  customer service as a way of life in everything it does  to operate its business.
Continued focus on training has  fostered a culture of customer centricity.
Reliance Retail’s  Customer Loyalty programme enjoys patronage of over 30  million registered members.
The valuable insights generated  through this critical tool help in understanding and serving  the needs of customers.
Annual Report 2015-16 90 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Private Label Strategy:  Reliance Retail has been  continuously investing in developing a compelling range  of private label products across multiple categories.
Private  label plays very important role in the business by bridging  the category gaps in the offerings, delivering higher  customer value and profitability.
Building Value Chain:  Reliance Retail has a far-sighted  and a proactive approach in value chain management.
It has constantly focused on identifying and investing  in opportunities that deliver superior shared values and  positive impact to all the stakeholders of the value chain.
Reliance Retail in every aspect of its business has had a  transformational impact whether it is through a robust food  supply chain from farm to shelf or in creating a sustainable  fashion value chain from fabric to fashion.
Innovation:  Reliance Retail has the agility to embrace  global consumer trends and adapt to them to offer coherent  products and service to its customers.
Innovation of new  products has provided it a competitive edge over its peers  which can be seen from growing share of private labels in  overall sales.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE TURNOVER (` in crore) 29% CAGR for 5 Years 17,640FY 2014-15 14,556FY 2013-14 21,612FY 2015-16 10,845FY 2012-13 7,636FY 2011-12 Reliance Retail has maintained its focus on  profitability and sustainable growth despite  undertaking an accelerated store expansion  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE* FY 2015-16 (` in crore) FY 2015-16 (US$ in million) FY 2014-15 (` in crore) %  change Revenues 21,612 3,262 17,640 22.5% EBIT 506 76 417 21.3% EBIT (%) 2.3% 2.4% * Consolidated basis The brand built on the premise of unmatched user  experience offers high performance handsets and TVs that  deliver a true 4G and true 4K viewing experience comparable  to the best in the world.
True 4G and True 4K   91 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Reliance Retail has further consolidated its position as the  market leader.
Reliance Retail continued its growth momentum  and achieved significant milestones in the year.
Reliance Retail posted a turnover of `21,612 crore during the  year ended 31 st March, 2016 against `17,640 crore during the  same period last year registering a strong growth of 22.5%.
The business delivered record profits during the year with an  EBIT of `506 crore as against `417 crore in the corresponding  period of the previous year.
The superlative growth has been  earned due to strong operating discipline, a focus on delivering  differentiated product offering and accelerated expansion into  newer geographies.
The relentless focus on continuous improvement and strong  controls has led to maintenance of margins while undertaking  extensive expansion of retail stores.
Store opening continued during this period and Reliance Retail  added 624 stores and attained the distinction of operating 3,245  stores with presence in over 500 cities and towns with 12.8  million sq.
ft. of space giving it ubiquitous presence across the  country.
It is currently operating 3,383 stores.
Reliance Retail serves its customers across various consumption  baskets that constitute a major portion of Indian household’s  monthly expenditure.
Indian Consumer Durables and IT (CDIT) market is estimated  to be US$33 billion in 2015 and is expected to become US$45  billion by 2019 (Source: GFK, Euromonitor, IDC).
The market is  expanding due to favourable factors such as rising disposable  income, rapid urbanisation, shift towards nuclear families and  low product penetration across consumer electronic categories.
Reliance Retail has the distinction of operating the largest  consumer electronics store chain in India.
Reliance Retail  operates Reliance Digital and Digital Express Mini stores, each  designed to offer a differentiated value proposition, strong in- store experience and extensive, yet relevant product assortment.
Reliance Digital Express Mini, a chain of smaller stores, caters  to the rapidly growing market for mobility and communication  products.
The chain is increasingly becoming a distribution  platform for a large number of national and international brands  as it offers reach to over 500 cities in India, with further plans to  take the retail chain to over 800 cities.
ResQ, the service arm of Reliance Retail continues to expand and  strengthen its capabilities.
It is a full-fledged service organisation  and is India’s first multi-product, multi-brand and multi-location  service network that provides solutions encompassing end- to-end product life-cycle requirements for the entire range of  consumer electronics products and other value-added services.
Over the years, Reliance Retail team has built strong capabilities  in developing store brands that offer superior feature, quality  and price proposition vis-à-vis leading brands.
‘Reconnect’ has  been launched as a national brand leveraging on a platform built  for product innovation, development and sourcing of superior  quality products.
During the year, Reliance Retail launched its own brand of 4G LTE  smartphones and 4K TVs under the ‘LYF’ brand.
The brand offers  “affordable luxury” and the “latest technology” to all.
The brand  built on the premise of unmatched user experience offers high  performance handsets and TVs that deliver a true 4G and true 4K  viewing experience that is comparable to the best in the world.
The Indian apparel market was US$46 billion in 2013 and likely  to expand exponentially to US$200 billion by 2025 (Source: Role  of Indian Textile and Apparel Industry in Changing Global Supply  Demand Scenario, Wazir Advisors Oct’14).
India’s demographic  dividend, proliferation of fashion retail chains and increasing  demand for branded apparel continues to drive growth for the  fashion and lifestyle category.
Reliance Retail is the largest fashion apparel retailer in India  and has adopted a multi-model approach in reaching out to  its customers through various retail concepts that caters to  customer segments from value to premium and luxury.
During the year, Reliance Trends, the apparel and accessories  speciality retail chain consolidated its market leadership as the  largest value fashion retailer in India.
Reliance Trends brings a  compelling portfolio of own brands and national brands offering  a wide range of inspiring fashion with strong value proposition.
During the year, Reliance Retail launched www.ajio.com, the  curated fashion and lifestyle e-commerce platform Fashion and Lifestyle  e-commerce platform Annual Report 2015-16 92 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
To cater to the varying fashion trends in Indian wear across the  country, Reliance Retail has established regional design centres  for leveraging the traditional artisan work in those regions  and make them accessible to millions of customers across the  country.
Reliance Footprint, the specialty family footwear chain, offers  footwear and accessories through a range of own, national and  international brands.
Reliance Footprint won the “ABP Business Excellence” award for  brand excellence in the Fashion and Lifestyle category.
The chain  was also awarded “Footwear Retailer” of the year by CMO Asia  Retail Excellence Awards 2015.
The partnership with Marks and Spencer (M&S) continued to  witness robust growth across all retail parameters.
M&S was  awarded the “Most Admired Re tailer of the Year - Employee  Practice” by IMAGES Retail Awards 2015” .
Reliance Retail has a portfolio of over 40 brands that span across  the entire spectrum of luxury, bridge to luxury, high-premium  and high-street lifestyle.
During the year Reliance Brand  announced an exclusive partnership with Japanese retailer Muji,  which sells a wide variety of household and consumer goods and  an exclusive distribution and retail licensing partnership with  Kate Spade New York.
Addressing the market gap in kids wear segment, Trends  launched the kids wear brand Point Cove in partnership with  Cherokee, a multi-billion dollar iconic American family-lifestyle  brand.
The initiative has paid rich dividend in terms of increased  category share and higher sales productivity.
During the year, Reliance Retail launched www.ajio.com, the  curated fashion and lifestyle e-commerce platform.
The initiative  features an exclusive handpicked collection of merchandise  from international fashion brands, Indian brands and own labels  and is receiving rave reviews.
The food and grocery industry in India is currently estimated  to be US$422 billion in 2015, and is expected to touch US$711  billion by 2020 (Source: India Internet by UBS, April 2015).
Modern retail has been the biggest benefactor of this.
Over the  last decade, modern retail has experienced high growth and a  noticeable shift in Indian shoppers patronising them.
Reliance Retail through Reliance Fresh, Reliance Smart and  Reliance Market stores offers a compelling range of products  in food and non-food categories tailored to the taste and  preferences of the local communities.
Reliance Retail continues  to be the leading grocery retailer offering fresh fruits and  vegetables, dairy, processed food, Fast Moving Consumer Goods  (FMCG) and other items of daily use.
”Reliance Fresh” has consistently appeared in the list of “Most  Trusted Brands by Brand Equity” by Economic Times (ET).
In FY 2015-16, Reliance Retail has launched “Reliance Smart” ,  a destination store offering a simpler and stronger value  proposition to customers.
During the period, Reliance Retail has focused on optimising  operations to enhance productivity and improve profitability  across network of stores involved in food and grocery retailing.
Several own label products were launched under various grocery  and general merchandise categories which continue to attract  consumers due to compe lling value proposition and great  quality.
The business recorded strong participation from private  label brands in key categories such as Home and Personal Care,  Staples, Dairy and Fresh Food.
Reliance Market, the largest chain of wholesale cash and carry  stores in India continues to deliver the benefits of modern trade  to a large number of kiranas, traders and institutions as partners  across the country.
The business operates on the principle of ‘buy for less’ –  ‘operate for less’ – ‘sell for less’ relying on higher efficiency of  asset utilisation and passing on the higher value to customers.
The societal value thus created by Reliance Markets helps in  supporting partners to be more profitable.
As a result, Reliance Market enjoys the patronage of over 2  million registered members across 37 cities.
GROWTH PLANS Reliance Retail has manifested the ethos of ‘Growth is Life’ as  its core philosophy.
The vigour towards establishing strong  leadership has been a driving force for the Company’s superior  performance during the year.
The core pillars of growth have  been built on a framework surrounding product innovation,  superior customer experience resulting in sustainable and  profitable operations.
The era of ‘Digital India’ is taking shape as the ecosystem around  data security, device and bandwidth availability, digitisation of  wallets, content availability and more continues to improve.
This  is paving the way for a large number of customers to get a first- hand experience of online shopping.
The e-tailing segment is  on a high growth curve and Reliance Retail is well prepared to  participate in this growing channel.
With multi-channel initiatives for grocery and apparel under  its belt, Reliance Retail will extend its reach to cover the entire  country much beyond the 500 towns where its physical stores  are operational.
The opportunity of integrating an ‘offline-online’  model would truly differentiate the customer experience.
93 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Reliance Retail is building the largest distribution reach for  devices in India.
The infrastructure encompassing on-boarding  of trained sales specialists, integrated supply chain and service  centres has been made fully operational at over 1,000 locations  around the country as part of building a digital ecosystem in  the country.
The distribution channel will harness the synergies  brought by Jio and Reliance Retail and unleash the potential of  digital India.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Reliance Retail has continuously adopted social improvement  as a primary responsibility.
It has taken the lead in creating  businesses that continually generate value for every citizen  of the country.
Reliance Retail through its vast store network  continually engages in a series of community activities bringing  about a meaningful impact in the lives of people.
During the year, various Community Connect Activities were  carried out at store level such as cleaning of public areas,  conducting health check-up and blood donation camps.
Stores also conducted various Customer Connect Activities  such as educational store visits for students, conducting essay  writing and quiz competitions to engage with kids and families.
Collectively these activities have helped build a harmonious  relationship with customer and the community at large.
Reliance Fresh has joined hands with Akshay Patra, an NGO  that serves freshly cooked, nutritious meals to over 1.4 million  children in more than 10,000 schools across 10 states of India.
Reliance Fresh is the ground partner where any citizen and any  of its customers can come to the stores and donate `750/- to  Akshay Patra to feed one child for a full year.
Apart from mobilising citizen support and channelising the  donations directly to Akshay Patra, Reliance Retail has also  received support from vendor partners in this cause.
Reliance Retail rolled out a joint campaign with Coca Cola to  create cleaner neighbourhoods.
Another campaign encouraging  its customers to recycle empty PET bottles of any beverage/  packaged water and reduce plastic waste was also carried out  this year.
Recron (RIL) participated in the drive as a recycling  partner.
Recycling of PET Bottles Annual Report 2015-16 94 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
DIGITAL SERVICES Jio – A Digital Revolution  “Jio promises to shape the future of India by providing end-to-end digital solutions.
Bridging the gap in the digital lives between Indians  and its western counterparts, through Jio, RIL aims to introduce a paradigmatic expansion through Connected Intelligence.
Pillar by pillar,  RIL undertook developmental activities on this front; Jio is the first telecom operator to hold a pan India Unified License with 800MHz and  2300 MHz spectrum foot print in all the 22 telecom circles and 800 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2300MHz spectrum in 18 telecom circles.
Jio is  currently the only operator with sub-GHz (800 MHz) pan India LTE offering capability.
With state-of-the-art all IP network comprising over  92,000 eNodeB and approximately 2,50,000 route km of fibre optic at launch, customers of Jio will have access to a large suite of digital  services which will enrich their experience.
Jio Money, its digital currency platform, will play a crucial role in financial inclusion.
Jio will play  a significant role in lifting India from its current 155 th rank in mobile broadband penetration to amongst the top 10 nations in the world.
With proposed investment outlay of over ₹1,50,000 crore, Jio is the world’s largest startup.
” MATHEW OOMMENSANJAY  MASHRUWALA PANKAJ PAWAR Towards Massive Rollout 95 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis STRATEGY The four pillars of Jio strategic interventions areas follows: Coverage Data Quality Affordability Coverage refers to anytime,  anywhere mobile broadband  access.
Currently mobile  broadband coverage in India is  estimated at just 15% in contrast  to 75% in the US.
At launch, Jio  will have 70% coverage of  population and will rise to 90%  in the next one year.
This  coverage will be backed by the  largest network of spectrum,  tower and /f_iber assets, thus  providing huge capacity Data consumption per consumer  in India is far below the global  average.
Currently, the per capita  data consumption is estimated to  be 0.15 GB per month mainly due  to supply side constraints.
Jio’s  network is engineered to provide  capacity of over 10 GB per month  for every Indian.
Quality of broadband services in  India is below par international  standards.
Jio plans to oﬀer  speeds that are multiple times  faster than the current average  speeds oﬀered in the market,  through investment in superior  Long Term Evolution (LTE) based  networks backed by world class  customer service quality.
Aﬀordability is key to success of  the digital revolution.
Jio will  make its services accessible and  aﬀordable to all consumers.
It has  developed its network at an  extremely eﬃcient cost base  coupled with signi/f_icant  operating eﬃciencies .
These  eﬃciencies will enable it to oﬀ er  services at a substantially lower  cost than others.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT The digital world is increasingly moving from voice and written  content to video content.
Video will be the new voice for most  in the  new evolved telecom network industry.
There is a rapid  increase in data consumption across global mobile networks:   60 % growth in mobile data traffic between Q1 CY 2015 and  Q1 CY 2016   A projected 14x increase in mobile video traffic between CY  2015 and CY 2021 A similar trend is expected in India and is already visible in the  increased data consumption in recent years.
India has the highest  proportion of young people, who are the pre-dominant Internet  users today, than any other country in the world.
Increasing  per capita income and rising middle class further strengthen  the digital opportunity for India.
All these reflect in Cisco Visual  Networking Index Mobile Forecast 2015-2020, which projects  mobile data traffic in India to grow 12-fold from CY 2015 to CY  2020 at a CAGR of 63%.
While the potential is significant, India is a grossly underserved  market in broadband and digital services.
From less than 5  million mobile users in CY 2001, India has grown to more than  1,059 million mobile users as of April 2016, making India the  second largest telecom customer base in the world.
(Source:  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI)).
However, the  growth in broadband connections has not been commensurate,  at 151 million broadband.
Internet subscribers as of April 2016,  India’s broadband penetration is among the lowest in the world  (Source: TRAI).
Internet speeds in India are among the slowest  compared to most other countries.
India was ranked 155 th in  mobile broadband penetration in the State of Broadband 2015  report of the Broadband Commission (ITU and UN).
Lack of investment in good quality broadband infrastructure  and the lag in adoption of technological advancements by the  industry are main reasons for such underservice.
This underserved broadband need combined with the shift  towards a data centric world presents a great opportunity to  create a reliable, next generation digital services ecosystem.
This  is an enormous opportunity for players in the digital industry  wtih the potential to transform the lives of 1.3 billion people and  have a multiplier effect on the gross domestic product (GDP).
The large potential, in terms of underserved addressable market  and dormant usage given the poor level of penetration today,  provides a substantial opportunity for Jio to build India’s digital  eco-system.
Jio is well positioned to address this opportunity  with it’s investment in network infrastructure that will give India  one of the most powerful and unmatched video networks in the  world.
Jio’s ultimate aim is to connect Digital India and Digital Bharat  till the last mile and provide the benefits of digitisation to every  town and village.
LINKING STRATEGY TO EXECUTION  Jio is present in all of the 29 states of India with a direct physical  presence in more than 18,000 urban and rural towns and over  1,50,000 villages.
Jio has built the most sophisticated and one  of the largest telecom networks in the country.
Jio already has  the largest fibre network and the highest amount of LTE-ready  spectrum as compared with the current industry players.
The  Annual Report 2015-16 96 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
spectrum holding and infrastructure network strengthens the  coverage and data availability.
LICENSE AND SPECTRUM HOLDING  Jio signed the Unified License Agreement with Government  of India, Ministry of Communication and IT, Department of  Telecommunication (“DoT”) in October 2013.
This license  approves providing any telecom service (including voice, except  Global Mobile Personal Communication by Satellite (GMPCS)  Service) using any technology within the licensed areas.
Jio is the first telecom operator to hold a pan India Unified  License.
It holds 846.1 megahertz (MHz) of liberalised spectrum  across 800MHz, 1800MHz and 2300MHz bands.
Jio has entered  into agreements with Reliance Communications Group (RCOM)  for change in spectrum allotment in the 800MHz band from  RCOM to Jio across 13 circles and sharing of spectrum in the  800MHz band across 21 circles (4 Circles are still awaiting  regulatory approval).
In addition to 2300MHz band, now Jio  also has pan India spectrum in the 800MHz band.
Jio is the only  operator using sub-GHz spectrum band for LTE services in the  country today.
Jio plans to provide seamless 4G services using LTE technology in  800 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2300 MHz bands through an integrated  ecosystem.
This combined spectrum footprint across frequency  bands provides significant network capacity and deep in- building coverage.
NETWORK AND BUSINESS INFRASTRUCTURE Jio has set up a next generation network which is among the  best in the world.
The network has advanced features such as  Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Functions  Virtualisation (NFV).
It is ready for future evolution of technology  including transition to 5G with minimal additional capital  expenditure in the network.
Jio will have over 92,000 Evolved Node B (eNodeB) and over  1,00,000 small cells at launch, which is significantly more than  what any other operator had at their launch.
Fiber is the critical  backbone on which a telecom service provider is able to provide  high-end services to consumers.
Jio has a network of over 2,50,000  route km of fibre optics cables for a full IP network.
In addition to  the fibre backhaul, extensive last mile fibre connectivity is being  rolled out to address the fibre to the home potential.
Jio is also creating a multi-terabit capacity international network.
Jio along with partners recently announced the launch of a  new, state-of-the-art 8,100 km cable system, the Bay of Bengal  Gateway (BBG).
BBG provides direct connectivity to Southeast  Asia and the Middle East, then onward to Europe, Africa and Far  East Asia through seamless interconnection with existing cable  systems.
This strategically important undersea cable landing  facility in Chennai, provides a high-speed, high-capacity and low  latency route connecting India to the rest of the world.
With respect to sales and distribution, Jio will have half-a-million  activation outlets and close to a million recharge outlets at  launch.
This will be in addition to the digital channels that Jio  is promoting for seamless activation and recharge facilities for  customers.
All outlets will have real-time access to the 1,072  Jio offices set up across the country.
Jio has on-boarded most  of these outlets and provided them merchant devices and/or  solutions to cater to their business and payment requirements.
“Jio has set up a next generation network which is amongst the best in the world.
The network has advanced features such as Software  Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV).
It is ready for future evolution of technology including transition to  5G with minimal additional capital expenditure in the network.
Jio’s key service objective is to provide anytime, anywhere access to innovative applications and high-speed internet services, thereby  propelling India on to global leadership in the digital economy.
” JYOTINDRA  THACKER KIRAN THOMAS  JAGBIR SINGH  ANISH SHAH Readiness for Next Generation - Today 97 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Jio is present in all the 29 states of India with a direct  physical presence in more than 18,000 urban and rural  towns and over 1,50,000 villages.
In addition to the network, Jio customers will have access to  a large suite of digital services.
These span across the areas  of news, music, video, broadc ast, communication, financial  services, healthcare and education.
These digital applications are  being tested extensively as part of the trial launch programme.
TECHNOLOGY FRAMEWORK - LTE Large-scale capacity expansion in mobile networks is required  to meet the anticipated data explosion, and the trend globally  has been to shift from Universal Mobile Telecommunications  System (UMTS) to High Speed Packet Access (HSPA+) and now  towards LTE to meet the increasing data requirements.
Globally,  the first LTE networks were launched in 2010 and since then  there has been a rapid migration to LTE.
LTE has been the fastest  growing mobile technology ever.
It offers superior performance  at substantially lower effective cost, compared to other  technologies and also has a well evolved ecosystem.
Currently  there are 503 commercially operational LTE networks in the  world across 167 countries as per GSA (Global Mobile Suppliers  Association).
Jio is deploying LTE using both Time Division Duplex (LTE-TDD)  and Frequency Division Duplex (LTE-FDD) technology to launch  its wireless broadband services.
DEVICES Globally, there are 5,614 (brands) devices announced by 455  suppliers that support LTE.
Handsets with multiband, multimode  support, are becoming the default offering.
India is also not  far behind.
Close to 62 million out of 219 million smartphones  currently in circulation are LTE enabled.
Over 60% of smartphones  sold in India during Oct’15-Mar’16 have LTE capability and these  are compatible with Jio networks.
The next phase of growth  is in Voice over LTE (VoLTE) devices, with more devices being  launched.
Jio has been actively involved in developing the ecosystem for  India’s LTE phones, working with renowned Original Equipment  Manufacturers (OEMs), Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs)  and chipset vendors on end-to-end device design and  engineering.
With the launch of the LYF brand of devices by  Reliance Retail Limited and several launches by other leading  OEMs, it is expected that almost all the smartphones in the  coming months will be LTE enabled, as has been observed in  large markets such as China post the launch of LTE services there.
Jio is ensuring the tight integration of these devices with its  network infrastructure, platforms and applications portfolio to  ensure seamless experience to customers.
Jio’s deployment of LTE, Fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) and wireless  fidelity (Wi-Fi) will make high-speed broadband access widely  available to customers across India.
This type of broadband  access network offers high capacity, low latency services at an  affordable price, a first for most Indian customers.
Jio will enable  IP-centric and content focused services, including VoLTE with  the ability to offer rich, multimedia communication and digital  services as well as high quality voice calling from and to other  telecom networks and video calling as well.
The Jio network is  specifically designed to carry multimedia content, including  music and video, thereby enabling a rich customer experience.
In addition to LTE and its future versions, Jio will continue to  evaluate and deploy other technologies, both wireless and wire  line, to offer comprehensive broadband solutions to consumers,  small businesses, enterprises, government and other entities.
DIGITAL SERVICES LIFESTYLE APPLICATIONS (APP) Customers of Jio will have access to a large suite of digital services  that will enrich their experience: MyJio – Gateway to Jio Apps JioPlay – Instant access to TV Programmes JioOnDemand – Entertainment at your fingertips JioBeats – Music for you.
Anytime, Anywhere Annual Report 2015-16 98 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
JioMags  – There is always more to read JioXpressNews  – Stay Updated.
Stay ahead JioChat  – An efficient way to stay connected JioDrive  – Your files are one touch away JioJoin  – Make any phone VoLTE ready JioMoney  – Experience cashfree living JioSecurity  – Protect your phone, secure your data JioNews  – Your News, Your language RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Jio has substantially completed the set up of its network across  the country.
It is currently being tested and optimised.
Most of  the business platforms have been rolled out and are being used  to run operations.
The organisation is in place with the required  manpower hired and on-boarded.
Currently, the services are being used extensively by employees,  vendors, partners and associates as part of the successful trial  launch, which has till date resulted in over 15 lakh customers on- boarded on the network.
These test services were made available  to all such users on a trial basis with a view to obtain feedback and  progress towards a smooth and seamless commercial launch.
The current average monthly data and voice consumption per  user is in excess of 26GB and over 355 minutes respectively with  rapidly increasing trends.
The initial feedback is very encouraging  and the quality of services are being highly appreciated by  users.
This test programme will be progressively upgraded into  commercial operations in coming months.
Jio has also undertaken extensive testing of technology,  products and services being offered.
The tests have been positive  and have established smooth operations of all aspects of the  network.
Voice products, including VoLTE, work seamlessly.
Jio  has entered into inter-connect agreements with all the other  telecom operators.
Interconnection of voice calling across  networks and across technologies works smoothly.
Jio has been allotted Mobile Switching Centre (MSC) codes and  various other network resources (such as Mobile Country Code  (MCC) and Mobile Network Code (MNC), Signaling Point codes,  Location routing numbers, etc.)
by the DoT, which are required  for provisioning of Mobile Access Services under Unified License,  across all 22 circles.
Jio has successfully demonstrated Lawful  Intercept and Monitoring (LIM) facilities for LTE Data and Voice,  Video and Messaging Services in all circles to DoT.
Jio has also  successfully completed Acceptance Testing of its network in all  circles with DoT for Intra circle and Inter circle Mobile Number  Portability.
Post launch of the commercial  services, Jio will play a significant  role in lifting India from its current  155 th  rank in Internet penetration to  amongst the top 10 nations in the  world Lighting of lamp during employee Jio launch 99 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT A day in the life of newsroom “Network18 is driven by its zeal to provide consumers with the best-in-class media and entertainment  products that set new benchmarks in creative excellence, fair journalism and audience engagement.
Its business strategy is steered by its commitment to keep its viewers ahead in life.
Network18 has packaged  fascinating mix of TV channels and digital offerings that shall engage more deeply with viewers across  genres, age groups and geographies, as they move towards a more exciting tomorrow.
” RAHUL JOSHI `182 crore EBIT increased by 27.3% from FY 2014-15 Annual Report 2015-16 100 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
STRATEGIC ADVANTAGES AND COMPETITIVE STRENGTH Network18 Media and Investments Network18 is a media and entertainment powerhouse with its foothold in television, Internet, filmed entertainment, digital business,  magazines, mobile content and allied businesses.
Network18’s operating model is driven by its zeal to provide consumers with the best-in-class media and entertainment products that  set new benchmarks in creative excellence, fair journalism and audience engagement.
People  Development AgilityCreation of New  Platforms  Network Alliance Network18’s bouquet of 34  television channels oﬀers a  unique mix of national and  regional channels, catering to  diverse genres, digital content  and commerce catering to  wide range of interests and  services.
Its platform-agnostic approach  to news and entertainment  spans a holistic strategy that  seeks not merely to address  existing communities but in  fact to create new ones.
With the commitment to keep  viewers ahead in life,  Network18 oﬀers the fastest  news breaks, balanced  opinions, enthralling  entertainment and foot  tapping music.
Network18 continuously  recruits skilled professionals  emphasising their develop- ment and skill enhancement  for future challenges.
InnovationInternational  Collaboration Consumer Engagement  with a Diverse Content Platter Network18 has been an early adopter of  the latest technology with various  ground breaking innovations.
It also  employs innovative marketing  techniques, creative packaging of shows  and customer data analytics to reach out  to the consumer.
Network18 has forged partnerships with  several leading global media players  including Viacom in entertainment, CNN  in English general news, CNBC in  business news, A+E Networks in factual  entertainment and Forbes in English  magazine to provide the best-in-class  media products.
With ground-breaking reality shows,  innovative entertainment programs, and  news shows Network18 has packaged  facinating mix of TV channels, digital  oﬀerings and print publications for the  younger and more aware customers.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT The year 2015 was a seminal year in many ways for the Media  and Entertainment (M&E) industry.
It saw a host of new services  being launched and expanded, including OTT (Over the Top),  Hindi and regional feeds on social media as well as significant  original programming, with significant activity in the digital  space.
The Indian M&E industry is expected to reach `2,260 billion by  2020, from its estimated size of `1,157 billion in 2015 due to  its large capacity to consume new products and businesses.
(Source: KPMG in India analysis, 2016).
GROWTH DRIVERS 1.
Growth in socio-economic sectors 2.
Growth in Regional Markets 3.
Favourable policy initiatives such as:   Digitising the cable distribution segment and granting  industry status to the film industry.
Increasing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) limit from 74% to  100% in cable and Direct to Home (DTH) satellite platforms  and from 26% to 49% in broadcasting of news channels.
THE INDIAN MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT SIZE (` Billion)  2013   2014   2015 542.2 474.9 417.2 TV 138.2 125.3 126.4 FILMS 283.4 263.4 243.1 PRINT 5 9.8 9.6 MUSIC Source: KPMG in India analysis, 2016 101 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 4.
Digitisati on   It is expected that by 2020, the ratio of digital cable  subscribers to DTH subscribers will be 53:47, with 90 million  digital cable subscribers and 79 million DTH subscribers.
5.
4G Rollout - The game changer   3 rd Generation (3G) and 4G subscribers are likely to constitute  40% of the total wireless Internet subscriber base.
Content  viewing has already moved beyond television to mobile  phones.
This trend is going to only increase with 4G.
6.
Rollout of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC)   Television Audience Measurement (TAM) India was  replaced by BARC India in April, 2015.
BARC India is the only  government registered TV ratings service in India, which  released individual viewer ratings in June 2015 and rural  viewership data in October 2015.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Network18 delivered a strong operating performance during FY  2015-16.
The operating revenues on a consolidated basis stood  at `3,403 crore, up by 8.8% from `3,127 crore in FY 2014-15.
It continued to grow profitably, achieving an EBIT of `182 crore  for FY 2015-16 consolidated, up by 27.3% from `143 crore in FY  2014-15.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Particulars FY 2015-16 (` in crore) FY 2014-15 (` in crore) % change Income from Operations 3,403 3,127 8.8% EBIT 182 143 27.3% OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW TELEVISION BUSINESS NEWS Business News  constitutes CNBC TV18 and CNBC Awaaz – No.1  in English and Hindi business news genre respectively, and CNBC  Bajar- first Gujarati business news channel.
Highlights of the year:  Launched ‘Did you know?’ , ‘Gift a  Prosperous Future’ conducted the first of its kind technology  awards ‘Tech Guru Awards’ and the “Inside Series” .
General News  includes CNN News 18, IBN 7 and News 18 India.
Highlights of the year: Launch of new shows-‘8 AM Express’ , ‘The  Morning News’ , ‘In Your City’ and ‘Simply South’ in the morning  primetime band, ‘Hum Toh Poochenge’ , ‘Shabaash India’ and  ‘Khabron Mein Khaas’ and, a new crime show ‘Ishq-a violent love  story’ in the evening band.
Regional News  includes ETV News Channels and IBN Lokmat.
Highlights of the year: ETV News Odia was added.
IBN Lokmat  bagged the prestigious ‘Ramnath Goenka Excellence in  Journalism Awards’ .
ENTERTAINMENT Hindi General Entertainment  includes Colors which airs  renowned shows like Rishtey, MTV India - the No.1 youth channel  and MTV Indies-world’s largest platform for independent sub- cultures Highlights of the year:  Launched FLYP@MTV, World’s 1 st MTV  themed café.
English Entertainment  has VH1- the No.
1 channel in its genre  and Comedy Central - India’s 1st 24-hour English comedy channel.
Highlights of the year: Colors Infinity was launched in July 2015.
Kids Entertainment  constitutes Nickeldeon - the No.
1 channel  in the Kids category, Sonic, Nick Jr./Teen Nick and  Nick HD+.
Highlights for the year:  On-ground events were carried out  with internationally acclaimed shows such as ‘Dora the Explorer’ ,  ‘Bubble Guppies’ , ‘Go Diego Go’ which foster motor, memory,  maths and language development in children.
Nick HD+ was  launched - 1st Kids High Definition (HD) Channel.
Regional Entertainment  In 2015, Network18 rebranded all  its acquired ETV entertainment channels under the common  umbrella brand of Colors, now operating in Kannada, Bangla,  Marathi, Gujarati and Oriya, mirroring the cultural ethos and  richness of the respective regions through unique content.
CNBC TV18 and CNBC Awaaz are in the  leadership position in their genres.
Leadership position Annual Report 2015-16 102 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Factual Entertainment  has History TV18.
Highlights for the year : Launched one of the biggest local  productions so far ‘OMG!
Yeh Mera India’ .
Film Business  includes Viacom18 Motion Pictures.
Highlights for the year : Credited with shaping the new Indian  film industry through differentiated and concept driven movies.
DIGITAL BUSINESS Digital Content  includes Moneycontrol.com - Leader in the  finance category, Firstpost.com - India’s first and the biggest  digital-only newsroom, IBNLive.com and Pradesh18.com.
Highlights for the year : VOOT was launched in March, 2016 as  Viacom18’s exclusive digital video destination.
Digital Commerce  includes HomeShop 18 and Bookmyshow.
Highlights for the year : HomeShop18 has been acclaimed as  the ‘Trend Setter in Shopping Channels’ at the 7 th  BCS Ratna  Awards in March, 2016.
Bookmyshow launched its own wallet to  enhance customer experience and reach out to cash customers.
PRINT/PUBLICATION BUSINESS Has a set of highly reputed publications comprising ‘Forbes India’ ,  ‘Overdrive’ , ‘Better Photography’ and ‘Better Interiors’ .
Highlights for the year : Launched ‘The Super 50’ and ‘The  Southern Giants’ lists.
GROWTH PLAN India’s M&E industry is on the brink of a new era of transformation  and growth riding the digitisation of television distribution,  growth of regional media and entertainment business and fast  emerging new media businesses.
Based on data available from BARC India, Network18 aims to  realign itself to consumer preferences and improve its content  delivery system.
The coming year will see a slew of initiatives to strengthen  existing verticals and launch new products across languages  and demographics including a responsive, mobile-first design to  enhance user experience and increase stickiness.
INNOVATION  New android and iOS applications were launched for  MoneyControl.com, First Post and Overdrive.
MTV India launched FLYP@MTV, the world’s 1 st MTV themed  cafe, in Delhi in December 2015.
The cafe has several distinctive  features such as exclusive menu curated by celebrity chef  Ranveer Brar, Talent Record Rooms, Shower Rooms/Lockers and  live performances.
Firstpost.com was one of the first publications to go on the Google  Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) platform.
Quick adaption to  FacebookLive, Instant Articles and making its content available  across a host of aggregator applications are some of the other  innovative steps undertaken.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Network18, CSR is embedded in the long-term business  strategy of the Company.
The business priorities co-exist with  social commitments to drive holistic development of people  and communities.
It seeks to touch and transform people’s lives  by promoting healthcare and education and deepen its social  engagements.
CNN-News18 raised awareness through its social campaigns  like #GoodSamaritans (Helping accident victims) and #GiveItUp   (LPG subsidy).
IBN-Lokmat also raised burning issues through high impact  campaigns - “Mumbai Monsoon Campaign” , “Road Safety  Campaign” and campaign on water crisis in the Marathwada  region among others.
Nickelodeon’s “Together for Good” campaign engaged and  empowered kids to do their bit to keep their surroundings clean.
FLYP@MTV, World’s 1 st MTV themed cafe.
Launched Theme Cafe 103 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis FINANCING STRATEGY RIL believes in delivering superior shareholder value.
RIL has  proven track record of successfully executing growth projects  which have delivered substantial and sustainable shareholder  returns over the years.
RIL ’s diversified sources of funding,  its access to capital markets across the globe and strong  operating cash flows enables it to maintain requisite capital  structure discipline.
RIL ’s financing strategy ensures that capital  expenditure projects are sufficiently funded in advance at all  times to meet the overall objective of long-term shareholder  value creation.
RIL diversifies its capital structure with a mix of instrument  classes and financing products across varying maturities and  currencies.
The financing products include Export Credit Agency  (ECA) backed facilities, syndicated and bilateral loans and bonds.
RIL taps domestic as well as foreign debt markets from time to  time to ensure appropriate funding mix.
RIL enjoys superior  credit profile and strong relationship with more than 100 banks  and financial institutions facilitating it to tie-up financing at  competitive rates.
RIL has one of the largest number of active  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  (OECD) ECA relationships globally for any corporate.
RIL ’s debt portfolio is continuously monitored to explore and  capture opportunities to optimise cost of servicing as well as to  elongate the average maturity and manage overall associated  risks.
FACILITIES FROM ECA AND OTHER SYNDICATED  FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS During FY 2015-16, RIL successfully re-priced/ refinanced long- term debt facilities aggregating to US$4.87 billion resulting in  substantial interest savings over the remaining life of these loans.
Sr.  No.
Nature of Facility US$ in  billion 1) Repriced ECA-backed facilities from Compagnie  Française d’assurance pour le Commerce Extérieur  (COFACE), Euler Hermes, Export Development  Canada (EDC), and UK Export Finance (UKEF) 2.20 2) Refinanced Syndicated Loans 2.67 The first ever Formosa Bond  issuance by an energy Company  globally and the longest tenure  issuance by a corporate out of Asia FORMOSA BOND ISSUANCE - REGULATION S OFFERING During FY 2015-16, RIL priced Regulation S offering of US$200  million 5% Senior Unsecured Callable Notes due 2035.
These  notes, denominated in US dollar were issued primarily to  Taiwanese life insurance companies and listed on the Taipei  Exchange.
Such notes are commonly known as Formosa Bonds.
This issuance was the first ever Formosa Bond issuance by an  energy Company globally and the longest tenure Formosa  Bond issuance by a corporate out of Asia.
RIL is the only Indian  Company to have issued Formosa Bonds.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES “Reliance continues to be the path breaker in accessing new markets and  structures to optimise resource costs.
Backed by strong cash-flows, a robust  balance sheet and in some cases ECA (sovereign) wraparound, Reliance has  raised capital at lower rates and longer tenures than any company in India.
The Company’s financial strength is a reflection of its robust cash flows, strong  relationships with Banks, Financial Institutions and ECAs and deep commitment  to create value for all investors.
” SOUMYO DUTTA SRIKANTH  VENKATACHARI  Annual Report 2015-16 104 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
The first private sector energy  Company, globally, to issue notes  guaranteed by the Export-Import  Bank of the United States (“Ex-Im  Bank”) US EXIM BANK GUARANTEED NOTES During FY 2015-16, RIL became the first private sector energy  Company globally to issue notes guaranteed by the Export- Import Bank of the United States (“Exim Bank”).
This is also the  first ever such issuance out of India.
In August 2015, RIL priced  US$225 million 2.512% Exim Bank guaranteed notes due 2026.
Further, in March, 2016, RIL priced US$190.7 million 2.060% Exim  Bank guaranteed notes due 2026.
The proceeds of these fixed  rate notes replaced the Exim Bank guaranteed floating rate loan.
Thus, these notes replaced a floating rate liability with a fixed  rate liability.
FINANCING IN SUBSIDIARIES During FY 2015-16, Jio tied up financing from its shareholders,  banks and other institutions in INR as well as in foreign currencies  aggregating over `31,000 crore, to part finance the capital  expenditure.
Out of this, funds aggregating over `28,000 crore  were raised during the year.
In May 2015, Jio tied up US$750 million Korea Trade Insurance  Corporation (K-Sure) supported ECA financing.
This facility has  an availability period of two years and a door-to-door tenure  of twelve years.
This transaction was the largest financing  transaction globally in the telecom sector supported by K-Sure  as well as the longest tenure telecom financing supported by  K-Sure.
In addition to the foreign currency financing, Jio issued secured  long-term INR non-convertible debentures aggregating to   `7,500 crore comprising `4,500 crore debentures with maturity  of three years and `3,000 crore debentures with average maturity  of 9 years.
Jio also raised INR unsecured loans of `2,000 crore  with maturity of 3 years.
As on date of balance sheet, Jio has outstanding long-term  borrowings of `30,617 crore and short-term borrowings of   `2,570 crore.
Apart from tying up debt financing from multiple financial  institutions, Jio successfully raised `15,000 crore from its existing  equity shareholders on rights basis to further strengthen its  capital structure and support ongoing capital expenditure.
CAPITAL RESOURCES During FY 2015-16, RIL and its subsidiaries tied up facilities  across various financing products and maturities.
The below  table shows debt levels and related ratios for the year ended  March, 2016 and March, 2015 for RIL on a consolidated basis.
Particulars 31 st    March, 2016 31 st    March, 2015 Cash and marketable securities ( ` in crore) 86,033 84,472  Gross debt ( ` in crore) 1,81,079 1,60,860  Net debt ( ` in crore) 95,046 76,388 Gross debt to equity ratio 0.74 0.74 Net debt to equity ratio 0.39 0.35 Net gearing (%) 26.8% 24.6% RIL ’s consolidated net debt level has increased during the  year, as it drew down on funding to finance the ongoing  capital expenditure for its refining, petrochemical and telecom  businesses.
CREDIT RATING RIL ’s financial discipline and prudence is reflected in the strong  credit ratings ascribed by rating agencies.
The below table  depicts RIL credit ratings profile in a nutshell: Instrument Rating  Agency Rating Outlook Remarks International debt S&P BBB+ Stable Two notches  above India’s  sovereign rating International debt Moody's Baa2 Stable One notch above  India’s sovereign  rating Long-term debt CRISIL CRISIL  AAA Stable Highest rating  awarded by  CRISIL Long-term debt India  Rating Ind  AAA Stable Highest rating  awarded by  India Rating Ratings Definitions: S&P BBB+: An obligation rated ‘BBB’ exhibits adequate protection parameters.
However, adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances are more likely to  lead to a weakened capacity of the obligor to meet its financial commitment on the  obligation.
Moody’s Baa2: Obligations rated Baa are judged to be medium-grade and subject to  moderate credit risk and as such may possess certain speculative characteristics.
CRISIL AAA: Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree  of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such instruments carry  lowest credit risk.
Ind AAA: Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of  safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligation.
Such instruments carry lowest  credit risk.
105 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT RIL has strong focus on effective management of its liquidity to  ensure that all business and financial commitments are met on  time through all business cycles.
RIL ’s sources of liquidity includes operating cash flows, cash  and cash equivalents, committed fund and non-fund based  lines from banks and high quality liquid investment portfolio of  diversified asset classes.
The working capital requirement across the group is fulfilled with  active management of receivables and inventories, effective use  of trade finance instruments and leveraging operating cash  flows across segments.
The “cash to cash cycle” is tightly monitored in order to have  smooth and continuous business operations with optimal  working capital structure.
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES During FY 2015-16, RIL and its subsidiaries won the following awards for its innovative financing – 1   “ISSUER OF THE YEAR” AWARD FOR  2015 FROM IFR ASIA.
2   “BEST CORPORATE ISSUER -  2015“ FROM THE ASSET.
3   “PROJECT SPONSOR OF THE YEAR - 2015“  FROM THE ASSET.
4   “BEST EXPORT FINANCE  BORROWER –GLOBAL ” VOTED   BY TRADE AND EXPORT   FINANCE (TXF).
5   “BEST PETROCHEMICAL  DEAL ” FROM THE ASSET FOR  US$550 MILLION JBIC BACKED  FINANCING.
6   “BEST SYNDICATED LOAN OF THE YEAR”  AWARD FROM THE ASSET AS WELL AS ASIA  PACIFIC LOAN MARKET ASSOCIATION (APLMA)  FOR US$1.5 BILLION SYNDICATED LOAN  REFINANCING.
7   “BEST ASIA PACIFIC ECA FINANCE  DEAL OF THE YEAR” FROM TXF  FOR JIO US$750 MILLION K-SURE  BACKED FINANCING.
8   “TOP 6 ECA DEALS OF THE  YEAR” IN 2015 BY TRADE AND  FORFAITING REVIEW (TFR) FOR  JIO US$750 MILLION K-SURE  BACKED FINANCING.
9   “DEAL OF THE YEAR 2015” BY TRADE FINANCE  MAGAZINE, A EUROMONEY PUBLICATION  FOR JIO US$750 MILLION K-SURE BACKED  FINANCING.
10   “BEST TELECOM DEAL ” AWARD  FROM THE ASSET FOR JIO   US$750 MILLION K-EXIM BACKED  FINANCING TIED UP IN FY   2014-15.
RIL effectively manages its cash and cash equivalents through  a diversified investment portfolio which has an appropriate  mix of steady accrual, tax efficient and higher duration assets  with lower reinvestment risk.
The portfolio consists of wide  ranging fixed income instruments, viz:, Government securities,  corporate bonds, top rated mutual fund investments and bank  fixed deposits.
A substantial portfolio is invested in top rated  instruments like sovereign bonds, AAA papers and bank’s  fixed deposits.
The diversification across instruments and  counterparties ensures that there is minimal concentration risk.
The investment portfolio is monitored and operated under a  robust risk management framework with a very nimble and  dynamic adjustment to portfolio mix as and when necessary to  ensure capital protection and appropriate risk adjusted returns.
Annual Report 2015-16 106 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AT RELIANCE The way RIL conducts its business has evolved over the decades  both at the individual and group level.
Reliance has reached  up to this scale on the strength of 3 enablers, which enables  it to sustain its growth momentum, reinforcing Reliance’s  fundamental philosophy – ‘Growth is Life’ .
These enablers are: A.
A Strategic Framework which ensures that the business  model meets the objectives of all stakeholders B.
Focus on 5P’s which ensures an all-inclusive growth   1.
Planet  2.
People  3.
Products and Processes  4.
Prosperity (Profit)   5.
Peace and Partnerships C.  Risk and Governance   1.
An Enterprise Risk Management Framework which  ensures mitigation of strategic risk while seamlessly  governing the execution of operations  2.
Smart Transformation at Reliance (STAR) which ensures  the institutionalisation of Reliance’s DNA through  continuous reinvention, for the next level of growth A.
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK AT RELIANCE   Reliance’s Group Strategic Framework sets out its strategy,  financial framework and risk management.
Group Strategic Framework establishes the goals of  Reliance.
It also describes the strategic intent of Reliance  and the expectations and boundaries within which each of  its businesses must operate.
It provides guidance for each of  the businesses - both established and emerging.
The Group Strategic Framework ensures that the  business model, business strategy and operating models  comprehensively address each component of Reliance’s  Group Strategy and remain bound by it.
It improves  alignment between each of the businesses and the group.
Refer page no.
24-25 of Corporate Overview for the quick  view into the strategic framework and outcome of Reliance.
B.
GROWING RESPONSIBLY - 5P’S (PLANET,  PEOPLE, PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES,  PROSPERITY (PROFIT) AND PEACE AND  PARTNERSHIPS) - AN INTEGRATED  APPROACH TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE  GROWTH   Integrated approach brings together the financial and non- financial value drivers which are essential contributors to  Reliance’s success.
This multifaceted approach is an attempt  to report on economic, environmental and social parameters  - in a manner that can help stakeholders to understand how  the Group creates and sustains value over the long-term.
The Company has expanded its classic 4P growth approach  to include Peace and Partnerships, in line with the United  Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The  Sustainable Development Goals set out by the United  Nations have been interwoven within the 5P’s growth  model, which focus on the following:  Planet People Products and Processes Prosperity (Proﬁt) Peace and Partnerships   RIL has been publishing Annual Sustainability Reports since FY 2004-05 as per the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines.
The  reports were externally assured with an A+ rating indicating highest level of comprehensive disclosures.
RIL is also a member of  World Business Council of Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI).
WBCSD’s ‘Reporting matters’  has recognised RIL ’s sustainability report as leading example on aspect of reliability.
107 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 1.
PLANET  “Reliance lives by its vision of creating value through sustainable measures and ensures that the ethos of environmental conservation  are a part of its operational philosophy.
Every location works towards minimising its environmental footprint and thereby creating a  sustainable harmony with the ecosystem that it operates in.
” PAR SINGHPAWAN KUMAR  KAPIL SURINDER SAINI   Reliance continues to meet the growing energy demand,  while working towards minimising the environmental  footprint of its ongoing operations, as well as future  projects.
This year, more focused approach for sustainability  initiatives is undertaken along with large awareness drives.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT - MINIMISING  ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT    All manufacturing sites have adopted ‘Integrated  Management System’ complying with Environment (ISO- 14001), Quality (ISO-9001) and Occupational Health and  Safety Management System (OHSAS-18001).
All newly  commissioned plants are also being included under the  Integrated Management System at the sites.
In the Company’s drive towards achieving environmental  excellence, efforts continue to establish environmental  best practices at all the manufacturing sites.
A dedicated  ‘Environmental Compliance Review Committee’ at each  manufacturing site periodically reviews compliance status  and provides further guidance as necessary.
This was  complemented by an environmental compliance audit  process conducted at each manufacturing site during the  year.
Initiatives implemented to reduce the environmental  footprint include:    State-of-the-art effluent treatment plants  commissioned to completely recycle the effluent  generated from the new plants.
Co-processing of waste generated as fuel in cement  kilns has been initiated.
A recycling plant of 65 tonnes per day capacity is  operational for recycling used PET bottles.
A project commissioned this year to capture CO 2  emission from MEG / EO production process.
On-line emission analysers are being installed in most  of the stacks.
Similar actions have been taken to monitor and report  the treated effluent quality on-line.
During the year, significant efforts have resulted in  improvement of the following environmental parameters  at manufacturing location, as indicated below.
The  parameters indicate percentage change in absolute total  values compared to previous year in spite of the increase in  production and commissioning of new projects.
Improvement in FY 2015-16 over FY 2014-15    Reduction in total GHG emissions per tonne of product  by 2.4%   Reduction in TPM emissions by 0.1%.
Reduction of SOx emissions by 12.4%    Increase in water recycling by 4.7%    Increase in material recycled by 14% For more details please refer to the Sustainability Report   http://www.ril.com/Sustainability/CorporateSustainability.aspx Annual Report 2015-16 108 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
TOTAL GHG  EMISSIONS AT  MANUFACTURING  LOCATIONS TPM EMISSIONS AT  MANUFACTURING  LOCATIONS SO X  EMISSIONS AT  MANUFACTURING  LOCATIONS WATER RECYCLED AT  MANUFACTURING  LOCATIONS TOTAL RECYCLED  MATERIALS AT MANUFACTURING  LOCATIONS (tCO 2e/Tonnes) (000’ tonnes per year) (000’ tonnes per year) (000’ CuM) (000’ tonnes per year) 0.29FY 2014-15 0.28FY 2015-16 2.91FY 2014-15 2.90FY 2015-16 10.25FY 2014-15 8.98FY 2015-16 60,477.91FY 2014-15 63,319.57FY 2015-16 71.99FY 2014-15 82.03FY 2015-16   As a part of continuous improvement, various energy  efficiency initiatives were undertaken during the year which  include:    Enhanced heat recovery by revamping of air preheaters  to recover more energy from flue gases;    Improved heat rate by uprating Gas Turbines;    Installation of advanced technologies like Divided Wall  Column (DWC);    Optimum utilisation of fuel for steam and power  generation using ProSteam Optimiser, an on-line power  and steam optimisation tool working on advisory mode  that has now been made available to all petchem and  refinery sites;    Innovative projects like steam-to-steam heat  exchangers to utilise low pressure steam;    Reliance’s wide energy Dashboard to enable easy access  to energy performance on the fly, including equipment  level performance monitoring system.
At Reliance, as a culture, ‘World Environment Day’ , ‘Earth  Day’ , ‘International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone  Layer’ and ‘World Water Day’ are celebrated.
At RIL ’s  Jamnagar location, a total of 2,581 acres of greenbelt has  been developed.
INCULCATING ‘CARE FOR ENVIRONMENT AMONG  STAKEHOLDERS’   Reliance ensures that its commitment towards environmental  protection is extended to all its stakeholders.
The Company  makes continuous efforts to ensure that its supplier partners  adhere to and comply with the principles of:  1.
Compliance with laws and regulations  2.
Labour and human rights standards  3.
Occupational health and safety  4.
Environmental protection and conservation  5.
Protection of confidentiality and intellectual property  6. Business integrity   Reliance has been working relentlessly towards supplier  management through various steps like supplier  evaluation, managing supplier database, segmentation,  stakeholder mapping, supplier performance, supplier  development and supplier collaboration.
Reliance is also  in a process of implementing various initiatives like green   packaging/ 3R’s, supplier partnering, contract worker  care, business to local community, training and skill  development and supplier development among other  initiatives.
RIL ’s sustainable sourcing procedures focus on:  world class supplier base, contractor care, responsible  care, development of India’s engineering talent, innovation  109 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis through supplier collaboration, green packaging and  managing human rights across the supply chain.
PROMOTING USE OF ECO-FRIENDLY FUELS   Reliance works towards the development and  implementation of climate change mitigation projects.
This is  primarily done through energy efficiency initiatives at all the  manufacturing sites (as listed in the Director’s report page  no.
226), where use of cleaner fuels and renewable energy  has been adopted.
During the year, Reliance has initiated  several activities for the deployment of renewable energy,  like rooftop solar photovoltaic projects, biogas generation  project and carrying out wind resource assessment for  exploring possibility of installation of wind turbines.
CLEAN DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM (CDM)   RIL has registered a number of CDM projects with the  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change  (UNFCCC) as listed below: Site Name CDM projects Jamnagar Reduction in steam consumption in stripper  re-boiler through process optimisation Hazira Energy efficiency through steam optimisa - tion Vadodara Energy efficiency through heat recovery Barabanki Biomass based process steam generation Khinwsar Solar power generation Dahej Demand side energy conservation and  reduction Patalganga Demand side energy efficiency projects Allahabad Improvement in energy efficiency of steam  generation and power consumption  SPILL PREVENTION   RIL has robust systems to prevent operational spills.
There  have not been any significant spills at RIL facilities during  the FY 2015-16.
2.
PEOPLE ASHWANI  PRASHARA “In pursuit of its ambition to create a progressive people environment, Reliance  undertook a 24-months HR Transformation journey in 2014.
The organisation  is fast evolving to provide its employees a steep learning curve and fast  paced professional and personal development avenues while maintaining the  highest standards of workplace ethics and encouraging diversity and inclusion.
Leveraging technology, it digitised the People Management System.
” HITAL R. MESWANI   At Reliance, success of the organisation is believed to  be truly driven by its ‘People’ .
People are Reliance’s most  valuable assets.
Reliance is dedicated to ensure that people  realise their full potential at work with dignity, equality and  in a healthy environment.
Reliance fosters a culture that is  performance oriented, promotes reward for results and  helps its people grow.
Reliance’s values and behaviours have instilled a deeper  sense of connect and engagement for its people.
HR VISION:   “A modern, progressive people environment, where  purpose driven talent is attracted, engaged, motivated by  a consistent meritocratic HR framework and where high  quality leaders capable of realising RIL business goals are  identified, encouraged and rewarded.
”  HR TRANSFORMATION JOURNEY    RIL embarked upon the ‘R-HR’ Transformation journey in  2014 to create world class HR practices.
The Company aims  at continuing excellence and being an Employer of Choice.
RIL wishes to inspire highly talented professionals to join  and grow with the Company.
R-HR Transformation was a 24-months agenda and driven  through four waves of transformation.
These have set  a strong foundation for the Company to create greater  transparency, empowerment and meritocracy for people  practices.
Wave 1 included setting and rolling out foundational  processes for putting structured position grading, a new- age HR operating model and a renewed performance  management process.
Wave 2 focused on strengthening  Annual Report 2015-16 110 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
talent management processes, driving succession planning  and Career Acceleration Programme (CAP) for internal  young talent.
Wave 3 was focused upon building enhanced  resourcing capabilities for internal and external talent and a  superior candidate experience.
During FY 2015-16, Reliance launched Wave 4 of the  R-HR Transformation journey which drives the strategic  organisational capabilities around leadership development  and establishing an enterprise wide learning and  governance framework for employees.
With the spirit of  continuous excellence, RIL has now further set its goals to  digitise the People Management System (PMS), leveraging  latest technology interventions.
HR TRANSFORMATION WAVES R-HR Transformation Journey Talent Management R-Grading R-Performance R-Reward Wave 1 Wave 2 Wave 3 HR Model   Careers R-Empowerment R-Empowerment IT Fr amework Wave 4 Learning & Leadership  Development   HUMAN RESOURCES - G OVERNANCE, INTEGRATION,  RISK AND ASSURANCE   At Reliance, ‘Human Resource - Governance, Integration, Risk  and Assurance’ team has been formed under the stewardship  of newly constituted RMS Framework.
This team would  enable Human Resource function to strengthen overall  HR functioning and raise the bar of excellence in people  policies, practices, systems, data and organisation.
The team  is strategically driving key people focused transformational  initiatives across Reliance and is responsible for driving a  mature governance and management assurance process.
HEALTH AND WELLBEING    Reliance focuses on achieving excellence in health and  wellness initiatives which in turn enhance the health status  of stakeholders.
Reliance management philosophy is “One  Reliance, Healthy Reliance!” Reliance has implemented an  unique initiative, ‘REFERS’ (Reliance Employee and Family  Emergency Response Services) which offers 24x7 assistance  111 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis in case of any medical, accident, fire and securities  exigencies for employees and their family members.
In  addition, emergency medical services are provided to  Reliance employees and their family members 24x7 across  the country through strategic tie–ups with multi-speciality  hospitals.
Reliance has designed a unique mobile application,  ‘R-Health’ , which features emergency contact numbers of  all empanelled hospitals, ambulances and contact persons  and emergency coordinators in each location.
Additional  information on medical records, health dewdrops and blood  donor searches are also available on the app.
RIL ’s efforts in the field of health and well-being has been  recognised by highly reputed agencies including the Joint  Commission International (JCI), National Accreditation  Board for Hospitals, and National Accreditation Board for  Laboratories etc.
Health and Safety at work dimension  within the ‘Employee Engagement Framework’ achieved  a score of 93%, which is 8% more than the Kanexa Global  Standard.
During the FY 2015-16, RIL invested `337.31 crore on Health,  Safety and Environment initiatives.
Reliance strives to achieve excellence in improving its  employees’ occupational and personal health.
The aim is  to ensure a healthy and productive work environment by  minimising health hazards and providing state-of-the- art facilities.
To achieve this, Reliance has set up world- class occupational and family welfare centres, follows  international HSE best practices at all manufacturing, E&P  locations and major office complexes.
The Company’s  medical and occupational health departments focus  extensively on the prevention.
Health awareness programs  are the integral part of Reliance’s Wellness initiatives,  specially focusing on prevention of life style diseases such  as hypertension, diabetes, etc.
and also work life balance  and specialised programs for women’s health.
Across the  locations, health awareness is created through vitality fair,  yoga workshop, tool box talk at shop floor, and health tips,  among others.
SAFETY   RIL targets zero injuries and incidents.
The Operating  Management System (OMS) is a framework to deliver  and sustain conformance to the essentials, followed by  excellence, in operating activities and processes.
The OMS  provides a systematic and consistent approach for reducing  Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) risks in  operating activities.
Delivering safe, compliant and reliable operations will lead  to sustainable competitive advantage.
In order to achieve  the goal, Reliance requires improvements in all aspects of  the Elements of Operating, i.e., plant, process, people and  performance.
The Group Essentials (GE) outlines the risk  mitigation strategies, legal and regulatory compliances,  RIL ’s conformance with the requirements and a rigorous  application of basic operations knowledge.
It also creates a  platform for sustainable improvement, allowing Reliance to  capture additional value through efficiency and sustaining  excellence in operating.
Reliance conducts its operations considering safety of its  employees, suppliers and vendors, as well as communities  in which Reliance operates.
A fully equipped and well- qualified HSE organisation is in place at all locations  providing necessary governance, documentation and  HSE assurance.
To support its HSE organisation, Reliance is  backed by a Centre of Excellence at the Corporate, which  brings in subject matter expertise in various fields of HSE,  apart from governance.
CRISIS MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE   Reliance aims to guard against potential risks which could  harm people or disrupt the operations.
Crisis ma nagement  and Emergency response plays significant role in achieving  this objective as early response can reduce the consequence.
In order to strengthen the emergency response capabilities,  assessment of emergency management plans and training  on execution of command and control was conducted  at various manufacturing sites.
Regular alerts on natural  of Greenbelt at Jamnagar 2,581 acres Annual Report 2015-16 112 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
disasters like Tsunamis are also received from Indian Tsunami  Early Warning Centre (ITEWC), Hyderabad.
SAFETY AUDITS   In FY 2015-16, the process of first and second party audits  continued at all sites.
The audit schedule was published at the  beginning of the year and different audits were conducted  during the year such as: Process Safety Management,  Workplace Safety Management including Electrical safety,  Fire Safety Management, Highly Toxic Material Management,  Contractor Safety Management, Environment Management  and Distribution Safety Management.
The audit findings  were presented to the Board of Directors and actions were  taken to further improve safety parameters.
Employee health and safety  at work dimension within  the ‘employee engagement  framework’ is at 93%, which is  8% higher than Kenexa global  standards.
NURTURING AND MANAGING TALENT   Reliance has now instituted sustainable practices to identify  and develop high calibre talent who will lead Reliance on  its next growth path into the future.
Over the last 2 years,  Reliance has changed the way it looks at its internal talent  development and external hiring.
Wave 4, which is part of  the HR Transformation journey, has helped Reliance move  to an integrated learning architecture that enables the  Company to focus its learning investment on developing  the technical, functional and leadership capabilities needed  to drive future business growth.
Wave 4 aligns all Reliance’s  learning to strategic priorities through a single learning  entity called R-University.
A key pillar of the learning strategy is the democratisation,  digitisation and fostering of a learning culture across  Reliance.
Reliance is using e-learning, social, collaborative  and other technology platforms as enablement tools.
Learning opportunities are available on a cloud-based  learning management system so that employees are able  to access learning content anywhere, anytime.
Reliance has  also formed multiple partnerships, e.g., Bersin by Deloitte,  Skillsoft and Corporate Executive Board to keep the  learning content and approach current.
To strengthen the  leadership bench strength, Reliance has built an integrated  transition programme for Reliance leaders along with  globally renowned partners such as Duke CE.
These ‘Step-up  Programs’ have been launched to assure the development  of leaders to assume next level leadership roles.
Reliance  introduced a Career Acceleration Programme (CAP) in order  to strengthen leadership skills amongst employees.
Learning at Reliance has been provided a directional push  towards a fully enabling and seamless learning experience.
Focus has moved from mass training programs to customised  programs and also availability of learning at the point of need  of individual’s career development.
Upgradation of physical  learning infrastructure and virtual learning infrastructure  across locations and sites will help Reliance in creating a  standardised learning environment.
R-University’s three-tier  governance structure (Group Learning Council, R-University  Council and Academy Council) and process optimisation  have further integrated the learning landscape along with  bringing increased transparency and business alignment to  learning.
The initiatives aim to place the learner at the center  of the learning process.
Training courses have been divided into mandatory and  non-mandatory categories based on the training content  and learner’s current role.
There has been enhanced focus  on compliance training and many of these trainings are  available for all Reliance employees through e-learning  modules.
RIL imparted more than 15 lakh man-hours of  training to its people, both through internal and external  subject matter experts in FY 2015-16.
A significant  number of employees were trained on health, safety and  environment for more than 7.5 lakh man-hours.
Other than  permanent employees, contract staffs were also covered  through various training programs by providing more than  3.5 lakh man-hours of training.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT METHODOLOGIES   Reliance strives to embed a culture of Continuous  Improvement (CI) activities in its DNA.
As a result, different  skills of the Six Sigma methodology including DMAIC, Lean,  Design for Six Sigma and Innovation have been imparted to  the employees.
As a part of implementation of Operation  Management System (OMS), new waves have been started  to achieve higher levels of operational excellence and it is  structured as CI-7 Step methodology for Exemplar Projects  to improve different processes, based on identification  of gap against Reliance’s OMS requirement.
A web based  portal called “Continuous Improvement Portal” (CI-Portal)  has been developed where CI projects are entered and  executed within the system.
A total 74 projects with  expected contribution gain of around `77 crore are in  progress through this CI-portal.
113 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis  DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity and Inclusion There has been an 12% increase in number of women employees over the last 5 years (FY 2011-2016) as  compared to a 5% increase in the men employees.
Women in Leadership Positions RIL has 16 female professionals occupying key Leadership positions in RIL.
RIL provides focused mentoring to women professionals to promote their career growth in leadership positions.
Employee Diversity RIL has 80 diﬀerently abled employees working with the Company  which adds signi/f_icance to its overall diversity objective.
Average age of employees 52 46 37 38 Senior  Level Leader First  Level Leader Professional  Level Individual  Contributor  Age Demographics of Employees    Reliance focuses on three aspects of diversity: gender  diversity, multigenerational diversity and inclusivity.
Reliance promotes equal opportunity for all its employees.
The Company believes in equality irrespective of gender,  sexual orientation, disability, caste, religion or age.
Employee strength as on 31 st March, 2016 for RIL is 24,121  which includes 1,238 female employees.
RIL is one of the  foremost companies to allow women professionals in shift  operations.
The Company’s endeavour is to make Reliance the “most  admired brand” through inclusive excellence.
RIL today  employs people from 19 different nationalities adding  to its diverse employee base.
RIL has 40 foreign national  employees in the leadership cadre.
Over the years, the Company has tried to improve  its multigenerational diversity as well.
The Company  demographics is moving towards younger population and  average age of RIL employee stands at 41 years.
R-AADYA INITIATIVE: EM POWERING WOMEN TO  EMPOWER INDIA   “R-Aadya Awaken the Senses” is the flagship gender  diversity initiative designed to help Reliance’s women  employees navigate through their careers.
The programme  is designed to give them opportunities through the 4 pillars  of the programme which include providing mentorship  conversations, leadership interactions, forums and  conferences and trainings and workshops (Classroom and  E-learnings).
R-Aadya, with about 30 women executives is  making excellent progress with its active participation as  well as support from mentors in the organisation.
Under the R-Aadya mobile app, the Company has launched  a feature through which women can send a distress call or  emergency message to a specified contact or group in an  emergency situation.
The Company’s monthly magazine –  ‘WOW – Reliance World of Women’ talks about the stories  and accomplishments of the Company’s women employees  and other initiatives.
CAMPUS MARQUEE PROGRAM   RIL ’s annual intake of Management trainees through its  Campus Marquee Programme from premier institutes is one  of the highest in the country along with a strong internship  process which brings a rich pool of young talent into the  Company.
Ultimate Pitch:  The Ultimate Pitch has been launched as  an annual B-School – Business Plan competition at premier  institutes and the final shortlisted teams are provided  mentoring towards their entrepreneurial aspirations.
Annual Report 2015-16 114 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
The highlight of the Grand Finale of ultimate pitch was that  all 12 Finalist teams got a chance for a unique interaction  with Chairman and MD Shri.
Mukesh D. Ambani.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT   RIL conducts a global engagement survey wherein all  employees participate in complete confidentiality through  an independent survey conducted by IBM Kenexa.
The  overall employee engagement scores have gone up  substantially as a result of transformation initiatives.
The  Company constantly works on feedback and ensures that  improvements are made both at an organisational and  manager level and communicated back to its employees.
Leadership support dimension is at 84% which is 9% higher  than Kenexa Global standard.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT   Reliance’s relationships with all its stakeholders have a  direct and indirect impact on their business activities  and reputation.
RIL has identified eight key stakeholders  (Investors and Shareholders, Employees, Customers,  Suppliers, Trade unions, Government and Regulatory  authorities, Local community and NGOs) with whom the  Company discusses common solutions through strategic  dialogues.
The Company proactively engages with its  stakeholders in order to inform them of its business strategy  and operations, shape their products and services, manage  and respond to social expectations and improve the  environment in which RIL conducts its business.
ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS   All Reliance employees, suppliers and vendors are  required to respect human rights of not only each other,  but also of the community in which Reliance operates.
Ethics and Compliance Task Force oversees and monitors  implementation of ethics and compliance within Reliance.
It comprises of the Reliance Group Head of HR, General  Counsel, Group Controller and Group Company Secretary.
All the Company’s units maintain 100% compliance with  local and national laws, regarding ethics and human  rights.
Reliance also takes into account global standards  and the Company strives to comply with all global norms  on human rights, including the principles outlined in the  United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
All  employees are exposed to these topics through organised  training programmes.
100% of its non-supervisory  permanent employees at its manufacturing locations are  covered under collective bargaining agreements with trade  unions which also comply with the local and national laws.
The champions of Ultimate Pitch 2016 receiving the award 115 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 3.
PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES    Sustainable growth is an ongoing process, which requires  a transformational vision as well as adaptation to rapidly- evolving products and processes.
Reliance’s Innovation  Council provides vision to innovation efforts at the  organisation level.
Through R&D, novel products and  processes are developed to improve profitability and  sustainability at Reliance.
INNOVATION, RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY  INNOVATION   At Reliance, innovation is a way of life that allows the  Company to create real, sustainable value for all its  stakeholders.
With this in mind, the Reliance Innovation  Council (RIC), a unique corporate entity, was established in  2008.
These global thought leaders and iconic personalities  fold the future in and lay out an innovation agenda for the  organisation.
Mr. Mukesh D. Ambani , Chairman and Managing Director  of Reliance, is also an RIC member.
Besides being on many  prestigious boards, he was recently elected a Foreign  Member of the prestigious US National Academy of  Engineering.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar  is the Chairman of the RIC,  an eminent scientist and the President of Global Research  Alliance.
For his various contributions to India, he has been  honoured with Padma Vibhushan, the second highest  civilian honour bestowed in India.
Prof. George M. Whitesides  is a Professor at Harvard  University and the world’s foremost chemist.
He is also  a co-founder of companies with a combined market  capitalisation of over US$30 billion.
Prof. Jean-Marie Lehn  is a professor at the Collège de  France in Paris, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in  Chemistry in 1987 for his studies on the chemical basis of  ‘molecular recognition’ .
Over the years his work has led to  the definition of a new field of chemistry.
Prof. Robert Grubbs  is a professor at Caltech, and received  the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work in the field of  olefin metathesis.
Dr. William A. Haseltine  is chairman of Haseltine Global  Health LLC, a virtual pharmaceutical company.
He is also  well-known for his pioneering work in cancer and HIV /  AIDS.
Prof. Gary Hamel  is one of the world’s most influential  business thinkers and renowned business strategy experts.
The Reliance Innovation Leadership Centre (RIL-C) was set  up to serve the innovation vision of the council.
This centre  implements Reliance’s innovation agenda by deploying the  best and next transformational innovative practices.
INVESTING IN RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY “RIL has transitioned from a smart buyer of technology to a fast customiser of technology and a flagship developer through largely in- house developed technology that creates significant value.
R&D enables the innovation based growth agenda for Reliance.
Reliance’s R&D  activities are vital to achieve national development with environmentally sound growth trajectories.
” AJIT SAPREHITAL R. MESWANI Dr. J. V. KELKAR  GERARD  DENAZELLE SUKETU VAKIL   R&D MISSION    RIL shall develop innovative products, processes and  catalysts to increase and sustain the profitability and  growth of Reliance in a compliant, safe and reliable manner.
To achieve this mission, RIL has transitioned from a smart  buyer of technology to a fast customiser of technology and  a flagship developer through largely in-house developed  technology that creates significant value.
R&D enables the  innovation based growth agenda for Reliance.
Annual Report 2015-16 116 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE   R&D is governed and operated by a well-defined set  of teams, viz., Strategic teams, Leadership teams and  Functional excellence teams.
The R&D fun ction at Reliance has two distinct themes:  (i) Breakthrough R&D for potential new businesses.
(ii)  R&D to support near-term needs and step-out processes  for existing businesses   The entire R&D organisation enthusiastically embraces  Reliance’s Values, Behaviours and Code of Conduct.
Risk  management is an integral component of the strategic  framework.
R&D successfully complies with and implements  the Operating Management System being driven across  Reliance.
R&D also implements initiatives such as New  Product Development and Introduction (NPDI), Stage- Gate®, etc.
to formally manage innovation.
FUNCTIONS OF R&D   R&D includes a) Breakthrough R&D b) R&D HSE and c) R&D  Product Stewardship and it is bound by R&D operating  model which describes the operating principles pertaining  to the R&D organisation.
a) Breakthrough R&D -   R&D efforts focus on:    Biofuels and Biochemicals: RIL ’s ‘Algae to biocrude  and biochemicals’ effort aims at establishing a green  platform that harnesses natural resources, such as  freely available sunlight, sea water, carbon dioxide and  low cost nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus) to produce  abundant quantities of biomass that can be converted  to biocrude and biochemicals.
Research efforts on algae  are focused on physiology, biochemistry, molecular  biology, genomics and development of technologies  for algae cultivation, harvesting and processing  technologies for converting biomass to bio-crude  and bio-chemicals.
Reliance has achieved significant  technical breakthroughs in improving photosynthesis  efficiency and has developed best-in-the-world gene  stacking capabilities.
Reliance also has expertise  in metabolic engineering using lambda Red/PCR  technology for gene stacking to improve the production  of fuels and chemicals from microorganisms.
Hydrothermal Liquefaction (HTL):  HTL is a  depolymerisation process that uses high temperature  and pressure conditions to convert biomass to bio- crude, mimicking the way Earth made crude oil  millions of years ago.
Reliance has built the largest HTL  demonstration unit in the world.
The Company has  collaborated with partners (Pacific Northwest National  Laboratory via Genifuel) whose HTL technology  was recognised by a very prestigious award (R&D  100 Award) in FY 2015-16.
RIL has subsequently  improved the HTL process using in-house proprietary  homogeneous catalyst development and other  engineering capabilities.
Producing Algae and Co-products for Energy  (PACE):  RIL ’s collaborative project with some of the top  universities and research institutions in the US, was  awarded US$9 million by the US DoE for developing  and demonstrating algae for producing energy and co- products.
Reliance is the sole demonstration partner for  this first-of-its-kind effort wherein it will validate and  demonstrate an integrated process for producing bio- crude and other value-added products from alg ae.
Clean Energy: RIL is the sole industry partner in  the New Millennium Indian Technology Leadership  Initiative (NMITLI) project with the Council of Scientific  and Industrial Research (CSIR) on indigenous Polymer  Electrolyte Membrane (PEM) fuel cell technology  development.
After successful lab-scale demonstration  of PEM fuel cell technology at low power, a scaled-up  cell of 3 kilowatt-electric capacity has been designed.
A fuel cell test bed has been built, for which the  engineering was done by RIL, while stacks were built by  CSIR.
These components have been integrated and are  now functional.
The assembly is undergoing testing.
b) R&D – Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)      The R&D team has developed breakthrough  in ionic liquid catalysts that are fifty times less  expensive than competitive ionic liquid products.
These catalysts are more benign, reusable,  recyclable and can be made at scale.
They are  R&D Centre at Gagva 117 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis highly effective replacements for toxic hazardous  acids.
Reliance is developing a breakthrough  safer and environmentally friendly process for  manufacturing Linear AlkylBenzenes (LAB) using  these ionic liquid catalysts.
Furthermore, this  platform technology will lead to many other  breakthrough processes.
Sulphur is a refinery by-product.
In its elemental  form, sulphur has limited use.
RIL has developed a  technology that increases the efficacy of sulphur as  a fertiliser.
It is estimated that Indian soils are 40%  deficient in sulphur and RIL ‘s new sulphur fertiliser  (Relfarm™) will greatly improve agriculture  productivity throughout India.
c) R&D – Product Stewardship    Reliance R&D is a successful steward for  commercialisation of technologies.
It is the first in the  world to successfully extract benzene from diolefin and  gasoline products.
RIL has also pioneered the use of  Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs) for CPVC manufacture.
R&D - Refining    Reliance has made efforts to pursue R&D in the areas of  coking, hydro processing, Fluidised Catalytic Cracking  (FCC), crude processing, molecule-based process  optimisation and value addition from low value refinery  streams.
The Company is venturing into new areas like  biomass gasification, carbon dioxide capture and its  utilisation, value addition and utilisation of refinery  by-product sulphur and nanotechnology-based  applications besides conventional refining areas.
Through R&D, Reliance provides advanced technical  support through computational fluid dynamics  and advanced simulation tools.
The modelling and  simulation group is engaged in resolving several  important refinery and petrochemicals reliability issues.
R&D - Petrochemicals    Reliance provides technology support to olefin crackers,  polymers, fibre intermediates, LAB and polyester.
The  focus areas include:   1.
Efficient asset utilisation   2.
Development of specialty product grades /  materials / catalysts   3.
Value addition to by-product streams   4.
Leveraging opportunities at the chemicals / oil  interface   5.
Development of environmentally friendly  processes   R&D Retail    Reliance Dairy is one of the numerous initiatives of  Reliance Retail that exhibits the vision of continually  generating value for every citizen of the country.
The  dairy initiative has taken the lead in creating a social  business that is transparent, technology-driven and  reaches out to millions of dairy farmers with a truly  inclusive growth model.
Dairy initiative currently  operates across 9 states procuring milk every day  directly from farmers, bringing in more efficiency and  transparency in the dealings with farmers.
This has  created a win-win situation for both the producers and  the consumers alike, where the farmers get better rates  and consumers are assured of quality.
R&D Jio     Globally there are 3,745 (brands) devices announced by  339 manufacturers which support LTE.
Handsets with  multiband, multimode support, becoming the default  offering.
Jio is also deploying Fiber-to-the-home (FTTH)  technology for wire-line broadband and Carrier-Wi-Fi  technologies for broadband via public hotspots.
The Company has also undertaken extensive testing of  technology products and services being offered.
The  tests have been positive and have established smooth  operations of all aspects of the network.
Voice products,  including Voice over LTE (VoLTE) as well as Voice over  Wifi (VoWifi), work seamlessly.
R&D team at Reliance has developed breakthrough in ionic  liquid catalysts that are fifty times less expensive than  competitive ionic liquid products.
Fifty times less expensive Annual Report 2015-16 118 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
R&D – ENABLERS  Infrastructure   Reliance’s new R&D laboratory facility in Navi Mumbai is  equipped with state-of-the-art equipment including X-ray  diffraction, mass spectrometers, chromatographs, nuclear  magnetic resonance imaging, electron microscopes,  infrared spectrometers, X-ray photoelectron spectrometers,  rheometers, etc.
Other Reliance R&D centres (Hazira,  Vadodara, Patalganga, Jamnagar, Gagva) are also very  sophisticated.
These laboratory and pilot plant facilities  provide capabilities for catalysis, chemistry, process  engineering, modelling, simulation, material science,  synthetic biology, biotechnology, polymer processing,  reaction engineering, advanced analytical sciences and  product application development.
Collaboration   Reliance actively collaborates with various international  and national institutions for R&D related activities.
Some of  Reliance’s prominent collaborators are: University of Helsinki  (Finland), Ghent University (Belgium), Monash University  (Australia), KAUST (Saudi Arabia), NUS (Singapore), KIER  (South Korea), Ben-Gurion University of the Negev (Israel),  IIP Dehradun, IIT Mumbai, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Chennai, NCL  Pune, Florida State University, University of Massachusetts  Amherst, University of Delaware, Penn State University,  Kansas State University, University of Alabama, Stanford  University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology  among others.
R&D Personnel   There are currently more than 400 professionals working  to support RIL ’s research and technology activities.
RIL runs  initiatives and campus recruitment drives across universities  and colleges to attract fresh talent and the next generations  of engineers and scientists.
R&D expenditure in FY 2015-16 ` 1,259 crore  Internal Crowd Sourcing   R&D Social allows researchers to blog about ideas and  seek feedback from an internal community akin to social  networking exploiting efficient digital technology platforms.
Patents   Through R&D, Reliance aims to build a strong intellectual  property portfolio.
In FY 2015-16, a total of 36 patents were  granted.
An external survey of PCT applications filed by  Indian organisations found that Reliance was ranked third  amongst Indian applicants.
Moreover, the quality of RIL ’s  inventions is evidenced by the enquiries it started receiving  from domestic and international manufacturers for licensing  its technologies.
R&D EXPENDITURE  ` in crore FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 FY 2011-12 Capital 631 722 810 738 654 Revenue 628 498 408 380 335 Total 1,259 1,220 1,218 1,118 989   Reliance R&D aims to contribute to not only the ‘Make in  India’ initiatives, but also towards creating a strong culture  of invent and innovate in India.
Several of RIL ’s projects are  targeted towards inclusive growth.
R&D OUTLOOK   The chemical industry will stay central to global growth  aspirations.
However, it will be affected by several  megatrends as it continues its evolution.
Most important  among these megatrends are climate change and energy  sources.
The ‘Make in India’ campaign is likely to promote  opportunities in manufacturing to meet internal and global  market demand and will result in an increase in energy  demand.
Alternatively, India’s power generation mix is  seeing increased penetration of renewable energy sources.
R&D activities are vital to achieve national development  with environmentally sound growth trajectories.
Reliance  recognises this and is committed to R&D in renewable energy  as well as efficient processes to support its hydrocarbons  business.
119 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis   SMART MANUFACTURING - ASSET UTILISATION, RELIABLE OPERATIONS AND EFFECTIVE USE OF  TECHNOLOGY MANOJ CHOUTHAI “Every day, advances in manufacturing technologies make factories smarter,  safer and more environmentally sustainable.
At RIL, Reliance Management  System, is the key to realise the Company’s strategic goals and targets in the  areas of Reliability and Enterprise Asset Management.
Reliance leverages digital technology in the area of advanced analytics to create  innovative solutions for value added business functions.
” HITAL R. MESWANI   Business Transformation and successful implementation  and sustenance of the Reliance Management System, are  keys to realise the Company’s strategic goals and targets in  the areas of Reliability and Enterprise Asset Management.
These are targeted through continuous and strategic  improvement initiatives.
RIL leverages technology as well to improve Integrity,  Reliability and Effectiveness by:  1.
Use of robotics and drones for high risk jobs and  inspection of inaccessible positions.
2.
Implement new technologies in Rotary / Inspection  and corrosion monitoring:   a.
Critical equipment monitoring and early event  detection.
b.  Model-based automated real-time corrosion  monitoring system.
c.  Develop high temperature thickness probe  using the same material of high temperature   Long-Range Ultrasonic Testing (LRUT).
d.  Usage of newly developed corrosion under  insulation monitoring tool using microwave  technique.
SMART MANUFACTURING ECOSYSTEM WILL:    Enable intelligent analysis of all data on a near real-time  basis using models, to increase safety, improve energy  efficiency, equipment reliability and overall efficiency.
Enable aggregating data from various systems, assets  and people to get a near real-time 360 degrees view  into operations for faster and better decision-making  leading to higher operational performance.
Facilitate Asset Tracking (personnel, equipment and  vehicle) thereby resulting in improved safety, better  asset utilisation and enhanced security.
NELSON COMPLEXITY INDEX   RIL ’s refineries at Jamnagar are amongst the largest and most  complex refining assets globally, with a Nelson Complexity  Index of 12.7.
The refinery’s superior configuration gives RIL the ability to  process a wide variety of crudes and meet stringent product  specifications.
1.
Ability to process difficult crudes, which are cheaper.
2.
Ability to produce high value added refinery product  slate.
3.
Ability to make superior grade refinery fuel products,  such as BS-IV and Euro-IV + grade gasoline and diesel.
DEBOTTLENECKING   RIL has undertaken several initiatives focusing on  debottlenecking, capacity enhancement and yield  improvement to enhance its competitive strength.
SOLOMON INDEX   RIL ’s refineries have continued to remain in top quartile  performance compared to global peers on all major  Solomon benchmarking parameters.
Key strengths as per Solomon study are energy efficiency,  operational availability and utilised processing complexity.
Operational availability is defined as the percentage of time,  a unit or facility available to operate in its intended manner.
Higher Utilised Processing Complexity (UPC) generally  increases Gross Refining Margin.
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY   Digital technology is a core enabler of RIL ’s future growth  strategy that incorporates business process digitisation,  personal productivity tools, big data and analytics, robotics,  social and mobility initiatives.
Mobility, analytics and  security will enable Reliance to develop the next generation  Annual Report 2015-16 120 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
valued added service that the customers demand and  provide them the ability to engage, interact and transact as  per their convenience.
Going forward, RIL looks to leverage  advancement of solutions and technologies in the area of  Internet of Thing (IoT), RFID (Radio Frequency Identification)  and advanced analytics to create innovative solutions for  value added business functions such as Vessel Tracking,  Pricing Optimisation, Customer Relationship Management,  Energy Management, etc.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP    Reliance works towards increasing the recycling and reuse  of materials, and thereby inculcating the 3R (reduce, reuse  and recycle) philosophy into the production process.
It is Reliance’s constant endeavour to make products that  have a positive impact on the environment and cater  to consumer needs.
Some of the instances of product  stewardship are listed below:  PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IN REFINING   The RIL ’s DTA refinery at Jamnagar is producing unleaded  gasoline, since its inception.
A new technology has been  implemented in the Jamnagar DTA Refinery to reduce  benzene and sulphur from the FCC gasoline, and upgrade it  to clean fuels of Euro III / Euro IV standards.
This shall help to  reduce environmental impact of these fuels at the end use  stage.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IN PETROCHEMICAL   Reliance works towards increasing the recycling and reuse  of materials, and thereby inculcating the 3R (reduce, reuse  and recycle) philosophy into the production process.
Some  of the instances of product stewardship are listed below:  POLYMERS:  1.
Promotion of Flexible Intermediate Bulk Container  (FIBC) for silage storage to improve the preparation  and storage of fodder as compared to traditional silo  digging.
2.
Promotion of DWC pipes which can replace the  traditional cement pipes which are more prone to  breakage.
3.
RIL has developed an innovative multilayer film for milk  packaging where milk in a pillow pouch can be stored  for 30 days without refrigeration to reduce wastage of  milk and result in low carbon footprint.
POLYESTERS:  1.
Specialty hygiene fibres for lighter and thinner  performance wipes.
2.
Recron® Skylark for trousers with linen look and  twinkling effect.
3.
Recron® Skylark for jari based fabrics which can be dyed  at low temperatures.
For more information please refer Business Responsibility  Report, Principle 2.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IN OIL AND GAS  EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION   Over the last few years, the Reliance E&P production team  has adopted innovative approaches to increase recovery  of oil and gas reserves by keeping the wells flowing at its  Indian East Coast KG basin deep water offshore operation.
Some examples of innovative approaches are:  1  Installation of onshore booster compressors, thereby  allowing oil and gas to flow easier through the subsea  infrastructure pipelines  2  Injecting surfactant into subsea producing wells,  facilitating well fluid to be carried up to the surface  3  High pressure gas injection (at depth of 600m) at sea  bed to assist well fluids flowing to surface  4  Reactivation of previously shut in wells by taking  advantage of reduced arrival pressure at the onshore  facility   A number of these innovative approaches have been  adopted for the first time at such water depth of 1100m  by using remotely operated vehicles through a dedicated  world-class multi-support vessel.
It is worthwhile to  mention that Reliance has also extended these expertise to  the Indian Coast Guard in locating debris of ill-fated Dornier  aircraft.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IN RETAIL   Reliance Retail through its “Kushal Kela Vikas Abhiyaan” is  helping banana growers realise higher income through  provision of latest agri-inputs, progressive pre and post- harvest, trainings on plantation nutrition management  and buyback programs.
This initiative taken across 3 states  have led to approx.
15 – 30% increasing banana yield, a 15%  increase in A-Grade marketable produce and 40% reduction  in rejections leading to an increase in farmers income by  20 – 30%.
The agenda is to next target on Papaya crops, to  improve their process of cultivation.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IN JIO   The Company is rolling out the largest Greenfield LTE  deployment in the world.
It is launching a state-of-the- art pan India digital services network to provide reliable  (4 th  generation) fast internet connectivity, high-quality  communication services and rich digital services.
The  Company has set up a next generation network which is  amongst the best in the world.
The network has advanced  features such as Software Defined Networking (SDN) and  Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV).
It is ready for future  evolution of technology including transition to 5G with  minimal additional capital expenditure in the network.
121 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 4.
PROSPERITY (PROFIT)    During the year, Reliance added value of `89,768 crore  including payment to the national exchequer aggregating  to `43,117 crore.
This contribution is used for developmental  activities which helps in building of a prosperous society.
Additionally, large procurements made by RIL for its regular  business as well as for ongoing capex projects has a huge  cascading impact – creating jobs and business opportunities  for entire socio-economic spectrum.
“The Jamnagar projects will enhance Reliance leadership in the refining and petrochemicals business, and substantially enhance the  degree of vertical integration in its operations.
With these investments and a construction manpower of 1,35,000 plus, Jamnagar is now  among the largest industrial construction sites in the world.
These new projects are expected to improve cost competitiveness and provide  sustainable long-term advantage.
Reliance simultaneously execute multiple projects at multiple locations, adhering to highest international standards of HSE even as it  maintains optimal costs and tight timelines.
Reliance focuses on optimising procurement and contracting costs across all its businesses.
Reliance believes in developing strong global supplier and vendor relationships based on shared values and a focus on ethics, quality   and safety.
With the completion of Gasification, Paraxylene and ROGC and associated units, Reliance’s Jamnagar will be among the highest conversion  refineries globally, with no ‘bottom-of-the-barrel’ products.
” “Procurement and Contracting (P&C) efforts for the on-going mega Jamnagar Projects involved orders on more than 1,500 vendors  spread across 28 countries.
The P&C efforts for Jamnagar Projects involved technical co-ordination with 10 Technology Licensors and 12  Engineering Contractors spread across about 30 Engineering  Centres around the world.
The logistics of safe movement of large volume of equipment and materials as well as Over-Dimensional and Super-Over-Dimensional  Cargos (ODCs and SODCs) were managed by road, sea and air through innovative multi-modal transportation strategies.
The Construction  work at the Project site is being managed through mobilisation of over 11,500 Construction Equipment and Machinery.
” RAVINDER BATRADEEPAK DATTA B NARAYAN A. SRINAGESH The initiatives in digital services is expected to act as a catalyst  to the start-up ecosystem of digital India, thereby empowering  millions of Indians.
R&D and innovation at RIL are aimed at  meeting social and economic needs of India.
CSR initiatives  at RIL impacts a large number of people from less-privileged  sections of society.
For details please refer and follow through  the following pages;  Page 10-11 Enhancing the Quality of Life; Page 12-13 Making  Lives Better; Page 14-17 Jio- Starting up and Reimagining to  a digital life; Page 18-19 Nurturing Digital Entrepreneurship;  Page 20-21People Innovation and Research and Technology;   Page 22-23 An integrated approach towards Sustainable growth  – 5P’s; Page 24-25 Strategic Framework and Outcome; Page 38- 39 Reliance Foundation; Page 60-61 Financial Performance and  Review Annual Report 2015-16 122 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
5 .
PEACE  AND PARTNERSHIPS JAGANNATHA   KUMAR “RIL is determined to foster peaceful, just and inclusive societies, which are free  from discrimination.
RIL believes, there can be no sustainable development  without peace and partnership.
A participatory approach sets the foundation  for ensuring an inclusive society.
RIL ’s engagements with its various stakeholder  groups ensures that the nation’s development is not isolated from the general  populace and the fruits of progress are distributed equitably.
” P .
M. S. PRASAD   RIL is determined to foster peaceful, just and inclusive  societies, which are free from discrimination.
Strengthened  global solidarity is crucial to ensure sustainable development  across the world.
It is therefore imperative to ensure global  partnerships and strategic tie-ups with various organisations  locally and internationally to achieve the collective goal of  sustainable development.
PARTNERING RESPONSIBLY   Reliance Industries along with nine other companies  will collaborate in a number of areas to reduce their  GHG  footprint with combined GHG emissions from  their  operations.
PARTNERING FOR GROWTH AT RELIANCE   HYDROCARBON BUSINESS - PARTNERING FOR  EXPERTISE   Partnerships represent an important dimension of the E&P  business.
Reliance and BP entered into a transformational  partnership with focus on delivering growth and  adding value to India’s energy sector.
The partnership  commemorates a perfect blend of BP’s deep-water and  development expertise with Reliance’s project management  skills.
In partnership with BP , Reliance plans to become a  major player across the gas value chain in India.
Reliance  has also forged strategic partnerships with Chevron, Pioneer  Natural Resources and Carrizo Oil and Gas for development  of shale gas resources in the US.
RIL entered into a long-term supply contract for Basrah  Heavy Crude in order to improve the overall cover in the  long-term.
Reliance is working in close association with local Public  Works Departments (PWDs) and the railways to exemplify  the cost-benefit ratio.
Reliance has partnered with The Indian  Centre for Plastics in the Environment (ICPE) to help sustain  an environment friendly image of plastics by highlighting  the positive role of plastics in conserving resources and its  100% recyclability.
RIL and its partners, in conventional and shale business  closely work together and channelise expertise to target  high quality prospects and optimise existing and future  development plans.
RIL and Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE) have  signed production sharing contracts.
RIL signed a MoU with Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) to co- operate for assessment of potential upstream oil and gas  business opportunities in Mexico and jointly evaluate value- added opportunities in international markets.
RETAIL   Reliance brands has a portfolio of over 40 international  brands.
Payless ShoeSource, which runs the largest family footwear  store chain in western hemisphere was launched in India  in an exclusive partnership with Reliance Retail during the  year.
The successful partnership with Marks and Spencer (M&S)  continued to grow with strong same store sales growth, as  well as roll out of new stores during the year.
Reliance Fresh has joined hands with Akshay Patra, an NGO  to serve nutritious meals to more than 10,000 schools across  India.
For more details, please refer to page no.
93.
JIO   As part of its broadband plans, Jio has invested in a new,  state-of-the-art 8,100 km cable system, the Bay of Bengal  Gateway (BBG).
BBG provides direct connectivity to South  East Asia and the Middle East, then onward to Europe, Africa  and Far East Asia through seamless interconnection with  existing cable systems.
In addition to Jio, the BBG partners  include: Dialog Axiata, Etisalat, Omantel, Telecom Malaysia,  and Vodafone.
BBG has deployed the latest submarine cable  100 gigabits per second transmission technology, utilizing  wavelength add/drop branching units along the route,  123 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis with an initial equipped capacity of 9 terabits per second.
Providing robust, reliable, low latency connectivity, BBG  strengthens one of the fastest growing global internet  routes.
In addition, the Company has entered into agreements with  RCOM for change in spectrum allotment.
For more information please refer page no.
96.
PARTNERING FOR PEOPLE CHANGE  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT   Stakeholder engagement process is well-defined at RIL for  identification and selection of stakeholders (both internal and  external).
RIL ’s materiality analysis process follows a structured  approach, taking care of key concerns and priorities of all of RIL ’s  internal as well as external stakeholder groups.
TALENT POOL   The Company has initiated the Campus Marquee Progamme  to build a talent pool of high caliber professionals from  world renowned universities in addition to providing  its employees with global exposure through multiple  partnerships with world renowned universities.
For more information please refer page no.
113.
HEALTHCARE SERVICES   Reliance joined hands with Bill and Melinda Gates  Foundation, Merck Sharpe Foundation, Tata Trust and the  United States Agency for International Development to  form Project ASMAN, a first-of-its kind ‘Continuum of Care –  Health Alliance’ in India.
PARTNERING FOR INNOVATION   GenNext Hub is a Reliance-backed startup programme  powered by Microsoft Ventures, to catalyse the startup  ecosystem for a digital India.
Headquartered in Reliance  Corporate Park, Navi Mumbai and launched in September  2014, it has completed two batches of the programme with  a total of 22 startups successfully graduating from the Hub.
PARTNERING FOR RESEARCH AND EXECUTION    RIL is the sole industry partner in the New Millennium  Indian Technology Leadership Initiative (NMITLI)  project with the Council of Scientific and Industrial  Research (CSIR).
RIL has a rigorous screening process for registration of  contractors and include top performing Engineering/  Supervision companies, construction companies,  installation and commissioning service providers, joint  ventures and consortium.
For more information please refer page no.
118.
C. RISK AND GOVERNANCE “Reliance’s Enterprise Risk Management manages risk through Risk Management framework to safeguard its stakeholders and to achieve  its business objective.
It has robust mitigation strategy in place to ensure continuity in an environment driven by Volatile, Uncertain,  Complex and Ambiguous (VUCA).
” “During the year, significant progress has been made in the three pillars having concentrated effort in a) People, b) Process, Systems and  Data and c) Governance.
Reliance has launched leadership development and an enterprise wide learning and governance framework for  employees which is part of the R-HR transformation.
Reliance has completed world-scale and world-class integrated Systems.
This year it  went Live for  Hydrocarbons business and sites.
Reliance has a comprehensive Reliance Management System, a holistic set of management  systems, organisational structures, processes, policies and governance framework.
Reliance business transformation is in a state to cater  next level of exponential growth in VUCA environment.
” LAXMIDAS V.  MERCHANT NIKHIL R. MESWANI HARISH SHAH  Annual Report 2015-16 124 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT 1.
INTRODUCTION   Reliance actively stimulates entrepreneurship throughout  the organisation and encourages its people to identify and  seize opportunities.
The current economic environment  in combination with significant growth ambitions of the  Reliance Group carries with it an evolving set of risks.
Reliance recognises that these risks need to be managed to  protect its customers, employees, shareholders and other  stakeholders to achieve its business objectives and enable  sustainable growth.
Risk and opportunity management is  therefore a key element of the overall Reliance strategy.
This  section provides an overview of the key strategic risks, the  Reliance risk and control framework and its approach to risk  management.
2.
CREATING VALUE THROUGH RISK MANAGEMENT   Reliance operates in diverse industries and global markets  and therefore requires a balanced approach to risk  management.
The Company’s risk management framework  encompasses internal control in an integrated manner and  is tailored to the specific Reliance segments, businesses  and functions.
It takes into account various factors such as  the size and nature of the inherent risks and the regulatory  environment of the individual business segment or  operating company.
This framework undergoes continuous  improvements to allow Reliance management to optimise  its management of risk exposures while taking advantage of  business opportunities.
3.
RELIANCE’S VIEW ON RISK 3.1  RISK APPETITE   Reliance’s risk appetite is linked to its strategic approach and  is based on the stance it has taken across four areas:    Strategic and Commercial:  Reliance manages strategic  risk in the pursuit of profitable growth in both mature  and emerging markets.
Given the volatile markets and  economic climate in which it operates, the adaptability  of its people, its service offering and its infrastructure  are key.
Safety and Operations:  Reliance is committed to  conduct all its activities in such a manner as to avoid  harm to employees and the community.
Reliance strive  to deliver safe, reliable and compliant operations.
Compliance and Control:  Compliance with laws and  regulations is fundamental to maintaining its license  to operate in the various industries that it operates  in.
Reliance also believes that accurate and reliable  information provides a competitive advantage and is  key to effective management of its business.
It therefore  accepts minimal risk in relation to reporting risks.
Financial:  Reliance manages financial risk to maintain  a prudent financing strategy, even when undertaking  major investment and therefore taking controlled risks  in this area.
3.2  RISK FACTORS   Reliance emphasises on those risks that threaten the  achievement of business objectives of the Group over  the short to medium-term.
As part of its annual planning  process, Reliance review the principal risks and uncertainties  to the group.
It identifies those as having a high priority for  particular oversight by the board and its various committees.
An overview of these risks is provided hereafter, including  the actions taken to mitigate these risks and any related  opportunities:  I.
STRATEGIC AND COMMERCIAL RISKS  a.
Commodity Prices and markets    Reliance’s financial performance is subject to the  fluctuating prices of crude oil and gas and downstream  petroleum products.
Prices of oil and gas products  are affected by supply and demand, both globally  and regionally.
Factors that influence fluctuations in  crude prices and crude availability include operational  issues, natural disasters, political instability, economic  conditions and Government pricing policy of   petroleum products among others.
Mitigation: Since Reliance operates an integrated  hydrocarbon business, some of these risks can be  offset by gains in other parts of the Group.
To mitigate  the risks resulting from non-availability of crude and  feedstock, Reliance has a diversified crude sourcing  strategy from multiple geographies (Asia, the Middle  East, West Africa, Latin/ South America and North Africa)  under both short-term and long-term arrangements.
In addition, Reliance has put in place commodity risk  management policies which provide the framework  for decision making with respect to exposures from  commodity trading positions.
b.
Major Project Execution Risk    Reliance’s future growth plans depend upon successful  delivery of major capital projects.
Major capital projects  include the Jamnagar expansion project (cracker,  gasification etc.
), which is designed to deliver a step  change in energy costs and increase the production  capacity of ethylene and other downstream products  at the complex, as well as the launch of a pan India  telecom infrastructure to provide 4G LTE TDD high  speed wireless internet and mobile communication  services.
Delivery of these major projects is key to  Reliance’s future financial performance.
Managing the  risks related to the delivery of these and other major  125 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis capital projects is key to enhancing Reliance’s long- term shareholder value.
Mitigation: Project risk management is embedded in  the way Reliance delivers projects.
These includes a  specialised project delivery function with experienced  project management professionals, project risk  modelling on a project-by-project basis, partnering  with experienced vendors to execute complex projects  and ongoing review and escalation of issues that  undermine project success.
II.
SAFETY AND OPERATIONAL RISKS  a.
Evolving Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) risks    Reliance is exposed to a wide spectrum of HSE risks,  given the diversity and complexity of the industries,  it operates in.
The exploration and production of oil  and gas, transportation of the hydrocarbons and  their further refining and processing is regulated by  various HSE related regulations across the geographies  where Reliance operates.
A major HSE incident, such  as fire, oil spill, security breach can result in loss of life,  environmental degradation and overall disruption in  business activities.
Mitigation: Reliance follows an HSE policy that ‘Safety  of persons overrides all production targets’ , which  incentivises all employees to strive for excellence in  safety management for the benefit of its employees,  customers and the communities.
Reliance has set itself  the goal of ‘zero injuries and incidents‘ .
A separate  Safety and Operational Risk (S&OR) function provides  oversight on HSE exposures and periodically conducts  HSE audits to get assurance on the HSE management  framework protocols and regulatory compliances.
b.
Physical Security and Natural Calamity risks    Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm the  Company’s people and disrupt its operations.
Some of  Reliance’s sites are also subject to natural calamities  such as floods, cyclones, lighting and earthquakes.
If  the company does not respond, or is perceived to not  respond, in an appropriate manner to either an external  or internal crisis, its business and operations could be  severely disrupted.
Inability to restore or replace critical  capacity to an ag reed level within an agreed time frame  would prolong the impact of any disruption and could  severely affect Reliance’s business and operations.
Mitigation: Reliance monitor for emerging threats  and vulnerabilities to manage its physical security.
The  Company’s central security function provides guidance  and support to a network of security heads at the  various sites who advise and conduct assurance with  respect to the management of security risks affecting  its people and operations.
To respond to natural calamities Reliance maintains  disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity  management plans to respond to a disruption or an  incident.
c. Cybersecurity risk    At Reliance, the use of information and  telecommunication technologies is increasing, resulting  in greater security threats to its digital infrastructure.
A  breach of its digital security or disruptions to its digital  infrastructure, due to intentional actions, such as cyber- attacks or human error could lead to serious impacts  to its businesses.
These impacts may include injury to  staff, loss of control, impact on continuity or damage to  assets and services, harm to the environment, the loss  of sensitive data or information, legal and regulatory  breaches and reputational damage.
Mitigation: Reliance continues to strengthen its  responses to cybersecurity threats through proactive  and reactive risk mitigations.
These include, proactive  activities to continuously improve its cybersecurity  policies, standards, technical safeguard, ongoing  monitoring of new and existing threats and IT  security awareness initiatives.
Its reactive responses  to cybersecurity threats, which include IT disaster  recovery, emergency response and business continuity  management capabilities to enable the reduction of  the impacts of a cybersecurity event.
III.
COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL RISKS   Regulatory compliance risks    The evolution of the global regulatory environment  has resulted into increased regulatory scrutiny that  has raised the minimum standards to be maintained  by Reliance.
This signifies the alignment of corporate  performance objectives, while ensuring compliance  with regulatory requirements.
Mitigation: Reliance recognises that regulatory  requirements can at times be challenging.
A  comprehensive compliance management framework  has been deploy ed which is designed to:     Understand changes to regulatory standards in  a timely manner to strengthen decision making  processes and integrate these in the business  strategy of each of the industries in which it  operates; Annual Report 2015-16 126 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Drive business performance through the  convergence of risk, compliance processes  and controls mechanisms to ensure continued  operational efficiency and effectiveness.
IV.
FINANCIAL RISKS   Treasury risks    Treasury risks include, among others, exposure to  movements in interest rates and foreign exchange  rates.
Reliance also maintains sufficient liquidity, so  that it is able to meet its financial commitments on  due dates and is not forced to obtain funds at higher  interest rates.
It has access to markets worldwide and  it uses a range of products and currencies to ensure  that its funding is efficient and well diversified across  markets and investor types.
Interest Rate risk     Reliance borrows funds from domestic and  international markets to meet its long-term and  short-term funding requirements.
It is subject to  risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates.
Mitigation: The interest rate risk is managed  through financial instruments available to convert  floating rate liabilities into fixed rate liabilities or  vice versa, and is aimed at reducing the cost of  borrowings.
Foreign Exchange risk     Reliance prepares its financial statements in  Indian Rupee (INR), but most of the payables and  receivables of hydrocarbon business are in US  Dollars, minimising the cash flow risk on account  of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Reliance  avails long-term foreign currency liabilities  (primarily in USD, EURO and JPY) to fund its capital  investments.
Reliance also avails short-term foreign currency  liabilities to fund its working capital.
Mitigation: Foreign exchange risk is tracked and  managed within the risk management framework.
Short-term foreign currency asset – liability  mismatch is continuously monitored and hedged.
The foreign exchange market is highly regulated  and Reliance ensures compliance with all the  regulations.
4.
HOW RELIANCE MANAGES RISK   Reliance manages, monitors and reports on the principal  risks and uncertainties that can impact its ability to achieve  its strategic objectives.
The Company has established  the Reliance Management System (RMS) as part of its  transformation agenda.
RMS incorporates an integrated  framework for managing risks and internal controls.
The internal financial controls have been documented,  embedded and digitised in the business processes.
Internal controls are regularly tested for design and  operating effectiveness.
Reliance’s management systems,  organisational structures, processes, standards, code  of conduct and behaviours together form the RMS that  governs how Reliance conducts its business and manage  associated risks.
Reliance has introduced several improvements to integrate  Risk Management, Internal Control and Assurance processes  based on the three lines of defence principle to drive a  common integrated view of risks, optimal risk mitigation  responses and efficient management of risk monitoring and  assurance activities.
This integration is enabled by common  methodologies and processes supported by a single Group  wide IT platform.
Reliance’s risk management framework is designed to be a  simple, consistent and clear framework for managing and  reporting risks from the Group’s operations to the Board.
The  framework and related processes seek to avoid incidents  and maximise business outcomes by allowing management  to:   Understand the risk environment and assess the specific  risks and potential exposure for Reliance.
Determine how to deal best with these risks to manage  overall potential exposure.
Manage the identified risks in appropriate ways.
Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the  management of these risks and intervene for improvement  where necessary.
Report up the management chain to the board on a periodic  basis about how risks are being managed, monitored,  assured and the improvements that are being made.
GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Group Risk Management Framework is designed to help  ensure risk management is an integral part of the way that  Reliance works everywhere to enable risks to be identified,  assessed and managed appropriately.
The Group Risk  Management Framework comprises 3 levels:   Oversight and Governance  - Reliance’s Board, along  with executive and functional leadership have articulated  an absolute commitment of the Group to effective risk  management and provides oversight to identify and  understand significant risks.
They also put in place systems  of risk management, compliance and control to mitigate  127 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis these risks.
Dedicated Executive sub-committees review and  monitor group risks throughout the year with the respective  risk owners to drive a risk management culture.
Reliance’s Group Risk team analyses the Group’s risk profile  and maintains the Group Risk Management Framework.
Its Group Audit team provides independent assurance  to the Board, through its Committees, over whether the  Group’s system of risk management and internal control is  adequately designed and operating effectively to respond  appropriately to the risks that are significant to Reliance.
Business and Strategic Risk Management - Through  Business Risk and Assurance Committees (BRAC), Reliance  businesses and functions integrate risk into key business  processes such as strategy, planning, performance  management, resource and capital allocation and project  appraisal.
The BRAC’s do this by collating risk data,  assessing risk management activities, reviewing near misses  and incidents through root cause analysis followed by  implementation of required improvements.
Day-to-day Risk Management  - Management and staff at  Reliance’s facilities, assets and functions identify and manage  risk, promoting safe, compliant and reliable operations.
For  example, Reliance’s Group-wide Operating Management  System (OMS) integrates Reliance requirements on  health, safety, security, environment, social responsibility,  operational reliability and related issues.
These Reliance  requirements, along with business needs and the applicable  legal and regulatory requirements, underpin the practical  plans developed to help reduce risk and deliver strong,  sustainable performance.
OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNANCE RIL BOARD Executive Team CHAIRMAN Day to Day Risk Management Group Risk Categories and Group Risks  Risk Reporting , Monitoring and Assurance Business and Functional Leaders Line and Function Self Veri/f_ication - 1st Line of Defence Functional Assurance - 2nd Line of Defence Audit Committee Risk  Management Committee Finance Committee HSE Committee HR Nomination and  Remuneration  Committee Stakeholders Relationship  Committee CSR and  Governance Committee Code of Conduct Operating  Management System People Management System Financial Management  System GADC - Group Audit and Disclosures Committee GFRC - Group  Financial Risk  Committee GPC - Group  People Committee GORC - Group  Operational Risk Committee GCC - Group  Compliance  Committee GCSR - Group  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Group Risk Business Risk and Assurance Committees Enterprise wide risk views to inform key business decisions Embedded Risk  Manager Network Group Audit Business and Strategic Risk Management Annual Report 2015-16 128 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
SMART TRANSFORMATION AT RELIANCE (STAR)  Reliance has been working to deliver a large scale, multi-year  business transformation programme called STAR.
The STAR programme is an integral part of Reliance’s strategy  to build competitive advantage and use technology for its  benefit.
This programme has seen concentrated efforts on  three pillars:-  1)   People –  Create a new set of leaders who retain the  best elements of what makes Reliance distinctive  and take its business forward with new energy and  entrepreneurship.
2)  Processes Systems and Data  – Create an integrated,  end-to-end digital chain to provide real-time  information and to extract full value from existing  assets along with quick integration and monetisation  of new lines of business and acquisitions  3)  Governance  – To provide continuous assurance to all  stakeholders.
Strategy People Processes, Systems and Data Governance Goals and  Outcomes STAR Programme Please refer to Strategic Framework and Outcome on page no.
24-25 PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR During the last year, Reliance worked extensively on completing  transformation initiatives and made significant progress.
The  following are the highlights: 1.
PEOPLE   Reliance continued to implement some of the most  contemporary practices and processes across the entire  employee life cycle.
The ‘R-university’ which is a single  employee learning entity has been set up to take the  quality of learning and development programs to the next  level.
It has been able to significantly deepen its leadership  bench strength across businesses and functions.
Decision  rights have been delegated, systems have been simplified  and digitally enabled.
Its “One Reliance” philosophy has  allowed Reliance employees to own their careers.
The  recent focus has been on implementing new leadership  development and learning programs.
In support of this,  Reliance has created various Learning Academies to ensure  knowledge management and access to world class training  opportunities for its employees.
Reliance believes that all these initiatives will help it to   continue being among the leaders in the “Best Companies  to Work For” and to attract world class talent.
2.
PROCESSES, SYSTEMS AND DATA   Reliance has now completed world-scale and world-class  integrated Systems Go-Live for Hydrocarbons business  and sites.
It has made substantial progress to automate  processes, reduce manual effort and to improve controls  and transparency through an end-to-end digital chain.
Reliance started with the aim of seamlessly integrating  systems, enabling all of its processes.
To achieve this it  mapped all key processes in detail.
These processes were  then integrated, optimised and digital technology enabled  through a series of major system implementation.
3.
GOVERNANCE   Reliance has put in place a comprehensive Reliance  Management System (RMS), a holistic set of management  systems, organisational structures, processes and  requirements.
It believes that RMS has substantially enabled  it to become a more systematic and simpler company with  extensive digitisation.
The RMS shall enable a still more  evolved governance and risk assurance framework for  Reliance through its three key core elements: Operating  Management System (OMS), Financial Management System  (FMS) and People Management System (PMS).
All of Reliance’s STAR actions have delivered the foundation  and platform to ensure that it is ready to enhance  shareholder, societal, customer and employee value on a  continuous basis.
FOCUS FOR NEXT YEAR  The focus for FY 2016-17 will be to further build upon the  foundation that Reliance has created through successful  implementation of STAR Transformation projects.
129 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Some of the major awards and recognitions conferred during FY 2015-16 are: 1 2 3 4 1)  Government of India honours RIL’s visionary founder Shri.
Dhirubhai Ambani with the Padma Vibhushan 2)  RIL’s Chairman and Managing Director, Shri.
Mukesh D. Ambani was awarded the prestigious Othmer Gold Medal by  Chemical Heritage Foundation, USA 3) Shri.
Mukesh D. Ambani was elected as a Foreign Members of the prestigious US National Academy of Engineering 4) Smt.
Nita M. Ambani named the most powerful businesswoman in Asia by Forbes  LEADERSHIP   Government of India honours RIL ’s visionary founder   Shri Dhirubhai Ambani with Padma Vibhushan.
Chairman and MD Shri Mukesh D. Ambani elected as a  Foreign Member of the prestigious US National Academy of  Engineering.
Chairman and MD Shri.
Mukesh D. Ambani awarded  the prestigious Othmer Gold Award for Entrepreneurial  Leadership.
Reliance Foundation Chairperson Smt.
Nita M. Ambani has  been named the most powerful businesswoman in Asia   by Forbes.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   Won the ‘Best Corporate Social Responsibility Practices  Award’ and the ‘Best use of CSR practices in Manufacturing  Award’ in the Asia Best CSR Practices Awards event.
Won the ‘Global CSR Excellence and Leadership Award’  2016 under the ‘Best use of Corporate Social Responsibility  Practices’ under the category of the Manufacturing sector.
HIV and TB Control Centre, Hazira honoured with the ‘Best  ART (Anti-Retroviral Therapy) Centre Award’ .
Awarded the ‘Gold Award’ for the 5th CSR Greentech Award.
Awarded the prestigious ‘Porter Prize 2015’ for “its  outstanding contribution to the society to meet the basic  human needs, establishing blocks that allow communities to  sustain quality of life and creating conditions for individuals  to reach their potential” .
Awarded the internationally acclaimed ‘Golden Peacock  Award 2015’ for Corporate Social Responsibility.
Nepal Red Cross Society appreciated the Foundation for its  relief measures after the earthquake shattered thousands of  lives in the country.
RIL has won the ‘Platts Global Energy Award’ in the   Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) category.
QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE   Won ‘Par Excellence Award’ at the National Convention on  Annual Report 2015-16 130 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Continued) Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Quality Concepts, NCQC 2015, organised by Quality Circle  Forum of India, QCFI.
Received 6 Gold awards at the Regional Convention on  Quality Concepts organised by QCFI.
Won the ‘Quality Achievements Award’ under GOLD  Category for outstanding efforts to improve achievements  in Quality management at the convention organised by  ESQR (European Society for Quality Research).
Quality Circle teams received Gold award for both quality  circle teams at 26 th  Quality Convention Centre organised by  QCFI, VCCQC 2015.
Quality Circle teams received Gold Award at 3 rd  Annual  Quality Convention organised by QCFI ACCQC 2015.
Won ‘Lean and Six Sigma Excellence Award’ 2015 (LSSEA  2015) organised by Symbiosis Centre for Management and  Human Resource Development (SCMHRD).
Awarded ‘Rama Krishna Bajaj National Quality Award  (Certificate of Merit)’ for process, systems, quality and   service delivery to the customers.
Won the First Prize in Vardhman Quality Navigator Award  (Large Business Category) at the 10 th  North - West QualTech  Awards.
HEAL TH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT   Received ‘14 th  Annual Greentech Safety Award 2015’ .
Awarded ‘Rashthra Vibhushan Gold Award 2015’ towards  Health Excellence.
Awarded ‘6 th  Annual Greentech Environment Gold Award  2015’ in Textile Sector for Outstanding Achievement in  Environment Management.
Won the ‘Best Environment Friendly Project’ at the CSR  Leadership Awards 2016.
Won the ‘YES Bank - Saevus Natural Capital Awards - Eco  Corporate of the Year’ .
‘Greentech Environment Gold Award’  2015 in Textile Sector  for outstanding achievement in Environment Management.
Received ‘Gold Award’ in ‘Petrochemical’ and ‘Textile Sector’  respectively, in the 16 th  Annual Greentech Environment  Award 2015, for outstanding achievement in Environmental  Management.
ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION /  EFFICIENCY   Awarded ‘I.C.C.
Award for Excellence in Energy Conservation  and Management’ .
‘Refinery Petrofed Award’ of the Year 2014.
Awarded ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit Award’ at the CII  National Energy Efficiency Summit.
Won ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit’ award on national level  for outstanding achievement in Energy Management for  the year 2014-15 by Confederation of Indian Industries (CII),  Hyderabad.
Won ‘National Energy Conservation Award’ 2015 in  Petrochemical Sector by Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE),  Ministry of Power, Government of India (GoI), New Delhi.
RETAIL   Reliance Digital retains No.1 position as ‘CDIT Retail Brand’ in  the Brand Equity Economic Time survey.
Reliance Digital was awarded the ‘Retail Leadership Award  2015’ - India Retail Awards 2015.
Awarded ‘Retail Professional of the Year’ (Brian Bade),  Consumer Durable Retailer of the year by Franchisee India.
Received ‘Golden Mikes 2015’ bronze award for the “Best  Radio Commercial” .
Awarded the ‘Most Admired Retailer’ of the Year - Employee  Practice by IMAGES Retail Awards 2015.
Great Place to Work® Institute and Retailers Association of  India (RAI) have recognised Marks and Spencer India as the   6 th  ‘Best Company to Work for’ in retail industry this year.
Marks and Spencer India employee Mr. Velu M wins the gold  award for ‘Customer Service Excellence’ at the 5 th  Annual  TRRAIN Retail Awards.
Awarded the ‘Green Initiative in Supply Chain and  Logistics’ , Scale Awards 2015 by Confederation of Indian   Industry (CII).
Reliance Footprint wins ‘ABP Business Excellence’ award for  brand excellence in fashion and lifestyle category.
Awarded the ‘Footwear Retailer’ of the year by CMO Asia  Retail Excellence Awards 2015.
Received an award in the mid-design category in the  inaugural Retail Jewellery Guild Awards 2015.
SUSTAINABILITY   Winner of ‘Golden Peacock Global Award for Sustainability’  for the year 2015.
Corporate Excellence - Commendation for Significant  Achievement, CII-ITC Sustainability Awards 2015.
CII sustainable plus ratings – Platinum rating.
131 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 Management’s Discussion and Analysis GLOSSARY  REFINING AND MARKETING 1 Liquefied Natural Gas  (LNG) Natural gas which, after processing, has been liquefied to or at below its point of boiling and at or  near atmospheric pressure for storage and transportation.
2.
Corrosion Under  Insulation (CUI)  Inspection Inspection for external corrosion of equipment and piping by water trapped under thermal  insulation.
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION 1.
Eagle Ford Formation ~89 million years old sedimentary rock formation underlying much of South Texas in the United  States, rich in organic matter and all form of hydrocarbon i.e.
oil, condensate and gas.
2.
Marcellus Formation Organic rich marine shale formed ~382 million years ago and found in eastern North America,  yields primarily gas.
3.
Condensate Low vapour pressure hydrocarbons obtained from natural gas through condensation or extraction  and refer solely to those hydrocarbons that are liquid at normal surface temperature and pressure  conditions.
4.
Conventional oil Conventional oil and gas refers to petroleum, or crude oil, and raw natural gas extracted from the  ground by conventional means and methods.
5.
Unconventional oil Petroleum produced or extracted using techniques other than the conventional method, as well  as the types of rock from which the oil and natural gas are produced.
Examples include Shale Gas,  Coal Bed Methane etc.
6.
Drill Stem Test A DST is a procedure for isolating and testing the pressure, permeability and productive capacity  of a geological formation during the drilling of a well.
7.
Preliminary Front End  Engineering Design  (Pre FEED)   FEED is an engineering design approach used to control project expenses and thoroughly plan a  project before a fix bid quote is submitted.
DIGITAL SERVICES 1.
Long Term Evolution  (L TE) A standard for wireless communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data terminals.
2.
Internet Protocol (IP)  network The principal communications protocol for internet.
Network based on these protocols are often  referred to as IP Network.
3.
Spectrum Airwaves which carry signal/data on a given frequency or band.
4.
Evolved Node B  (eNodeB) An element of a LTE Radio Access Network.
5.
Fiber to the Home  (FTTH/X) Last mile connectivity of optical fibre from a central point directly to individual buildings such as  homes/businesses to provide very high-speed Internet access.
Annual Report 2015-16 132 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
“The Company’s vision is to create value for the nation, enhance quality of life across the entire socio-economic spectrum and build  an inclusive India.
Reliance endeavours to create replicable and scalable models of development through an integrated approach and  maximising societal value for all.
“   JITENDRA KALRAJAGANNATHA  KUMAR SUDARSHAN SUCHI Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Reliance Group (Reliance) seeks to impact people’s lives through  its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
Its CSR policy  is aimed at improving lives, living and livelihood for a stronger  and inclusive India.
Central to its philosophy is the commitment  to enhance the quality of life of people from marginalised and  vulnerable communities, by empowering them and catalysing  change through innovative and sustainable solutions.
The  Company’s CSR initiatives are guided by three core principles  of Scale, Impact and Sustainability.
These initiatives are aimed  at promoting equitable economic growth and ensuring a more  sustainable, inclusive and people-centric development.
Reliance  has undertaken its initiatives in compliance with Schedule VII of  the Companies Act, 2013.
Most of these initiatives are conducted under the aegis of  the Reliance Foundation, an umbrella organisation for the  Company’s social sector initiatives.
These initiatives happen to be  in conformity with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),  outlined in the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development.
Reliance focuses on ushering in change through  the following focus areas:  Beneficiaries of Reliance’s initiative Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 133 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147  Rural Transformation (RT) –  Reliance works towards  bridging the developmental gap between rural ‘Bharat’  and urban ‘India’ by improving livelihoods and addressing  poverty, hunger and malnutrition.
The programme design  is distinguished by two unique features.
First, it is a holistic  intervention for transformation driven by community  aspiration goals and second, it has been grounded with some  of the most marginal communities of India.
The programme  aims at improving farm and non-farm livelihoods through  the promotion of sustainable agricultural practices, setting  up rain-water harvesting structures and institution building.
Furthermore, Reliance’s Information Services provide  validated and timely information to farmers, fisherfolk  and livestock owners for taking right decisions to improve  income and livelihood and also avert avoidable risks.
These  initiatives help build capacities of communities to promote  peaceful and inclusive societies and ensure long-term  sustainable development.
Environment (En) –  Reliance focuses on promoting  environmental sustainability through initiatives towards  enhancing ecological balance, promoting biodiversity,  conserving natural resources and promoting renewable  energy.
Additionally, efforts have been made to maintain  the quality of soil, air and water.
Health (He) –  Reliance provides affordable solutions for  quality healthcare through improved access to healthcare  services and spreading awareness.
The outcomes of  healthcare related initiatives include providing access to  quality primary and secondary care services to the deprived  population, conducting need-based health camps and  providing consultation and medicine, amongst others.
Efforts have been made to ensure better maternal and  child healthcare services and improve delivery through  innovative research programmes.
Through the Drishti  programme, Reliance has worked with the visually impaired.
Education (Ed) –  Reliance seeks to provide quality  education, training and skill enhancement to improve the  quality of living and livelihood.
The Company focuses on  promoting primary and secondary education, enabling  higher education through scholarships, promoting higher  education through setting up and supporting universities  and skill development through vocational training.
Sports for Development (SD) –  Reliance focuses on using  sports as a medium to encourage learning and inculcate  leadership amongst the youth.
The programme uses sports  and activities as a tool for development to bring about  positive change.
Under this initiative, talented young  students are groomed further to build their skills in sports.
Disaster Response (DR) –  Reliance works towards  organising timely relief and rehabilitation of communities  affected by natural calamities.
Efforts are also made to build  capacities of local communities to cope with disasters and  develop expertise and resources to respond to it in a timely  manner.
Arts, Culture and Heritage (A&C) –  The initiative towards  protecting Indian Arts, Culture and Heritage is aimed at  supporting and promoting artists and craftsmen, preserving  traditional art and handicraft and documenting India’s  rich heritage for the benefit of future generations.
Various  promotional and developmental projects and programmes  have been conducted.
Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre Reliance’s CSR policy is  aimed at improving lives,  living and livelihood for a  stronger and inclusive India.
For more information please refer CSR policy http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 134 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Environment En  Over 5 lakh health consultations provided to patients  through Reliance managed hospitals, mobile and static  medical units and various health camps (over 35 lakh since  inception).
8,480 women were screened for anemia, of which 3,165   women were diagnosed and received treatment for it (over  12,000 women screened, of which 4,900 received treatment  since inception).
A total of 12,283 children were screened for malnutrition  and 1,459 received follow-up treatment for it.
689 corneal transplants (14,728 since inception) supported  under the Drishti Programme.
675 cataract surgeries were supported under eye care  services.
Through 27 Community Health Workers, over 1,000  pregnant women were enrolled for antenatal and postnatal  care services.
Over 500 patients were provided free  consultation,  counselling, investigation and treatment for HIV/AIDS (over  8,000 patients since inception).
Water harvesting structures created to collect 103 lakh  cubic metres of rainwater (nearly 550 lakh cubic metres  since inception).
Water harvesting and conservation efforts resulted in  bringing 4,726 Ha under irrigation (20,590 Ha since  inception).
Over 5.4 lakh saplings were planted to preserve the  environment (nearly 120 lakh since inception).
THROUGH THE INITIATIVES MENTIONED ABOVE, RELIANCE HAS ACHIEVED THE FOLLOWING RESUL TS IN   FY 2015-16:  Livelihoods of more than 19 lakh farmers and fisherfolks  enhanced with support from Reliance (over 20 lakh since  inception).
More than 97,000 individuals benefited from 2,982  interactive programmes on health, agriculture and  livelihoods (over 2 lakh benefited from 6,789 interactive  programmes since inception).
31 additional Village Farmers Associations were formed  during FY 2015-16 and 3,000 marginal households were  enrolled.
(Since inception, more than 500 Village Farmers  Associations, with 48,500 marginal households have been  positively impacted through various sustainable agriculture  initiatives).
6,749 Ha of land was brought under improved cultivation  (53,934 Ha since inception).
Over 17,000 people supported to reach nutrition self- sufficiency (nearly 1.5 lakh since inception).
Rural Transformation RT Health H e Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 135 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147  687 meritorious students were given scholarships to pursue  higher studies (over 12,000 since inception).
Quality education was provided to 85,000 students through  six ‘Education for All’ NGOs (70,000 students) and 13  Reliance Foundation Schools (15,000 students).
Engaged with over 19 lakh youth (over 28 lakh since  inception) across 18 cities who were encouraged to adopt  healthy and active lifestyle by integrating basketball into  their physical education curriculum.
23 children were awarded scholarships under Young  Champs programme for developing football abilities.
Sports for Development initiatives in rural areas reached  out to more than  3,000 children through various events.
The relief activities covered seven districts and 218 villages  in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
Lives of 1,46,510 individuals were impacted  through  disaster relief by providing various relief materials (2.8 lakh  individuals since inception).
Extended support to the annual concert, “Abbaji” , organised  by Ustad Zakir Hussain in the memory of his father,  Ustad Allah Rakha Khan.
This concert featured renowned  musicians who came together to pay tribute to the  legendary Guru.
Education Sports for Development Disaster Response Arts, Culture and Heritage Ed SD DR A&C Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 136 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
CSR Expenditure      (in ` crore) FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 FY 2011-12 Rural Transformation 107 127 166 74 24 Health 314 608 417 141 91 Education 215 18 80 67 75 Sports for Development 9 4 1 -- -- Others 7 4 48 69 61 Total 652 761 712 351 251 Sustainable development is one of the key principles of Reliance’s CSR.
Reliance’s initiatives are aligned towards five broad dimensions  of sustainability, viz., Planet, People, Products and Processes, Prosperity and Peace and Partnerships.
Following sections provide the  activities in line with these five dimensions.
DR A&CEnRT Ed SDHe 1 Planet The key activities conducted during the year include water  harvesting and conservation, provision of clean drinking water  to villages and trainings on sanitation, energy conservation,  environment protection and cleanliness.
WATER SECURITY Reliance made a modest contribution by investing in building  capacities of communities to harvest and conserve water.
This  has been achieved by building water harvesting and conserving  structures, blending modern technologies with local situations  and identifying needs in partnership with the community.
Reliance has initiated water security initiatives in almost each of  the 500 plus villages it engages with.
Over 107 villages have been  made water secure for drinking water while 46 of these villages  are fully secure for both agricultural and drinking needs.
Since  inception, 550 lakh cubic meters of rainwater harvesting and  storage capacities (103 lakh cubic meters this year) have been  created through more than 10,000 structures including earthen  dams, check dams, masonry dams, farm ponds, dugwells, etc.
These structures have not only improved the access to water  and enhanced the agricultural productivity but also helped  in creating ecological balance.
Besides this, for effective use  and management of water,  ‘water user groups’ have also been  formed.
Currently, 5,211 farmers are part of the water user groups.
Among other initiatives, hand pumps, submersible pumps,  pipeline distribution systems and potable water storage tanks  have been installed across different locations.
Safe drinking  water was provided to about 58,500 people across locations.
Additionally, 58 reverse osmosis plants were provided to villages  in and around Kakinada and Jamnagar.
Case Study Water for prosperity Reliance supported the construction of ‘Gafa Earthen Dam’  in Fuljhar village near Jasdan city of Gujarat, with a water  storage capacity of 5.54 lakh cubic meters.
The dam has  supported two villages – Fuljhar and Sompipliya, benefiting  158 households and 221 Ha of land irrigation.
Even with  less  rainfall this year, the dam has harvested and conserved  adequate water to avoid any drought situation.
The dam  has also changed the cropping pattern to enable farmers to  grow non-kharif crops and increase crop yield.
Overall, the  reservoir has brought significant change to the ecosystem as  well as to the economic wellbeing of farmers.
550 lakh cubic meters of water  storage capacity created since  inception Water conservation in a check dam at Moyari, Chhindwara,  Madhya Pradesh  Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 137 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 ENVIRONMENT AND E NERGY Reliance is working relentlessly towards developing more  sustainable and environment friendly business solutions.
Through multiple initiatives, Reliance has undertaken measures  for resource conservation, promotion of biodiversity and the use  of cleaner energy sources.
To promote biodiversity, more than  5.4 lakh (120 lakh since inception) saplings have been planted  across the intervention areas during the year.
In addition, 1.1  lakh metric tonnes of soil was conserved during the year (4.25  lakh metric tonnes since inception).
Reliance celebrated World  Environment Day across project locations to build community  ownership towards conserving biodiversity.
Over 120 lakh saplings have been  planted since inception ‘SWACHH BHARAT’ INITIATIVES In support of the Government of India’s ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ ,  400 volunteers from Jamnagar, Gujarat have pledged towards  ‘clean villages’ .
The volunteers have organised film screenings  and programmes to address issues such as clean environment,  sanitation and personal hygiene; and promote zero open  defecation, water harvesting and reduction in the use of plastics.
In addition, over 1,200 toilets were constructed by leveraging  funds from different government schemes across villages to  enhance the quality of life.
Over 1,200 toilets were constructed  across villages to enhance the  quality of life Impact of Planet Initiatives   Villages serving as models of water harvesting and  conservation  Reduced dependence on rain  Improved biodiversity  Increased productivity  Reinforced sustainable environmental practices  Improved sanitation in rural areas DR A&CEnRT Ed SDHe 2 People Reliance works on various activities for the wellbeing of  different  sections of society.
These activities include providing access to  quality education, access to higher education opportunities  through scholarships, promoting skills in sports, ensuring access  4.25 lakh metric tonnes of soil conserved Information Service G PS Training Programme  Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 138 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
to quality healthcare, providing maternal and child health  services and improving food and nutrition security.
PROMOTION OF EDUCATION DHIRUBHAI AMBANI SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMME The Dhirubhai Ambani Scholarship (DAS) Programme aims  to fulfil late Shri Dhirubhai Ambani’s vision of providing  opportunities to the youth and empowering them towards  becoming future leaders.
Initiated in 1996, the scholarship  is awarded to meritorious students of standard XII to pursue  higher education.
The students are selected based on financial  need and the merit list is provided by the State/ CBSE Board.
During the current year, 464 students including 149 specially- abled students were selected to form the 19 th  Batch of Dhirubhai  Ambani Scholars.
So far, 10,921 students have been supported  under this programme, of which half are girls and one fourth are   specially-abled.
A considerable number of students among these  pursue professional courses like medicine and engineering.
RELIANCE DHIRUBHAI AMBANI PROTSAHAM  SCHEME Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Protsaham Scheme supports  financially poor and meritorious students (Class X pass-outs) from  the East Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh.
Recipient students  of this scheme are provided scholarships to attend junior colleges  of their choice to pursue engineering and medical streams.
A total  of 140 underprivileged meritorious students were selected in the  scheme for the academic year 2015-16 (1,953 since inception).
In addition, 56 and 23 students in Gadimoga and Shahdol  respectively, received scholarships for higher education.
More than 12,000 students  including 2,263 specially-abled  students benefited from the  scholarships since inception DHIRUBHAI AMBANI INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL A school should instil in a child a lifelong love for learning and  knowledge and provide the foundation for holistic development  and excellence.
These aims have been the fundamental   inspiration behind the creation of Dhirubhai Ambani International  School (DAIS), Mumbai.
The school prepares students for the  ICSE, the IGCSE and the IB Diploma Examinations.
It is a member  of the Cambridge International Primary Programme.
Over the  years, the School has achieved highest standards of excellence  on all performance parameters.
In 2015, Education World ranked  DAIS as the No.
1 International School in India for the third  consecutive year, with the School being ranked No.
1 on crucial  parameters of ‘academic reputation’ , ‘leadership/ management  quality’ , ‘teacher welfare and development’ and ‘special needs  education’ .
The Times School Survey 2015, ranked DAIS the No.
1 School in Mumbai in the ‘National + International School’  category.
The students have consistently achieved outstanding results  across all three curricula – the ICSE, the IGCSE and the IB  Diploma.
The 11 th  batch of IB Diploma, the Class of 2015, earned  an average of 40 points (out of the maximum possible score of  45), the highest that the school has ever achieved.
From the Class  of 2015, six students obtained the perfect score of 45 points,  achieved by only 10 students in South Asia and 177 worldwide.
The IB results place DAIS among the world’s top IB schools.
The IB Diploma graduates from the Class of 2015 have earned  admissions in 16 of the top 25 global universities like Oxford,  Cambridge, Stanford, Princeton, Columbia and Brown, to name  a few.
Many top-tier universities have offered scholarships to the  students.
In 2015, 88.84% of all IGCSE grades achieved were A* and A  grades.
Year after year, DAIS’ students have topped the world  and topped in India in several subjects.
In 2015, two students  topped the world in Physics and seven students topped in India  in various subjects.
In 2015, the School’s average ICSE score was  96.19%; all 31 students scored 92% and above and the topper  scored 99.40%.
During 2015, DAIS students won 378 state-level,  35 national and 20 international awards in various sporting and  co-curricular activities.
RELIANCE FOUNDATION SCHOOLS Besides DAIS, Reliance supports 12 more schools located in  Jamnagar, Surat, Vadodara, Lodhivali, Nagothane, Nagpur  and Navi Mumbai.
The schools offer kindergarten to class  12 programmes affiliated to CBSE, Gujarat State Board and  Maharashtra State Board.
During the year, some of these schools  and its students achieved  several recognitions such as 100  Counselling programme for students   of Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Protsaham scheme  Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 139 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 percent result in Class X and XII exams, 100 percent distinctions in  Class XII science stream, a scholarship won in National Financial  Literacy Assessment Test and representation and participation of  students in various sports and development activities.
DAIS ranked as the No.
1 school  by Education World for three  consecutive years EDUCATION FOR SPECIALLY-ABLED CHILDREN Reliance has set up an Early Intervention and Rehabilitation  Centre in Thallarevu, Andhra Pradesh to facilitate and enhance  the development process of children with speech and hearing  impairment.
The Centre provides special training on therapeutic  needs of around 60 children; and is equipped with special  education appliances.
It also provides awareness programmes  on disabilities and training skills for specially-abled children.
JIO SCHOOLS In order to improve the teaching learning processes and quality  of education, Reliance has entered into partnerships with the  Department of Education, Government of Andhra Pradesh and  Government of Gujarat to implement education programmes  through the use of Jio technology.
This programme reached out  to 85 schools in Andhra Pradesh and 10 schools in Gujarat in   FY 2015-16.
Reliance has also extended support to the schools in tribal areas  by setting up computer aided learning centres.
The schools have  been provided with computer systems, necessary infrastructure  and digital classroom content.
Over 3,500 students have been  regularly using the facilities.
Reliance has also helped enhance  education infrastructure by providing necessary furniture at  various locations across India.
RELIANCE UNIVERSITY Work is in progress to set up a globally benchmarked, multi- disciplinary University in Maharashtra.
It will provide an enabling  environment and cutting-edge research facilities.
PANDIT DEENDAYAL PETROLEUM UNIVERSITY Reliance has supported Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University  to further strengthen the institution and conduct additional  programmes.
The University offers multiple courses including  engineering, arts and management.
It provides exposure and  opportunities to its students through various national and  exchange programmes with the best universities worldwide.
PROMOTION OF SPORTS FOR  DEVELOPMENT RELIANCE FOUNDATION JR. NBA The Reliance Foundation Jr. NBA programme is a comprehensive  school-based youth basketball programme, which has reached  over 28 lakh youth across 18 cities in India since 2013.
Through  this collaborative programme, Reliance is committed to ignite  passion in millions of youth to explore and enjoy sports.
The  programme promotes health, fitness and an active lifestyle  through basketball and teaches the values of the game such as  teamwork, sacrifice, discipline, dedication and sportsmanship.
Over 28 lakh youth reached out  through school-based basketball  programme since inception YOUNG CHAMPS PROGRAMME Young Champs is a unique, full scholarship based, full-time  residential football and education programme that aims to  provide aspiring football talents from across country the  opportunity to hone their skills with world-class facilities and  best-in-class training.
Under this programme, 23 children were  awarded scholarships to develop their football skills.
More than  34,500 footballs were distributed to over 6,520 village schools/  youth clubs to promote football in rural areas.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Reliance launched a programme for rural children to bring about  a positive change in attitudes related to education, gender  inclusivity and fitness by engaging children through fun and  play sessions.
More than 2,500 children across 30 villages have  been engaged under this programme in Agar district of Madhya  Pradesh.
The children are given friendly mentoring support from  trained community youth on and off the field on activities such  Early Intervention and   Rehabilitation Centre in Thallarevu  Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 140 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
as hygiene and tree plantation drives.
Additionally, over 850 rural  children participated in sporting activities such as inter-village  tournaments for volleyball, kho-kho and kabaddi.
PROMOTION OF HEAL THCARE HEAL THCARE SERVICES Reliance addresses the primary care needs of the underprivileged  through different static and mobile medical units at selected  locations in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat,  Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
The interventions cater to  the primary and preventive healthcare needs of the rural and  urban poor.
Eight fully-equipped Mobile Medical Units (MMUs) and four Static  Medical Units (SMUs) with state-of-the-art technology, including  cloud-based software to store patient information, serve the  communities.
These services are provided to the disadvantaged  for necessary care at no cost.
More than 5 lakh consultations have been provided during the  year across different locations (over 35.6 lakh since inception),  treating both communicable and non-communicable diseases.
Over 35.6 lakh consultations  provided to patients through  Reliance’s health initiatives since  inception HEAL THCARE DEDICATED TOWARDS WOMEN Reliance, through its mother and child initiative, is working on  women’s health in urban and rural areas with a specific focus  on nutrition and anaemia, pre- and post-natal quality care and  improved menstrual hygiene in adolescent girls.
In the urban  slums of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, services are provided  through the MMUs and SMUs and in rural areas through trained  community health workers.
Health awareness camps for 120  pregnant women and lactating mothers were organised,  focusing on creating awareness on pre- and post-natal care, early  childhood education and preventive steps to be taken against  the spread of seasonal diseases.
Across locations, health and  awareness camps were conducted for pregnant and lactating  mothers for proper maternal and child healthcare.
During the  year, over 1,000 pregnant women were provided with antenatal  and postnatal care services.
Of these, 169 high risk pregnancies  were identified and referred to higher facilities for management  of complications.
In addition, 8,480 women were screened for  anaemia, of which, 3,165 women were diagnosed and received  treatment for it.
Reliance also set up the ‘Adolescent Girls’ Holistic Development  Programme’ which included interactive learning sessions with  500 girls on topics including personal hygiene, healthy diet, etc.
and health screening and a vaccination camp.
DHIRUBHAI AMBANI HOSPITAL  The Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital at Lodhivali near Patalganga, has  provided free or subsidised healthcare to 1,941 patients during   FY 2015-16.
The Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centre of the hospital,  one of the largest, has registered a total of 3,577 persons with  HIV/ AIDS since inception.
220 new persons with HIV/ AIDS were  registered during FY 2015-16.
All these patients have been provided  free consultation, counselling, investigation and treatment.
15,835  consultations were performed at the centre during the year.
Since  inception, this number of consultations stands at 96,144.
SPECIALISED CARE FOR HIV/ AIDS AND  TUBERCULOSIS  The Community Care Centre and Reliance AIDS Care Hospital is  a fully-functional 28-bed hospital that provides diagnostic and  curative services to HIV/ AIDS patients in Hazira, Gujarat.
Over  4,500 infected patients have been admitted to the hospital till  date.
Additionally, the Reliance HIV and Tuberculosis Control  Centre has been established in collaboration with NACO to  provide HIV Counselling, testing and medical treatment at  Hazira.
This centre provides comprehensive diagnosis and  treatment of Tuberculosis under a single roof, operational  through Designated Microscopic Centre (DMC) and DOTS (Direct  Observation Treatment Short course) programme.
This year, 251  tests were done under DMC and 48 patients availed treatment  under DOTS programme.
Since inception, over 3,100 patients  were served through DOTS centre.
Two dedicated ART centres at Hazira, Gujarat and Patalganga,  Maharashtra have reached out to people affected by HIV/ AIDS through more than one lakh patient consultations since  inception.
The centres offer comprehensive care in the form of  counselling, testing and medicines for anti-retroviral therapy.
Marriage bureau was organised at Hazira HIV centre for People  Living with HIV/ AIDS wherein 585 PLHIV participated from  various states including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and  Maharashtra.
DRISHTI: CORNEAL TRANSPLANT  SURGERIES Reliance’s Drishti programme, in association with the National  Association for the Blind (NAB), through a network of 59 hospitals,  supports the visually impaired.
This initiative has brought light  into the lives of thousands of visually impaired underprivileged  people through 14,728 corneal transplants undertaken so far.
Reliance also conducts events to increase awareness about  the importance of eye donation.
During FY 2015-16, around  13,000 people participated in a week long Drishti art and essay  competition.
Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 141 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 COMPREHENSIVE EYE CARE Reliance has set up a number of eye care centres across various  locations.
Specialised  eye camps were set up to cater to villagers  in coastal areas suffering from ‘Fishermen’s Cataract’ due to  exposure to harsh sunlight.
Additionally, a dedicated state-of- the-art ophthalmology Mobile Eye Clinic Facility was launched  in Jamnagar, Gujarat during the year.
The clinic is equipped  to perform eye check-ups, lab tests and dispense medicines.
Through these initiatives, 675 patients were provided cataract  surgeries as well as post surgical health check-ups.
SIR HN RELIANCE FOUNDATION HOSPITAL AND  RESEARCH CENTRE Located in the heart of South Mumbai, the hospital in its 91 st  year, has been completely rebuilt by the Reliance Foundation led  by its Chairperson, Smt.
Nita M. Ambani into a modern 19-storey  tower, including two heritage wings.
Founded in 1925, it is  Mumbai’s first general hospital and enjoys a rich heritage.
This 345-bedded hospital has state-of-the-art operation theatres  (equipped with robotic surgery and online video conferencing,  enabling live consultations with global specialists), India’s first  hybrid cath-lab for emergency heart operations and state-of-  the-art diagnostics facility with Asia’s first new generation CT  scan.
The major thrust areas are Oncology, Neuro Sciences, Cardiac  Sciences, Gynaecology & Paediatrics, Orthopaedic and Urology  & Nephrology.
As a multispecialty hospital, the Hospital offers  medical, surgical and diagnostic services across a wide spectrum  of diseases and disorders.
The Hospital’s charity and free OPD services have been availed by  a number of patients.
In addition, free and concessional treatment  including major surgeries are provided to disadvantaged sections  of society.
The hospital runs on the principle of providing the  same level of treatment for citizens either at the bottom or top  of the pyramid.
The hospital has adopted energy conservation,  water recycling and rainwater harvesting technologies.
PROMOTION OF FOOD AND NUTRITION  SECURITY With an objective to establish self-sufficiency in nutrition for  all rural households, Reliance helped establish small kitchen  gardens (Reliance Nutrition Gardens) to supplement the  nutritional intake of rural households.
In the current year, 3,411  such gardens (29,998 since inception) have been developed to  enhance the nutritional intake of families.
Nearly 30,000 Reliance Nutrition  Gardens positively influenced  nutritional intake since inception RELIANCE PARTNERED TO SET UP PROJECT  ASMAN Reliance joined hands with the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation,  MSD in India, Tata Trust and the United States Agency for  International Development to form Project ASMAN, a first-of-its  kind ‘Continuum of Care – Health Alliance’ in India.
Project ASMAN is aimed at reducing infant, neonatal and  maternal mortality in India by facilitating the availability of  quality healthcare under the five pillars of Government of India’s  Reproductive, Maternal, New-born, Child Health and Adolescent  Health Programme.
ASMAN seeks to create a model to bring   together private players to make significant progress in attaining  the goal of providing healthcare for all.
Additionally, the initiative  aims to steer the nation towards its sustainable development  goals.
OTHER PARTNERSHIPS FOR HEAL THCARE Reliance supported Indian Head Injury Foundation on its mission  to foster the development of a comprehensive brain trauma care  system in India that includes prevention of traumatic brain injury  through awareness, effective provision of pre-hospital care, timely  diagnosis and treatment, and neuro-rehabilitation of head and  spine injury victims.
State-of-the-art facilities at Sir HN Reliance   Foundation Hospital  Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 142 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
With the huge number of deaths occurring due to head injuries  and its associated causes, the support extended has contributed  in preventive measures including awareness campaigns on  road safety, distribution of communication materials, providing  medical and legal aid to poor victims of such incidents, providing  aids and appliances to specially-abled people, conducting first-aid  and primary trauma care courses, etc.
Additionally, Reliance also supported Action for Autism initiative  for the wellbeing of autistic children and support to their parents.
MISSION ZERO MALNOURISHMENT  PROJECT Reliance has set up a public-private partnership programme to  minimise malnourishment among children in Nagothane.
Phase  I was implemented in 22 villages, where paediatric check-ups,  medication and nutritious food support was carried out for 59  malnourished children, who achieved  ‘normal status’ in a period  of 6 months.
There is continuous follow-up with workers and  teachers to start Phase II of the project.
Under the project, Reliance  provided paediatric doctors on a monthly basis for medical   check-ups, free medical support for all kids, nutritious food support  and regular follow-ups and interactions with doctors, anganwadi  teachers and parents.
Reliance is also working towards abating malnourishment  among children in urban slums of Mumbai/ Navi Mumbai as well  as in rural India across several states with a focus on community  ownership.
Services provided include screening, medical check- up, medication, nutritional supplements as well as functional  linkages with anganwadi and nutritional rehabilitation centres.
So far, 12,283 children have been screened under this initiative.
In Mumbai, severely and moderately malnourished children  have shown 14% and 49% improvement rates, respectively.
In  Shahdol, 87.5% of the 249 malnourished children have been  linked to either nutritional rehabilitation centres or anganwadi  centres, of which 21% have shown improvement.
Impact of People Initiatives   Reduced school drop-out rates   Students from marginalised community get access to  better education  Increased participation in sporting activities  Improved access to quality healthcare services DR A&CEnRT Ed SDHe 3 Products and Processes To optimise outcomes, Reliance focuses  on process  improvements and reaches out through technology and  innovation.
Through technology, Reliance aims to create a  multiplier effect for sustainable socio-economic development.
The processes are aimed to bring in ownership at the grassroot  level for sustainability.
PROCESS TO INDUCE MUL TIPLIER EFFECT Reliance spends considerable time and energy in strengthening  the processes at Village Farmer Associations (VFAs).
It works  towards building sustainability through promoting contribution  by the communities and by enabling marginalised communities  to utilise appropriate government schemes.
The practice of  voluntary contribution as decided in the village meetings to  support activities for village development is encouraged.
During  the year, members of VFAs contributed a sum of `7.5 crore   ( `14.7 crore since inception) for their Village Development Fund.
In the current fiscal, a total of `10.3 crore were accessed through  government schemes such as MPLAD funds and other subsidy  schemes available for accessing agricultural implements like  micro irrigation, drip irrigation systems and seeds, among others.
SOIL HEAL TH CARD Reliance has implemented a scheme of soil health cards to help  marginal farmers improve their yield.
Appropriate advice is given  to farmers based on soil tests conducted.
This helps reduce the  input and cost of fertilisers used.
So far, more than 6,800 soil  samples were tested, of which 670 tests were undertaken during  FY 2015-16.
Case Study Healthy soil makes a wealthy farmer Using the soil health card scheme, Sanjay Awachat from  Maharashtra was able to harvest 24 quintals of cotton from  one acre of land as compared to an average of 7-8 quintals  previously.
By incorporating suggestions from the Reliance  team, Mr. Awachat was able to reduce his expenses by one  third.
Thus, while his land productivity went up by three  times, the input costs reduced by one third, resulting in  significant financial savings.
Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 143 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 TECHNOLOGY IN HEAL THCARE Reliance and the University of Chicago have entered into an  innovative collaboration to use technology based education,  training, competency evaluation and clinical decision support.
The collaboration is aimed at improving clinical diagnosis and  supporting doctors in real-time and evidence-based clinical  decision-making.
The programme uses cloud-based software applications to  train medical professionals through virtual patients and state- of-the-art clinical reasoning tools.
These tools will help reduce  diagnostic errors and help in saving many more lives globally.
Through this programme, Reliance aims to enhance access to  quality healthcare in India.
Impact of Products and  Processes Related Initiatives   Ownership of the processes at grassroot level  Technology as a multiplier for sustainable development  Innovative development solutions  Increased productivity DR A&CEnRT Ed SDHe 4 Prosperity Various initiatives were undertaken by Reliance to ensure  economic wellbeing of the population it serves.
Promoting  sustainable agricultural practices was the main focus area,  besides building additional livelihood skills beyond farming.
By practising sustainable agriculture principles and using the  additional skills learnt, communities can earn additional income  throughout the year.
The livelihood trainings provide farmers the  stability in income so that they can, in adverse effects, sustain  their livelihoods in the long-run.
SUSTAINABLE AGRICUL TURAL PRACTICES To ensure food security for marginal farmer households,  Reliance promotes sustainable agricultural practices by building  capacities of communities.
This year, Reliance supported  improving agricultural practices in 6,749 Ha of land for ensuring  food security (53,934 Ha since inception).
Through this initiative,  the marginal farmer households benefited through increased  production and income.
Case Study Sustainable agriculture for enhanced  livelihood Allu Narayamma from GC Palli Village, Andhra Pradesh, had  the responsibility of taking care of her household through  a three-acre plot she owned.
The land was full of boulders  and was uncultivated, as a result it was left fallow for a long  period.
She required aid in converting her wasteland into  productive land.
Reliance, through the Yugandhar VFA,  supported her by providing her trainings on sustainable  agricultural practices.
Through the support from the VFA,  she was able to convert her wasteland into a paddy field and  mango orchard.
Her net income increased from `850 to   `16,450 per month.
She is now seen as an inspiration for  other farmers within the VFA for promoting chemical-free  and eco-friendly farming.
RESIDUAL MOISTURE AS A SOURCE OF  INCOME Residual moisture from riverbeds have been used as a source of  income for farmers in Birhuli village of Shahdol district, Madhya  Pradesh.
The concept was developed during a village meeting  and gained momentum upon a large number of farmers showing  interest.
Reliance provided technical support to the village and  provided seeds to 65 farmers spreading across 21 acres of land.
Healthy soil makes a wealthy farmer  Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 144 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Long melon, cucumber and other cucurbits have been cultivated  using the residual moisture of the riverbed of ‘Son’ river in   Birhuli village.
AGRICUL TURAL FENCING In an effort to increase output, Reliance engaged and supported  small and marginal farmers through fencing their lands from the  raids of wild animals.
This has helped farmers convert wasteland  into agriculturally productive land.
In one of the clusters Jamwa  Ramgarh, Rajasthan, Reliance intervened and helped build  fences of up to 277 kilometres, covering a total land area of  1,818 Ha.
This has resulted in changes in cropping pattern and  increased agricultural productivity.
VERMI-COMPOSTING Reliance has helped farmers generate organic manure through  vermi-composting.
This practice has helped generate valuable  organic fertiliser, reduce the load of waste disposal and avoided  the ill effects of using chemical fertilisers.
The use of vermi  compost has reduced the cost of cultivation for farmers and  increased their income.
INFORMATION SERVICES FOR LIVELIHOOD  ENHANCEMENT   Reliance identifies the needs of rural population, formulates  relevant solutions and implements them with an objective to  enhance rural livelihoods in agriculture, marine fisheries and  other farm and non-farm based activities.
Reliance has set up a knowledge base with partners including  research institutions, line departments, NGOs and knowledge  providers.
The purpose of this partnership is to ensure relevant  information is shared with farmers and fisherfolk who require  and can benefit from it.
The information can help ensure safety  during critical times as well as provide them the edge to enhance  their livelihoods.
The Information Services team of Reliance has partnered  with INCOIS (Indian National Centre for Ocean Information  Services) and IMD (Indian Meteorological Department), the  nodal agencies of MOES (Ministry of Earth Sciences), to provide  critical and valuable information about potential fishing zones  and weather forecasts using satellite imagery.
Information on  weather forecasts helps the fisherfolk decide whether or not to  venture out into the sea and reduces risk to life.
The potential  fishing zone information helps the fisherfolk get larger hauls in  lesser time leading to improved income and time saved.
40,712  unique advisories (73,290 since inception) were successfully  disseminated to more than 19 lakh farmers, fisherfolk and  livestock during the year (over 20 lakh since inception).
T echnology embedded information  reached out to 20 lakh  farmers,  fisherfolk and livestock owners  since inception PLANT CLINICS: PREVENTIVE AND  CURATIVE CARE FOR CROPS Reliance has been supporting farmers through ‘Plant Clinics’ to  reduce costs.
Through these clinics, farmers can gain technical  advice on how to protect and manage their crops.
More than 100  mobile clinics have been conducted across seven states through  which 2,728 farmers benefited.
In addition, over 10 virtual plant  clinics were successfully conducted using the Jio chat app where  farmers send pictures of their diseased plants and get inputs  from agri experts.
2,728 Farmers benefitted from  ‘Plant Clinics’ initiative CRAFT TRAINING CENTRE A Craft Training Centre has been set up in Jamnagar, Gujarat,   specifically to build skills of the rural people on welding, grinding,  fitting and scaffolding.
There is a structured training programme  Skill building activities conducted for women  Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 145 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 in place, managed by experienced trainers.
The classrooms   are equipped with new generation training aids.
During   FY 2015-16, 24,965 individuals were trained in the crafts of  masonry, scaffolding, electrician and plumbing trades.
Reliance set up a skill development centre in Allahabad to  provide free computer education to marginalised students  across villages.
Additionally, in Nagothane, Maharashtra, the  Lakshya Skill Development Programme was set up to train the  youth for pre-examinations in police, army and navy services.
24,965 individuals trained through  the craft training centre  SKILL DEVELOPMENT AMONG RURAL  YOUTH In line with the Skill India Campaign, various initiatives have  been implemented across different sites in order to equip the  youth with necessary skills to ensure employability.
In a pilot  programme on skill building, 100 youth were trained as retail  assistants of which 69 were employed.
More than 1,000 students  were provided functional English supplementary classes to  enhance their spoken and written English.
Eleven stitching  centres were set up in different villages, through which over 200  women were trained.
MISSION RAHAT In times of natural disasters Reliance’s dedicated team manages  relief operations, right from situational assessment to relief  camps, distribution of relief material and construction of  mid-term shelters.
Reliance has the capacity to respond to  disasters in a timely manner and directly engages with affected  communities.
Post relief efforts, it continues to work with the  communities in the areas of livelihood, health and education.
Relief operations were conducted in Tamil Nadu during flash  floods and for drought proofing in Beed, Maharashtra.
Since  inception, Reliance has supported over 2.8 lakh individuals  through disaster relief measures.
Reached out to 2.8 lakh individuals  through disaster relief measures  since inception MISSION RAHAT-TAMIL NADU When the recent northwest monsoon wreaked havoc in Tamil  Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and the union territory of Puducherry;  the cities of Chennai, Thiruvallur, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram,  Nagapattinam and Puducherry were most impacted.
Reliance reached out proactively to a number of affected  villages.
More than 200 volunteers from across Reliance group  rapidly conducted a survey of the inundated areas, assembled  relief kits – containing food for 15 days, blankets, utensils and  toiletries – and supplied them to marooned residents, often  amid knee-deep water.
Over 85,000 individuals were supported   with relief materials including utensils, groceries and drinking  water, among others.
Reliance also organised 13 medical camps wherein 3,471  individuals were treated.
In addition, 17 livestock camps were  conducted treating more than 10,000 animals.
64 Primary Health  Centres (PHCs) were supported through Poly woven medical  disposal bed sheet and mats, towels and bed sheets.
MISSION RAHAT – DROUGHT RELIEF IN  MARATHWADA Beed district of Marathwada region in Maharashtra is the worst  affected district in terms of drought and is infamous for farmer  suicides.
Reliance’s disaster management team has supported  the affected communities in 25 villages of Kaij block of the  district.
So far, it has reached out to over 28,000 individuals.
The programme focuses on ensuring income generation through  livelihood opportunities beyond farming.
Reliance supported  marginal communities in 12 villages for accessing the ongoing  Reviving of a traditional open well  Annual Report 2015-16 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (Continued) 146 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment  Guarantee Act).
This has resulted in generating more than 1.2  lakh wage days for 2,126 families.
The programme also focuses on supply of drinking water.
25  water collection points have been built to ensure drinking water  and its efficient distribution.
In addition, 4 bore wells have been  dug to ensure continuity of drinking water supply to over 4,000  households.
Drought proofing is another strategy that has been  implemented  to find sustainable solutions to severe drought.
9  Dohas have yielded 4 lakh litres of water per day to meet the  drinking water needs of 2,500 households.
13 check dams have  been repaired and desilted to harvest around 17 lakh litres of  rainwater in the upcoming monsoon.
Impact of Prosperity Initiatives   Improved standard of living  Increased yield through dissemination of information  Reduced migration for employment   Ensuring alternate livelihood options for the marginal  households   Rehabilitated disaster-struck families  DR A&CEnRT Ed SDHe 5 Peace and Partnerships Partnerships with various stakeholders are critical to bring  in concerted efforts to address the needs of the community.
Reliance has strategically partnered with oganisations to  broaden its outreach and collaborate to find solutions across  various platforms.
PARTNERSHIPS In addition to direct engagement, Reliance, through its  Foundation has partnered with other technical institutions and  government and non-government organisations, to collaborate  and undertake various programmes in the identified focus areas  of operation.
These partnerships are aimed to bring synergy  with the ongoing national programmes as well as international  commitments like SDGs.
Reliance has collaborated with the National Association for  the Blind for the Drishti programme, Indian Meteorological  Department for weather based bulletins and the CRISIL  Foundation for financial literacy programme for women in  slum areas.
Additionally, Reliance has set up alliances with four  organisations to improve the quality of maternal and child  care.
Some of the partnerships with state governments include  partnering with the Government of Maharashtra for supporting  the Maternal and Child Health Mission and providing technical  support to the Government of Madhya Pradesh for support  in relocation of villages of the Tigris Project.
The Foundation  strongly believes that the combined efforts would significantly  improve the quality of intervention while reaching out to the  marginalised and vulnerable population.
Some of the significant  partners of the Foundation include: 1.
Bill  & Melinda Gates Foundation 2.
CRISIL Foundation 3.
Goat Trust, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 4.
Government of Andhra Pradesh 5.
Jan Vikas, Beed, Maharashtra 6.
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (including regional  Krishi Vigyan Kendras) 7.
Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services 8.
Magic Bus India Foundation  9.
MSD in India 10.
Ministry of Earth Sciences 11.
RedR-India, Pune, Maharashtra 12.
Society of Pollution and Environmental Conservation  Scientists, Dehradun, Uttarakhand  13.
Tata Trust Mission Rahat health camp  Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 147 148 255 256 379 380 396 02 54 55 147 the memory of his father, Ustad Allah Rakha Khan.
This concert  featured renowned musicians who came together to pay tribute  to the legendary Guru.
ART TECH 2016 VELVI ART FOR AUTISM FESTIVAL Reliance brought the popular Art for Autism festival to Mumbai,  where 17 autistic children participated and learned painting  and photography skills.
The festival was centred on the theme,  ‘Combining technology with art’ .
The children were trained in  both, technology assisted art and traditional art forms such as  acting, modelling and photography.
The festival was conducted  by experienced facilitators from India, USA and Australia over  three days.
PARTNERING TO SUPPORT THE SPECIALLY- ABLED Reliance sponsored an Artificial Limbs Mobile Workshop van in  Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh to cater to the needs of the district’s  specially-abled.
The mobile van, equipped with all the necessary equipment  and trained staff, visits remote areas in the district as per a  pre-announced timetable.
The staff cater to the maintenance  needs of the specially-abled, who do not have access to repair  facilities for their prosthetic equipment and mobility aids such as  crutches.
So far, 650 specially-abled people have benefited from  the facility.
The mobile van is also used to generate awareness on  social topics such as the negative impact of child marriage.
PARTNERING TO SUPPORT CARE AND  WELFARE OF ANIMALS Reliance supported an organisation, People for Animals, to  provide care and welfare of domestic street animals and  birds, besides spreading awareness on animal welfare and  vegetarianism.
Besides, Reliance conducted livestock camps for treating  domestic animals across various locations.
In this year, more than  46,500 livestock were treated through 238 camps (over 75,000  livestock through 302 camps since inception).
Impact of Peace and  Partnerships Initiatives   Partnership with organisations brought synergy in social  development    Protection of Indian Arts, Culture and Heritage 14.
The United States Agency for International Development 15.
Uma Educational Society 16.
University of Chicago Furthermore, for packaging and disseminating information on  agricultural practices, weather forecasts and health advisories,  600 knowledge partners and information disseminators  volunteered to support the Foundation’s initiatives across  different states.
GOVERNMENT PARTNERING WITH RELIANCE  FOR ASSESSING IMPACT OF ADVISORIES A study commissioned by the Ministry of Earth Sciences,  conducted by the National Council of Applied Economic  Research in partnership with Reliance’s Information Services  team assessed the impact of advisories of IMD (Indian  Meteorological Department) and INCOIS (Indian National Centre  for Ocean Information Services).
The assessment presented  the benefits that various crops have had through the weather  prediction information.
It has estimated that four principal crops  have the potential to use the weather prediction information  to generate an annual economic profit of `42,000 crore   (www.moes.gov.in/writereaddata/files/MoES_PhaseIII_Final.
pdf ).
It is noteworthy that during the assessment period,  Reliance’s Information Services have significantly contributed  to the circulation of weather forecasts and marine advisories to  farmers and fisherfolk across seven states.
PARTNERING FOR EDUCATION INITIATIVES The Education for All (EFA) initiative was launched in 2010 to  facilitate vulnerable children’s access to high-quality education.
In FY 2015-16, Reliance and Mumbai Indians partnered with six  NGOs, including Akanksha Foundation, Aseema Charitable Trust,  Aarambh, Mumbai Mobile Creches (MMC), Meljol and Ummeed.
The EFA partner NGOs worked in the areas of access to education,  promotion of education for the girl child and building capacities  of differently-abled children.
Through these partnerships, the  programme has cumulatively reached out to nearly 70,000  children since inception.
ARTS, CUL TURE AND HERITAGE Under its initiatives, Reliance supported few organisations for  promotion of Indian Arts, Culture and Heritage.
Recognising the  value of preserving them for India’s future generations, Reliance  has made conscious efforts to ensure its continuity.
ABBAJI ANNUAL CONCERT 2016 In this year, Reliance continued extending support to the  annual concert, “Abbaji” , organised by Ustad Zakir Hussain in  For business specific CSR initiatives including product stewardship approach Chemistry for Smiles, Clean Fuels, Kushal Kela Vikas Abhiyan etc.
please refer Management’s  Discussion & Analysis report.
Annual Report 2015-16 148 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Business Responsibility Report INTRODUCTION It is a privilege to present Reliance Industries Limited’s (RIL ’s)  fourth Business Responsibility Report for the FY 2015-16.
The Company’s endeavour is to create value for the nation,  enhancing the quality of life across the entire socio-economic  spectrum.
Besides, it also aims to help spearhead India as a  global leader in the domains where it operates.
The Company  strives to seek greater alignment between its stakeholders to  generate value in the long-term.
RIL ’s strategy and framework reinforce the necessity to contribute  to the evolving market demands.
The Company aims to develop  products and services centred on driving customer satisfaction,  while contributing to the overall objective of community  development.
The Company is committed to operate and grow its business  in a socially responsible way.
The core values strengthening  RIL ’s business actions comprise of Customer Value, Ownership  Mindset, Respect, Integrity, One Team and Excellence.
Principles Businesses should conduct and govern  themselves with Ethics, Transparency and  Accountability Businesses should provide goods and  services that are safe and contribute to  sustainability throughout their life cycle Businesses should promote the well-being  of all employees 1 2 3 Businesses should respect the interests of,  and be responsive towards all stakeholders,  especially those who are disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalised Businesses should respect and promote  human rights Businesses should respect, protect and make  efforts to restore the environment 4 5 6 Businesses, when engaged in influencing  public and regulatory policy, should do so in  a responsible manner Businesses should support inclusive growth  and equitable development Businesses should engage with and provide  value to their customers and consumers in a  responsible manner 7 8 9 Principles Business Responsibility Report 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information 55 147 Management  Review 149 256 379 380 396 02 54 SECTION A  GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE  COMPANY 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company:  L17110MH1973PLC019786 2.
Name of the Company: Reliance Industries Limited 3.
Registered Address:  3 rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222,  Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021, India 4.
Website:  www.ril.com 5.
E-mail ID: sustainability.report@ril.com 6.
Financial Y ear Reported: 2015-16 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial  activity code-wise):   Refining, Petrochemicals (Polymers, Polyester and Fibre  Intermediates), Exploration and Production of Oil & Gas and  Textiles.
Industrial  Group Description 061 Extraction of crude petroleum  192 Manufacture of refined petroleum products 201 Manufacture of basic chemicals, fertilisers and  nitrogen compounds, plastic and synthetic rubber  in primary forms 203 Manufacture of man-made fibres 062 Extraction of natural gas 131 Spinning, weaving and finishing of textile 139 Manufacture of other textiles As per National Industrial Classification – The Ministry of Statistics  and Programme Implementation 8.
List three key products/ services that the Company  manufactures/ provides (as in balance sheet):  i) Transportation fuels  ii) Polymers  iii) Polyester fibre 9.
Total number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company:   i)  Number of international locations (provide details of  major five):     RIL has undertaken business activity in eight  international locations (on standalone basis).
The  major locations include Turkey, Malaysia, China, UK,  Netherlands and USA.
ii) Number of national locations:    RIL has carried out business activities in over 50  domestic locations.
The Company’s manufacturing  divisions are at Allahabad, Barabanki, Dahej, Hazira,  Hoshiarpur, Jamnagar, Nagothane, Nagpur, Naroda,  Patalganga, Silvassa and Vadodara.
The Exploration  and Production (E&P) units are at KG-D6-Gadimoga and  Panna-Mukta-Tapti.
Besides, there are CBM blocks and  various regional marketing offices.
10.
Markets served by the Company – local/ state/ national/  international:   In addition to serving Indian markets, RIL exported to 110  countries worldwide as on 31st March, 2016.
SECTION B  FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY 1.
Paid-up capital (INR): 3,240 crore 2.
Total turnover (INR): 2,51,241 crore 3.
Total profit after taxes (INR): 27,417 crore 4.
Total spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  as percentage of profit after tax (%):  2.38% 5.
List of activities in which the Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) expenditures have been incurred:   The major areas in which the CSR expenditure has been  incurred include:   1.
Rural transformation  2.
Environment  3.
Health  4.
Education  5.
Sports for development  6.
Disaster response  7.
Arts, culture and heritage SECTION C OTHER DETAILS 1.
Subsidiary company/ companies   The number of RIL ’s subsidiary companies as on   31st March, 2016 was 95 as per details given in Annexure A to  Consolidated Financial Statements.
Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 150 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
2.
Participation of subsidiary company/ companies in  the Business Responsibility Initiatives of the parent  company    Various Business Responsibility (BR) initiatives are  undertaken throughout the year and RIL encourages its  subsidiary companies to participate in its group-wide BR  initiatives on several topics.
The Company’s CSR mission  is to continue growing as a responsible organisation that  believes in enriching lives of those around it.
All subsidiaries  are well-aligned with the CSR activities under the Reliance  Foundation.
During FY 2015-16, RIL ’s subsidiaries like  Reliance Retail Limited and Reliance Trading Limited  participated in various initiatives across several areas.
These include farm engagement activities, training and skill  development of youth, community development activities  and promotion of education, among others.
Reliance Retail  Limited has joined hands with Akshay Patra, an NGO, which  serves freshly-cooked food to over 1.4 million children in  more than 10,000 schools across 10 states in India.
3.
Participation and percentage of participation of other  entity/ entities (e.g.
suppliers and distributors, among  others) that the Company does business with, the BR  initiatives of the Company   Stakeholders have the ability to influence the way a   company is perceived.
RIL engages with several stakeholders  like suppliers, distributors, local communities, government  and other entities in the value chain.
The Company  collaborates with all relevant stakeholders as part of its BR  initiatives.
Considering the spread of RIL ’s value chain, at  present, the number of entities which directly participate   in the BR initiatives would be less than 30%.
RIL standalone  constitutes of `27,417 crore of the profit & `240,176 crore of  the net worth.
SECTION D  BR INFORMATION 1.
Details of Director/ Directors responsible for BR  a)  Details of the Director/ Directors responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/ policies     The Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance  (CSR&G) Committee of the Board of Directors is  responsible for implementation of BR policies.
The  members of the CSR&G Committee include:    DIN Number: 00001879    Name: Shri Yogendra P .
Trivedi (Chairman)    Designation: Independent Director    DIN Number: 00001620    Name: Shri Nikhil R. Meswani    Designation: Executive Director    DIN Number: 00001982    Name: Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur    Designation: Independent Director    DIN Number: 00074119    Name: Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar    Designation: Independent Director  b) Details of the BR head Sl.
No.
Particulars Details 1 DIN Number (if applicable) 00001879 2 Name Shri Yogendra P .
Trivedi 3 Designation Independent Director 4 Telephone Number 022 - 22842463 5 E-mail ID trivedi_yogendra@yahoo.co.in Reliance Corporate Park  Business Responsibility Report 151 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 2.
Principle-wise as per National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) BR Policy/ Policies (Reply in Y/N) Sl.
No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 Do you have policy/ policies for... Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation  with relevant stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3 Does the policy conform to any national/  international standards?
If yes, specify.
(The  policies are based on NVG, in addition to  conformance to the spirit of international  standards like ISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS  18000, UNGC guidelines and ILO principles) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 4 Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been signed by the MD/ owner/  CEO/ appropriate Board Director?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 5 Does the Company have a specified  committee of the Board/ Director/ Official to  oversee the implementation of the policy?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 6 Indicate the link to view the policy online.
Please refer below for linkages of these policies with BR principles and page no.
155  for web links.
7 Has the policy been formally communicated  to all relevant internal and external  stakeholders?
The policies have been communicated to RIL ’s internal and external stakeholders.
The  BR policies are communicated through this report.
Besides, the Company will also  explore other formal channels to communicate with more relevant stakeholders.
8 Does the Company have in-house structure to  implement its policy/ policies?
Yes, the CSR&G Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for the  implementation of RIL ’s policies.
9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal  mechanism related to the policy/ policies to  address stakeholders’ grievances related to  policy/ policies?
Yes, any grievance or feedback related to the policies can be sent to   sustainability.report@ril.com.
CSR&G Committee of the Board of Directors is  responsible for addressing stakeholder concerns related to BR policies.
10 Has the Company carried out independent  audit/ evaluation of the working of this policy  by an internal or external agency?
The BR policy is evaluated internally.
Policies pertaining to health, safety and  environment have been audited by external agencies, viz.
DNV, LRQA and BVQI.
Linkages of various Company policies with BR Principles as per NVG Principle  No.
NVG Principle Reference Document Reference Section 1 Businesses should conduct and govern  themselves with Ethics, Transparency and  Accountability.
Code of Conduct Sections 2, 3, 5 and 7  Values and Behaviours Customer Value Our Code Section 3 2 Businesses should provide goods and  services that are safe and contribute to  sustainability throughout their life cycle.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Values and Behaviours Customer Value Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3 Health, Safety & Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link 3 Businesses should promote the  well-being  of all employees.
Code of Conduct Sections 3, 4, 6 and 8 Values and Behaviours Excellence Value 4 Businesses should respect the interests of,  and be responsive towards all stakeholders,  especially those who are disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalised.
Code of Conduct Sections 5 and 6 Our Code Section 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3  Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 152 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Principle  No.
NVG Principle Reference Document Reference Section 5 Businesses should respect and promote  human rights.
Code of Conduct Sections 6 and 8 Our Code Section 5 6 Businesses should respect, protect and  make efforts to restore the environment.
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3 Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing  public and regulatory policy, should do so  in a responsible manner.
Code of Conduct Sections 5 and 6 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth  and equitable development.
Our Code Section 5 Health, Safety & Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3 9 Businesses should engage with and provide  value to their customers and consumers in a  responsible manner.
Values and Behaviours Customer Value Our Code Sections 2 and 5 Code of Conduct Section 5  Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3 Detailed description of NVG  Principle  No.
NVG Principle Reference   Document Reference   Section 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Businesses should develop governance structures, procedures and practices  that ensure ethical conduct at all levels; and promote the adoption of this  principle across its value chain.
Code of Conduct Section 2  Our Code Section 3 Businesses should communicate transparently and ensure access to  information about their decisions that impact relevant stakeholder.
Values and Behaviours Customer Value Businesses should not engage in practices that are abusive, corrupt or   anti-competitive.
Code of Conduct Section 5 Businesses should truthfully discharge their responsibility on financial and  other mandatory disclosures.
Code of Conduct Section 7 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle Businesses should assure safety and optimal resource use over the life cycle of  the product – from design to disposal – and ensure that everyone connected  with it- designers, producers, value chain members, customers and recyclers  are aware of their responsibilities.
Health, Safety &  Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link Businesses should raise the consumers’ awareness of their rights through  education, product labelling, appropriate and helpful marketing  communication, full details of contents and composition and promotion of safe  usage and disposal of their products and services.
Values and Behaviours Customer Value While designing the product, businesses should ensure that the manufacturing  processes and technologies required to produce it are resource efficient and  sustainable.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should regularly review and improve upon the process of new  technology development, deployment and commercialisation, incorporating  social, ethical, and environmental considerations.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should recognise and respect the rights of people who may be  owners of traditional knowledge and other forms of intellectual property.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Businesses should recognise that over-consumption results in unsustainable  exploitation of our planet's resources and should therefore promote  sustainable consumption, including recycling of resources.
Health, Safety &  Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link Business Responsibility Report 153 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Principle  No.
NVG Principle Reference   Document Reference   Section 3 Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees Businesses should respect the right to freedom of association, participation,  collective bargaining and provide access to appropriate grievance redressal   mechanism.
Code of Conduct Section 8 Businesses should provide and maintain equal opportunities at the time of  recruitment as well as during the course of employment irrespective of caste,  creed, gender, race, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
Code of Conduct Section 4 Businesses should not use child labour, forced labour or any form of involuntary  labour, paid or unpaid.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Businesses should provide facilities for the well-being of all employees.
Code of Conduct Section 3 Businesses should provide a workplace environment that is safe, hygienic, humane  and which upholds the dignity of the employees.
Business should communicate  this provision to their employees and train them on a regular basis.
Code of Conduct Section 3 Businesses should ensure continuous skill and competence upgradation  of  all employees by providing access to necessary learning opportunities, on an  equal and non-discriminatory basis.
They should promote employee morale  and career development through enlightened human resource interventions.
Values and Behaviours Excellence Value Businesses should create systems and practices to ensure a harassment  free workplace where employees feel safe and secure in discharging their  responsibilities.
Code of Conduct Section 4 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised Businesses should systematically identify their stakeholders, understand their  concerns, define purpose and scope of engagement, and commit to engaging  with them.
Code of Conduct Sections 5 & 6 Businesses should acknowledge, assume responsibility and be transparent  about the impact of their policies, decisions, product & services and associated  operations on the stakeholders.
Code of Conduct Sections 5 & 6 Businesses should give special attention to stakeholders in underdeveloped  areas.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Our Code Section 5 Businesses should resolve differences with stakeholders in a just, fair and  equitable manner.
Our Code Section 5 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights Businesses should understand the human rights content of the Constitution of  India, national laws and policies and the content of International Bill of Human  Rights.
Businesses should appreciate that human rights are inherent, universal,  indivisible and interdependent in nature.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Businesses should integrate respect for human rights in management systems,  in particular through assessing and managing human rights impacts of  operations, and ensuring all individuals impacted by the business have access  to grievance mechanisms.
Code of Conduct Sections 6 & 8 Our Code Section 5 Businesses should recognise and respect the human rights of all relevant  stakeholders and groups within and beyond the workplace, including that of  communities, consumers and vulnerable and marginalised groups.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Businesses should within their sphere of influence, promote the awareness and  realisation of human rights across their value chain.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Businesses should not be complicit with human rights abuses by a third party.
Code of Conduct Section 6 Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 154 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Principle  No.
NVG Principle Reference   Document Reference   Section 6 Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment Businesses should utilise natural and manmade resources in an optimal and  responsible manner and ensure the sustainability of resources by reducing,  reusing, recycling and managing waste.
Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link Businesses should take measures to check and prevent pollution.
They should  assess the environmental damage and bear the cost of pollution abatement  with due regard to public interest.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should ensure that benefits arising out of access and  commercialisation of biological and other natural resources and associated  traditional knowledge are shared equitably.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should continuously seek to improve the environmental  performance by adoption of cleaner production methods, promoting use of  renewable energy.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should develop Environment Management Systems (EMS) and  contingency plans and processes that help them in preventing, mitigating and  controlling environmental damages and disasters, which may be caused due to  their operations or that of a member of their value chain.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should report their environmental performance, including the  assessment of potential environmental risks associated with their operations, to  the stakeholders in a fair and transparent manner.
Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link Businesses should proactively persuade and support their value chain to adopt  this principle.
Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner Businesses, while pursuing policy advocacy, must ensure that their advocacy  positions are consistent with the Principles and Core Elements contained in  these Guidelines.
Code of Conduct Section 6 To the extent possible, businesses should utilise the trade and industry  chambers and associations and other such collective platforms to undertake  such policy advocacy.
Code of Conduct Section 5 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development Businesses should understand their impact on social and economic  development and respond through appropriate actions to minimise the  negative impacts.
Health, Safety &  Environment Policy Please refer page no.
155 for web link Businesses should innovate and invest in products, technologies and processes  that promote the well-being of of the society.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should make efforts to complement and support the development  priorities at local and national levels, and assure appropriate resettlement and  rehabilitation of communities who have been displaced owing to their business  operations.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses operating in regions that are underdeveloped should be especially  sensitive to local concerns.
Our Code Section 5 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner Businesses, while serving the needs of their customers, should take into  account the overall well-being of the customers and that of society.
Values and Behaviours Customer Value Our Code Section 2 Businesses should ensure that they do not restrict the freedom of choice and  free competition in any manner while designing, promoting and selling their  products.
Code of Conduct Section 5 Business Responsibility Report 155 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Principle  No.
NVG Principle Reference   Document Reference   Section Businesses should disclose all information truthfully and factually, through  labelling and other means, including the risks to the individual, to society  and to the planet from the use of the products, so that the customers can  exercise their freedom to consume in a responsible manner.
Wherever required,  businesses should also educate their customers on the safe and responsible  usage of their products and services.
Values and Behaviours Customer Value Businesses should promote and advertise their products in ways that do not  mislead or confuse the consumers or violate any of the principles in these  Guidelines.
Values and Behaviours Customer Value Businesses should exercise due care and caution while providing goods and  services that result in over exploitation of natural resources or lead to excessive  conspicuous consumption.
Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy Section 3 Businesses should provide adequate grievance handling mechanisms to  address customer concerns and feedback.
Our Code Section 5 Links 1.
Environment Policy  http://www.ril.com/Sustainability/HealthSafety.aspx 2.
Health, Safety and Environment Policy  http://www.ril.com/Sustainability/HealthSafety.aspx 3.
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy   http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  4.
Our Code   http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  5.
Code of Conduct   http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  6.
Values & Behaviours   http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  3.
Governance related to BR  a)  Frequency with which the Board of Directors,  Committee of the Board or CEO meet to assess the  Company’s BR performance     The CSR&G Committee & the Board of Directors  annually assesses the Company’s BR performance.
b)  BR and Sustainability Reports published; frequency  and link of published reports    RIL publishes its Sustainability Report annually,  based on Global Reporting Initiative’s latest reporting  guidelines.
The Company has been publishing the GRI  A+ application1  level check reports since FY 2005-06.
The  Sustainability Reports published till date are available at   http://www.ril.com/Sustainability/CorporateSustainability.aspx   1  Declaring an Application Level results in a clear communication about  which elements of the GRI Reporting Framework have been applied in  the preparation of a report.
The reporting levels C, B and A reflects an  increasing application or coverage of the GRI Reporting Framework while  the ‘+’ sign signifies that the report is externally assured.
SECTION E  PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE Principle 1 ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY AND  ACCOUNTABILITY BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN  THEMSELVES WITH ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY AND  ACCOUNTABILITY CONDUCTING BUSINESS ON THE PILLARS OF  ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY FOSTERS TRUST OF  STAKEHOLDERS.
RIL BELIEVES THAT IMAGE AND  REPUTATION ARE VITAL IN ADDING VALUE TO THE  ORGANISATION.
1.
COVERAGE OF POLICY RELATING TO ETHICS, BRIBERY  AND CORRUPTION (E.G.
JOINT VENTURES, SUPPLIERS,  CONTRACTORS AND NGOS, AMONG OTHERS)   At RIL, the Code of Conduct serves as a roadmap to all  employees of the Company and subsidiaries across all levels  and grades.
The Company has adequate control measures  in place to address the issues relating to ethics, bribery,  and corruption in the context of appropriate policy.
This  mechanism includes directors, senior executives, officers,  employees (whether permanent, fixed-term or temporary)  and third parties including suppliers & business partners  associated with RIL, who share the same business values.
The  well-defined policy lists tenets on ethical business conduct,  definitions and the framework for reporting concerns.
Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 156 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
2.
STAKEHOLDER COMPLAINTS RECEIVED IN THE PAST  FINANCIAL YEAR AND PERCENTAGE OF COMPLAINTS  SATISFACTORILY RESOLVED BY THE MANAGEMENT.
RIL received 14,730 investor complaints from its shareholders  during FY 2015-16, which were promptly resolved.
No  complaint was outstanding, as on 31 st  March, 2016.
Besides,  2,326 customer complaints were received of which 2,137  were successfully resolved by the year ending 31 st  March,  2016.
Subsequently, most of these complaints have been  resolved.
RIL ’s code of conduct has a provision for all RIL ’s stakeholders  to freely share their concerns and grievances with the  Company through a structured mechanism.
For specific details, please refer to the Directors’ Report.
Principle 2 PRODUCTS LIFE CYCLE SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND  SERVICES THAT ARE SAFE AND CONTRIBUTE TO  SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT THEIR LIFE CYCLE CREATING SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS IS A PART OF  RIL ’S ENDEAVOUR TOWARDS RESPONSIBLE PRODUCT  STEWARDSHIP .
THE COMPANY AIMS TO MAKE ITS  PRODUCTS MORE SAFE AND ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY .
1.
LIST THREE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES WHOSE DESIGN  HAS INCORPORATED SOCIAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL  CONCERNS, RISKS AND/ OR OPPORTUNITIES   As a global business leader, RIL ’s constant endeavour is to  address concerns towards the environment and the society  and imbibe the same in its business processes.
Some such  products created during FY 2015-16 include:  A) RELBITS:     RelBitS is a proprietary product made from elemental  sulphur, which is a refinery by-product.
Sulphur has  many applications but due to its high cost and the  problems of Hydrogen Sulphide (H 2 S) emissions, its  commercial application is confined.
RIL ’s efforts towards  improving the addition of sulphur to bitumen has  resulted in a promising solution.
The Company’s product  is specially designed sulphur that fixes hydrogen  sulphide produced within bitumen.
RelBitS has features  that allow it to be mixed with bitumen during hot mix  preparation, without affecting the environment.
It has  been tested at expert labs in India for rut resistance and  fatigue at various loads.
The studies have shown high  rut resistivity, as well as higher fatigue resistance (@  200 micron strain), compared to standard bituminous  asphalt.
B)  ORIENTED PVC PIPES (OPVC) FOR HIGH PRESSURE  WATER SUPPLY    OPVC pipes have a huge scope in drinking water supply  systems across the country.
It has been observed  that OPVC pipes consume approximately half of the  energy required for Ductile Iron (DI) pipes.
OPVC pipes  require less energy for the extraction of raw materials,  production of pipes, transportation and installation,  usage and even for recycling, compared to ductile iron  pipes.
Due to the low energy requirement, the Company  is able to save money, along with reduction in GHG  emissions.
Several meetings with various government  bodies were initiated to emphasise on the benefits of  OPVC pipes.
RIL organised meetings with leading pipe  processors and technology providers to establish a  venture for manufacturing OPVC pipes in India.
With  the Company’s efforts, companies like Modi Group  (Chennai) and Optiflux (Jodhpur) have also ventured  into manufacturing of OPVC pipes with licensing the  technology from Molecor Inc. Spain.
C)  SAFE AND ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY LINEAR  ALKYL BENZENE (LAB) MANUFACTURE    LAB is produced by alkylation of benzene with olefins in  the presence of Hydrogen Fluoride (HF).
Safe operation  with HF has been a significant topic of discussion.
There  is a need for replacing the existing technology with  non-HF technology.
RIL has developed ionic liquid catalyst technology,  which can be retrofitted to existing LAB plants with  minor changes.
The developed ionic liquid catalyst  is non-toxic and can replace the existing HF process,  thereby eliminating the safety and operating risks  associated with the manufacture of LAB.
The Company’s  ionic liquid catalysts are also more productive than HF,  providing an opportunity for capacity expansion.
The  ionic liquid-based process has been demonstrated at  the pilot scale and a design package has been prepared  to retrofit the LAB plant in Patalganga.
This technology  meets RIL ’s aim of making its products and processes  safe and eco-friendly.
2.
PROCEDURES IN PLACE FOR SUSTAINABLE SOURCING  (INCLUDING TRANSPORTATION) AND PERCENTAGE OF   INPUTS SOURCED SUSTAINABLY   Sustainable sourcing at RIL represents contribution to the  five strategic pillars: Energy Management, Environment  Responsibility, Product Stewardship, Occupational Health  Business Responsibility Report 157 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 and Safety and Social Institution Building.
The Company  has adopted RC-14001 international environmental  management system to effectively manage its activities  like manufacturing, distribution and the use of chemicals  in the products.
To improve the protection of human health  and the environment, the Company has sourced REACH  (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction  of Chemicals) compliant materials, and its requirements  include that its Tier 1 suppliers also procure REACH- compliant materials.
RIL ensures 100% compliance of  statutory laws and regulations, and of labour laws by its  contractors.
Sustainable sourcing key initiatives are undertaken through  the following areas:-   Green packaging   Supplier collaboration   Development of India’s engineering talent   Environment improvement   Contract work care   Procurement & Contract  Academy   Regeneration/safe disposal   Community support   Digitally stitched Procure to Pay cycle (P2P)    For effective disposal of waste, the Company audits its  processors’ operations to ensure credible disposal practices.
RIL prefers vendors who undertake green initiatives and  continuously exercise the practise of reduce, reuse and  recycle.
The Company takes special care in safe handling of  its materials and also does necessary investigation of entire  logistics handling/ storage, from supplier factory to its gate.
3.
STEPS TAKEN TO PROCURE GOODS AND SERVICES  FROM LOCAL AND SMALL PRODUCERS, INCLUDING  COMMUNITIES AND CAPABILITY BUILDING  INITIATIVES, UNDERTAKEN FOR LOCAL AND SMALL  VENDORS   As a proud Indian company, RIL strives to build the  competitiveness of India and its local industry.
The   Company’s commitment to the local suppliers gets  highlighted from the fact that RIL has procured goods  and services (non-crude/ non-feedstock) worth over   `15,000 crore from indigenous suppliers.
Through sustained  investment in mega projects and operations, RIL has  developed India’s chemicals and engineering supplier base.
The Company ensures that it engages local villagers and  small businesses around its plants in a variety of productive  employment, especially through vehicle hiring, material  handling, housekeeping, waste-handling and horticulture  contracts.
4.
MECHANISM TO RECYCLE PRODUCTS AND WASTE  AND THE PERCENTAGE OF RECYCLING OF PRODUCTS  AND WASTE (SEPARATELY AS <5%, 5-10%, >10%)   Through process technology and operational control  measures, RIL intends to minimise the generation of product  or process waste.
However, considering the nature of its  operations, there is a certain amount of waste generation,  which is inevitable.
RIL makes continuous efforts to recycle  products or process waste by implementing responsible  management practices.
Recycling and reusing of waste helps the Company in  reducing its environmental impact, while simultaneously  improving the material efficiency of the operations.
In this  direction, RIL has taken various measures such as converting  waste to organic manure and biogas generation, recycling  of used oil, slop oil and oily sludge, recycling of waste PET  bottles and recycling of used/ waste oil and spent catalysts  through authorised re-processors.
RIL ensures responsible disposal of waste, generated by  partnering with various agencies to encourage end-of- life recycling and reuse.
The industrial waste generated is  converted into useful ‘bio-manure’ by the vermi-composting  method, thereby reducing the load of waste disposal.
The Jamnagar refinery has reduced its load on the  environment by tapping and desalinating sea water instead  of using fresh water resources.
Packaging of Polyester  Bobbins recycled fully  Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 158 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
The wastewater generated is treated and used for green- belt development, thereby ensuring zero effluent discharge.
Continuous focus on waste minimisation, reuse and recycle  helps the Company in reducing the consumption of virgin  material.
RIL has recycled treated wastewater across its  manufacturing divisions.
In FY 2015-16, RIL has increased  the recycled materials usage by 13.95%.
Case Study Increase in reuse of treated effluent in  wash line and process The final treated effluent was discharged to the environment  as the treated effluent was not as per the required quality for  washing.
A project was undertaken to enhance the reuse of  final treated effluent in the process.
Two modifications were made at the Effluent Treatment Plant  (ETP) for proper settling of sludge and increase in retention  period for biological treatment.
This resulted in improved  quality of the final treated effluent and hence, reuse of  treated effluent could be possible in washing of scrap bottles.
Moreover, treated effluent was also used for decontaminating  waste barrels, empty bags and gardening purpose.
For specific details, please refer to the Management’s  Discussion and Analysis 5P’s Products & Processes Principle 3 EMPLOYEES’ WELL-BEING BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING  OF ALL EMPLOYEES RIL BELIEVES THAT THE POWER OF ITS PEOPLE IS  PROPELLING ITS PROGRESSIVE GROWTH.
THEIR  KNOWLEDGE, EXPERIENCE AND PASSION TO PERFORM  ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO BUILDING THE ORGANISATION  FURTHER.
HENCE, RIL PROVIDES ITS EMPLOYEES WITH  OPPORTUNITIES THAT ENCOURAGE THEM TO EXCEL.
THE COMPANY ENSURES A WORK ENVIRONMENT THAT  PROMOTES WELL-BEING.
1.
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES   The total number of employees is 24,121 as on   31 st March, 2016.
EMPLOYEES CADRE WISE BREAKDOWN   Manager  Executive  Non Supervisors  Leader   Trainees  Apprentices increase in women employees 3.5% FY 2015 40.0724.88 3.54 27.16 3.14 1.21 2.
NUMBER OF PERMANENT WOMEN EMPLOYEES   The total number of permanent women employees is 1,238  as on 31 st March, 2016.
Employees at RIL Business Responsibility Report 159 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 3.
NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES WITH  DISABILITIES   The total number of permanent employees with disabilities  is 80 as on 31st March, 2016.
4.
EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATIONS RECOGNISED BY THE  MANAGEMENT   RIL respects the rights of employees to free association and  union representation.
The Company has various employee  unions and associations at various sites, which encourage  the employees to participate freely in constructive dialogue  with the management.
5.
PERCENTAGE OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES THAT ARE  MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATIONS   Almost 100% of non-supervisory permanent employees  at manufacturing locations are members of trade unions/ employee associations.
6.
NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS RELATING TO CHILD  LABOUR, FORCED LABOUR, INVOLUNTARY LABOUR,  SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN THE LAST FINANCIAL YEAR  AND PENDING, AS ON THE END OF THE FINANCIAL  YEAR   No cases of child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour,  sexual harassment and discriminatory employment were  reported in the last financial year.
Taking a step further,  RIL has formed an Internal Complaints Committee where  employees can register their complaints against sexual  harassment.
This is supported by the Sexual Harassment  Policy which ensures a free and fair enquiry process with  clear timelines.
7.
PERCENTAGE OF UNDER-MENTIONED EMPLOYEES  THAT WERE GIVEN SAFETY AND SKILL UPGRADATION  TRAINING IN THE PREVIOUS YEAR    Permanent employees   Permanent women employees   Casual/ temporary/ contractual employees   Employees with disabilities Employee training and development is an essential element of  RIL ’s people strategy.
During FY 2015-16, RIL imparted 1.50 million  man-hours of training to its workforce.
Safety is of paramount  importance to the Company.
RIL ’s contractual employees receive  mandatory safety training before entering the premises and also  get on-the-job training through the contractor and the Company.
At RIL, 72.39% of its permanent workforce received safety and skill  up-gradation trainings, while 79.53% of the women employees  received trainings through classroom, as well as web-based  training programmes.
Out of 80 permanent employees with  disabilities, 41.25% received safety and skill upgradation trainings.
All the employees participate in safety drills & mock fire drills.
For specific details, please refer to the Management’s  Discussion and Analysis 5P’s (People) Principle 4 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS  OF , AND BE RESPONSIVE TOWARDS ALL  STAKEHOLDERS, ESPECIALLY THOSE WHO  ARE DISADVANTAGED, VULNERABLE AND  MARGINALISED STAKEHOLDERS PLAY AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN  DETERMINING RIL ’S GROWTH STORY .
STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT AT RIL AIMS TO PROVIDE TRANSPARENCY  IN COMMUNICATIONS AND CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT.
IT IS A DIALOGUE THAT DEFINES THE RIL APPROACH OF  UNDERSTANDING STAKEHOLDER NEEDS AND DEVELOPS  ACTION PLANS TO FULFIL THEM.
1.
MAPPING OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL  STAKEHOLDERS   RIL has mapped its internal and external stakeholders.
The  key categories and their mode of engagements are shown  below: Field Engineer at Nagothane  Manufacturing Division Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 160 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Stakeholders Medium of Engagement Government and  regulatory authorities Industry bodies/ forums Employees Meetings, newsletters, employee  satisfaction survey and trainings Customers Customer meets, customer  satisfaction survey and web-based   portals Local community Visits and camps Investors and  shareholders Investor meets, annual general  meeting and annual report Suppliers Site visits and personal/ telephonic  interactions Trade unions Works committee, grievance  committee and union meetings  NGO’s Site visits and telephonic discussions RIL believes the stakeholder engagement process is necessary for  achieving its sustainability goal of inclusive growth.
Stakeholder  engagement helps in better understanding of the perspectives  on key issues and builds a strong relationship with them.
The  Company seeks timely feedback and response through formal  and informal channels of communication to ensure that the  stakeholder information remains updated.
2.
IDENTIFICATION OF THE DISADVANTAGED,  VULNERABLE AND MARGINALISED STAKEHOLDERS   RIL has identified the marginalised and vulnerable  stakeholders, through the team which engages with the like- minded government and non-government stakeholders,  including universities, research institutions, hospitals,  government departments and banks, among others.
3.
SPECIAL INITIATIVES TAKEN BY THE COMPANY TO  ENGAGE WITH THE DISADVANTAGED, VULNERABLE  AND MARGINALISED STAKEHOLDERS   RIL has taken the path of inclusive development to address  the societal issues and engage with the disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders.
At RIL, there  are certain criteria for selecting a project.
To determine the  beneficiaries, the Company undertakes a need assessment  that focuses on the Scale, Impact and Sustainability of  the project.
The Company extends its support beyond  the business activities to the marginalised and vulnerable  groups.
It focuses on broad issues of the community  including agriculture, livestock, health, education, access to  information services and more.
Initiatives undertaken by Reliance Foundation to engage  with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised  include:   Providing sustainable livelihoods   Health outreach programmes   Education for all   Craft training centres  For specific details, please refer to the Report on Corporate  Social Responsibility.
Case Study Rehabilitation of people living with HIV  AIDS (PLHIV) Over 1.4 - 1.6 million people in India are HIV positive.
Gujarat,  GSNP+ (Gujarat State Network of People living with HIV/ AIDS) has more than 45,000 HIV positive people registered  with them.
With a collaborative effort of Reliance and GSNP+,  marriage bureau was organised towards a noble cause to  unite two souls suffering with HIV.
A total of 585 PLHIV participated in the event, and seven  couples got committed on the same day.
This innovative programme provided a platform for HIV AIDS  patients to improve their quality of life and find a life partner.
For specific details, please refer to the Management’s  Discussion and Analysis 5P’s (People) Principle 5 HUMAN RIGHTS BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROTECT  HUMAN RIGHTS RIL ’S CULTURE DEMONSTRATES INTEGRITY AND  RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.
RIL DEVELOPED  POLICIES AND MECHANISMS TO ENSURE HUMAN  RIGHTS ARE AN ENTITLEMENT TO ALL.
IT IS  GUARANTEED IN DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS AND IN  THE WAY RIL CONDUCTS ITS BUSINESS.
RIL PUBLICLY  REPORTS ITS PROGRESS AGAINST THE TEN PRINCIPLES  BY UNGC, ONE OF THEM BEING HUMAN RIGHTS.
1.
COVERAGE OF THE COMPANY’S POLICY ON HUMAN  RIGHTS  TO THE COMPANY AND ITS EXTENSION  TO THE GROUP/ JOINT VENTURES/ SUPPLIERS/  CONTRACTORS/ NGOS/ OTHERS.
STAKEHOLDER  COMPLAINTS RECEIVED IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR   RIL ’s code of conduct demonstrates its commitment towards  the preservation of human rights across the value chain.
Business Responsibility Report 161 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 The Company believes that a sustainable organisation  rests on ethics and respect for human rights.
RIL promotes  awareness of the importance of respecting human  rights within its value chain and discourages instances  of abuse.
There were no reported complaints during   FY 2015-16.
For specific details, please refer to the report on Corporate  Governance.
Principle 6 ENVIRONMENT BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT, PROTECT AND MAKE  EFFORTS TO RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT RIL BELIEVES IN SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT  WHILE EXECUTING ITS OPERATIONS.
TO THIS EFFECT,  IT TAKES EVERY EFFORT TOWARDS ENVIRONMENTAL  CONSERVATION.
THE COMPANY ENSURES TO DO  BUSINESS WITH MINIMAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  THAT AIMS AT THE RATIONAL USE OF NATURAL  RESOURCES AND REDUCED WASTE AND EMISSIONS.
1.
COVERAGE OF THE POLICY RELATED TO PRINCIPLE 6  AND ITS EXTENSION TO THE GROUP/ JOINT VENTURES/  SUPPLIERS/ CONTRACTORS/ NGOS/ OTHERS   RIL is committed to conduct business with a strong  environmental conscience, ensuring sustainable  development.
The Company’s ‘Environment Policy’ has  stated that protection of the environment is of prime  concern.
The policy addresses issues related to the  employees, contractors, suppliers and customers.
RIL encourages sharing of process and product innovations  within the Group and extending it to benefit the industry  and key members of its value chain.
2.
THE COMPANY’S STRATEGIES/ INITIATIVES TO  ADDRESS GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES, SUCH AS  CLIMATE CHANGE, GLOBAL WARMING AND MORE   At RIL, the endeavour is to identify and harness alternative  and renewable energy sources.
Energy efficiency in  operations is one of the key focus areas at all plant locations.
RIL ’s manufacturing sites regularly account for Greenhouse  Gas (GHG) emissions, resulting from their manufacturing  operations.
A dedicated group works continuously to  identify and develop energy efficiency and GHG reduction  projects to address climate change issues.
RIL adheres to  all legal requirements and norms of energy conservation  and other environmental conservation standards stipulated  by the Government of India and government of other  countries where RIL operates.
A Corporate Sustainability  Report is published annually, which gives a full account of all  sustainable development initiatives including the Company’s  environmental, social and economic performances.
3.
IDENTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT OF POTENTIAL  ENVIRONMENTAL RISK   Regular assessment of the environmental risks and  mitigation strategies are undertaken by RIL.
RIL has systems  in place that ensure continuous monitoring of potential  environmental risks involved in its operations.
For new  and upcoming projects, potential environmental risks are  identified while preparing Environment Impact Assessment  (EIA) and Risk Assessment reports.
Accordingly, identified  potential environmental risks are addressed at the design  stage and also mitigated through the incorporation of  robust environment management plan.
Environmental  audits are carried out regularly, which help in identifying  potential risks and necessary corrective actions are taken  to mitigate the same.
All manufacturing divisions are  certified as per the ISO-14001 environment management  system and integrated with quality and safety management  systems ( ISO-9001 and OHSAS 18001).
In addition, all these  sites had been covered under the British Safety Council  UK’s environment five star audit.
Periodic audits conducted  as part of these management systems help RIL identify  potential risks at its locations.
4.
COMPANY’S INITIATIVES TOWARDS CLEAN  DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM   The Company’s eight projects have been registered as  Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects under  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change  (UNFCCC).
The implemented projects were primarily  based on the energy efficiency and use of cleaner fuels.
The Company has built in-house capacity to develop CDM  Employee training at Hazira  manufacturing division Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 162 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
projects and obtain the registration and issuance of the  same in the form of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs)  from the UNFCCC.
5.
THE COMPANY’S INITIATIVES ON – CLEAN  TECHNOLOGY , ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE  ENERGY , AMONG OTHERS   CLEAN TECHNOLOGY    Collaboration with The Indian Institute of Petroleum  (IIP), Dehradun for commercialising indigenous state- of-the-art technology for the recovery of benzene  from gasoline pool to support clean fuel initiatives and  protect the environment.
Synthesis of ionic liquids for safe and eco-friendly  product and process development (p-xylene oxidation,  non-HF process for LAB manufacturing, purification of  crude terephthalic acid, desalter brine treatment and  others).
Direct synthesis of dimethyl carbonate from carbon  dioxide to lower GHG emission numbers.
Development of RelFarmS™, which converts by-product  sulphur into a high quality fertiliser.
Catalytic hydrothermal liquefaction technology to  convert waste plastics, such as HDPE, PP , PBR, SBR  and natural rubber to crude oil equivalent, with high  conversion for the management of solid waste.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY    Enhanced heat recovery by revamping of air preheaters  to recover more energy from flue gases.
Improved heat rate by uprating Gas Turbines.
Installation of advanced technologies like Divided Wall  Column (DWC).
RENEWABLE ENERGY    RIL ’s ‘Algae to  Biocrude’ effort  aims  at establishing   a green platform to achieve sustainable and  economically viable production of biocrude by   large-scale cultivation of ‘producer’ algae strains with  optimal  inputs of sea water, low cost nutrients (N, P)  and crop protection measures.
Jatropha-based biodiesel: Marginal low-rainfall land is  ideally suited for the Company’s globally competitive  high-yielding Jatropha hybrids.
Agri-residue to hydrocarbons:   Agri-residue is often  burnt to quickly clear fields.
Technology that RIL is  working on provides a better alternative by enabling  efficient conversion of this waste agri-residue into  products, such as kerosene.
Rooftop solar photo voltaic projects are being installed  across RIL manufacturing units.
Case Study Installation of high efficiency flare tip at  Dahej manufacturing location GOP flare caters to the flaring need of various plants.
The  fuel gas and steam consumption for operation of the flare  tip amounted to an energy consumption of about 1.86 Gcal/ hr (i.e.
16,293 Gcal/annum).
The flare tip was equipped with  specially-designed steam spargers and pilot to reduce the  steam and fuel gas required for the combustion of flared  gases.
It is also designed to ensure complete combustion and  hence, smokeless flaring at current flaring loads.
The installation has led to a reduction in steam and fuel gas  consumption by about 0.384 Gcal/hr, amounting to annualised  energy consumption of about 3,363 mmkcal/annum.
This will  consequently result in CO 2  emission reduction by 773 TPA.
6.
REPORTING ON THE EMISSIONS/ WASTE GENERATED  BY THE COMPANY AS PER THE PERMISSIBLE LIMITS  GIVEN BY CPCB/ SPCB    Efficient control equipment and robust procedures helped  the Company to meet the applicable environmental  standards continuously.
The emissions/ waste generated by  RIL is not only within but in many cases, significantly lower  than the permissible limits given by the State or Central  Pollution Control Boards.
All manufacturing units are ISO- 14001 compliant and a robust system is in place to monitor  the environmental footprint of the units.
The environmental  monitoring reports are regularly submitted to CPCB/ SPCB  by the Company.
Environmental performance data is also  reported in the Corporate Sustainability Report.
Environmental habitat at  Dahej Business Responsibility Report 163 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 7.
NUMBER OF SHOW CAUSE/ LEGAL NOTICES RECEIVED  FROM CPCB/ SPCB, WHICH ARE PENDING (I.E.
NOT  RESOLVED TO SATISFACTION) AS ON THE END OF THE  FINANCIAL YEAR   There a re no pending or unresolved show cause/ legal  notices from CPCB/ SPCB in FY 2015-16.
For specific details, please refer to the Management’s  Discussion and Analysis 5P’s (Planet and Products &  Processes) Principle 7 POLICY ADVOCACY BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGED IN INFLUENCING  PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY , SHOULD DO SO  IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER.
RIL ’S COLLABORATION WITH INDUSTRIAL BODIES AND  ACADEMIA DEMONSTRATES ITS APPROACH TOWARDS  ADDRESSING SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES.
THE  COMPANY AIMS TO CREATE AN ENVIRONMENT THAT  ENCOURAGES SUPPORTIVE DECISIONS MADE IN A  RESPONSIBLE WAY .
THE ASSOCIATIONS ARE FORMED  IN CONSULTATION WITH THE BOARD AND CONTAIN  REPRESENTATION FROM THE BOARD IN CERTAIN  MEMBERSHIPS.
1.
REPRESENTATION IN ANY TRADE AND CHAMBER/  ASSOCIATION   RIL has its representation in several business and industrial  associations such as The World Economic Forum, The  American Chemistry Council (ACC), Indian Chemical  Council (ICC), The Chemicals and Petroleum Manufacturers  Association (CPMA), Gulf Petrochemicals & Chemicals  Association (GPCA), World Business Council for Sustainable  Development (WBCSD), European Petrochemicals  Association (EPCA), American Fuel & Petrochemical  Manufacturers (AFPM), Association of Oil and Gas Operators  in India (AOGO), Federation of Indian Chambers of  Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Confederation of Indian  Industry (CII), Associated Chambers of Commerce and  Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) and Association of Synthetic  Fibre Industry (ASFI).
2.
ADVOCATED/ LOBBIED THROUGH ABOVE  ASSOCIATIONS FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OR  IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC GOOD   As a responsible producer of petrochemicals, RIL  has collaborated with Indian Centre for Plastic in the  Environment (ICPE) on a voluntary basis and provides  technical and financial support helping in development  of newer technologies for plastic-waste management,  establishment of pilot projects for plastic-waste  management, in cooperation with municipal authorities  and the civil society.
Producing Algae & Co-products for  Energy (PACE) is a collaborative project with some of the  top universities and research institutions in the US for  developing and demonstrating algae, to produce energy  and co-products.
For specific details, please refer to the Management’s  Discussion and Analysis 5P’s (Peace & Partnerships) Principle 8 INCLUSIVE GROWTH  BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT INCLUSIVE GROWTH  AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT RIL BELIEVES IN CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR  COMMUNITIES AROUND ITS OPERATIONS TO  ENABLE A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE AND ENSURE  INCLUSIVE GROWTH.
ITS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  ACTIVITIES FOCUS ON AREAS THAT FOSTER THE  DEVELOPMENT AND WELL-BEING OF COMMUNITIES.
RIL ’S CSR INITIATIVES ARE ALIGNED TO ASPECTS  SUCH AS LIVELIHOODS, EDUCATION, HEALTH, SKILL  ENHANCEMENT, INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT,  PROMOTING SPORTSMANSHIP AND WOMEN  EMPOWERMENT, AMONG OTHERS.
1.
SPECIFIED PROGRAMMES/ INITIATIVES/ PROJECTS BY  THE COMPANY IN PURSUIT OF THE POLICY RELATED  TO PRINCIPLE 8   Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is embedded in  the Company’s long-term business strategy.
RIL aims to  work in line with the globally and nationally agreed upon  Recycled PET bottles at Hazira Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 164 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
development targets namely United Nation’s Sustainable  Development Goals, which embrace a universal approach  to the sustainable development agenda.
RIL ’s community  initiatives are in conformity with these goals and are further  categorised under primary focus areas, including:   1.
Rural transformation    2.
Environment   3.
Health   4.
Education   5.
Sports for development   6.
Disaster response   7.
Arts, culture and heritage   During FY 2015-16, the Company’s initiatives were focused  towards achieving the following objectives:  1.
Ensuring the well-being of local communities  2.
Building capabilities for employment generation   3.
Empowering women  4.
Creating access to healthcare  5.
Conserving the environment  6.
Promoting education 2.
MODES THROUGH WHICH PROGRAMMES/ PROJECTS  UNDERTAKEN (THROUGH IN-HOUSE TEAM/ OWN  FOUNDATION/ EXTERNAL NGO/ GOVERNMENT  STRUCTURES/ ANY OTHER ORGANISATION)   The Company follows multiple models for implementing  its CSR initiatives.
For all operational sites, the needs of the  related stakeholders in the local communities are addressed  through dedicated in-house teams, which have been set up  at each plant.
They directly engage with the representatives  from local communities, residing near operational sites  to gauge their expectations and partner with them to  implement social programmes across the identified focus  areas.
The Company has also set up a foundation which conducts  CSR initiatives in a more programmatic manner through  large-scale theme-based programmes, such as Education  for All.
These initiatives have a huge coverage, both in terms  of scale, as well as impacts, as the foundation implements  programmes at both operational sites and identified areas  across India.
The focus is on enhancing outreach to the  society’s marginalised and underprivileged sections.
In addition, the Company also collaborates with like-minded  partners (both government and non-government) to meet  the local needs of the underprivileged sections.
For specific details please refer to the Report on  Corporate Social Responsibility and Annexure V to the  Directors’ report.
3.
IMPACT ASSESSMENTS FOR INITIATIVES   RIL has set up a Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) framework  aimed at measuring the outcome and impact of initiatives  in a number of ways, by measuring change in the lives of  the communities that it engages with.
This includes the  following:  1.
Community needs assessment  2.
Impact assessment studies  3.
Routine programme monitoring  4.
Beneficiary acceptance and course correction  5.
Efficient information systems   The inputs from these studies are used for making informed  decisions, based on the extent of outcomes and impacts.
The progress on the Company’s CSR initiatives is periodically  reviewed by the CSR&G Committee and the Company’s  Board of Directors.
RIL continuously enhances its existing  systems and processes to capture the impact (social/ economic and developmental) through its various initiatives  across multiple mediums.
4.
COMPANY’S DIRECT CONTRIBUTION TO COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS   FY 2015-16, Reliance has spent `652 crore on community  development initiatives.
5.
STEPS UNDERTAKEN TO ENSURE THAT COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES ARE SUCCESSFULLY  ADOPTED BY THE COMMUNITY     Community collaboration and participation is encouraged  at all the stages of RIL ’s community development/ CSR  School children at Gadimoga Business Responsibility Report 165 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 initiatives.
Extensive engagement with the community  helps in identifying needs of the stakeholders and leads to  greater sense of ownership among the people, ensuring  sustained outcomes.
Their capacities are built through  multiple training programmes to make them self-sufficient  and capable of managing the programme even in the  absence of a third party.
The Company continues to support  initiatives to provide medical care needs (like, constructing  infrastruc ture) necessary for villagers.
Multiple interactions  are held with communities through village meetings,  meetings with local administration and officials from the  line departments to understand the primary necessities.
RIL encourages regular feedback from the beneficiaries to  continuously improve facilities and specialised services  in locations where there is a demand.
RIL ’s Sustainability  strategy ensures that the robust institutions are built at  the grassroots level in the form of Village Association  and Common Interest Groups.
Various capacity building  activities directed at the leadership of the institution ensure  that the ownership remains firmly with the community  which makes sure that the beneficial impact of the project  continues even after the project is completed.
For specific details, please refer to the Corporate Social  Responsibility Report 5P’s (Products & Processes) Principle 9 CUSTOMER VALUE BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH, AND PROVIDE  VALUE TO THEIR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS  RESPONSIBLY .
UNDERSTANDING CUSTOMER NEEDS IS A KEY STEP  IN RIL ’S ENDEAVOUR TOWARDS DEVELOPING AN  EFFICIENT PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP PROGRAMME.
THE COMPANY ENSURES THAT UTMOST CARE IS TAKEN  TOWARDS CUSTOMER SAFETY .
PUTTING CUSTOMERS  FIRST HAS ALWAYS BEEN RIL ’S APPROACH OF  CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
1.
PERCENTAGE OF CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS/ CONSUMER CASES PENDING AS ON THE END OF  FINANCIAL YEAR    RIL has a customer-centric approach and minimising  customer complaints remains a top priority.
To educate  and apprise customers regarding the Company’s products,  RIL conducts regular Customer Relation Meets (CRMs).
In addition, feedback sessions are organised to better  understand customer concerns and find ways of mitigating  them.
The Company has a separate framework to deal with  customer complaints.
For the year ending 31 st March, 2016,  2,326 customer complaints were received, of which 2,137  were successfully resolved.
Subsequently, most of these  complaints have been resolved.
2.
PRODUCT INFORMATION AND PRODUCT LABELLING   RIL adheres to all the compliance of product information  and product labelling.
The Company’s marketing  communication efforts adhere to the brand standards/ guidelines with regard to visual manifestation, brand  promise and relevancy and saliency of the target group.
RIL adheres to all legal statutes with respect to product  labelling and display of product information.
The Company  follows the Globally Harmonised System for classification of  chemicals and preparation of Material Safety Data Sheets.
Besides, RIL shares information with its customers on safe  handling and use of products at the time of distribution.
3.
CASE FILED BY ANY STAKEHOLDER AGAINST THE  COMPANY REGARDING UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES,  IRRESPONSIBLE ADVERTISING AND/ OR ANTI- COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR DURING THE LAST FIVE  YEARS AND PENDING AS ON END OF THE FINANCIAL  YEAR.
Nil 4.
CONSUMER SURVEY/ CONSUMER SATISFACTION  TRENDS CARRIED OUT BY THE COMPANY   Customer satisfaction is significant to RIL as it ensures the  Company’s overall reputation and brand promise in the  geographies it operates in.
To understand its customers better, RIL follows several  modes of engagement.
Such modes include customer  audits, customer surveys and call centres, direct feedback  taken by visiting managers/ plant personnel and factory  visits organised for customers.
These modes help RIL  understand customer requirements, satisfaction levels  and customer behaviour.
The Company also conducts  one-to-one meetings with customers to enable efficient  communication and resolve specific needs.
In addition, it  conducts web-based customer satisfaction surveys.
RIL has also conducted third-party mystery customer audits,  customer satisfaction surveys and call centre evaluation studies  for this purpose.
This has helped the Company to ensure  periodical fulfilment of service delivery promise, conformance  to internal norms and standards, identification of process  improvement areas and understand customer attitude and  behaviour change to ascertain that needs are met at all stages.
For specific details, please refer to the Management’s  Discussion and Analysis 5P’s (Products & Processes)  Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 166 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Linkage of the 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ADOPTED AT THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT   Summit with Business Responsibility Report, Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Sustainable   Development   Goals Business   Responsibility   Report Management’s  Discussion  and Analysis Corporate   Social   Responsibility No Poverty1 NVG 8  Uplifting livelihoods  Providing rural social security   Accelerating economic development in  areas of high poverty  Improving the quality of life END POVERTY IN ALL ITS   FORMS EVERYWHERE Businesses should support  inclusive growth and equitable  development Zero Hunger2 NVG 2 Products and  Processes  Food security  Water security  Nutrition security  Mission zero malnourishment project  Sustainable food production  Sustainable agricultural practices  Water conservation and rain water  harvesting  Efficient water management   Better market value through producer  companies END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY  AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND  PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE Businesses should provide  goods and services that are safe  and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle NVG 8 Businesses should support  inclusive growth and equitable  development Good Health   and Well-Being 3 NVG 3 People  Healthcare initiatives  Medical outreach programmes  Mission zero malnourishment project  Healthcare for women  HIV/ AIDS ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE  WELL-BEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES   Businesses should promote the  well-being of all employees Quality Education4 NVG 8 People  Education for all  Skill development  Scholarship programmes  Sports for development ENSURE INCLUSIVE AND EQUITABLE  QUALITY EDUCATION AND PROMOTE  LIFELONG LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES  FOR ALL   Businesses should support  inclusive growth and equitable  development Gender Equality5 NVG 5 People  Empowerment of women  Participation of women in village  decision-making bodies ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND  EMPOWER ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS Businesses should respect and  promote human rights Business Responsibility Report 167 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Clean Water &  Sanitation 6 NVG 2 Products and  Processes  Water security  Swacch Bharat  Micro irrigation systems  Water harvesting ENSURE AVAILABILITY AND  SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF WATER  AND SANITATION FOR ALL Businesses should provide  goods and services that are safe  and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle Affordable and   Clean Energy 7 NVG 2 Planet  Sustainable energy  Renewable energy  Biogas plants  Ecological balance   Promoting biodiversity and  conservation of natural resources ENSURE ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE,  RELIABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND MODERN  ENERGY FOR ALL Businesses should provide  goods and services that are safe  and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle NVG 6 Businesses should respect,  protect and make efforts to  restore the environment Decent Work and   Economic Growth 8 NVG 3 Prosperity  Leveraging knowledge and institution  building   Skill development for youth  Uplifting livelihoods  Technological innovation PROMOTE SUSTAINED, INCLUSIVE AND  SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH,  FULL AND PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT  AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL  Businesses should promote the  well-being of all employees Industry, Innovation   and Infrastructure 9 NVG 6 Prosperity  Leveraging knowledge and institution  building   Skill development for youth  Uplifting livelihoods  Technological Innovation BUILD RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE,  PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE  INDUSTRIALISATION AND FOSTER  INNOVATION Businesses should respect,  protect and make efforts to  restore the environment Reduced Inequalities10 NVG 5 People  Empowerment of women  Education for all  Support for the disabled REDUCE INEQUALITY WITHIN AND  AMONG COUNTRIES Businesses should respect and  promote human rights Annual Report 2015-16 Business Responsibility Report (Continued) 168 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sustainable Cities   and Communities 11 NVG 9  Disaster response  Protection of culture and natural  heritage MAKE CITIES AND HUMAN SETTLEMENT  INCLUSIVE, SAFE, RESILIENT AND  SUSTAINABLE Businesses should engage  with and provide value to their  customers and consumers in a  responsible manner Responsible Consumption  and Production 12 NVG 2 Planet  Sustainable production  Innovation ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION  AND PRODUCTION PATTERNS Businesses should provide  goods and services that are safe  and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle NVG 9 Businesses should engage  with and provide value to their  customers and consumers in a  responsible manner Climate Action13 NVG 6 Planet  Climate change  Tree plantation  Capacity building of local communities  for disaster resilience  Developing expertise and resources for  timely response to disasters TAKE URGENT ACTIONS TO COMBAT  CLIMATE CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTS* * Acknowledging that the United Nations Framework  Convention on Climate Change is the primary  international, intergovernmental forum for negotiating  the global response to climate change.
Businesses should respect,  protect and make efforts to  restore the environment Life Below Water14 NVG 6  Water security CONSERVE AND SUSTAINABLY USE  THE OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE  RESOURCES FOR SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT Businesses should respect,  protect and make efforts to  restore the environment Business Responsibility Report 169 Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Life On Land15 NVG 6  Tree plantation  Soil conservation PROTECT, RESTORE AND PROMOTE  SUSTAINABLE USE OF TERRESTRIAL  ECOSYSTEMS, SUSTAINABLY MANAGE  FORESTS, COMBAT DESERTIFICATION,  AND HALT AND REVERSE LAND  DEGRADATION AND HALT BIODIVERSITY  LOSS Businesses should respect,  protect and make efforts to  restore the environment Peace, Justice and  Strong Institutions 16 NVG 1 Peace and  Partnerships  Empowerment of women  Promote peaceful and inclusive  societies for long-term sustainable  development PROMOTE PEACEFUL AND INCLUSIVE  SOCIETIES FOR SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT, PROVIDE ACCESS TO  JUSTICE FOR ALL AND BUILD EFFECTIVE,  ACCOUNTABLE AND INCLUSIVE  INSTITUTIONS AT ALL LEVELS Businesses should conduct and  govern themselves with Ethics,  Transparency and Accountability NVG 4 Businesses should respect the  interests of, and be responsive  towards all stakeholders,  especially those who are  disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalised NVG 7  Businesses, when engaged in  influencing public and regulatory  policy, should do so in a  responsible manner Partnerships For  The Goals 17 NVG 7  Peace and  Partnerships  Leveraging knowledge and institution  building STRENGTHEN THE MEANS OF  IMPLEMENTATION AND REVITALISE  THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Businesses, when engaged in  influencing public and regulatory  policy, should do so in a  responsible manner http://www.undp.org/content/dam/undp/library/corporate/brochure/SDGs_Booklet_Web_En.pdf  Annual Report 2015-16 170 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
“Between my past, the present and the future, there is one common factor:  Relationship and Trust.
This is the foundation of our growth.
” - Founder Chairman Padma Vibhushan Shri Dhirubhai H. Ambani In accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), the report containing  the details of Corporate Governance systems and processes at  Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) is as follows: At RIL, Corporate Governance is all about maintaining a  valuable relationship and trust with all stakeholders.
We  consider stakeholders as partners in our success, and we remain  committed to maximising stakeholders’ value, be it shareholders,  employees, suppliers, customers, investors, communities or  policy makers.
This approach to value creation emanates from  our belief that sound governance system, based on relationship  and trust, is integral to creating enduring value for all.
We have  a defined policy framework for ethical conduct of businesses.
We believe that any business conduct can be ethical only when  it rests on the six core values of Customer Value, Ownership  Mindset, Respect, Integrity, One Team and Excellence.
STATEMENT ON COMPANY’S  PHILOSOPHY ON CODE OF  GOVERNAN CE Corporate Governance encompasses a set of systems and  practices to ensure that the Company’s affairs are being managed  in a manner which ensures accountability, transparency and  fairness in all transactions in the widest sense.
The objective is  to meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
Good governance practices stem from the dynamic culture and  positive mindset of the organisation.
We are committed to meet  the aspirations of all our stakeholders.
This is demonstrated in  shareholder returns, high credit ratings, governance processes  and an entrepreneurial performance focused work environment.
Additionally, our customers have benefited from high quality  products delivered at extremely competitive prices.
The essence of Corporate Governance lies in promoting and  maintaining integrity, transparency and accountability in the  management’s higher echelons.
The demands of Corporate  Governance require professionals to raise their competence  and capability levels to meet the expectations in managing the  enterprise and its resources effectively with the highest standards  of ethics.
It has thus become crucial to foster and sustain a  culture that integrates all components of good governance  by carefully balancing the complex inter-relationship among  the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Corporate Social  Responsibility and Governance Committee, Finance, Compliance  and Assurance teams, Auditors and the senior management.
Our  employee satisfaction is reflected in the stability of our senior  management, low attrition across various levels and substantially  higher productivity.
Above all, we feel honoured to be integral to  India’s social development.
Details of several such initiatives are  available in the Report on Corporate Social Responsibility.
At RIL, we believe that as we move closer towards our aspirations  of being a global corporation, our Corporate Governance  standards must be globally benchmarked.
Therefore, we have  institutionalised the right building blocks for future growth.
The building blocks will ensure that we achieve our ambition  in a prudent and sustainable manner.
RIL not only adheres to  the prescribed Corporate Governance practices as per the  Listing Regulations, but is also committed to sound Corporate  Governance principles and practices.
It constantly strives to  adopt emerging best practices being followed worldwide.
It is our endeavour to achieve higher standards and provide  oversight and guidance to the management in strategy  implementation, risk management and fulfilment of stated  goals and objectives.
Over the years, we have strengthened governance practices.
These practices define the way business is conducted and value  is generated.
Stakeholders’ interests are taken into account,  before making any business decision.
RIL has the distinction of  consistently rewarding its shareholders over 38 eventful years  from its first IPO.
Since then, RIL has moved from one big idea  to another and these milestones continue to fuel its relentless  pursuit of ever-higher goals.
Corporate Governance Report SRIKANTH  VENKATACHARI We believe good governance is essential to business integrity and maintaining investors’ trust.
At RIL, fairness  and transparency are the key drivers of the Corporate Governance process, with stakeholders’ interest being  its topmost priority.
Reliance has been guided by these principles even before Corporate Governance norms  were codified in India.
RIL constantly strives at benchmarking its Corporate Governance practices with global  standards.
The Shareholders’ Referencer in the Annual Report, which provides investor education to our 3  (three) million shareholders, distinguishes the Company in the era of investors’ engagement.
K. SETHURAMAN Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 171 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 On standalone basis, we have grown by a Compounded Annual  Growth Rate (CAGR) of Revenues 24.1%, EBITDA 26.1% and Net  Profit 27.2%.
The financial markets have endorsed our sterling  performance and the market capitalisation has increased by  CAGR of 31.6% during the same period.
In terms of distributing  wealth to our shareholders, apart from having a track record  of uninterrupted dividend payout, we have also delivered  consistent unmatched shareholder returns since listing.
The  result of our initiative is our ever widening reach and recall.
Our shareholder base has grown from 52,000 after the IPO to a  consolidated present base of around 2.6 million.
For decades, RIL is growing in step with India’s industrial and  economic development.
The Company has helped transform  the Indian economy with big-ticket projects and world-class  execution.
The quest to help elevate India’s quality of life  continues unabated.
It emanates from a fundamental article of  faith: ‘What is good for India is good for Reliance’.
We believe, Corporate Governance is not just a destination, but a  journey to constantly improve sustainable value creation.
It is an  upward-moving target that we collectively strive towards achieving.
Our multiple initiatives towards maintaining the highest standards  of governance are detailed in the following pages.
APPROPRIATE GOVERNANCE  STRUCTURE WITH DEFINED ROLES AND  RESPONSIBILITIES The Company has put in place an internal governance structure  with defined roles and responsibilities of every constituent of  the system.
The Company’s shareholders appoint the Board of  Directors, which in turn governs the Company.
The Board has  established seven Committees to discharge its responsibilities  in an effective manner.
RIL ’s Company Secretary acts as the  Secretary to all the Committees of the Board.
The Chairman  and Managing Director (CMD) provides overall direction and  guidance to the Board.
In the operations and functioning of the  Company, the CMD is assisted by four Executive Directors and a  core group of senior level executives.
The Chairman of the Board (‘the Chairman’) is the leader of the  Board.
The Chairman is responsible for fostering and promoting the  integrity of the Board while nurturing a culture where the Board  works harmoniously for the long-term benefit of the Company and  all its stakeholders.
The Chairman guides the Board for effective  governance structure in the Company.
In doing so, the Chairman  presides at the meetings of the Board and the shareholders of the  Company.
The Chairman takes a lead role in managing the Board and  facilitating effective communication among Directors.
The  Chairman is responsible for matters pertaining to governance,  including the organisation and composition of the Board, the  organisation and conduct of Board meetings, effectiveness of  the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors in fulfilling  their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman  in management of the Board’s administrative activities such as  meetings, schedules, agendas, communication and documentation.
The Chairman actively works with the Nomination and  Remuneration Committee to plan the Board and Board committees’  composition, induction of directors to the Board, plan for director  succession, participate in the Board effectiveness evaluation  process and meet with individual directors to provide constructive  feedback and advice.
The Chairman is responsible for corporate strategy, brand equity,  planning, external contacts and all management matters.
BOARD LEADERSHIP A majority of the Board i.e.
8 out of 14, are Independent Directors.
At RIL, it is our belief that an enlightened Board consciously  creates a culture of leadership to provide a long-term vision  and policy approach to improve the quality of governance.
The  Board’s actions and decisions are aligned with the Company’s best  interests.
It is committed to the goal of sustainably elevating the  Company’s value creation.
The Company has defined guidelines  and an established framework for the meetings of the Board and  Board Committees.
These guidelines seek to systematise the  decision-making process at the meetings of the Board and Board  Committees in an informed and efficient manner.
The Board critically evaluates the Company’s strategic direction,  management policies and their effectiveness.
The agenda for  the Board reviews include strategic review from each of the  Committees, a detailed analysis and review of annual strategic  and operating plans, capital allocation and budgets.
Additionally,  the Board reviews related party transactions, possible risks and  risk mitigation measures, financial reports and business reports  from each of the sector heads.
Frequent and detailed interaction  sets the agenda and provides the strategic roadmap for the  Company’s future growth.
ETHICS/GOVERNANCE POLICIES At RIL, we strive to conduct our business and strengthen our  relationships in a manner that is dignified, distinctive and  responsible.
We adhere to ethical standards to ensure integrity,  transparency, independence and accountability in dealing with  all stakeholders.
Therefore, we have adopted various codes and  policies to carry out our duties in an ethical manner.
Some of  these codes and policies are:  Code of Conduct  Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading  Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy  Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy   Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 172 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and on  Dealing with Related Party Transactions  Corporate Social Responsibility Policy   Policy for Selection of Directors and determining Directors  Independence   Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel  and other Employees  Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries   Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of  Unpublished Price Sensitive Information  Policy for Preservation of Documents   Policy on Determination and Disclosure of Materiality of  Events and Information and Web Archival Policy AUDITS AND INTERNAL CHECKS AND  BALANCES Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accountants,   M/s.
Chaturvedi & Shah, Chartered Accountants, one of  India’s leading audit firms and a member of the Nexia’s global  network of independent accounting and consulting firms and   M/s.
Rajendra & Co., Chartered Accountants, Member of  PrimeGlobal, an association of Independent Accounting Firms,  audit the accounts of the Company.
The Company has an  Internal Audit Cell besides external firms acting as independent  internal auditors that reviews internal controls and operating  systems and procedures.
A dedicated Legal Compliance Cell  ensures that the Company conducts its businesses with high  standards of legal, statutory and regulatory compliances.
RIL  has instituted a legal compliance programme in conformity  with the best international standards, supported by a robust  online system that covers the Company’s manufacturing units  as well as its subsidiaries.
The purview of this system includes  various statutes, such as industrial and labour laws, taxation  laws, corporate and securities laws and health, safety and  environment regulations.
At the heart of our processes is the extensive use of technology.
This ensures robustness and integrity of financial reporting  and internal controls, allows optimal use and protection of  assets, facilitates accurate and timely compilation of financial  statements and management reports and ensures compliance  with statutory laws, regulations and company policies.
MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES FOR CONTROLS  AND COMPLIANCE The Company has established the Reliance Management System  (RMS) as part of its transformation agenda.
RMS incorporates an  integrated framework for managing risks and internal controls.
The internal financial controls have been documented, embedded  and digitised in the business processes.
Internal controls are  regularly tested for design and operating effectiveness.
BEST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  PRACTICES RIL maintains the highest standards of Corporate Governance.
It is  the Company’s constant endeavour to adopt the best Corporate  Governance practices keeping in view the international codes  of Corporate Governance and practices of well-known global  companies.
Some of the best implemented global governance  norms include the following:   The Company has a designated Lead Independent Director  with a defined role.
All securities related filings with Stock Exchanges are  reviewed every quarter by the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee.
The Company has independent Board Committees for  matters related to Corporate Governance and stakeholders’  interface and nomination of Board members.
The Company’s internal audit is also conducted by  independent auditors.
The Company also undergoes quarterly secretarial audit  conducted by an independent company secretary who is in  whole-time practice.
The quarterly secretarial audit reports are  placed before the Board and the annual secretarial audit report  placed before the Board, is included in the Annual Report.
BUSINESS AND FUNCTIONAL RISK AND  ASSURANCE COMMITTEES (BRAC s ) To have a better assessment of the business and functional  risks and to monitor risk mitigation effectiveness based on risk  evaluation, the concept of BRACs was introduced comprising  senior management personnel in the said committee.
RIL ’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING JOURNEY RIL commenced annual reporting on its triple-bottom-line  performance from the Financial Year 2004-05.
All its sustainability  reports are externally assured and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  application level checked.
The maiden report received ‘in-accordance’  status from GRI and all subsequent reports are ‘GRI G3 Checked A+’  application level reports.
From Financial Year 2006-07, in addition to  referring GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, RIL refers to the  American Petroleum Institute / the International Petroleum Industry  Environmental Conservation Association Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines and the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
RIL  has also aligned its sustainability activities with the focus areas of  the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
From the  Financial Year 2011-12, Reliance adopted the newly published GRI  G3.1 guidelines and is additionally referring to GRI G3.1 – Oil & Gas  Sector Supplement.
RIL has aligned its sustainability report with  the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and  Economic Responsibilities of Business framed by the Government  of India.
During the year, the Company has expanded its 4P (Planet,  People, Profit, Products & Processes) growth approach to 5P (Planet,  Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 173 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 People, Prosperity, Products & Processes and Peace & Partnerships),  in line with the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable  Development.
RIL pioneered in adopting the GRI’s G4 Guidelines  from Financial Year 2014-15.
RIL has also aligned the G4 Report to  the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) released at the United  Nation Sustainable Development Summit in 2015 which embrace a  universal approach to the sustainable development agenda.
WORKING TOWARDS 5P’s PLANET, PEOPLE,  PROSPERITY (PROFIT), PRODUCTS &  PROCESSES, PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS RIL has expanded its classic 4P growth approach to include Peace  and Partnerships, in line with the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda  for Sustainable Development.
The Sustainable Development  Goals set out by the United Nations have been interwoven  within the 5P’s growth model.
RIL works towards attaining a sustained financial bottom line along  with enhancing the natural human capital and product development.
It is committed to reduce its negative impacts and enhance its positive  impacts on the society as well as the natural environment.
We believe that success of our organization is truly driven by our  “People” .
People are our most valuable assets.
RIL is dedicated to  ensure that people realize their full potential at work with dignity  and equality and in a healthy environment.
We want to foster a  culture that is performance oriented, promotes reward for results  and helps our people Grow!
In addition to making a positive economic contribution to the nation  and society at large, it has focused its energies on identifying specific  impact areas.
It endeavors to alleviate the underprivileged and  marginalized sections of the society and has an active engagement  with them to ensure their holistic development.
It aims to develop innovative products and processes to sustain  its growth momentum.
It also invests in R&D across its businesses,  to serve the current and emerging needs of growth and  efficiency of its businesses, and to develop new path-breaking  technologies.
RIL supports life cycle assessment studies being  done by Indian Centre for Plastics in the Environment (ICPE) and  also works with the Bureau of Indian Standards for formulating  standards and guidelines.
RIL is determined to foster peaceful, just and inclusive societies,  which are free from discrimination.
Strengthened global solidarity  is crucial to ensure sustainable development across the world.
It is  therefore imperative to ensure global partnerships and strategic tie- ups with various organizations locally and internationally to achieve  the collective goal of sustainable development.
RIL is committed to create value for the nation and enhance the  quality of life across the entire socio-economic spectrum.
RIL  believes that Corporate Social Responsibility extends beyond  the ambit of business and should focus on a broad portfolio of  assets - human, physical, environmental and social.
RIL gives  utmost importance to conservation of the natural capital at its  operations.
RIL is committed to responsible stewardship of the  natural resources to conduct its operations in a sustainable  manner.
To strengthen its commitment to responsible  business, the Board of the Company has adopted Business  Responsibility Framework based on the principles of National  Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic  Responsibilities of Business (NVG) as issued by the Ministry  of Corporate Affairs, Government of India.
In sync with the  same and Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, a Business  Responsibility Report is attached forming part of the Annual  Report.
This Report is in addition to RIL ’s Sustainability Reporting  in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
SHAREHOLDERS’ COMMUNICATIONS The Board recognises the importance of two-way communication  with shareholders and giving a balanced report of results and  progress and responding to questions and issues raised in a timely  and consistent manner.
RIL ’s corporate website (www.ril.com)  has information for institutional and retail shareholders alike.
Shareholders seeking information related to their shareholding  may contact the Company directly or through Company’s  Registrars and Transfer Agents, details of which are available on the  Company’s website.
RIL ensures that complaints and suggestions  of its shareholders are responded to in a timely manner.
A  comprehensive and informative shareholders’ referencer is  appended to this Annual Report highlighting various securities  related transactions towards knowledge sharing.
ROLE OF THE COMPANY SECRETARY IN  OVERALL GOVERNANCE PROCESS The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that the Board  (including committees thereof ) procedures are followed and  regularly reviewed.
The Company Secretary ensures that all relevant  information, details and documents are made available to the  Directors and senior management for effective decision-making  at the meetings.
The Company Secretary is primarily responsible to  assist and advise the Board in the conduct of affairs of the Company,  to ensure compliance with applicable statutory requirements  and Secretarial Standards, to provide guidance to directors and  to facilitate convening of meetings.
He interfaces between the  management and regulatory authorities for governance matters.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD COMPOSITION AND CATEGORY OF  DIRECTORS The Company’s policy is to maintain optimum combination of  Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the  Board and category of Directors are as follows: Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 174 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Category Name of Directors Promoter Directors Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman and Managing  Director Nita M. Ambani Non-Executive Non-Independent Director Executive Directors Nikhil R. Meswani Hital R. Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad  Pawan Kumar Kapil Independent Directors Mansingh L. Bhakta Yogendra P .
Trivedi Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is the spouse of Shri Mukesh D. Ambani.
Shri Nikhil R. Meswani and Shri Hital R. Meswani, are brothers and  not related to promoter directors.
None of the other directors are  related to any other director on the Board.
SELECTION OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS Considering the requirement of skill sets on the Board, eminent  people having an independent standing in their respective  field/profession, and who can effectively contribute to the  Company’s business and policy decisions are considered by the  Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee,  for appointment, as Independent Director on the Board.
The  Committee, inter alia, considers qualification, positive attributes,  area of expertise and number of Directorships and Memberships  held in various committees of other companies by such persons  in accordance with the Company’s Policy for Selection of Directors  and determining Directors’ independence.
The Board considers the  Committee’s recommendation, and takes appropriate decision.
Every Independent Director, at the first meeting of the Board in  which he participates as a Director and thereafter at the first  meeting of the Board in every financial year, gives a declaration  that he meets the criteria of independence as provided under law.
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMMES FOR  BOARD MEMBERS The Board members are provided with necessary documents/ brochures, reports and internal policies to enable them to  familiarise with the Company’s procedures and practices.
Periodic presentations are made at the Board and Committee  meetings, on business and performance updates of the  Company, global business environment, business strategy and  risks involved.
Detailed presentations on the Company’s business  segments are made at the separate meetings of the Independent  Directors from time to time.
Quarterly updates on relevant statutory changes and landmark  judicial pronouncements encompassing important laws are  regularly circulated to the Directors.
Site visits to various plant  locations are organised for the Independent Directors to enable  them to understand the operations of the Company.
The details of such familiarisation programmes for Independent  Directors are put up on the website of the Company and can be  accessed at http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  LEAD INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The Company’s Board of Directors has designated   Shri Mansingh L. Bhakta as the Lead Independent Director way   back in October 2005.
The Lead Independent Director’s role   is as follows:   To preside over all meetings of Independent Directors   To ensure there is an adequate and timely flow of information  to Independent Directors   To liaise between the Chairman and Managing Director, the  Management and the Independent Directors   To preside over meetings of the Board and Shareholders  when the Chairman and Managing Director is not present,  or where he is an interested party   To perform such other duties as may be delegated to the Lead  Independent Director by the Board/ Independent Directors MEETINGS OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS The Company’s Independent Directors met three times during the  financial year 2015-16 and held meetings without the presence  of Executive Directors or management personnel.
Such meetings  were conducted to enable Independent Directors to discuss  matters pertaining to the Company’s affairs and put forth their  views to the Lead Independent Director.
The Lead Independent  Director takes appropriate steps to present Independent Directors’  views to the Chairman and Managing Director.
CODE OF CONDUCT The Company has in place a comprehensive Code of Conduct  (the Code) applicable to the Directors and employees.
The Code  is applicable to Non-Executive Directors including Independent  Directors to such extent as may be applicable to them depending on  their roles and responsibilities.
The Code gives guidance and support  needed for ethical conduct of business and compliance of law.
The Code reflects the values of the Company viz.
Customer Value,  Ownership Mind-set, Respect, Integrity, One Team and Excellence.
A copy of the Code has been put up on the Company’s website   and can be accessed at http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/ Downloads.aspx.
The Code has been circulated to Directors  and Management Personnel, and its compliance is affirmed by   them annually.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 175 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 A declaration signed by the Company’s Chairman and Managing  Director is published in this Report.
SUCCESSION PLANNING The Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee believes that sound succession plans for the senior  leadership are very important for creating a robust future for the  Company.
The Committee works along with the Human Resource  team of the Company for a proper leadership succession plan.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR  DIRECTORS The Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee has devised criteria for evaluation of the  performance of the Directors including Independent Directors.
The said criteria provides certain parameters like attendance,  effective participation, domain knowledge and so on, which are  considered by the Committee and/or the Board while evaluating  the performance of each Director.
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE A brief resume of Directors, nature of their expertise in specific  functional areas and names of companies in which they hold  Directorships, Memberships/ Chairmanships of Board Committees,  and shareholding in the Company are provided in this Report.
BOARD MEETINGS, BOARD  COMMITTEE MEETINGS AND  PROCEDURES INSTITUTIONALIZED DECISION-MAKING  PROCESS The Board of Directors is the apex body constituted by  shareholders for overseeing the Company’s overall functioning.
The Board provides and evaluates the Company’s strategic  direction, management policies and their effectiveness, and  ensures that shareholders’ long-term interests are being served.
The Board has constituted seven Committees, viz.
Audit  Committee, Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance  Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Health,  Safety and Environment Committee, Finance Committee and Risk  Management Committee.
The Board is authorised to constitute  additional functional Committees, from time to time, depending  on business needs.
The Company’s internal guidelines for Board / Committee  meetings facilitate decision-making process at its meetings in an  informed and efficient manner.
The following sub-sections deal  with the practice of these guidelines at RIL.
SCHEDULING AND SELECTION OF AGENDA  ITEMS FOR BOARD MEETINGS Minimum five pre-scheduled Board meetings are held annually.
Additional Board meetings are convened to address the  Company’s specific needs.
In case of business exigencies or  urgency, resolutions are passed by circulation.
The Board reviews  compliance reports of all laws applicable to the Company, every  quarter.
The meetings are held at the Company’s office at Maker  Chambers IV, 222 Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 and major  plant locations as decided by the Board.
The Company’s various business heads / service heads are  advised to schedule their work plans well in advance, particularly  with regard to matters requiring discussion/ approval/decision  at Board/Committee meetings.
Such matters are communicated  by them to the Company Secretary in advance so that they are  included in the agenda for Board/Committee meetings.
The Board is given presentations covering Finance, Sales,  Marketing, the Company’s major business segments and their  operations, overview of business operations of major subsidiary  companies, global business environment, the Company’s  business areas, including business opportunities and strategy  and risk management practices before taking on record the  Company’s quarterly/annual financial results.
The items / matters required to be placed before the Board,   inter alia, include:   Annual operating plans of businesses and budgets including  capital budgets and any updates   Quarterly results of the Company and its operating divisions  or business segments    Company’s annual Financial Results, Financial Statements  including Consolidated Financial Statement, Auditors’ Report  and Board’s Report   Minutes of meetings of the Audit Committee and other  Committees of the Board   Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty  notices, which are materially important   Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, and any  material effluent or pollution problems   Any material default in financial obligations to and by the  Company, or substantial non-payment for goods sold by the  Company   Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability  claims of substantial nature, including any judgment or  order, which may have passed strictures on the conduct of  Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 176 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
the Company or taken an adverse view regarding another  enterprise that can have negative implications on the  Company   Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement   Transactions that involve substantial payment towards  goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property   Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions.
Any significant development in Human Resources/ Industrial Relations front like requiring of wage agreements,  implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme, and so on.
Sale of investments, subsidiaries and assets which are material  in nature and not in normal course of business.
Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures, and steps  taken by management to limit risks of adverse exchange rate  movement, if material   Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing  requirements, and shareholders’ service, such as non- payment of dividend, delay in, share transfer, etc.
Appointment, remuneration and resignation of Directors   Formation/reconstitution of Committees   Terms of reference of Committees   Minutes of Board meetings of unlisted subsidiary companies   Declaration of Independent Directors at the time of  appointment/annually   Disclosure of Directors’ interest and their shareholding   Appointment or removal of the Key Managerial Personnel   Appointment of Internal Auditors and Secretarial Auditors   Quarterly / Annual Secretarial Audit reports submitted by  Secretarial Auditors   Dividend declaration   Quarterly summary of all long-term borrowings made, bank  guarantees issued and loans and investments made   Significant changes in accounting policies and internal  controls   Takeover of a company or acquisition of a controlling or  substantial stake in another company    Statement of significant transactions, related party  transactions and arrangements entered by unlisted   subsidiary companies   Issue of securities including debentures   Recommending appointment of and fixing of remuneration  of the Auditors as recommended by the Audit Committee   Internal Audit findings and External Audit Reports (through  the Audit Committee)   Proposals for major investments, mergers, amalgamations  and reconstructions   Status of business risk exposures, its management and   related action plans   Making of loans and investment of surplus funds   Borrowing of monies, giving guarantees or providing security  in respect of loans   Buyback of securities by the Company   Diversify the business of the Company   Brief on statutory developments, changes in government  policies, among others with impact thereof, Directors’  responsibilities arising out of any such developments   Compliance Certificate certifying compliance with all laws as  applicable to the Company   Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report under SEBI  (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996   Brief on information disseminated to the press   Recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below  the level of board of directors The Chairman of the Board and Company Secretary, in  consultation with other concerned members of the senior  management, finalise the agenda for Board meetings.
The agenda and notes on agenda are circulated to Directors  in advance, and in the defined agenda format.
All material  information is incorporated in the agenda for facilitating  meaningful and focused discussions at the meeting.
Where  it is not practicable to attach any document to the agenda,  it is tabled before the meeting with specific reference to this  effect in the agenda.
In special and exceptional circumstances,  additional or supplementary item(s) on the agenda are  permitted.
All Board and Committee meetings agenda papers are  disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading  them on a secured online application specifically designed for  this purpose, thereby eliminating circulation of printed agenda  papers.
RECORDING MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT  BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Company Secretary records minutes of proceedings of each  Board and Committee meeting.
Draft minutes are circulated to  Board/ Committee members for their comments.
The minutes are  entered in the Minutes Book within 30 days from the conclusion  of the meeting.
POST MEETING FOLLOW-UP MECHANISM The guidelines for Board and Committee meetings facilitate an  effective post meeting follow-up, review and reporting process  for decisions taken by the Board and Committees thereof.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 177 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Important decisions taken at Board/ Committee meetings are communicated promptly to the concerned departments/divisions.
Action-taken report on decisions/minutes of the previous meeting(s) is placed at the succeeding meeting of the Board/Committees  for noting.
COMPLIANCE The Company Secretary, while preparing the agenda, notes on agenda and minutes of the meeting(s), is responsible for and is required  to ensure adherence to all applicable laws and regulations, including the Companies Act, 2013 read with rules issued thereunder, as  applicable and Secretarial Standard-1 and Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
NUMBER OF BOARD MEETINGS HELD WITH DATES Six Board meetings were held during the year, as against the minimum requirement of four meetings.
The details of Board meetings  are given below: Date Board  Strength No.
of Directors Present April 17, 2015 13 13 July 24, 2015 14 11 October 16, 2015 14 14 January 19, 2016 14 13 March 10, 2016 14 12 March 25, 2016 14 13 ATTENDANCE OF DIRECTORS AT BOARD MEETINGS, LAST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  (AGM) AND NUMBER OF OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND CHAIRMANSHIPS / MEMBERSHIPS  OF COMMITTEES OF EACH DIRECTOR IN VARIOUS COMPANIES Name of the Director Attendance at meetings  during 2015-16 No.
of Other  Directorship(s) as  on 31-03-2016 No.
of Membership(s) / Chairmanship(s)  of Board Committees in other  Companies as on 31-03-2016 Board AGM (1) (2) Mukesh D. Ambani 6 Yes 4 Nil Nikhil R. Meswani 5 Yes 1 1 (as Chairman) Hital R. Meswani 6 Yes 2 Nil P .M.S.
Prasad 6 Yes 1 Nil Pawan Kumar Kapil 5 Yes Nil Nil Mansingh L. Bhakta 4 Yes Nil Nil Yogendra P .
Trivedi 6 Yes 7 1 Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur 6 Yes 5 4 (including 3 as Chairman) Prof. Ashok Misra 6 Yes 2 2 Prof. Dipak C. Jain 5 Yes 3 2 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar 5 Yes 11 2 Adil Zainulbhai 5 Yes 7 6 (including 5 as Chairman)  Nita M. Ambani 6 Yes 3 Nil Raminder Singh Gujral* 5 N.A.
1 1 (1)   The Directorships, held by Directors as mentioned above, do not include directorships in foreign companies.
(2)   In accordance with Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations, Memberships/Chairmanships of only Audit Committees and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committees in all public  limited companies (excluding Reliance Industries Limited) have been considered.
* Appointed as a Director, w.e.f.
June 12, 2015.
Five meetings were held since his appointment.
Video/tele-conferencing facility is provided to facilitate Directors to participate in the meetings.
The number of directorship,  committee membership / chairmanship(s) of all Directors  is within the respective limits prescribed under  the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 178 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
BOARD COMMITTEES Details of the Board Committees and other related information are provided hereunder: Audit Committee 1.
Y ogendra P .
Trivedi   Independent Director  (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Nikhil R. Meswani   Executive Director 3.
Hital R. Meswani  Executive Director 4.
Prof. Ashok Misra   Independent Director Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 1.
Y ogendra P .
Trivedi   Independent Director  (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar  Independent Director 3.
Adil Zainulbhai  Independent Director 4.
Raminder Singh Gujral  Independent Director Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee 1.
Y ogendra P .
Trivedi   Independent Director  (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Nikhil R. Meswani   Executive Director 3.
Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur   Independent Director 4.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar   Independent Director Health, Safety and   Environment Committee 1.
Hital R. Meswani   Executive Director   (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur   Independent Director 3.
P .M.S.
Prasad   Executive Director 4.
Pawan Kumar Kapil  Executive Director Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee 1.
Adil Zainulbhai  Independent Director  (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Y ogendra P .
Trivedi  Independent Director 3.
Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur   Independent Director 4.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar   Independent Director Finance Committee 1.
Mukesh D. Ambani  Chairman and Managing Director   (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Nikhil R. Meswani  Executive Director 3.
Hital R. Meswani  Executive Director Risk Management Committee 1.
Adil Zainulbhai  Independent Director  (Chairman of the Committee) 2.
Hital R. Meswani  Executive Director 3.
P .M.S.
Prasad   Executive Director 4.
Alok Agarwal  Chief Financial Officer 5.
Srikanth Venkatachari  Joint Chief Financial Officer COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES OF THE COMPANY Shri K. Sethuraman, Group Company Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer, is the Secretary of all the Committees.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 179 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 MEETINGS OF COMMITTEES HELD DURING THE YEAR AND DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE  Committees of the Company Audit  Committee Human Resources  Nomination and  Remuneration  Committee Corporate Social  Responsibility  and Governance  Committee Stakeholders'  Relationship  Committee  Health,  Safety and  Environment  Committee Finance  Committee Risk  Management  Committee Meetings held 6 4 4 4 4 6 5 Directors’ Attendance Mukesh D. Ambani NA NA NA NA NA 6 NA Nikhil R. Meswani NA NA 4 4 NA 6 NA Hital  R. Meswani NA NA NA 3 4 5 5 P .M.S.
Prasad NA NA NA NA 3 NA 5 Pawan Kumar Kapil NA NA NA NA 4 NA NA Mansingh L Bhakta NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Yogendra P Trivedi 6 4 4 4 NA NA NA Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur NA 4 4 NA 4 NA NA Prof. Ashok Misra NA NA NA 4 NA NA NA Prof. Dipak C. Jain NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar 6 4 3 NA NA NA NA Adil Zainulbhai 6 4 NA NA NA NA 5 Nita M. Ambani NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Raminder Singh Gujral* 5 NA NA NA NA NA NA N.A.
– Not a member of the Committee * Appointed as Member of the Committee, w.e.f.
July 07, 2015.
Five meetings were held since his appointment.
PROCEDURE AT COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Company’s guidelines relating to Board meetings are  applicable to Committee meetings.
Each Committee has the  authority to engage outside experts, advisors and counsels  to the extent it considers appropriate to assist in its function.
Minutes of proceedings of Committee meetings are circulated to  the Directors and placed before Board meetings for noting.
TERMS OF REFERENCE AND OTHER  DETAILS OF COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Yogendra P .
Trivedi   (Chairman of the Committee) Independent Director Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Independent Director Adil Zainulbhai Independent Director Raminder Singh Gujral Independent Director The Committee’s composition and terms of reference are in  compliance with provisions of Section 177 of the Companies Act,  2013 and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations.
Members of  the Audit Committee possess requisite qualifications.
POWERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE  To investigate any activity within its terms of reference  To seek information from any employee  To obtain outside legal or other professional advice   To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if  it considers necessary TERMS OF REFERENCE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE   INTER ALIA  INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING   Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and  the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the  financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible   Recommending the appointment, remuneration and terms  of appointment of statutory auditors including cost auditors  of the Company   Approving payment to statutory auditors, including cost  auditors, for any other services rendered by them   Reviewing with the management, the annual financial  statements and auditors’ report thereon before submission  to the Board for approval, with particular reference to:    Matters required to be included in the Directors’  Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s  Report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section  134 of the Companies Act, 2013; Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 180 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices  and reasons for the same;    Major accounting entries involving estimates based on  the  exercise of judgement by the management;    Significant adjustments made in financial statements  arising out of audit findings;    Compliance with listing and other legal requirements  relating to financial statements;    Disclosure of any related party transactions; and    Qualifications / modified opinions in draft audit report.
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial  statements before submission to the Board for approval   Monitoring and reviewing with the management, the  statement of uses/ application of funds raised through an  issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, and so  on), the statement of funds utilised for purposes other than  those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice and  the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring  the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and  making appropriate recommendations to the Board to take  up steps in this matter   Reviewing and monitoring the auditors’ independence and  performance, and effectiveness of audit process   Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of  the Company with related parties    Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments   Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company,  wherever it is necessary   Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk   management systems   Reviewing, with the management, the performance of  statutory auditors and internal auditors, adequacy of  internal control systems   Formulating the scope, functioning, periodicity and  methodology for conducting the internal audit   Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any,  including the structure of the internal audit department,  staffing and seniority of the official heading the department,  reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit   Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings  and follow-up thereon   Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by  the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected  fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of  a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board   Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit  commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as  post audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern   To look into the reasons for substantial defaults, if any, in the  payment to depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in  case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors   To review the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism and  Whistle Blower mechanism   Approval of appointment of the CFO (i.e.
the whole-time  Finance Director or any other person heading the finance  function or discharging that function) after assessing  qualifications, experience and background, and so on of the  candidate   Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms  of reference of the Audit Committee   Reviewing financial statements, in particular the investments  made by the Company’s unlisted subsidiaries   Reviewing mandatorily the following information    The Management Discussion and Analysis of financial  condition and results of operations    Statement of significant related party transactions  (as defined by the Audit Committee), submitted by  management    Management letters/letters of internal control  weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors    Internal audit reports relating to internal control  weaknesses; and    Reviewing the appointment, removal and terms of  remuneration of the Chief internal auditor / internal  auditor(s) GENERAL The representatives of Statutory Auditors are permanent invitees  to the Audit Committee meetings.
They have attended all the  Audit Committee meetings held during the year.
Executives  from Accounts department, Finance department, Corporate  Secretarial department and Internal Audit department attend  the Audit Committee meetings.
The Cost Auditors attend the  Audit Committee meeting where cost audit report is discussed.
The due date for filing the cost audit report in XBRL mode for  the Financial Year ended March 31, 2015 was September 30, 2015   (as per extension given by MCA) and the cost audit report was  filed by the Company on September 22, 2015.
The cost audit  report submitted by the Cost Auditors of the Company for  Financial Year ended March 31, 2016 will be filed with Central  Government on or before the due date, i.e.
August 14, 2016.
The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 181 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the last  Annual General Meeting held on June12, 2015.
MEETING DETAILS Six meetings of the Committee were held during the year, as  against the minimum requirement of four meetings.
The meetings  were held on April 17, 2015; July 24, 2015; August 04, 2015;   October 16, 2015; January 19, 2016; March 25, 2016.
The details  of  attendance are given in this Report.
HUMAN RESOURCES, NOMINATION AND  REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Adil Zainulbhai   (Chairman of the Committee) Independent Director Yogendra P .
Trivedi Independent Director Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Independent Director Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Independent Director The Committee’s composition and terms of reference are  in compliance with provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations and Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits)  Regulations, 2014, as amended from time to time.
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF HUMAN RESOURCES,  NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE   INTER ALIA  INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING   To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications,  positive attributes and independence of a Director,  and recommend to the Board a policy, relating to the  remuneration for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel  and other employees   To formulate the criteria for evaluation of Independent  Directors and the Board   To devise a policy on Board diversity   To identify persons who are qualified to become Directors  and who may be appointed in senior management in  accordance with the criteria laid down and to recommend  to the Board their appointment and/or removal   To carry out evaluation of every Director’s performance   To consider extension or continuation of term of  appointment of independent directors on the basis of the  report of performance evaluation of independent directors.
To recommend/review remuneration of the Managing  Director(s) and Whole-time Director(s) based on their  performance and defined assessment criteria   To administer, monitor and formulate detailed terms and  conditions of the Employees’ Stock Option Scheme   To review human resources policies and overall human  resources of the Company   To carry out any other function as is mandated by the  Board from time to time and / or enforced by any statutory  notification, amendment or modification, as may be  applicable   To perform such other functions as may be necessary or  appropriate for the performance of its duties MEETING DETAILS Four meetings of the Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee were held during the year.
The  meetings were held on April 17, 2015; July 23, 2015; October 08,  2015; January 18, 2016.
The details of attendance are given in  this Report.
The details relating to remuneration of Directors, as required  under Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, have been given  under a separate section, viz.
‘Directors’ Remuneration’ in this  report.
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP  COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Yogendra P .
Trivedi   (Chairman of the Committee) Independent Director Nikhil R. Meswani Executive Director Hital R. Meswani Executive Director Prof. Ashok Misra Independent Director The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee is primarily  responsible to review all matters connected with the Company’s  transfer of securities and redressal of shareholders’ / investors’ /  security holders’ complaints.
The Committee’s composition and terms of reference are in  compliance with provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Regulation 20 the Listing Regulations.
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF STAKEHOLDERS’  RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE INTER ALIA  INCLUDE  THE FOLLOWING   Oversee and review all matters connected with the transfer  of the Company’s securities   Approve issue of the Company’s duplicate share / debenture  certificates    Consider, resolve and monitor redressal of investors’ /  shareholders’ / security holders’ grievances related to  transfer of securities, non-receipt of Annual Report, non- receipt of declared dividend  and so on.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 182 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Oversee the performance of the Company’s Registrars and  Transfer Agents   Recommend methods to upgrade the standard of services  to investors   Monitor implementation and compliance with the  Company’s Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider  Trading   Carry out any other function as is referred by the Board from  time to time and / or enforced by any statutory notification /  amendment or modification as may be applicable   Perform such other functions as may be necessary or  appropriate for the performance of its duties MEETING DETAILS Four meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
The meetings were held on April 15, 2015; July 24, 2015;   October 16, 2015; January 19, 2016.
The details of attendance are  given in this Report.
COMPLIANCE OFFICER Shri K. Sethuraman, Group Company Secretary and Chief  Compliance Officer, is the Compliance Officer for complying with  requirements of Securities Laws.
PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING With a view to regulate trading in securities by the directors and  designated employees, the Company has adopted a Code of  Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading.
INVESTOR GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL The number of complaints received and resolved to the  satisfaction of investors during the year under review and their  break-up are as under: Type of Complaints Number of  Complaints Non-Receipt of Annual Reports 944 Non-Receipt of Dividend 13 610 Non-Receipt of Interest/ Redemption Warrants 6 Transfer of securities 170 TOTAL 14 730 As on March 31, 2016, no complaints were outstanding.
All letters received from the investors are replied to and the  response time for attending to investors’ correspondence during  Financial Year 2015-16 is shown in the following table: Number % Total number of correspondence  received during 2015-16 1 24 608 100.00 Replied within 1 to 4 days of receipt 1 24 393 99.83 Replied within 5 to 7 days of receipt 197 0.16 Replied within 8 to 15 days of receipt 18 0.01 Received in last week of March 2016  have been replied in April 2016 156 0.13 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND  GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Yogendra P .
Trivedi   (Chairman of the Committee) Independent Director Nikhil R. Meswani Executive Director Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Independent Director Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar Independent Director The Committee’s prime responsibility is to assist the Board in  discharging its social responsibilities by way of formulating  and monitoring implementation of the framework of corporate  social responsibility policy, observe practices of Corporate  Governance at all levels, and to suggest remedial measures  wherever necessary.
The Board has also empowered the  Committee to look into matters related to sustainability and  overall governance.
The Committee’s composition and terms of reference are in  compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF CORPORATE SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE   INTER ALIA  INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING   To formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate  Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy indicating activities to be  undertaken by the Company in compliance with provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder   To recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred  on the CSR activities   To monitor the implementation of the CSR Policy of the  Company from time to time   To approve the Corporate Sustainability Reports and oversee  the implementation of sustainability activities   To oversee the implementation of policies contained in  the Business Responsibility Policy Manual and to make  any changes / modifications, as may be required, from  time to time and to review and recommend the Business  Responsibility Reports (BRR) to the Board for its approval Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 183 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54   To observe practices of Corporate Governance at all levels  and to suggest remedial measures wherever necessary   To ensure compliance with Corporate Governance norms  prescribed under Listing Regulations, the Companies Act  and other statutes or any modification or re-enactment  thereof   To advise the Board periodically with respect to significant  developments in the law and practice of Corporate  Governance and to make recommendations to the Board  for appropriate revisions to the Company’s Corporate  Governance Guidelines   To monitor the Company’s compliance with Corporate  Governance Guidelines and applicable laws and regulations  and make recommendations to the Board on all such  matters and on any corrective action to be taken, as the  Committee may deem appropriate   To review and assess the adequacy of the Company’s  Corporate Governance Manual, Code of Conduct for  Directors and Senior Management, Code of Ethics and  other internal policies and guidelines and monitor that  principles described therein are being incorporated into the  Company’s culture and business practices   To formulate / approve codes and / or policies for better  governance   To provide correct inputs to the media so as to preserve and  protect the Company’s image and standing   To disseminate factually correct information to investors,  institutions and the public at large   To establish oversight on important corporate  communication on behalf of the Company with the  assistance of consultants / advisors, if necessary   To ensure institution of standardised channels of internal  communications across the Company to facilitate a high  level of disciplined participation   To carry out any other function as is mandated by the  Board from time to time and/or enforced by any statutory  notification, amendment or modification as may be  applicable or as may be necessary or appropriate for  performance of its duties MEETING DETAILS Four meetings of the Corporate Social Responsibility and  Governance Committee were held during the year.
The meetings  were held on April 16, 2015; July 23, 2015; October 08, 2015; January  18, 2016.
The details of attendance are given in this Report.
HEAL TH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT  COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Hital R. Meswani   (Chairman of the Committee) Executive Director Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur Independent Director P .M.S.
Prasad Executive Director Pawan Kumar Kapil Executive Director The Committee is primarily responsible to monitor and ensure  the highest standards of environmental, health and safety  norms are maintained, and the Company’s operations are in  compliance with applicable pollution and environmental laws  across all locations.
The Committee fulfils its responsibilities by  reviewing the management of health, safety, environmental  and social impacts of the Company’s various projects and  operations.
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF HEAL TH, SAFETY AND  ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE INTER ALIA  INCLUDE  THE FOLLOWING   Monitoring and ensuring the highest standards of  environmental, health and safety norms   Ensuring compliance with applicable pollution and  environmental laws at the Company’s works / factories /  locations by putting in place effective systems in this regard  and reviewing the same periodically   Reviewing, as the Committee deems appropriate, the  Company’s health, safety and environment related policy  and making recommendations as necessary   Reviewing the Company’s performance on health, safety and  environment related matters and suggesting improvements  as the Committee may deem necessary   Reviewing procedures and controls being followed at the  Company’s various manufacturing facilities and plants for  compliance with relevant statutory provisions   Reviewing regularly and making recommendations about  changes to the charter of the Committee   Obtaining or performing an annual evaluation of the  Committee’s performance and making appropriate  recommendations.
MEETING DETAILS Four meetings of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee  were held during the year.
The meetings were held on   April 17, 2015; July 24, 2015; October 08, 2015; January 18, 2016.
The details of attendance are given in this Report.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 184 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
FINANCE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Mukesh D. Ambani   (Chairman of the Committee) Chairman and Managing Director Nikhil R. Meswani Executive Director Hital R. Meswani Executive Director TERMS OF REFERENCE OF FINANCE COMMITTEE  INTER ALIA  INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING   Review the Company’s financial policies, risk assessment and  minimisation procedures, strategies and capital structure,  working capital and cash flow management, and make such  reports and recommendations to the Board with respect  thereto, as it may deem advisable   Review banking arrangements and cash management   Exercise all powers to borrow money (otherwise than by  issue of debentures) within limits approved by the Board,  and take necessary actions connected therewith, including  refinancing for optimisation of borrowing costs   Give guarantees/issue letters of comfort/providing  securities within the limits approved by the Board   Borrow money by way of loan and/or issue and allot bonds/ notes denominated in one or more foreign currencies in  international markets for the purpose of refinancing the  existing debt, capital expenditure, general corporate purposes,  including working capital requirements and possible strategic  investments within limits approved by the Board   Provide corporate guarantee/performance guarantee by  the Company within the limits approved by the Board    Approve opening and operation of Investment Management  Accounts with foreign banks and appoint them as agents,  establishment of representative/sales offices in or outside  India   Carry out any other function as is mandated by the Board  from time to time and/or enforced by any statutory  notification, amendment or modification as may be  applicable   Other transactions or financial issues that the Board may  desire to have them reviewed by the Finance Committee   Delegate authorities from time to time to the executives/ authorised persons to implement the Committee’s decisions   Review regularly and make recommendations about  changes to the charter of the Committee MEETING DETAILS Six meetings of the Finance Committee were held during the  year.
The meetings were held on April 17, 2015; May 21, 2015;  July 24, 2015; September 07, 2015;  October 16, 2015; January 19,  2016.
The details of  attendance are given in this Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Adil Zainulbhai   (Chairman of the Committee) Independent Director Hital R. Meswani Executive Director P .M.S.
Prasad Executive Director Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer The Committee’s prime responsibility is to implement and  monitor the risk management plan and policy of the Company.
The Committee’s composition is in compliance with provisions of  Regulation 21 of Listing Regulations.
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF RISK MANAGEMENT  COMMITTEE INTER ALIA  INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING   Framing of Risk Management Plan and Policy   Overseeing implementation of Risk Management Plan and  Policy  Monitoring of Risk Management Plan and Policy   Validating the process of Risk Management   Validating the procedure for Risk Minimisation   Periodically reviewing and evaluating the Risk Management  Policy and practices with respect to risk assessment and risk  management processes   Continually obtaining reasonable assurance from  management that all known and emerging risks have been  identified and mitigated or managed   Performing such other functions as may be necessary or  appropriate for the performance of its oversight function MEETING DETAILS Five meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
The meetings were held on April 16, 2015; July 21, 2015;   October 21, 2015; December 15, 2015; January 12, 2016.
The details of attendance are given in this Report.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REMUNERATION POLICY The Company’s Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial  Personnel and other employees is annexed as Annexure IIIB to  the Directors’ Report.
Further, the Company has devised a Policy  for performance evaluation of Independent Directors, Board,  Committees and other individual Directors.
The Company’s remuneration policy is directed towards  rewarding performance based on review of achievements  periodically.
The remuneration policy is in consonance with the  existing industry practice.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 185 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND MANAGING DIRECTOR AND WHOLE-TIME  DIRECTORS DURING 2015-16 (` in crore) Name of the Director Salary Perquisites  and  allowances Retiral  benefits Commission  payable Performance  Linked  Incentive  Total Stock  options  granted Mukesh D. Ambani 4.16 0.60 0.71 9.53 - 15.00 - Nikhil R. Meswani 1.15 1.45 0.22 11.6 - 14.42 - Hital R. Meswani 1.15 1.45 0.21 11.6 - 14.41 - P .M.S.
Prasad 0.86 1.35 0.15 - 4.87 7.23 - Pawan Kumar Kapil 0.50 0.75 0.09 - 1.60 2.94 0.44 The Chairman and Managing Director’s compensation has been set at ` 15 crore as against ` 38.75 crore as approved, reflecting his  desire to continue to set a personal example for moderation in managerial compensation levels.
Performance criteria for two Executive Directors, entitled for Performance Linked Incentive (PLI), are determined by the Human  Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The tenure of office of the Managing Director and Whole-time Directors is for five years from their respective dates of appointments,  and can be terminated by either party by giving three months’ notice in writing.
There is no separate provision for payment of  severance fees.
Sitting fee and commission on net profit to Non-Executive Directors for the financial year 2015-16: (` In Lakh) Name of the Non-Executive Director Sitting Fee Commission Total Mansingh L. Bhakta 6 120 126 Yogendra P .
Trivedi 27 120 147 Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur 21 120 141 Prof. Ashok Misra 13 120 133 Prof. Dipak C. Jain 8 120 128 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar 21 120 141 Adil Zainulbhai 23 120 143 Nita M. Ambani 6 120 126 Raminder Singh Gujral 12 96.33 108.33 TOTAL 137 1056.33 1193.33 During the year, the Company paid ` 3.54 lakh as professional fees  to M/s.
Kanga & Co., a firm in which the Company’s Director, Shri  Mansingh L. Bhakta, is a partner.
There were no other pecuniary  relationships or transactions of Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis  the Company.
The Company has not granted any stock option to  any of its Non-Executive Directors.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES’ MONITORING  FRAMEWORK All subsidiary companies are Board managed with their  Boards having the rights and obligations to manage such  companies in the best interest of their stakeholders.
The  Company does not have any material unlisted subsidiary,  and hence, is not required to nominate an Independent  Director of the Company on the Board of any subsidiary.
However, Prof. Dipak C. Jain and Shri Adil Zainulbhai, the  Company’s Independent Directors have been appointed  as Independent Directors on the Board of Reliance Retail  Ventures Limited and Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited,  subsidiaries of the Company.
The Company monitors performance of subsidiary companies,  inter alia, by the following means:   Financial statements, in particular investments made by  unlisted subsidiary companies, reviewing quarterly by the  Company’s Audit Committee Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 186 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Minutes of Board meetings of unlisted subsidiary companies  are placed before the Company’s Board regularly   A statement containing all significant transactions  and arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary  companies is placed before the Company’s Board The Company’s Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries  is put up on the Company’s website and can be accessed   at http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx GENERAL BODY MEETINGS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS During the preceding three years, the Company’s Annual General  Meetings were held at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, New Marine  Lines, Mumbai – 400 020.
The date and time of Annual General Meetings held during last  three years, and the special resolution(s) passed thereat, are as  follows: Year Date Time Special Resolution Passed 2014- 15 June 12,  2015 11.00  a.m. i.
Continuation of employment  of Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil as a  Whole-time Director designated  as Executive Director  ii.
Offer or invitation  for  subscription of   Non-Convertible Debentures  on private placement basis  (enabling resolution – not  implemented) 2013- 14 June 18,  2014 11.00  a.m. i.
Payment of remuneration to  Non-Executive  Directors not  exceeding in aggregate one  percent of the net profits of the  Company  ii.
Offer or invitation  for  subscription of Non-Convertible  Debentures on private  placement basis (enabling  resolution – not implemented) iii.
Adoption of new Articles of  Association of the Company 2012- 13 June 06,  2013 11.00  a.m. i.
Payment of commission to   Non-Executive Directors SPECIAL RESOLUTION(S) PASSED THROUGH POSTAL  BALLOT No postal ballot was conducted during the Financial   Year 2015-16.
There is no immediate proposal for passing  any resolution through Postal Ballot.
None of the businesses  proposed to be transacted at the ensuing Annual General  Meeting require passing a resolution through Postal Ballot.
DISCLOSURES ON MATERIALLY SIGNIFICANT  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, i.e., THE  COMPANY’S TRANSACTIONS THAT ARE OF  MATERIAL NATURE, WITH ITS PROMOTERS,  DIRECTORS AND THE MANAGEMENT, THEIR  RELATIVES OR SUBSIDIARIES, AMONG OTHERS  THAT MAY HAVE POTENTIAL CONFLICT WITH THE  COMPANY’S INTERESTS AT LARGE  The Company’s major related party transactions are generally  with its subsidiaries and associates.
The related party transactions  are entered into based on considerations of various business  exigencies, such as synergy in operations, sectoral specialisation  and the Company’s long-term strategy for sectoral investments,  optimisation of market share, profitability, legal requirements,  liquidity and capital resources of subsidiaries and associates.
During the year, the Company acquired 18,00,000 Ordinary  Shares of Reliance Global Business B.V., Netherlands   (wholly-owned indirect subsidiary) from Reliance Industrial  Investments and Holdings Limited (wholly-owned direct  subsidiary) at par value for a total consideration of Euro 18,000  equivalent to ₹ 13.50 lakh with the approval granted by the Audit  Committee and Board of Directors at their respective meetings.
All other contracts / arrangements / transactions entered by the  Company during the financial year with related parties were in the  ordinary course of business and at an arm’s length basis.
During the year, the Company had not entered into any contract/  arrangement / transaction with related parties which could be  considered material in accordance with the policy of the Company  on materiality of related party transactions.
Please refer to Note  No.
31 of Standalone Financial Statements, forming part of the  Annual Report.
None of the transactions with any of related parties were in  conflict with the Company’s interest.
The Company’s Policy on Materiality of Related Party  Transactions and dealing with Related Party Transactions is  put up on the Company’s website and can be accessed at   http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx DETAILS OF NON-COMPLIANCE BY THE COMPANY ,  PENAL TIES, STRICTURES IMPOSED ON THE  COMPANY BY STOCK EXCHANGE OR SEBI, OR ANY  STATUTORY AUTHORITY , ON ANY MATTER RELATED  TO CAPITAL MARKETS, DURING THE LAST THREE  YEARS (i)  SEBI had issued a Show Cause Notice in connection with the  alleged non-disclosure of the diluted Earnings Per Share in  the filing with Stock Exchanges in respect of warrants issued  in April, 2007.
The Adjudicating Officer of SEBI imposed an  aggregate monetary penalty of Rs.
13 crore.
The Company  had challenged this order before the Hon’ble Securities  Appellate Tribunal (‘SAT’).
SAT has set aside the said order  Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 187 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 and remanded the matter for fresh consideration by SEBI.
SEBI has initiated adjudication proceedings and has issued  a Show Cause Notice dated April 05, 2016 in the matter and  the Company has filed reply to the same.
(ii)  SEBI had issued a Show Cause Notice dated November  26, 2015 to the Company alleging that, the Company had  not provided the information sought by SEBI regarding  categorization of the Directors of the Company as on   January 07, 2000.
The Company has filed its reply to the  aforesaid Show Cause Notice, attended the personal hearing  in the matter and provided the information to SEBI.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY The Company promotes ethical behaviour in all its business  activities and has put in place a mechanism for reporting illegal  or unethical behaviour.
The Company has a Vigil Mechanism  and Whistle blower policy under which the employees are free  to report violations of applicable laws and regulations and the  Code of Conduct.
The reportable matters may be disclosed to  the Ethics and Compliance Task Force which operates under the  supervision of the Audit Committee.
Employees may also report  to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the year under  review, no employee was denied access to the Audit Committee.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Quarterly results:  The Company’s quarterly/half yearly/ annual financial results are sent to the Stock Exchanges and  published in ‘Indian Express’ , ‘Financial Express’ and ‘Navshakti’ .
Simultaneously, they are also put up on the Company’s website  (www.ril.com).
News releases, presentations, among others:  Official news  releases and official media releases are sent to Stock Exchanges  and are displayed on its website (www.ril.com).
Presentations to institutional investors / analysts:  Detailed  presentations are made to institutional investors and financial  analysts on the Company’s quarterly as well as annual financial  results.
These presentations and Schedule of analyst or institutional  investors meet are also uploaded on the Company’s website (www.
ril.com) as well as sent to the Stock Exchanges.
No unpublished  price sensitive information is discussed in presentation made to  institutional investors and financial analysts.
Website: The Company’s website (www.ril.com) contains  a separate dedicated section ‘Investor Relations’ where  shareholders’ information is available.
The Company’s Annual  Report is also available in downloadable form.
Annual Report:  The Annual Report containing, inter alia ,  Audited Financial Statements, Audited Consolidated Financial  Statements, Directors’ Report, Auditors’ Report and other  important information is circulated to members and others  entitled thereto.
The Management’s Discussion and Analysis  (MD&A) Report forms part of the Annual Report.
Chairman’s Communiqué: The printed copy of the Chairman’s  speech is distributed to shareholders at Annual General Meetings.
The document is also placed on the Company’s website (www.ril.
com) and sent to Stock Exchanges.
Reminder to Investors: Reminders for unclaimed shares, unpaid  dividend/unpaid interest or redemption amount on debentures  are sent to shareholders/debenture holders as per records every  year.
NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS):  The NEAPS is a web-based application designed by NSE for  corporates.
All periodical compliance filings like shareholding  pattern, corporate governance report, media releases, statement  of investor complaints, among others are filed electronically on  NEAPS.
BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre (the ’Listing  Centre‘): BSE’s Listing Centre is a web-based application  designed for corporates.
All periodical compliance filings like  shareholding pattern, corporate governance report, media  releases, statement of investor complaints, among others are  also filed electronically on the Listing Centre.
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES):  The investor  complaints are processed in a centralised web-based  complaints redress system.
The salient features of this system  are: Centralised database of all complaints, online upload of  Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by concerned companies and  online viewing by investors of actions taken on the complaint  and its current status.
Designated Exclusive email-id:  The Company has designated  the following email-ids exclusively for investor servicing:   For queries on Annual Report:   investor_relations@ril.com   For queries in respect of shares in physical mode:   rilinvestor@karvy.com Shareholders’ Feedback Survey: The Company had sent  feedback forms seeking shareholders’ views on various matters  relating to investor services and Annual Report 2014-15.
The  feedback received from shareholders is placed before the  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 188 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COMPANY REGISTRATION DETAILS The Company is registered in the State of Maharashtra, India.
The  Corporate Identity Number (CIN) allotted to the Company by the  Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) is L17110MH1973PLC019786.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Day, Date, Time and Venue) Thursday, September 1, 2016 at 11.00 a.m. Birla Matushri Sabhagar, Near Bombay Hospital & Medical  Research Centre, 19, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020 FINANCIAL YEAR April 1 to March 31 FINANCIAL CALENDAR (TENTATIVE) RESULTS FOR THE QUARTER ENDING June 30, 2016 –  Third week of July, 2016 September 30, 2016 –  Third  week of October, 2016 December 31, 2016 –  Third  week of January, 2017 March 31, 2017 –  Third  week of April, 2017 Annual General Meeting –  June, 2017 LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES EQUITY SHARES BSE LIMITED (BSE) Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001 Scrip Code 500325 NATIONAL STOCK EXCHANGE OF INDIA LIMITED (NSE) ‘‘Exchange Plaza” , C-1, Block G, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051 Trading Symbol – RELIANCE EQ ISIN: INE002A01018 GLOBAL DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (GDR s ) The GDRs of the Company are listed on Luxembourg Stock  Exchange, 11, Avenue de la Porte- Neuve, L – 2227, Luxembourg.
Also traded on International Order Book System   (London Stock Exchange) and PORTAL System (NASD, USA)  Trading Symbol RILYP , CUSIP 759470107.
OVERSEAS DEPOSITORY The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, 101, Barclay Street,  New York, NY 10286 USA.
DOMESTIC CUSTODIAN ICICI Bank Limited, Empire Complex, E7/F7, 1 st  Floor,   414, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013.
DEBT SECURITIES The details of listing of Non-Convertible Debentures issued by  the Company are given here below.
Non- Convertible  Debentures  Series Listing Details PPD 177 Listed on Wholesale Debt Market Segment of NSE PPD 179 - T3 Listed on Wholesale Debt Market Segment of NSE PPP 180 – T1 Listed on Wholesale Debt Market Segment of BSE  and NSE The Company has issued bonds from time to time in the  international markets by way of private placement as well as  bond offerings listed on stock exchanges.
The Company’s bonds  are listed on Singapore Stock Exchange, Taipei Exchange and  Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE Axis Trustee Services Limited Axis House, 2 nd Floor, Wadia International Centre, Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai 400 025.
PAYMENT OF LISTING FEES Annual listing fee for the year 2016-17 has been paid by the  Company to BSE and NSE.
Annual maintenance and listing  agency fee for the calendar year 2016 has been paid by the  Company to the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
PAYMENT OF DEPOSITORY FEES Annual Custody/Issuer fee for the year 2016-17 has been  paid by  the Company to NSDL and CDSL.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 189 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 STOCK MARKET PRICE DATA MONTH Month National Stock Exchange (NSE) BSE Limited (BSE) High Price (`) Low Price (`) Volume (No.)
High Price(`) Low Price (`) Volume (No.)
Apr-15 944.30 813.10 8 80 56 659 943.80 814.00 84 62 614 May-15 915.40 857.20 6 62 04 721 915.50 857.90 69 02 299 Jun-15 1 014.10 873.65 10 23 24 475 1 013.80 874.00 1 16 41 485 Jul-15 1 067.85 983.15 7 17 75 890 1 067.00 984.30 96 00 630 Aug-15 1 013.85 818.00 7 57 37 348 1 013.20 819.00 76 51 509 Sep-15 899.50 825.10 7 22 43 540 899.00 825.25 85 19 428 Oct-15 974.80 858.60 5 77 35 526 974.00 858.80 47 73 882 Nov-15 992.50 909.95 5 48 29 775 992.00 910.00 42 01 879 Dec-15 1 019.70 912.85 6 63 41 940 1 018.50 913.00 56 67 572 Jan-16 1 089.75 976.70 11 91 01 279 1 089.50 978.15 1 79 71 880 Feb-16 1 041.80 888.10 8 18 68 834 1 041.00    888.50 1 03 94 659 Mar-16 1 056.00 964.65 7 10 67 102 1 055.95 965.00 90 04 567 [Source: This information is compiled from the data available from the websites of BSE and NSE] SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE IN  COMPARISON TO BROAD BASED INDICES –  BSE SENSEX AND NSE NIFTY AS ON   MARCH 31, 2016 BSE (% Change) NSE (% Change) RIL Sensex RIL Nifty FY 2015-16 26.74% -9.36% 26.54% -8.86% 2 years 12.45% 13.20% 12.30% 15.43% 3 years 35.10% 34.54% 35.23% 36.18% 5 years -0.24% 30.32% -0.37% 32.65% REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER AGENTS Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, 6th Floor Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Tel: +91-40-67161700 Toll Free No.
: 1800-4258-998; Fax: +91-40-23114087 e-mail: rilinvestor@karvy.com Website: www.karvy.com SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM Share transfers are processed and share certificates duly  endorsed are delivered within a period of seven days from the  date of receipt, subject to documents being valid and complete  in all respects.
The Board has delegated the authority for  approving transfer, transmission, and so on of the Company’s  securities to the Managing Director and/or Company Secretary.
A summary of transfer/transmission of securities of the Company  so approved by the Managing Director/Company Secretary is  placed at quarterly Board meeting / Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee.
The Company obtains from a Company Secretary  in Practice half-yearly certificate to the effect that all certificates  have been issued within thirty days of the date of lodgement of  the transfer, sub division, consolidation and renewal as required  under Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations and files a copy  of the said certificate with Stock Exchanges.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 190 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2016  Category  code Category of shareholder Number of  shareholders Total number  of shares As a percentage  of (A+B+C) (A) Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group (1) Indian 58* 1 46 31 01 074 45.15 (2) Foreign 0 0  0.00 Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group 58 1 46 31 01 074 45.15 (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions 2 206 1 04 91 16 260 32.38 (2) Non-institutions 26 40 187 63 19 09 431 19.50 Total Public Shareholding 26 42 393 1 68 10 25 691 51.88 (C) Shares held by Custodians and against which Depository Receipts  have been issued (1) Promoter and Promoter Group 0 0 0.00 (2) Public 1 9 62 49 556 2.97  TOTAL (A) + (B) + (C) 26 42 452 3 24 03 76 321 100.00 * As per disclosure under regulation 30(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, furnished by the  promoters.
CATEGORY - WISE SHAREHOLDING (%)  Promoter  Institutions  Non-Institutions  GDR Holders 2.97 19.50 45.15 32.38 SHAREHOLDING PATTERN BY SIZE AS ON  MARCH 31, 2016 Category (Shares) Holders Shares % of Total  Shares Up to 500 25 28 494 17 16 36 964 5.30 501-1000 66 590 4 69 74 998 1.45 1001-5000 41 705 7 86 51 110 2.43 5001-10000 2 895 2 01 68 184 0.62 10001-20000 1 041 1 44 83 862 0.45 Above 20000 1 727 2 90 84 61 203 89.76 TOTAL 26 42 452 3 24 03 76 321 100.00 Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 191 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 BUILD-UP OF EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL Particulars Allotment Date No.
of Shares Subscribers to Memorandum October 19, 1975 1 100 Shareholders of Reliance Textile Industries Limited (Merged with the Company) May 9, 1977 59 50 000 Conversion of Loan September 28, 1979 9 40 000 Rights Issue – I December 31,1979 6 47 832 Bonus Issue – I September 19, 1980 45 23 359 Debenture Series I Conversion December 31, 1980 8 40 575 Consolidation of Fractional Coupon Shares May 15,1981 24 673 Conversion of Loan June 23, 1981 2 43 200 Conversion of Loan September 22, 1981 1 40 800 Rights Issue II October 6, 1981 23 80 518 Debenture Series II Conversion December 31, 1981 8 42 529 Debenture Series I Conversion Phase II December 31, 1981 27 168 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) April 12, 1982 81 059 Rights Issue II NRI June 15, 1982 774 Debenture Series III Conversion August 31, 1982 19 20 000 Rights Issue II September 9, 1982 41 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) II December 29, 1982 1 942 Bonus Issue- II September 30, 1983 1 11 39 564 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) III September 30, 1983 371 Debenture Series IV Conversion September 30, 1983 64 00 000 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) IV April 5, 1984 617 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) V June 20, 1984 50 Debenture Series I Conversion October 1, 1984 97 66 783 Debenture Series II Conversion December 31, 1984 2 16 571 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) VI January 31, 1985 91 Consolidation of Fractional Coupon Shares April 30, 1985 45 005 Debenture Series E Conversion April 30, 1985 53 33 333 Debenture Series III Conversion July 5, 1985 52 835 Debenture Series IV Conversion December 17, 1985 42 871 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) VII December 31, 1985 106 Consolidation of Fractional Coupon Shares December 31, 1985 610 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) VIII November 15, 1986  40 284 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) IX  April 1, 1987 169 Debenture Series G Conversion August 1, 1987  6 60 30 100 Rights Issue III February 4, 1988 3 15 71 695 Debenture Series G Conversion February 4, 1988 29 35 380 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) X June 2, 1988 25 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) XI October 31, 1988 10 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) XII November 29, 1990 322 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) XIII May 22, 1991 46 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) XIV October 10, 1991 25 Euro Issue GDR-I June 3, 1992 1 84 00 000 Shareholders of Sidhpur Mills Co Limited (Merged with the Company) 4,060 Shareholders of Reliance Petrochemicals Limited (Merged with the Company) December 4, 1992 7 49 42 763 Loan Conversion July 7, 1993 3 16 667 Debenture Series H Conversion August 26, 1993 3 64 60 000 Warrant Conversion (Debenture Series F) August 26, 1993 1 03 16 092 Euro Issue GDR II February 23, 1994 2 55 32 000 Loan Conversion March 1, 1994 18 38 950 Warrant Conversion (Debenture Series J) August 3, 1994 87 40 000 Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 192 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Particulars Allotment Date No.
of Shares Private Placement of Shares October 21, 1994 2 45 45 450 Conversion of Reliance Petrochemicals Limited Debentures December 22, 1994 75 472 Shareholders of Reliance Polypropylene Limited and Reliance Polyethylene Limited   (Merged with the Company) March 16, 1995 9 95 75 915 Warrants Conversion March 10, 1995 74 80 000 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 I May 24, 1997 544 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 II July 11, 1997 13 31 042 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 III July 22, 1997 6 05 068 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 IV September 13, 1997 18 64 766 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 V October 22, 1997 18 15 755 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 VI November 4, 1997 1 03 475 Bonus Issue III December 20, 1997 46 60 90 452 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 VII December 4, 1997 15 68 499 Conversion of 3.5% ECB Due 1999 VIII September 27, 1999 7 624 Conversion of Warrants January 12, 2000 12 00 00 000 Shareholders of Reliance Petroleum Limited (Merged with the Company) October 23, 2002 34 26 20 509 Shareholders of Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (Merged with the Company) October 13, 2007 6 01 40 560 Exercise of Warrants October 3, 2008 12 00 00 000 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2008-09 1 49 632 Shareholders of Reliance Petroleum Limited (Merged with the Company) September 30, 2009 6 92 52 623 Bonus Issue IV  November 28,2009  1 62 67 93 078 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2009-10 5 30 426 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2010-11 29 99 648 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2011-12 13 48 763 ESOS – Allotment February 22, 2013 1 86 891 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2013-14 32 38 476 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2014-15 37 86 907 ESOS – Allotment Various dates in 2015-16 46 87 556 Less: Shares bought back and extinguished on January 24, 2005 -28 69 495 Less: Shares bought back and extinguished from February 08, 2012 to January 22, 2013  -4 62 46 280 TOTAL EQUITY AS ON MARCH 31, 2016 324 03 76 321 CORPORATE BENEFITS TO INVESTORS DIVIDEND DECLARED FOR THE LAST 10 YEARS Financial Year Dividend Declaration Dividend per Share* 2005-06 June 27, 2006 10 2006-07 March 10, 2007 11 2007-08 June 12, 2008 13 2008-09 October 07, 2009 13 2009-10 June 18, 2010   (post bonus issue 1:1) 7 2010-11 June 03, 2011 8 2011-12 June 07, 2012 8.5 2012-13 June 06, 2013 9 2013-14 June 18, 2014 9.5 2014-15 June 12, 2015 10 2015-16 March 10, 2016 (interim) 10.50 * Share of paid-up value of `10 per share.
BONUS ISSUES OF FULLY PAID-UP  EQUITY SHARES Financial Year Ratio 1980-81 3:5 1983-84 6:10 1997-98 1:1 2009-10 1:1 SHARES ISSUED ON DEMERGER Consequent upon the demerger of the coal based, gas based,  financial services and telecommunications undertakings /  businesses of the Company in December, 2005, the shareholders  of the Company were allotted equity shares of the four  companies, namely, Reliance Energy Ventures Limited (REVL),  Reliance Natural Resources Limited (RNRL), Reliance Capital  Ventures Limited (RCVL) and Reliance Communication Ventures  Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 193 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Limited (RCoVL) in the ratio of one equity share of each of the  companies for every equity share held by shareholders except  specified shareholders, in Reliance Industries Limited, as on the  record date fixed for the purpose.
Accordingly, 122,31,30,422 equity shares each of REVL, RNRL,  RCVL and RCoVL were allotted on January 27, 2006.
DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES Mode of Holding % age NSDL 96.04% CDSL 1.87% Physical 2.09% TOTAL 100.00 97.91% of Company’s paid-up Equity Share Capital has  been dematerialised up to March 31, 2016 (97.81% up to   March 31, 2015).
Trading in Equity Shares of the Company is  permitted only in dematerialised form.
LIQUIDITY The Company’s Equity Shares are among the most liquid and  actively traded shares on the Indian Stock Exchanges.
RIL shares  consistently rank among the top few frequently traded shares,  both in terms of the number of shares traded, as well as value.
Relevant data for the average daily turnover for the Financial Year  2015-16 is given below: BSE NSE Total Shares (nos.)
4 24 261 37 54 199 41 78 460 Value (in ` crore) 40.54 356.80 397.34 [Source: This information is compiled from the data available from the websites of BSE  and NSE] OUTSTANDING GDR s / WARRANTS AND  CONVERTIBLE BONDS, CONVERSION DATE  AND LIKELY IMPACT ON EQUITY GDRs: Outstanding GDRs as on March 31, 2016 represent   9,62,49,556 equity shares constituting 2.97% of Company’s paid- up Equity Share Capital.
Each GDR represents two underlying  equity shares in the Company.
GDR is not a specific time-bound  instrument and can be surrendered at any time and converted  into the underlying equity shares in the Company.
The shares so  released in favour of the investors upon surrender of GDRs can  either be held by investors concerned in their name or sold off in  the Indian secondary markets for cash.
To the extent of shares so  sold in Indian markets, GDRs can be reissued under the available  head-room.
RIL GDR PROGRAMME – IMPORTANT  INFORMATION RIL GDRs are listed at the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
GDRs are  traded on the International Order Book (IOB) of London Stock  Exchange.
GDRs are also traded amongst Qualified Institutional  Investors in the PORTAL System of NASD, USA.
RIL GDRs are exempted securities under US Securities Law.
RIL GDR program has been established under Rule 144A  and Regulation S of the US Securities Act, 1933.
Reporting is  done under the exempted route of Rule 12g3-2(b) under the   US Securities Exchange Act, 1934.
The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depository and ICICI Bank  Limited is the Custodian of all the Equity Shares underlying the  GDRs issued by the Company.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS The information on Options granted by the Company  during the financial year 2015-16 and other particulars  with regard to Employees’ Stock Options are put up  on the Company’s website and can be accessed at   http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx COMMODITY PRICE RISKS / FOREIGN  EXCHANGE RISK AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES The Company is subject to commodity price risks due to  fluctuation in prices of crude oil, gas and downstream petroleum  products.
The Company’s payables and receivables are in U.S.
Dollars and due to fluctuations in foreign exchange prices, it  is subject to foreign exchange risks.
The Company has in place  a robust risk management framework for identification and  monitoring and mitigation of commodity price and foreign  exchange risks.
The risks are tracked and monitored on a regular  basis and mitigation strategies are adopted in line with the risk  management framework.
For further details on the above risks,  please refer the Enterprise Risk Management section of the  Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
PLANT LOCATIONS IN INDIA REFINING & MARKETING JAMNAGAR Village Meghpar/Padana, Taluka Lalpur, Jamnagar – 361 280, Gujarat, India JAMNAGAR SEZ UNIT Village Meghpar/Padana, Taluka Lalpur, Jamnagar – 361 280, Gujarat, India Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 194 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
PETROCHEMICALS ALLAHABAD MANUFACTURING DIVISION A/10-A/27, UPSIDC Industrial Area, P .
O.T.S.L.
Allahabad – 211 010, Uttar Pradesh, India BARABANKI MANUFACTURING DIVISION Dewa Road, P .O.
Somaiya Nagar, Barabanki – 225 123, Uttar Pradesh, India DAHEJ MANUFACTURING DIVISION P .
O. Dahej – 392 130, Taluka: Vagra, District Bharuch, Gujarat, India HAZIRA MANUFACTURING DIVISION Village Mora, P .O.
Bhatha, Surat-Hazira Road, Surat – 394 510, Gujarat, India HOSHIARPUR MANUFACTURING DIVISION Dharamshala Road, V.P .O.
Chohal, District Hoshiarpur – 146 024, Punjab, India JAMNAGAR Village Meghpar/Padana, Taluka Lalpur, Jamnagar – 361 280, Gujarat, India JAMNAGAR SEZ UNIT Village Meghpar/Padana, Taluka Lalpur, Jamnagar – 361 280, Gujarat, India NAGOTHANE MANUFACTURING DIVISION P .
O.
Petrochemicals Township, Nagothane – 402 125,  Roha Taluka, District Raigad, Maharashtra, India NAGPUR MANUFACTURING DIVISION Village: Dahali, Mouda, Ramtek Road, Tehsil Mouda – 441 104, District Nagpur, Maharashtra, India PATALGANGA MANUFACTURING DIVISION B-1 to B-5 & A3, MIDC Industrial Area, P .O.
Rasayani, Patalganga – 410 220, District Raigad, Maharashtra, India SILVASSA MANUFACTURING DIVISION 342, Kharadpada, P .O.
Naroli – 396 235, Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, India VADODARA MANUFACTURING DIVISION P .
O.
Petrochemicals, Vadodara – 391 346, Gujarat, India OIL & GAS KG D6 ONSHORE TERMINAL Village Gadimoga, Tallarevu Mandal, East Godavari District – 533 463, Andhra Pradesh, India COAL BED METHANE PROJECT (CBM) Village & P .
O. : Lalpur, Tehsil: Burhar, District Shahdol, Madhya Pradesh – 484 110, India TEXTI LES NARODA MANUFACTURING DIVISION 103/106, Naroda Industrial Estate, Naroda, Ahmedabad – 382 330, Gujarat, India ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE FOR SHARES/DEBENTURES HELD IN  PHYSICAL FORM Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, 6 th  Floor Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Tel: +91-40-67161700 Toll Free No.
: 1800-4258-998; Fax: +91-40-23114087 Website: www.karvy.com; E-mail: rilinvestor@karvy.com FOR SHARES/DEBENTURES HELD IN DEMAT  FORM Investors’ concerned Depository Participant(s) and/or   Karvy Computershare Private Limited.
ANY QUERY ON THE ANNUAL REPORT Shri Sandeep Deshmukh Vice President - Corporate Secretarial Reliance Industries Limited 3 rd  Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021. e-mail: investor_relations@ril.com TRANSFER OF UNPAID/UNCLAIMED  AMOUNTS TO INVESTOR EDUCATION  AND PROTECTION FUND During the year under review, the Company has credited   ` 11.88 crore to the Investor Education and Protection Fund  (IEPF) pursuant to Section 205C of the Companies Act,  1956 read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund   (Awareness and Protection of Investors) Rules, 2001.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 195 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 The cumulative amount transferred to IEPF up to March 31, 2016 is ` 130.21 crore.
Pursuant to provisions of Investor Education and Protection Fund (Uploading of information regarding unpaid and unclaimed  amounts lying with companies) Rules, 2012, the Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the  Company as on July 15, 2016 on the Company’s website: http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/ShareholdersInformation.aspx EQUITY SHARES IN THE SUSPENSE ACCOUNT In terms of Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations, the Company reports the following details in respect of equity shares lying in the  suspense accounts which were issued in demat form and physical form, respectively: Particulars Demat Physical Number of  Shareholders Number  of equity  shares Number of  Shareholders  (phase wise  transfers) Number  of equity  shares Aggregate Number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense  account lying as on April 1, 2015 96 1 308 1 61 299 61 38 914 Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and  shares transferred from suspense account during the year 0 0 1 184 91 315 Number of shareholders and aggregate number of shares transferred to the  Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year 0 0 0 0 Aggregate Number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense  account lying as on March 31, 2016 96 1 308 1 60 115 60 47 599 The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account shall remain frozen till the rightful owners claim the shares.
COMPLIANCE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED  IN REGULATION 17 TO 27 AND REGULATION 46(2)( b) TO (i) OF LISTING  REGULATIONS Sr.  No.
Particulars Regulation Compliance  Status Yes / No/N.A.
Compliance observed for the following  1.
Board of Directors 17 Yes  Composition  Meetings  Review of compliance reports  Plans for orderly succession for appointments  Code of Conduct  Fees / compensation to Non-Executive Directors  Minimum information to be placed before the Board  Compliance Certificate  Risk assessment and management  Performance evaluation of Independent Directors 2.
Audit Committee 18 Yes  Composition  Meetings  Powers of the Committee   Role of the Committee and review of information by the  Committee 3.
Nomination and  Remuneration Committee 19 Yes  Composition  Role of the Committee 4.
Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee 20 Yes  Composition  Role of the Committee Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 196 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Particulars Regulation Compliance  Status Yes / No/N.A.
Compliance observed for the following  5.
Risk Management  Committee 21 Yes  Composition  Role of the Committee 6.
Vigil Mechanism 22 Yes  Formulation of Vigil Mechanism for Directors and employees  Director access to Chairperson of Audit Committee 7.
Related Party Transactions 23 Yes   Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and  dealing with Related Party Transactions  Approval including omnibus approval of Audit Committee  Review of  Related Party Transactions  There were no material Related Party Transactions 8.
Subsidiaries of the  Company 24 Yes   There was no material subsidiary of the Company and as a  result the other compliance in respect of material subsidiary  were not applicable   Review of financial statements of unlisted subsidiary by the  Audit Committee   Significant transactions and arrangements of unlisted  subsidiary 9.
Obligations with respect  to Independent Directors 25 Yes  Maximum directorships and tenure  Meetings of Independent Directors   Familiarisation of Independent Directors 10.
Obligations with respect  to Directors and Senior  Management 26 Yes  Memberships / Chairmanships in Committees   Affirmation on compliance of Code of Conduct by Directors  and Senior Management  Disclosure of shareholding by Non-Executive Directors   Disclosures by Senior Management about potential conflicts  of interest 11.
Other Corporate  Governance requirements 27 Yes  Compliance with discretionary requirements   Filing of quarterly compliance report on Corporate  Governance 12.
Website 46(2)(b)  to (i) Yes   Terms and conditions for appointment of Independent  Directors  Composition of various Committees of the Board of Directors   Code of Conduct of Board of Directors and Senior  Management Personnel   Details of establishment of Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle Blower  policy  Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions  Policy for determining material subsidiaries   Details of familiarisation programmes imparted to  Independent Directors COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE OF THE  AUDITORS Certificate from the Company’s Auditors, M/s.
Chaturvedi & Shah,  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP and M/s.
Rajendra & Co., confirming  compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance, as  stipulated under Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, is  attached to this Report.
ADOPTION OF MANDATORY AND  NON-MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS  The Company has complied with all mandatory   requirements of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations.
The Company has adopted following non-mandatory  requirements of Regulation 27 and Regulation 34 of the   Listing Regulations.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 197 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 COMMUNICATION TO SHAREHOLDERS Half-yearly reports covering financial results were sent to  members at their registered addresses.
AUDIT QUALIFICATION The Company is in the regime of unqualified financial statements.
REPORTING OF INTERNAL AUDITOR The Internal Auditor directly reports to the Audit Committee.
CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH  CODE OF CONDUCT I hereby confirm that the Company has obtained from all the  members of the Board and Management Personnel, affirmation  that they have complied with the ‘Code of Conduct’ and ‘Our  Code’ for the Financial Year 2015-16.
Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai April 22, 2016 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION The Chairman and Managing Director and the Chief Financial  Officer of the Company give annual certification on financial  reporting and internal controls to the Board in terms of  Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations.
The Chairman and  Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer also give  quarterly certification on financial results while placing the  financial results before the Board in terms of Regulation 33(2)  of the Listing Regulations.
The annual certificate given by the  Chairman and Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer  is published in this Report.
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATE To, The Board of Directors Reliance Industries Limited 1.
We have reviewed financial statement and the cash flow  statement of Reliance Industries Limited for the year ended   March 31, 2016 and to the best of our knowledge and belief:  i.  these statements do not contain any materially  untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain  statements that might be misleading;  ii.
these statements together present a true and fair view  of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with  existing accounting standards, applicable laws and  regulations.
2.
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no  transactions entered into by the Company during the year  which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s  Code of Conduct.
3.
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining  internal controls for financial reporting and we have  evaluated the effectiveness of Company’s internal control  systems pertaining to financial reporting.
We have not come  across any reportable deficiencies in the design or operation  of such internal controls.
4.
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:  i.  that there are no significant changes in internal control  over financial reporting during the year;  ii.
that there are no significant changes in accounting  policies during the year; and  iii.
that there are no instances of significant fraud of which  we have become aware.
Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Alok Agarwal Srikanth Venkatachari Chief Financial Officer Joint Chief Financial Officer Mumbai April 22, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 198 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To the Members, Reliance Industries Limited 1.
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Reliance Industries Limited (“the Company”), for  the year ended on 31 st  March, 2016, as stipulated in:    Clause 49 (excluding clause 49(VII)(E)) of the Listing Agreements of the Company with stock exchange(s) for the period from  April 01, 2015 to November 30, 2015.
Clause 49(VII)(E) of the Listing Agreements of the Company with the stock exchange(s) for the period from April 01, 2015 to  September 01, 2015.
Regulation 23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the Listing Regulations)  for the period from September 02, 2015 to March 31, 2016, and    Regulations 17 to 27 (excluding regulation 23(4)) and clauses (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C, D and E of Schedule V  of the Listing Regulations for the period from December 01, 2015 to March 31, 2016.
2.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management.
Our examination was limited  to the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of the  Corporate Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
3.
We have examined the relevant records of the Company in accordance with the Generally Accepted Auditing Standards in India,  to the extent relevant, and as per the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of the  Chartered Accountants of India.
4.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to our examination of the relevant records and the explanations  given to us and the representations made by the Directors and the Management, we certify that the Company has complied with  the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and regulation 17 to 27 and clauses  (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C , D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations for the respective periods of applicability  as specified under paragraph 1 above, during the year ended March 31, 2016.
5.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness  with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co.  Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
101720W) (Registration No.
117366W / W-100018) (Registration No.
108355W) (Rajesh D. Chaturvedi)  Partner (A.
B. Jani)  Partner (A. R. Shah)  Partner Membership No.
45882 Membership No.
46488 Membership No.
47166 Mumbai, July 15, 2016 Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 199 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 DIRECTORS‘PROFILE Shri Mukesh D. Ambani (DIN 00001695) is a Chemical Engineer  from Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai (earlier University  Department of Chemical Technology, University of Mumbai).
He  has pursued MBA from Stanford University, USA.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani has joined Reliance in 1981.
He initiated  Reliance’s backward integration journey from textiles into  polyester fibres and further into petrochemicals, petroleum  refining and going upstream into oil and gas exploration and  production.
He created several new world class manufacturing  facilities involving diverse technologies that have raised  Reliance’s petrochemicals manufacturing capacities from less  than a million tonnes to about fourteen million tonnes per year.
He is envisaging almost doubling these capacities to twenty  seven million tonnes per annum within a short span.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani led the creation of the world’s largest  grassroots petroleum refinery at Jamnagar, India, with a  capacity of 6,60,000 barrels per day (33 million tonnes per  year) integrated with petrochemicals, power generation, port  and related infrastructure.
Further, he steered the setting up of  another 5,80,000 barrels per day refinery next to the existing  one in Jamnagar.
With an aggregate refining capacity of 1.24  million barrels of oil per day at any single location in the world  has transformed “Jamnagar” as the ‘Refining Hub of the World’ .
In September 2008, when the first drop of crude oil flowed from  the Krishna-Godavari basin, Shri Mukesh D. Ambani’s vision of  energy security for India was being realized.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is steering Reliance’s development of  infrastructure facilities and implementation of a pan- India  organized retail network spanning multiple formats and supply  chain infrastructure.
Today, Reliance Retail is the largest retail  player in the Country.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is also setting up one of the most  complex 4G broadband wireless services in the world offering  end to end solutions that address the entire value chain across  various digital services in key domains of national interest such as  Education, Healthcare, Security, Financial Services, Government- Citizen interfaces and Entertainment.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani’s achievements have been acknowledged  at several national and international levels.
Over the years, some  of the awards and recognition bestowed on him are:   Awarded Othmer Gold Medal for Entrepreneurial Leadership  by The Chemical Heritage Foundation (CHF), Philadelphia,  USA in May 2016   Conferred an honorary Doctor of Science by Institute of  Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai in February 2015   In 2014, he continues to be featured in the list of the ‘Most  Powerful People in the World’ by Forbes magazine   NDTV honored him as one of the 25 Greatest Global Living  Legends in 2013   Awarded as ‘Global Challenger’ by Boston Consulting Group  in 2013   In 2013, he was conferred ‘Entrepreneur of the Decade’ by All  India Management Association   In 2011, he was featured in the list of TIME 100 Most  Influential People in the World   In 2011, ranked the 5 th best performing CEO in the World  by the Harvard Business Review in its ranking of the top 50  global CEOs   In 2010, awarded the Dean’s Medal by University of  Pennsylvania Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied  Science for his leadership in the application of Engineering  and Technology Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is a member of the Prime Minister’s  Council on Trade and Industry, Government of India and Board  of Governors of the National Council of Applied Economic  Research.
He is the Chairman of Board of Governors, Pandit  Deendayal Petroleum University, Gandhinagar.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is a Board member of the Interpol  Foundation and a Member of The Foundation Board of World  Economic Forum.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is a member of the Indo-US CEOs  Forum, Chair of The British Asian Trust’s India Advisory Council,  International Advisory Council of The Brookings, McKinsey  & Company International Advisory Council, Global Advisory  Council of Bank of America, Member of The Business Council and  London School of Economics’ India Advisory Group.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is elected as a Foreign Member of  prestigious United States National Academy of Engineering.
Only 9 other Indians have ever received this prestigious honour.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani is the Chairman of Reliance Jio Infocomm  Limited and Reliance Retail Ventures Limited and a Director of  Reliance Foundation and Reliance Europe Limited.
At RIL, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors and Finance  Committee.
He is Promoter of the Company and holds 36,15,846 shares of the  Company in his name as on March 31, 2016.
Shri Nikhil R. Meswani  (DIN 00001620) is a Chemical Engineer.
He is the son of Shri Rasiklal Meswani, one of the Founder  Directors of the Company.
He joined Reliance in 1986 and since July 01, 1988 he is a Whole- time Director designated as Executive Director on the Board of  the Company.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 200 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
He is primarily responsible for Petrochemicals Division and has  contributed largely to Reliance to become a global leader in  Petrochemicals.
Earlier, he handled refinery business between  1997 and 2005.
He was also responsible for integration of IPCL  with Reliance businesses.
In addition, he continues to shoulder  several other corporate responsibilities such as Corporate Affairs  and Group’s taxation policies.
He also takes keen interest in IPL  cricket franchise “Mumbai Indians” , ISL & other sports initiatives  of the group.
He was the President of Association of Synthetic Fibre Industry  and was also the youngest Chairman of Asian Chemical Fibre  Industries Federation.
He is also a member of managing  committee of Federation of Indian Export Organisations set up  by Ministry of Commerce.
He is a Member of the Board of Trade,  Ministry of Commerce, Government of India.
He was named Young Global Leader by the World Economic  Forum in 2005 and continues to actively participate in the  activities of the Forum.
He is a member of Global Advisory Board  of Harvard University.
He was honoured by the Institute of Economic Studies, Ministry  of Commerce & Industry, the Textile Association (India), Ministry  of Textiles.
He is also a distinguished Alumnus of the University  Institute of Chemical Technology (UICT), Mumbai.
He is currently ranked fourth among Top 40 Global Power Players  in chemical industry as per ICIS – leading chemical industry  magazine.
He is a member of the Corporate Social Responsibility and  Governance Committee, the Finance Committee and the  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Company.
He is a Director of Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited,  Chairman of its Audit Committee and member of its Nomination  and Remuneration Committee.
He holds 4,18,374 shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Shri Hital R. Meswani  (DIN 00001623) graduated with Honours  in the Management & Technology programme from the  University of Pennsylvania, U.S.A. where he received a Bachelor  of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering from the School of  Engineering and Applied Sciences and a Bachelor of Science  Degree in Economics from the Wharton Business School.
He  joined Reliance Industries Limited in 1990.
He is on the Board of  the Company as Whole-time Director designated as Executive  Director since August 04, 1995, with overall responsibility of the  Petroleum Refining Business and all Manufacturing, Research &  Technology and Project Execution activities of the group.
He is a member of the Finance Committee, Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee, Risk Management Committee and  Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee of  the Company.
He is a Director of Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings  Limited and Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited.
He has been instrumental in the execution of several mega  projects of the group including the Hazira Petrochemicals  complex and the world’s largest Refinery complex at Jamnagar.
He has been awarded an Honorary Fellowship by IChemE  (Institution of Chemical Engineers – the International Professional  body for Chemical, Biochemical and Process Engineers) in  recognition of his contribution to the process industries.
He is the recipient of The 2011 D. Robert Yarnall Award from The  Engineering Alumni Society of the University of Pennsylvania.
He was also conferred the Honorary CEPM-PMA Fellowship  Award for Project Management Excellence.
He holds 3,51,886 shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Shri P .M.S.
Prasad  (DIN 00012144) is a Whole-time Director  designated as Executive Director of the Company since August  21, 2009.
He has been with the Company for about 35 years.
Over the years,  he has held various senior positions in the Fibres, Petrochemicals,  Refining & Marketing and Exploration & Production Businesses  of the Company.
Shri Prasad holds Bachelor’s degrees in Science and Engineering.
He was awarded an honorary doctorate degree by the University  of Petroleum Engineering Studies, Dehradun in recognition of  his outstanding contribution to the Petroleum sector.
He has  been conferred the Energy Executive of the Year 2008 award by  Petroleum Economist in recognition of his leadership.
Shri Prasad is a member of the Health, Safety and Environment  Committee and Risk Management Committee of the Company.
He is also a Director of Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited and  Chairman of its Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
He holds 1,36,666 shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil  (DIN 02460200) has been appointed  as a Whole-time Director designated as Executive Director of the  Company with effect from May 16, 2010.
He holds Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering and has  a rich experience of more than four decades in the Petroleum  Refining Industry.
He joined Reliance in 1996 and led the commissioning and  start-up of the Jamnagar complex.
He was associated with this  project since conception right through Design, Engineering,  Construction and Commissioning.
He also led the commissioning  of the manufacturing operations in the Special Economic Zone  (SEZ) at Jamnagar by Reliance.
Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 201 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 He started his career in 1966 with the Indian Oil Corporation.
In  the initial years he worked in various capacities in Operations,  Technical Services and startup/ commissioning of various  Refinery Process Units/ facilities in Barauni and Gujarat  Refineries.
Being a person with a strong penchant for analytical  work and high technology skills, he was chosen to head the  Central Technical Services Department at the Corporate Office of  Indian Oil Corporation.
Here he did extensive work in ‘expansion  of the existing refineries’ , ‘energy optimisation’ , ‘debottlenecking  studies’ and ‘long range planning’ .
Then he moved to Mathura Refinery as the head of Refinery  Operations.
From Mathura he was picked up to become the  Director (Technical) of Oil Co-ordination Committee (OCC) - the  ‘Think Tank’ of the Ministry of Petroleum, the Government of  India.
He has travelled extensively and has been to USA, Russia,  the Middle East, Europe and the Far East in connection with  refinery design, technology selection, crude sourcing, and so on.
Having served for 28 years in Indian Oil Corporation and OCC in  various capacities, he rose to the position of Executive Director  and spearheaded the setting up of Panipat Refinery for the  Indian Oil Corporation.
He has been the Site President of the Jamnagar complex of the  Company from 2001 to 2010.
He is currently heading Group  Manufacturing Services (GMS) since 2011 and working towards  achieving excellence in the areas of HSE, Technology, Reliability  and Operations of all Manufacturing Sites covering Refineries,  Petrochemicals and Polyester Plants of the Company.
Under his  able leadership, in 2005, the Jamnagar Refinery became the first  Asian Refinery to be declared the ‘Best Refinery in the world’ , at  the ‘World Refining & Fuel Conference’ at San Francisco, USA.
Both  Refineries have bagged many national and international awards  for Excellence in Safety performance, Energy conservation &  Environment management, including the ‘Golden Peacock  Global Award for Sustainability for the year 2010’ .
In recognition of his excellent achievements, the CHEMTECH  Foundation had conferred on him the “Outstanding Achievement  Award for Oil Refining” in 2008.
He is also a Member of the  Research Council of the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun.
He is a member of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee  of the Company.
He holds 25,000 shares of the Company in his name as on March  31, 2016.
Shri Mansingh L. Bhakta  (DIN 00001963) is senior partner of  Messers Kanga & Company, a leading firm of Advocates and  Solicitors in Mumbai.
He has been in practice for over 60 years  and has vast experience in legal field and particularly on matters  relating to corporate laws, banking and taxation.
He is a legal advisor to leading foreign and Indian companies and  banks.
He has also been associated with a large number of Euro  issues made by Indian companies.
He was the Chairman of the  Taxation Law Standing Committee of LAWASIA, an Association  of Lawyers of Asia and Pacific, which has its headquarters in  Australia.
He is a Director of the Indian Merchant’s Chamber, Mumbai.
He  is the Lead Independent Director of the Company.
During his  long legal career, he has served as an Independent Director of  a large number of leading corporates including Larsen & Toubro  Limited, SKF (India) Limited, Kirloskar Oil Engines Limited, Arvind  Limited and Bennett Coleman & Company Limited.
He is a recipient of Rotary Centennial Service Award for  Professional Excellence from Rotary International.
In its normal  annual survey conducted by Asia Law Journal, Hong Kong, a  leading International law journal, he has been nominated as  one of ‘the Leading Lawyers of Asia 2011’ for six consecutive  years.
Recently, ‘Trans Asian Chamber of Commerce & Industry’  conferred on him the prestigious award of ‘The Pillar of  Hindustaanee Society’ for the year 2014-15 in the field of ‘Ethical  Law Practice’ .
He holds 3,30,000 shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Shri Y ogendra P .
Trivedi (DIN 00001879) is practicing as senior  advocate in Supreme Court of India.
He was a member of the  Rajya Sabha till April 02, 2014.
He holds important positions in  various fields’ viz.
economics, profession, politics, commercial,  education, medical field, sports and social service.
He has  received various Awards and medals for his contribution in  various fields.
He was a Director in Central Bank of India and  Dena Bank, amongst many other reputed companies.
He was  the President of the Indian Merchant’s Chamber and presently is  a Member of its Managing Committee.
He was on the Managing  Committee of ASSOCHAM and the International Chamber of  Commerce.
He was the Hon’ Counsel of Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr. Trivedi is a Chairman / Director of Sai Service Pvt.
Ltd.,  Supreme Industries Limited, Zodiac Clothing Company Limited,  New Consolidated Construction Company Limited, Emami  Limited, Federation of Indian Automobile Association and other  private limited companies.
He is the Chairman of Indo African Chamber of Commerce.
He  was the President of the Cricket Club of India.
He was the past  President of the Western India Automobile Association.
He is also  Member of the Indian Merchant’s Chamber, All India Association  of Industries, W.I.A.A.
Club, Yachting Association of India, B.C.A  Club, Orient Club and Yacht Club.
Mr. Trivedi is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the  Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance Committee  and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Company.
He is a member of the Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee of the Company.
He is also a member  of the Audit Committee of Zodiac Clothing Company Limited.
He has been conferred Honorary Doctorate (HonorisCausa) by  Fakir Mohan University, Balasore, Odisha.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 202 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
He holds 27,984 shares of the Company in his name as on March  31, 2016.
Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur  (DIN 00001982) was born in 1928 in  Peshawar where he had his early education.
He graduated  with honours in Electrical Engineering in 1951 from, Jadavpur,  Calcutta and has wide experience in Power, Capital Goods,  Chemicals and Petrochemicals Sectors.
After varying stints from 1951 to 1962, as an electrical engineer  in Hirakud Dam project, Punjab State Electricity Board and Indian  Railways, he served with distinction in various positions in Bharat  Heavy Electricals Limited.
Most remarkable achievement of his  career was establishment of fast growing systems oriented  National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) as the founder  Chairman-cum-Managing Director (CMD) and was described as a  ‘Model Manager’ by the Board of Executive Directors of the World  Bank.
Dr. Kapur has authored “The Bloom in the Desert – The  Making of NTPC” , the phenomenal success story which in a large  part is the result of the processes and work culture put in place  by Team NTPC led by him during early years.
As a technocrat  Dr. Kapur also has the rare distinction of holding a diplomatic  assignment as First Secretary/Counsellor in Indian Embassy in  Moscow, to coordinate economic relations and wide ranging  industrial collaborations between Soviet enterprises and PSUs  in India.
As Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministries of  Power, Heavy Industry and Chemicals & Petrochemicals during  1980-86, Dr. Kapur was actively involved in establishing “Maruti”  in collaboration with Suzuki of Japan to set up a state of art  automobile plant.
He also made significant contributions by  introducing new management practices and liberalization  initiatives including “Broad Banding” and “Minimum economic  sizes” in industrial licensing.
He was also associated with a  number of National Institutions as Member, Atomic Energy  Commission; Member, Advisory Committee of the Cabinet for  Science and Technology; Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT  Bombay (1983-94); Member, Board of Governors, IIM Lucknow  and Chairman, National Productivity Council.
Dr. Kapur was also  member of various government committees.
In recognition of his “services and significant contributions in the  field of Technology, Management and Industrial Development” ,  Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad,  conferred on him degree of D.Sc.
In March 2010 Dr. Kapur  delivered ‘Dr.
Triguna Sen Memorial Lecture’ and the National  Council of Education, Bengal conferred its “Fellowship” on him.
He is recipient of “India Power, Life Time Achievement Award”  presented by Council of Power Utilities, for his contributions  to Energy and Industry sectors.
ENERTIA Awards 2010 also  conferred Life Time Achievement Award on Dr. Kapur.
Project  Management Associates, India adopted Dr. D.V.
Kapur as Mentor  during its 20th International Conference in December 2013.
Dr. Kapur is also recipient of “Meritorious Services Award” for  “exemplary services to Indian Energy Sector” presented by India  Energy Forum.
Eminent Engineer Award 2016 has been awarded  to Dr. Kapur by Engineering Council of India (ECI).
In addition to Reliance Industries Limited, Dr. Kapur is also on  the Board of Honda Siel Power Products Limited, DLF Limited  and other private limited companies.
He has also served on the  Board of Tata Chemicals Limited, L&T and Ashok Leyland.
He  has also been Chairman of subsidiaries of Jacobs Engineering  Consultants (USA) and GKN plc (UK).
He was also the founding  Chairman of Reliance Power Limited.
He is a member of the Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee and the Health, Safety and  Environment Committee of the Company.
He is the Chairman  of Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee and  Remuneration Committee of Honda Siel Power Products Limited.
He is a member of Audit Committee of DLF Limited.
He is also the  Chairman of Corporate Governance Committee, Stakeholders  Relationship Committee and Risk Management Committee of  DLF Limited.
He holds 13,544 shares of the Company in his name as on March  31, 2016.
Prof. Ashok Misra  (DIN 00006051) is a B.Tech.
in Chemical  Engineering from IIT Kanpur, M.S.
in Chemical Engineering from  the Tufts University and a Ph.D. in Polymer Science & Engineering  from the University of Massachusetts.
He has also completed  the ‘Executive Development Programme’ and ‘Strategies for  Improving Directors’ Effectiveness Programme’ at the Kellogg  School of Management, Northwestern University.
He is the Chairman of the Standing Committee of the IIT Council,  Chairman of the Board of Governors of IIT Roorkee, member of  Board of Governors of IIT Delhi and a member of the Central  Advisory Board of Education of MHRD.
He was the Director at the  Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay from 2000 to 2008, where  he made significant contribution taking the Institute to greater  heights and during his tenure it was transformed into a leading  Research & Development Institute.
In his currrent positions he  continues to play an important role in the IIT system and Higher  Education in India.
Earlier he was at IIT Delhi from 1977-2000 and at Monsanto Chemical  Co. from 1974-1977.
He is currently the Chairman Emeritus-India,  Intellectual Ventures.
He is a Fellow of the National Academy  of Sciences, India (President from 2006-08); the Indian National  Academy of Engineering; the Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers;  the Indian Plastics Institute and the Maharashtra Academy of  Sciences.
He is the Founder President of the Polymer Processing  Academy and Founder President of IIT Alumni Centre, Bengaluru.
He was former President of the Society of Polymer Science, India  and the Federation of Asia Polymer Societies.
He is an Independent Director on the Board of Jubilant Life  Sciences Limited and Kirloskar Electric Company Limited.
He is a  Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 203 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 member of Audit Committee, Sustainability and CSR Committee  and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Jubilant Life  Sciences Limited.
He is a member of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee  of the Company and a Member of the Investment Committee  for Aditya Birla Private Equity – Sunrise Fund.
He was on the  Board of National Thermal Power Corporation Limited for 6  years.
He is/has been on the Boards or Councils of several  national and international institutions.
He has received several  awards including the Distinguished Alumnus Awards from all  his alma maters – IIT Kanpur, Tufts University and University  of Massachusetts.
He was awarded the Distinguished Service  Award by IIT Delhi during its Golden Jubilee in 2011.
He has co- authored a book on Polymers, was awarded 6 patents and has  over 150 international publications.
He is on the editorial board  of several scientific journals.
He holds 2,300 shares of the Company in his name as on   March 31, 2016.
Prof. Dipak C. Jain  (DIN 00228513) has a M.S.
in Mathematical  Statistics from Guwahati University, India and a Ph.D. in  Marketing from the University of Texas at Dellas, United States of  America.
Prof. Jain is a distinguished teacher and scholar.
He had  been Dean of the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern  University, Evanston, Illinois, United States of America from 2001  to 2009 and an Associate Dean from 1996 to 2001.
Currently,  he is a Chaired Professor of Marketing at INSEAD, a leading  business school with three campuses at Fontainebleau (Paris),  France, Singapore and Abu Dhabi.
He has served as the Dean  of INSEAD from 2011-13.
He is a Director of Sasin Graduate  Institute of Business Administration of Chulalongkorn University,  Bangkok (Thailand).
He has more than 30 years of experience  in management education.
He has published several articles in  international journals on marketing and allied subjects.
His academic honor include the Sidney Levy Award for Excellence  in Teaching in 1995; the John D.C. Little Best Paper Award in  1991; Kraft Research Professorships in 1989-90 and 1990-91; the  Beatrice Research Professorship in 1987-88; the Outstanding  Educator Award from the State of Assam in India in 1982; Gold  Medal for the Best Post- Graduate of the Year from Guwahati  University in India in 1978; Gold Medal for the Best Graduate of  the Year from Darrang College in Assam in India in 1976; Gold  Medal from Jaycees International in 1976; the Youth Merit Award  from Rotary International in 1976; and the Jawaharlal Nehru  Merit Award, the Government of India in 1976.
He is a Director of John Deere & Company, United States of  America, Global Logistic Properties, Singapore and Northern  Trust Bank, United States of America.
He is also a Director of  Reliance Retail Ventures Limited, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited  and HT Global Education.
He is a member of Audit Committee,  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Nomination and  Remuneration Committee of Reliance Retail Ventures Limited  and also a member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee  and Audit Committee of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited.
He does not hold any shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar, (DIN 00074119) National Research  Professor, is presently also the President of Global Research  Alliance, a network of publicly funded R&D Institutes from Asia- Pacific, Europe and USA with over 60,000 scientists.
Dr. Mashelkar served as the Director General of Council of  Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), with thirty-eight  laboratories and about 20,000 employees for over eleven years.
He was also the President of Indian National Science Academy  and President of Institution of Chemical Engineers (UK).
Dr. Mashelkar is on the Board of Directors of several other  reputed companies such as Tata Motors Limited, Thermax  Limited, Piramal Enterprises Limited, KPIT Technologies Limited,  TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited and several other private  limited companies.
He is Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee  as well as Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of Tata  Motors Limited.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and  Nomination & Remuneration Committee of Tata Motors Limited  and member of Nomination & Remuneration Committee of TAL  Manufacturing Solutions Limited.
He is also member of Audit  Committee of Piramal Enterprises Limited and Remuneration  Committee of KPIT Technologies Limited.
Dr. Mashelkar is a member of the Audit Committee, the Human  Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the  Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance Committee of  the Company.
Dr. Mashelkar is only the third Indian engineer to have been  elected (1998) as Fellow of Royal Society (FRS), London in the  twentieth century.
He was elected Foreign Associate of National  Academy of Science (USA) in 2005, Associate Foreign Member,  American Academy of Arts & Sciences (2011); Foreign Fellow  of US National Academy of Engineering (2003); Fellow of Royal  Academy of Engineering, U.K. (1996), Foreign Fellow of Australian  Technological Science and Engineering Academy (2008) and  Fellow of World Academy of Art & Science, USA (2000).
In August 1997, Business India named Dr. Mashelkar as being  among the 50 path-breakers in the post- Independent India.
In 1998, Dr. Mashelkar won the JRD Tata Corporate Leadership  Award, the first scientist to win it.
In June, 1999, Business India  did a cover story on Dr. Mashelkar as “CEO OF CSIR Inc. ” , a dream  that he himself had articulated, when he took over as DG, CSIR  in July 1995.
On November 16, 2005, he received the Business  Week (USA) award of ‘Stars of Asia’ at the hands of George Bush  (Sr.), the former President of USA.
He was the first Asian Scientist  to receive it.
Annual Report 2015-16 Corporate Governance Report (Continued) 204 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Deeply connected with the innovation movement in India,  Dr. Mashelkar is currently the Chairman of India’s National  Innovation Foundation, Reliance Innovation Council, Thermax  Innovation Council, KPIT Technology Innovation Council and  Marico Innovation Foundation.
Thirty five universities have honored him with honorary  doctorates, which include Universities of London, Salford,  Swinburne, Pretoria, Wisconsin and Delhi.
In the post-liberalized India, Dr. Mashelkar has played a critical  role in shaping India’s S&T policies.
He was a member of the  Scientific Advisory Council to the Prime Minister and also of the  Scientific Advisory Committee to the Cabinet set up by successive  governments.
He has chaired twelve high powered committees  set up to look into diverse issues of higher education, national  auto fuel policy, overhauling the Indian drug regulatory system,  dealing with the menace of spurious drugs, reforming Indian  agriculture research system, etc.
He has been a much sought  after consultant for restructuring the publicly funded R&D  institutions around the World; his contributions in South Africa,  Indonesia and Croatia have been particularly notable.
The President of India honoured Dr. Mashelkar with Padmashri  (1991), with Padmabhushan (2000) and with Padma Vibhushan  (2014), which are three of the highest civilian honours in  recognition of his contribution to nation building.
He does not hold any shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Shri Adil Zainulbhai  (DIN 06646490) is currently Chairman of  Quality Council of India.
He retired as Chairman of McKinsey,  India after 34 years at McKinsey, the last 10 of which were in India.
Shri Adil has co-edited the book, ‘Reimagining India’ which  featured 60 authors including prominent businessmen,  academicians, economists, authors and journalists.
The book has  been #1 in non-fiction in India on its release and #2 on Amazon’s  International Business List in the US.
Shri Adil grew up in Bombay and graduated in Mechanical  Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology.
He also has  an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
Shri Adil is very active in community, social causes and education.
He is a Board member of Saifee Hospital, Board of Trustees at  Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (redeveloping Bhendi Bazaar  in Mumbai), Wockhardt Foundation and Piramal Swasthya.
He  was President of Harvard Business School Alumni Association of  India and is on the Global Advisory Board of the Booth School of  Business at University of Chicago.
Shri Adil is Chairman of Network18 Media and Investments  Limited and TV18 Broadcast Limited.
He is also a Director of  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Cipla Limited, Reliance Retail  Ventures Limited, TV18 Home Shopping Network Limited and  Larsen and Toubro Limited.
Shri Adil is a Board Member of  McKinsey Investment Office, Washington.
Shri Adil is Chairman of the Human Resources, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee and Risk Management Committee  and member of the Audit Committee of the Company.
He is  Chairman of the Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship  Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee  and member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee  of Network18 Media and Investments Limited.
He is also the  Chairman of Audit Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility  Committee and member of Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited.
He is also the  Chairman of Audit Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility  Committee and member of Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of Reliance Retail Ventures Limited.
Shri Adil is Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration  Committee and member of Corporate Social Responsibility  Committee and Risk Management Committee of Cipla Limited.
He is also a member of Audit Committee, Nomination and  Remuneration Committee and Chairman of Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee of TV18 Broadcast Limited.
Shri Adil is member of Audit Committee and Nomination and  Remuneration Committee of TV18 Home Shopping Network  Limited.
He is also a member of Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of Larsen and Toubro Limited.
He does not hold any shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani  (DIN 03115198) is a Commerce Graduate  from Mumbai University and a Diploma holder in Early Childhood  Education.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is the Founder and Chairperson of Reliance  Foundation, which has impacted the lives of over 6 million people  through initiatives in rural transformation, health,  education,  sports for development, disaster response, arts, culture and,  heritage and urban renewal.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is committed to building India as a multi- sports nation and leads the Reliance Foundation Youth Sports  (RFYS) programme, which will be launched by the Hon’ble Prime  Minister Shri Narendra Modi.
RFYS, a multi-city, multi-sports,  school and college competition, seeks to reach out to 2 million  children in 8 cities in its first year and 5 million children in 16  cities in its second year.
The Reliance Foundation Young Champs programme has  awarded 41 youngsters scholarships to receive world-class  football coaching and school education.
The grassroots  programme to identify football talent has reached out to half  a million children across India.
The Reliance Foundation Jr.  Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 205 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 NBA programme has reached out to 2.8 million children, 45%  of whom are girls, covering 18 cities.
These programmes have  cumulatively reached out to over 3.3 million children.
Under her leadership, the Reliance Foundation BIJ (Bharat- India Jodo) initiative aims to bridge the gap between rural  and urban India by catalysing sustainable growth in the rural  areas.
She steered operation ‘Mission Rahat’ to provide relief  and rehabilitation to the affected in the natural calamities in  Uttarakhand in 2013, Jammu and Kashmir in 2014, and Chennai  in 2015.
She led the planting of 3.4 million trees over 2,500 acres  at Reliance Jamnagar refinery site and developed a world-class  township where over 5,500 families reside.
The mango orchard  with 138,000 trees is today Asia’s largest mango plantation at a  single location.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani provides leadership to 14 schools that  educate over 15,000 students every year.
She is the Founder &  Chairperson of Dhirubhai Ambani International School, which  in 2015 was ranked as India’s No.
1 International School for  the 3rd consecutive year by Education World.
The Dhirubhai  Ambani Scholarship Programme has supported nearly 11,000  scholars, 20% of whom are specially-abled and almost 50% are  girls.
The ‘Education For All’ initiative has benefitted over 70,000  underprivileged children.
Reliance Foundation plans to establish  a world-class multi-disciplinary university.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is the President of Sir H. N. Reliance  Foundation Hospital and Research Centre, which provides  international quality, affordable healthcare and is one of India’s  largest green hospitals.
Reliance Foundation’s ‘Health for All’  initiative has provided primary medical care to about half a  million underprivileged people.
She is on the Board of Visitors  of MD Anderson Cancer Centre and the Advisory Board of  Massachusetts General Hospital.
The Reliance Foundation  Drishti has gifted vision to about 15,000 people through  corneal transplants and its international Braille newspaper in  Hindi is circulated in India and 14 other countries.
She is the  Brand Ambassador of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan and led the  Foundation’s cleanliness drive across 12 states.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is the architect of Mumbai Indians, which  won the IPL trophy in 2013 and 2015 and the Champions League  T20 trophy in 2011 and 2013.
She is the Founder & Chairperson of  Football Sports Development Limited that launched the Indian  Super League (ISL) in 2014, which has revolutionised football in  India.
Smt Nita M. Ambani is committed to preserving and promoting  India’s art, culture and heritage.
Reliance Foundation sponsored  the ‘Gates of the Lord’ exhibition at the Art Institute of Chicago  and partnered with The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York,  to showcase the works of Nasreen Mohamedi.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani has received many awards and honours.
In  2015, the All India Management Association (AIMA) presented  her with the Entrepreneur of the Year award and Business  Today conferred on her India’s Most Powerful Women Award.
In  2016, Forbes Asia magazine ranked her amongst Asia’s 50 Most  Powerful Business Women.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani was recently nominated for election for  Membership to the International Olympic Committee.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani is a Director of EIH Limited.
She is a promoter and holds 33,98,146 shares of the Company in  her name as on March 31, 2016.
Shri Raminder Singh Gujral  is B.A.
(Economic Honours), LLB,  MBA (IIM Ahmedabad) and M.A.
(International Finance/ Business  – Fletcher School).
He retired from the post of Finance Secretary  (Government of India) in 2013.
He has held various posts in  the Central Government and has sufficient experience on  functioning of CBEC and CBDT.
He has held positions of Secretary  (Revenue), Secretary (Expenditure) and Secretary (Ministry of  Road, Transport and Highways).
He also served as Chairman of  National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).
He was also the  Director General of Foreign Trade and Chairman of Board of  Governors of National Institute of Financial Management.
He is also presently an Arbitrator in a couple of disputes of NHAI  with Concessionaires of Road projects.
In addition to Reliance Industries Limited, Shri Gujral is also a  Director of Adani Power Limited.
He is also a member of Audit  Committee and Nomination and Remuneration Committee of  Adani Power Limited.
Shri Gujral is also a member of the Audit  Committee of the Company.
He does not hold any shares of the Company in his name as on  March 31, 2016.
Annual Report 2015-16 206 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Dear Members, Your Directors are pleased to present the Forty-second Annual Report and the Company’s audited financial statement for the financial  year ended March 31, 2016.
FINANCIAL RESUL TS The Company’s financial performance, for the year ended March 31, 2016 is summarised below:     2015-16 2014-15 ` crore US$ million* ` crore US$ million* PROFIT BEFORE TAX 35,701 5,389 29,468 4,715 Less: Current Tax 7,802 1,178 6,124 980  Deferred Tax 482 73 625 100 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 27,417 4,138 22,719 3,635 Add: Balance in Profit and Loss Account 10,168 2,108 9,326 1,973 SUB-TOTAL 37,585 6,246 32,045 5,608 LESS: APPROPRIATION Adjustment relating to Fixed Assets - - 318 51 Transferred to General Reserve 22,000 3,321 18,000 2,880 Dividend on Equity Shares **3,095 467 2,944 471 Tax on dividend ***605 91 615 98 CLOSING BALANCE 11,885 2,367 10,168 2,108 * 1 US$ = ₹ 66.25 Exchange Rate as on March 31, 2016 (1 US$ = ₹ 62.50 as on March 31, 2015) ** Interim dividend *** Net of reversal of excess provision of dividend distribution tax of previous year of ₹ 17 crore Directors’ Report RESUL TS OF OPERATIONS AND THE STATE  OF COMPANY’S AFFAIRS The highlights of the Company’s performance for the year ended  March 31, 2016 are as under:   Revenue from operations decreased by 26.3% to ₹ 2,51,241  crore (US$37.9 billion).
Exports decreased by 35.8% to ₹ 1,46,855 crore   (US$22.2 billion).
PBDIT increased by 18.3% to ₹ 47, 721 crore (US$7.2 billion).
Profit before Tax increased by 21.2% to ₹ 35,701 crore   (US$5.4 billion).
Cash Profit increased by 17.7% to ₹ 37,465 crore (US$5.7  billion).
Net Profit increased by 20.7% to ₹ 27,417 crore   (US$4.1 billion).
Gross Refining Margin stood at US$10.8 / bbl for the year  ended March 31, 2016.
The consolidated revenue from operations of the Company for  year ended March 31, 2016 was down by 23.8% to ₹ 2,96,091  crore (US$44.7 billion).
The decline in turnover reflects sharp  fall in feedstock and product prices during the year.
Strong  operating performance from the refining and petrochemicals  business led to higher operating profit.
Consolidated operating  profit before other income and depreciation increased by 18.4%  on a year-on-year basis to ₹ 44,257 crore from ₹ 37,364 crore in  the previous year.
Profit after Tax was higher by 17.2% at ₹ 27,630  crore as against ₹ 23,566 crore in the previous year.
The FY 2015-16 has been a year of outstanding achievement for  downstream hydrocarbon businesses, notwithstanding persisting  global economic uncertainty.
Refining and petrochemicals  business delivered record operating and financial performance.
Refining earnings before interest and tax increased by 49.1%   year-on-year basis to record level of ₹ 23,598 crore, supported  by seven year high Gross Refining Margin and record crude  throughput.
During the year, Jamnagar refineries processed 69.6  MMT of crude.
The Company was able to capitalise on the market  conditions through its operational excellence, higher efficiency  and well executed strategies around crude sourcing and product  placement.
The Petrochemicals business delivered strong earnings  on the back of strong polymer market and higher volumes.
The Company is nearing the end of the biggest capex cycle in  its history and in the history of the Indian corporate sector.
The  capital expenditure on a consolidated basis for the year ended  March 31, 2016 aggregated ₹ 1,12,995 crore (US$17.1 billion)  Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 207 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 including exchange rate difference capitalisation.
The capital  expenditure was principally on account of ongoing expansion  projects in petrochemicals and refining business at Jamnagar,  Dahej and Hazira, Infocom and US Shale gas projects.
During the year, the Company added significant volumes in  the polyester chain with the start-up of the 2.3 MMTPA Purified  Terephthalic Acid plants (PTA) and the 650 KTA Polyethylene  Terephthalate plant (PET).
The PET resin plant is one of the largest  bottle-grade PET resin capacity at a single location globally,  making the Company a leading PET resin producer globally.
The Company’s total PTA capacity has increased to 4.65 Million  Metric Tonnes per Annum (MMTPA), with a global capacity share  to 4%.
The integration of the new PTA plant and PET plant will  provide significant logistical advantage to the Company.
PERFORMANCE DURING THE FIRST  QUARTER ENDED JUNE 30, 2016 The Board of Directors approved the Company’s Unaudited  Financial Results (Standalone and Consolidated), based on the  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind-AS), for the quarter ended  June 30, 2016 which are as under: STANDALONE   Revenue from operations stood at ₹59,493 crore (US$8.8  billion).
PBDIT stood at ₹ 12,850 crore (US$1.9 billion).
Profit before Tax stood at ₹ 9,976 crore (US$1.5 billion).
Cash Profit stood at ₹ 9,734 crore (US$1.4 billion).
Net Profit stood at ₹ 7,548 crore (US$1.1 billion).
Gross Refining Margin stood at US$11.5 / bbl.
CONSOLIDATED    Revenue from operations stood at ₹ 71,451 crore (US$10.6  billion).
PBDIT stood at ₹ 13,589 crore (US$2.0 billion).
Profit before Tax stood at ₹ 9,658 crore (US$1.4 billion).
Cash Profit stood at ₹ 10,113 crore (US$1.5 billion).
Net Profit stood at ₹ 7,113 crore (US$1.1 billion).
The Unaudited Financial Results for the first quarter are available  on the Company’s website at the link: http://www.ril.com/ InvestorRelations/FinancialReporting.aspx   No material changes and commitments have occurred after  the close of the year till the date of this Report, which affect the  financial position of the Company.
DIVIDEND The Board of Directors on March 10, 2016, declared an interim  dividend of ₹10.50 (i.e.
@105%) on each fully paid equity share of   ₹ 10/-, which was paid to the members, whose names appeared  on the Register of Members of the Company on March 18, 2016.
Considering the capital requirement for ongoing business  expansion, the Board of Directors do not recommend any final  dividend on the equity shares and the interim dividend declared  is the dividend on equity shares of the Company for the financial  year ended March 31, 2016.
The interim dividend declared and  paid on equity shares including dividend tax thereon aggregated  ₹ 3,717 crore.
The dividend payout for the year under review is in accordance  with the Company’s policy to pay sustainable dividend linked  to long-term growth objectives of the Company to be met by  internal cash accruals.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND  ANALYSIS REPORT Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report for the year  under review, as stipulated under Regulation  34 read with  Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  (“Listing Regulations”), is presented in a separate section forming  part of the Annual Report.
The developments in business operations/performance of major  subsidiaries consolidated with the Company  are as below: NORTH AMERICAN SHALE GAS The year under review was one of the most challenging years in  recent history for the Global Oil and Gas industry and for the North  American Shale players, as sustained fall in benchmark prices and  continued high benchmark drove weak realisation and proved to  be strong headwind for the industry.
Financial performance of the Shale Gas business was impacted  by strong macro headwinds with sharply lower price realisation  driven by weak benchmark prices for Natural Gas (Henry Hub (HH))  and Condensate (WTI) that tested multi-year lows during the year.
The Company focused on proactive hedging to mitigate pressures  while focusing simultaneously on export of Condensates that  offer superior netbacks.
Opex trends remained encouraging across JVs.
Tight control over  costs and improvement efficiencies helped achieve sequential  improvement in lease operating costs and overheads.
Absolute  opex were lower by over 4% across JVs, but could offset the impact  of lower prices only to some extent.
Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 208 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Consequently, reflecting lower realisation, business Earnings  Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)  dropped by over 60% y-o-y to US$299 million (excluding  exceptional items) in CY 2015.
Shale Gas business continues to effectively manage current  adverse macro environment through disciplined investment and  by realising efficiency gains Operationally, the business continued its strong performance during  CY 2015.
The Shale Gas business effectively managed the sharp  downturn in prices through reduction in activity levels and lowering  costs.
Focus was on liquidating existing well inventory to bring  more wells online than drilled and delivering wells at much lower  well costs.
The Company is committed to ensuring preparedness  for ramp-up across JVs, when market conditions improve.
Gross JV  production aggregated at ~1.26 BCFe/d for all 3 JVs and reflected a  growth of 7% over the levels achieved in CY 2014.
RETAIL BUSINESS Reliance Retail Limited has further consolidated its leadership  position in the retail segment.
Retail business continued its  growth momentum and achieved significant milestones in   the year.
Retail business posted a turnover of ` 21,612 crore during the  year ended March 31, 2016 as against ` 17,640 crore during the  previous year registering a strong growth of 22.5%.
The business  delivered record profits during the year with an EBIT of ` 506  crore as against ` 417 crore in the previous year.
The superlative growth has been attained due to strong  operating discipline, focus on delivering differentiated product  offering and accelerated expansion into newer geographies.
Store opening continued during the year and Reliance Retail  attained the distinction of currently operating 3,383 stores.
DIGITAL SERVICES Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (Jio) is rolling out a state-of- the-art pan India digital services business.
Apart from fixed  and wireless broadband connectivity offering superior voice  and data services on an all-Internet Protocol (IP) network, Jio  will also offer end-to-end solutions encompassing the entire  value chain across various digital services in key domains such  as education, healthcare, security, communication, financial  services, government-citizen interfaces and entertainment.
Jio took significant strides this year in optimising by real-time  testing its service propositions across the country.
RIL group  employees, channel partners and vendors were amongst the first  to test the true LTE experience as part of the employee launch.
Results have been positive with high consumption trends across  data and voice.
Jio is present in all of the 29 states of India with a direct physical  presence in more than 18,000 urban and rural towns and over  1,50,000 villages.
Jio has built the most sophisticated and one of  the largest telecom networks in the country.
Jio already has the  largest fiber network and highest amount of LTE-ready spectrum  as compared with the current industry players.
Jio is the first telecom operator to hold pan India Unified License.
It holds 846.1 megahertz (MHz) of liberalised spectrum across  the 800MHz, 1800MHz and 2300MHz bands.
Jio has entered into  agreements with Reliance Communications  Limited (RCOM) for  change in spectrum allotment in the 800MHz band from RCOM to  Jio across 13 circles and sharing of spectrum in the 800MHz band  across 21 circles (4 circles are still awaiting regulatory approval).
Jio plans to provide seamless 4G services using LTE technology in  800 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2300 MHz bands through an integrated  ecosystem.
This combined spectrum footprint across frequency  bands provides significant network capacity and deep in- building coverage.
Currently the services are being used extensively by employees,  vendors, partners and associates as part of the successful  employee launch, which has till date resulted in over 15 lakh  users on-boarded on the network.
These test services were made  available to all such users on trial basis with a view to obtain  the feedback and progress towards a smooth and seamless  commercial launch.
MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT Network18 Media & Investments Limited (Network18)  delivered a strong operating performance during FY 2015- 16.
The operating revenues on a consolidated basis stood at  ₹ 3,403 crore, up by 8.8% from ₹ 3,127 crore in FY 2014-15.
It  continued to grow profitably, achieving an EBIT of ₹182 crore  for FY 2015-16 consolidated, up by 27.3% from ₹ 143 crore in  FY 2014-15.
Network18 continued to witness strong growth in its digital  media content.
It attracted over 20 million unique visitors per  month through the year.
Greater internet and mobile penetration  has helped in achieving rapid growth of online media channels  like Firstpost, Moneycontrol, BookMyShow, IBNLive and News18  websites in the broadcast business.
Financial news channels  retained their dominant leadership position in India, continuing  to be the No.1 financial news channels in their genres.
One new  channel in English general entertainment was launched during  the year while regional channels were rebranded.
Network18  rebranding exercise has started bearing results with Colors  emerging as India’s No.1 pay channel with a viewership share of  13% in December 2015.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 209 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 CREDIT RATING The Company’s financial discipline and prudence is reflected in the strong credit ratings ascribed by rating agencies as given below: Instrument Rating Agency Rating Outlook Remarks International Debt S&P BBB+ Stable Two notches above India’s sovereign rating International Debt Moody's Baa2 Stable One notch above India’s sovereign rating Long Term Debt CRISIL CRISIL AAA Stable Highest rating awarded by CRISIL Long Term Debt India rating Ind AAA Stable Highest rating awarded by India Rating CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  STATEMENT In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and  Accounting Standard (AS) - 21 on Consolidated Financial  Statement read with AS - 23 on Accounting for Investments in  Associates and AS - 27 on Financial Reporting of Interests in  Joint Ventures, the audited consolidated financial statement is  provided in the Annual Report.
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES  AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES During the year under review, companies listed in Annexure I to  this Report have become or ceased to be Company’s subsidiaries,  joint ventures or associate companies.
A statement containing the salient features of the financial  statement of subsidiary/ associate/ joint venture companies is  provided as Annexure A to the consolidated financial statement  and therefore not repeated to avoid duplication.
The audited financial statement including the consolidated  financial statement of the Company and all other documents  required to be attached thereto may be accessed on the Company’s  website at the link: http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/ FinancialReporting.aspx The financial statements of each of the  subsidiary may also be accessed on the Company’s website at  the link: http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  These documents will also be available for inspection on all  working days i.e.
except Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays  at the Registered Office of the Company.
The Company has formulated a policy for determining  material subsidiaries.
The policy may be accessed at the link:  DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY  STATEMENT Your Directors state that: a)  in the preparation of the annual accounts for the year ended  March 31, 2016, the applicable accounting standards read  with requirements set out under Schedule III to the Act,  have been followed and there are no material departures  from the same; b)  the Directors have selected such accounting policies and  applied them consistently and made judgments and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a  true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at  March 31, 2016 and of the profit of the Company for the year  ended on that date; c)  the Directors have taken proper and sufficient care for the  maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance  with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of  the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and  other irregularities; d)  the Directors have prepared the annual accounts on a going  concern basis; e)    the Directors have laid down internal financial controls to  be followed by the Company and that such internal financial  controls are adequate and are operating effectively; and f )   the Directors have devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and  that such systems are adequate and operating effectively.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to maintain the highest standards of  Corporate Governance and adhere to the Corporate Governance  requirements set out by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (SEBI).
The Company has also implemented several best  Corporate Governance practices as prevalent globally.
The  report on Corporate Governance as stipulated under the Listing  Regulations forms an integral part of this Report.
The requisite  http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 210 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
certificate from the Auditors of the Company confirming  compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance is  attached to the report on Corporate Governance.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT As stipulated under the Listing Regulations, the Business  Responsibility Report describing the initiatives taken by the  Company from an environmental, social and governance  perspective is attached as part of Annual Report.
CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS  WITH RELATED PARTIES During the year, the Company acquired 18,00,000 Ordinary  Shares of Reliance Global Business B.V., Netherlands (wholly- owned indirect subsidiary) from Reliance Industrial Investments  and Holdings Limited (wholly-owned direct subsidiary) at par  value for a total consideration of Euro 18,000 equivalent to   ₹ 13.50 lakh with the approval granted by the Audit Committee  and Board of Directors on March 10, 2016 and March 25, 2016,  respectively.
All other contracts / arrangements / transactions  entered by the Company during the financial year with related  parties were in the ordinary course of business and at an arm’s  length basis.
During the year, the Company had not entered into any contract/  arrangement / transaction with related parties which could  be considered material in accordance with the policy of the  Company on materiality of related party transactions.
The Policy on materiality of related party transactions and on  dealing with related party transactions as approved by the Board  may be accessed on the Company’s website at the link: http:// www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  There are no materially significant related party transactions  that may have potential conflict with interest of the Company  at large.
Members may refer to Note 31 to the financial statement which  sets out related party disclosures pursuant to AS - 18.
CORPORATE SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance Committee  (CSR&G Committee) has formulated and recommended to  the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy)  indicating the activities to be undertaken by the Company,  which has been approved by the Board.
The CSR Policy may be accessed on the Company’s website at  the link: http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  The key philosophy of all CSR initiatives of the Company is guided  by three core commitments of Scale, Impact and Sustainability.
The Company has identified following focus areas for CSR  engagement:   Rural Transformation: Creating sustainable livelihood  solutions, addressing poverty, hunger and malnutrition.
Environment: Environmental sustainability, ecological  balance, conservation of natural resources and promoting  bio-diversity.
Health: Affordable solutions for healthcare through  improved access, awareness and health seeking behavior.
Education and Sports: Access to quality education, training  and skill enhancement, building sports & skills in young  students.
Disaster Response: Managing and responding to disaster.
Art, Heritage and Culture: Protection and promotion of  India’s art, culture and heritage.
The Company would also undertake other need based initiatives  in compliance with Schedule VII to the Act.
During the year, the Company has spent ₹ 652 crore (around  2.34% of the average net profits of last three financial years) on  CSR activities as against the statutory requirement of ₹ 558 crore  i.e.
2% of the average net profits of last three financial years.
The annual report on CSR activities is annexed herewith marked  as Annexure II.
RISK MANAGEMENT Your Company has an elaborate Group Risk Management  Framework, which is designed to enable risks to be identified,  assessed and mitigated appropriately.
The Risk Management  Committee of the Company  has been entrusted with the  responsibility to assist the Board in (a) Overseeing and approving  the Company’s enterprise wide risk management framework; and  (b) Overseeing that all the risks that the organisation faces such  as financial, credit, market, liquidity, security, property, IT, legal,  regulatory, reputational and other risks have been identified and  assessed and there is an adequate risk management infrastructure  in place, capable of addressing those risks.
The Company manages, monitors and reports on the principal  risks and uncertainties that can impact its ability to achieve  its strategic objectives.
The Company’s management systems,  organisational structure, processes, standards, code of conduct  and behaviors together form the Reliance Management System  (RMS) that governs how the Group conducts the business of the  Company and manages associated risks.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 211 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 During the year, the Risk Management Committee reviewed the  most significant risks for the Group with the respective risk owners.
The Company continues to integrate Enterprise Risk Management,  Internal Controls Management and Assurance frameworks and  processes to drive a common integrated view of risks, optimal  risk mitigation responses and efficient management of internal  control and assurance activities.
This integration is enabled by  all three being fully aligned across Group wide methodologies,  processes and systems.
More details on Risk Management indicating development  and implementation of Risk Management policy including  identification of elements of risk and their mitigation are covered  in Management’s Discussion and Analysis, which forms part of   this Report.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS The Company has in place adequate internal financial controls,  with reference to financial statement.
It has established the  Reliance Management System (RMS), an integrated framework  for managing risks and internal controls.
The internal financial  controls have been documented, digitised and embedded in the  business processes.
Such controls have been assessed during the  year under review and were operating effectively.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL  PERSONNEL In accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Articles  of Association of the Company, Shri Nikhil R. Meswani and Shri  Pawan Kumar Kapil, Directors of the Company, retire by rotation  at the ensuing Annual General Meeting and being eligible have  offered themselves for re-appointment.
The members approved the appointment of Shri Raminder Singh  Gujral as an Independent Director with effect from June 12, 2015.
The Company has received declarations from all the Independent  Directors of the Company confirming that they meet the criteria  of independence prescribed under the Act and the Listing  Regulations.
The Company has devised a Policy for performance evaluation  of the Board, Committees and other individual Directors  (including Independent Directors) which includes criteria for  performance evaluation of the Non-executive Directors and  Executive Directors.
The evaluation process inter-alia considers  attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings,  effective participation, domain knowledge, compliance with  code of conduct, vision and strategy, benchmarks established by  global peers, etc.
The Company had engaged an external agency to carry out  the Board Effectiveness Survey for the Financial Year 2015-16.
The responses on Board Effectiveness Survey received from  each Board member were compiled and a report thereon  was submitted by the agency.
The results were arrived at by  the agency after analysing the responses with their database  encompassing 1000 Board surveys.
The Company’s Board was  evaluated as ‘Striving Board’ , which is the highest rating for the  performance of the Board considering the time commitment of  the Board and the value addition done by it.
The Board carried out annual performance evaluation of the  Board Committees and Individual Directors, internally.
The  Chairman of the respective Board Committees shared the report  on evaluation with the respective Committee members.
The  performance of each Committee was evaluated by the Board,  based on report on evaluation received from respective Board  Committees.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman and Non- Independent Directors was carried out by Independent  Directors.
The reports on performance evaluation of the  Individual Directors were reviewed by the Human Resources,  Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Chairman  of the Board held discussions with each Board member and  provided feedback to them on the evaluation outcome.
The following policies of the Company are attached herewith  marked as Annexure IIIA and Annexure IIIB: a)  Policy for selection of Directors and determining Directors  independence; and b)   Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel  and other employees.
EMPLOYEES’ STOCK OPTION  SCHEME The Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, inter alia,  administers and monitors the Employees’ Stock Option Scheme  of the Company which is in accordance with the applicable SEBI  Regulations.
The issue of equity shares pursuant to exercise of options does  not affect the Statement of Profit and Loss of the Company, as  the exercise of options is made at the market price prevailing as  on the date of the grant plus taxes as applicable.
There is no material change in Employees’ Stock Option Scheme  during the year under review and the Scheme is in line with the  SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (“SBEB  Regulations”).
The Company has received a certificate from the  Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 212 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Auditors of the Company that the Scheme has been implemented  in accordance with the SBEB Regulations and the resolution  passed by the members.
The certificate would be placed at the  Annual General Meeting for inspection by members.
Voting rights on the shares issued to employees under the  Employees’ Stock Option Scheme are either exercised by them  directly or through their appointed proxy.
The details as required to be disclosed under the SBEB  Regulations are available on the Company’s website at the link:  http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx AUDITORS AND AUDITORS’ REPORT STATUTORY AUDITORS  As per the provisions of the Act, M/s.
Chaturvedi & Shah, Chartered  Accountants, M/s.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered  Accountants and M/s.
Rajendra & Co., Chartered Accountants,  Statutory Auditors of the Company upon their re-appointment  at the ensuing Annual General Meeting will hold office till the  conclusion of the Forty-third Annual General Meeting to be  held in the year 2017.
They have confirmed their eligibility to the  effect that their re-appointment, if made, would be within the  prescribed limits under the Act and that they are not disqualified  for re-appointment.
The Notes on financial statement referred to  in the Auditors’ Report are self-explanatory and do not call for  any further comments.
The Auditors’ Report does not contain any  qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer.
Keeping in view the requirements set out in the Act, the Board  of Directors has identified M/s S R B C & C O  LLP , Chartered  Accountants, who have confirmed their willingness, as one of  the prospective auditors to conduct audit of the Company’s  financial statement from the financial year 2017-18, subject to  meeting the eligibility conditions stipulated under the Act.
Their  appointment will be proposed and considered in the Annual  General Meeting of the Company to be held in the year 2017.
COST AUDITORS  The Board has appointed the following cost auditors for  conducting the audit of cost records of the Company for various  segments for the FY 2015-16: (i)  For Textiles Business - M/s.
Kiran J. Mehta & Co., Cost  Accountants;  (ii)  For Chemicals Business - M/s.
Diwanji & Associates,  Cost Accountants,  M/s.
K.G.
Goyal & Associates, Cost  Accountants, M/s.
V.J.
Talati & Co., Cost Accountants,  M/s.
Kiran J. Mehta & Co., Cost Accountants,   M/s.
Bandyopadhyaya Bhaumik & Co., Cost Accountants,  M/s.
Shome & Banerjee, Cost Accountants, M/s.
Dilip M.  Malkar & Co., Cost Accountants and Shri Suresh D. Shenoy,  Cost Accountant;  (iii)  For Polyester Business - Shri Suresh D. Shenoy, Cost  Accountant, M/s.
V. Kumar & Associates, Cost Accountants  and M/s V.J.
Talati & Co., Cost Accountants;  (iv)  For Electricity Generation - M/s.
Dilip M. Malkar & Co., Cost  Accountants;  (v)  For Petroleum Business – Shri Suresh D. Shenoy, Cost  Accountant; (vi)  For Oil & Gas Business – M/s V.J.
Talati & Co., Cost Accountants   and M/s.
Shome & Banerjee, Cost Accountants.
M/s.
Shome & Banerjee, Cost Accountants, were nominated  as the Company’s Lead Cost Auditors.
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR  The Board has appointed Dr. K.R.
Chandratre, Practising Company  Secretary, to conduct Secretarial Audit for the FY 2015-16.
The  Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended March 31,  2016 is annexed herewith marked as Annexure IV to this Report.
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any qualification,  reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer.
DISCLOSURES  MEETINGS OF THE BOARD  Six meetings of the Board of Directors were held during the year.
The particulars of number of meetings held and attended by  each Director are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report,  which forms part of this Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE  The Audit Committee comprises Independent Directors namely  Shri Yogendra P .
Trivedi (Chairman), Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar,  Shri Adil Zainulbhai and Shri Raminder Singh Gujral.
During the  year, all the recommendations made by the Audit Committee  were accepted by the Board.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND  GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (CSR&G)  The Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance  Committee comprises Shri Yogendra P .
Trivedi (Chairman),  Shri Nikhil R. Meswani, Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur and   Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar.
VIGIL MECHANISM  The Vigil Mechanism of the Company, which also incorporates  a whistle blower policy in terms of the Listing Regulations,  includes an Ethics & Compliance Task Force comprising senior  executives of the Company.
Protected disclosures can be made  by a whistle blower through an e-mail, or dedicated telephone  line or a letter to the Task Force or to the Chairman of the Audit  Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 213 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Committee.
The vigil mechanism and whistle blower policy may  be accessed on the Company’s website at the link: http://www.
ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx  PARTICULARS OF LOANS GIVEN,  INVESTMENTS MADE, GUARANTEES GIVEN  AND SECURITIES PROVIDED  Particulars of loans given, investments made, guarantees given  and securities provided along with the purpose for which the  loan or guarantee or security is proposed to be utilised by the  recipients are provided in the standalone financial statement  (Please refer to Notes 11, 12, 13, 17, 31 and 36 to the standalone  financial statement).
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY , TECHNOLOGY  ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE  EARNINGS AND OUTGO  The particulars relating to conservation of energy, technology  absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo, as required to  be disclosed under the Act, are provided in Annexure V to this  Report.
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN  Extract of Annual Return of the Company is annexed herewith as  Annexure VI to this Report.
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND  RELATED DISCLOSURES  In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act read  with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and  Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement  showing the names and other particulars of the employees  drawing remuneration in excess of the limits set out in the said  rules are provided in the Annual Report, which forms part of this  Report.
Disclosures relating to remuneration and other details as  required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of  the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014 are provided in the Annual Report, which  forms part of this Report.
Having regard to the provisions of the first proviso to Section  136(1) of the Act and as advised, the Annual Report excluding  the aforesaid information is being sent to the members of the  Company.
The said information is available for inspection at the  Registered Office of the Company during working hours and  any member interested in obtaining such information may write  to the Company Secretary and the same will be furnished on  request.
GENERAL Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required in  respect of the following items as there were no transactions on  these items during the year under review:   Details relating to deposits covered under Chapter V of the  Act.
Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to dividend,  voting or otherwise.
Issue of shares (including sweat equity shares) to employees  of the Company under any scheme save and except  Employees’ Stock Option Scheme referred to in this Report.
The Company does not have any scheme of provision of  money for the purchase of its own shares by employees or  by trustees for the benefit of employees.
Neither the Managing Director nor the Whole-time Directors  of the Company receive any remuneration or commission  from any of its subsidiaries.
No significant or material orders were passed by the  Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact the going  concern status and Company’s operations in future.
No fraud has been reported by the Auditors to the Audit  Committee or the Board.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Your Directors would like to express their sincere appreciation  for the assistance and co-operation received from the financial  institutions, banks, Government authorities, customers, vendors  and members during the year under review.
Your Directors also  wish to place on record their deep sense of appreciation for  the committed services by the Company’s executives, staff and  workers.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 214 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ANNEXURE I TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT COMPANIES WHICH BECAME / CEASED TO BE COMPANY’S SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES OR ASSOCIATE  COMPANIES: 1.
COMPANIES/BODIES CORPORATE WHICH HAVE BECOME SUBSIDIARIES DURING THE FINANCIAL   YEAR 2015-16: Sr. No.
Name of Company 1.
Aurora Algae Inc 2.
Aurora Algae Pty Ltd 3.
Aurora Algae RGV LLC 4.
Reliance Jio Asiainfo Innovation Centre Limited 5.
Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited 6.
Reliance Holding Acquisition Corp 7.
RIL Exploration and Production (Myanmar) Company Limited 8.
RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 2.
COMPANIES/BODIES CORPORATE WHICH CEASED TO BE SUBSIDIARIES DURING THE FINANCIAL   YEAR 2015-16: Sr. No.
Name of Company 1.
Bhagyashri Mercantile Private Limited   2.
Chitrani Mercantile Private Limited   3.
Gopesh Commercials Private Limited   4.
Nemita Commercials Private Limited   5.
Nisarga  Commercials Private Limited   6.
Prakruti Commercials Private Limited   7.
Resolute Land Consortium Projects Limited 8.
Transenergy (Kenya) Ltd  9.
Vijayant Commercials Private Limited  3.
NO COMPANY HAS BECOME/CEASED TO BE A JOINT VENTURE OR ASSOCIATE DURING THE FINANCIAL  YEAR 2015-16.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016 ANNEXURE II TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2015-16 1.
A brief outline of the Company’s CSR Policy including overview of  projects or programs proposed to be undertaken and a reference to  the web-link to the CSR Policy and projects or programs.
Refer Section:  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the  Directors’ Report 2.
The Composition of the CSR Committee Refer Section: Disclosures: Corporate Social Responsibility  and Governance Committee in the Directors’ Report 3.
Average net profit of the Company for last three financial years ₹27,889 crore  4.
Prescribed CSR expenditure   (two percent of the amount mentioned in item 3 above) ₹557.78 crore 5.
Details of CSR spent during the financial year: Total amount to be spent for the financial year ₹557.78 crore Total Amount spent during the year ₹651.57 crore Amount unspent, if any Not applicable Manner in which the amount spent during the financial year Details given below Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 215 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 DETAILS OF AMOUNT SPENT ON CSR ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2015-16 Sr. No CSR project or  activity  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered (clause no.
of  schedule VII to  the Companies  Act, 2013, as  amended) Projects or programs 1) Local area or other 2) Specify the State and district  where projects or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or  program  wise  (₹ in crore) Amount  spent on the  projects or  programs: Sub Heads  (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs (2) Overheads (` in crore) Cumulative  expenditure  upto the  reporting  period, i.e.,  March 31,  2016 (₹ in crore) Amount  spent direct  or through  implementing  agency 1 Rural Transformation  – Reliance  Foundation Bharat  India Jodo –  “Enhancing Rural  Livelihoods” Cl (i) eradicating  hunger, poverty  and malnutrition;  Cl (iv) ensuring  environmental  sustainability;  Cl.
(x) rural  development  projects Andhra Pradesh- Kurnool,  Vizianagram, Srikakulam Telangana - Nizamabad Chhatisgarh- Rajnandgaon Gujarat-Amreli, Rajkot, Aravali,  Bharuch, Surat, Patan Jharkhand-Deogarh Karnataka-Gadag, Bidar Madhya Pradesh-Agar, Chhindwara,  Seoni, Mandla, Panna, Barwani  Hoshangabad Maharashtra-Parbhani, Yavatmal,  Nagpur Orissa-Balangir Rajasthan-Jaipur, Sawai Madhopur,  Banswara Tamilnadu- Sivaganga,  Ramanathapuram 84.35 69.69 171.38 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 2 Rural Transformation  - Information  Services - “Enable  access to need  based locale- specific content in  agriculture, marine  fisheries, public  health, disaster  response and other  areas by leveraging  technology” Cl.
(i) eradicating  hunger, poverty  and malnutrition  Cl.
(iv) ensuring  environmental  sustainability;  CI.
(x) rural  development  projects Andhra Pradesh-Vishakapatanam,  East Godavari, West Godavari,  Nellore, Krishna, Srikakulam,  Vizianagram, Kurnool, Prakasam,  Guntur Gujarat-Bharuch, Junagadh,  Surendranagar, Surat, Bhavnagar,  Kutch, Patan, Ahmedabad Maharashtra- Parbhani, Yavatmal,  Amravati, Washim, Akola, Wardha,  Buldhana, Hingoli, Nanded,  Ratnagiri,   Sindhudurg, Aurangabad, Jalna  Orissa-Bargarh, Jagatsinghpur,  Ganjam, Bhadrak, Balangir,  Kandhamal, Puri, Baleswar Tamilnadu-Ramanathapuram,  Sivaganga, Thanjavur, Ariyalur,  Pudukkottai, Nagapattinam,  Cuddalore, Villupuram, Dindigul,  Theni, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari,  Thrivarur, Tirunelveli, Salem, Trichy,  Chennai.
Kerala-Kozhikode, Malapuram,  Ernakulam, Alapuzha, Kasargod,  Kallam, Kochi.
Chattisgarh-Raipur,  Rajnandgaon Karnataka-Udipi, Uttar Kanada,  Dakshan Kannada Madhya Pradesh-Ujjain,  Chhindwara, Seoni, Mandla,  Jabalpur, Khandwa, Bhopal 20.12 14.00 23.65 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 216 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr. No CSR project or  activity  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered (clause no.
of  schedule VII to  the Companies  Act, 2013, as  amended) Projects or programs 1) Local area or other 2) Specify the State and district  where projects or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or  program  wise  (₹ in crore) Amount  spent on the  projects or  programs: Sub Heads  (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs (2) Overheads ( ` in crore) Cumulative  expenditure  upto the  reporting  period, i.e.,  March 31,  2016 (₹ in crore) Amount  spent direct  or through  implementing  agency Rajasthan-Jodhpur,   Sawai Madhopur   Uttarakhand-Uttarkashi, Rudra  Prayag   West Bengal-East Midnapur, Nadia,  South 24 Parganas   Puduchery- Yanam 3 Health Outreach  Program II - "Static,  Mobile Medical  Units and camps  for primary  and preventive  healthcare including  diagnostics" Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive   healthcare Maharashtra-Mumbai    Uttarakhand-Rudraprayag    Madhya Pradesh-Shahdol 8.56 4.60 7.74 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 4 Health - Drishti  “Corneal transplants  and other  activities  for visually impaired” Cl.
(i) promoting  health care  including  preventive   health care Assam-Tinsukia Andhra Pradesh-Anantapur,  Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur,  Kadapa, Krishna, Kurnool,  Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam,  Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, West  Godavari, Machilipatnam  Bihar- Araria, Bhagalpur, Buxar,  Chhapra, Gaya, Nawada, Saharsa,  Patna, Aurangabad, Begusarai,  Madhubani, Sitamarhi, Gopalganj,  Kishanganj, Saran Chhattisgarh-Raipur, Durg,  Bematra, Balod, Bilaspur, Koriya,  Rajnandgaon Delhi  Gujarat- Bharuch, Narmada, Surat,  Tapi, Valsad Haryana- Rohtak, Gurgaon, Jind,  Karnal, Palwali,Yamunanagar,  Sonepat, Hisar, Kurukshetra,  Bhiwani, Faridabad, Panipat Himachal Pradesh- Mandi, Kangra,  Bilaspur Jammu & Kashmir-Jammu,  Ramban, Srinagar, Bandipore Jharkhand- East Singhbhum,  Deogarh, Giridih, Simdega Karnataka- Bangalore, Bidar,  Bijapur, Chikmagalur, Davangere,  Gulbarga, Mysore, Kolar, Belgaum,  Bellary, Raichur, Yadgir, Haveri,  Dharwad Chhatisgarh - Balod, Durg     2.06 1.26 2.54 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 217 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr. No CSR project or  activity  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered (clause no.
of  schedule VII to  the Companies  Act, 2013, as  amended) Projects or programs 1) Local area or other 2) Specify the State and district  where projects or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or  program  wise  (₹ in crore) Amount  spent on the  projects or  programs: Sub Heads  (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs (2) Overheads ( ` in crore) Cumulative  expenditure  upto the  reporting  period, i.e.,  March 31,  2016 (₹ in crore) Amount  spent direct  or through  implementing  agency Madhya Pradesh-Sehore, Gwalior,  Balaghat, Bhopal, Dewas, Harda,  Hoshangabad, lndore, Raisen,  Rajgarh, Sagar, Shajapur, Sidhi,  Ujjain, Vidisha, Guna, Katni,  Chhindwara  Maharashtra- Buldhana, Parbhani,  Ahmednagar, Hingoli, Kolhapur,  Nanded, Nandurbar, Nashik,  Osmanabad, Pune, Satara, Solapur,  Thane, Amravati, Nagpur, Navi  Mumbai, Akola, Bhandara, Jalgaon,  Mumbai, Yavatmal, Latur  Odisha- Bargarh, Ganjam Punjab-Amritsar, Firozpur,  Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar,  Ludhiana, Muktsar, Patiala, Sangrur,  Tarn-Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mega,  Ropar, Bathinda, Kapurthala Rajasthan- Alwar, Bharatpur,  Chhitorgarh, Jaipur, Jhunjhunu Tamilnadu-Chennai, Dindigul,  Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri,  Nagapattinam, Perambalur,  Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur,   Thiruvallur, Vellore, Pudukkottai,  Madurai, Trichy, Ariyalur,  Sivagangai, Tiruchirapalli,  Namakkal, Theni, Tirunelveli,  Virudhunagar, Cuddalore,  Dharmapuri, Pattukkottai, Salem.
Telangana - Hyderabad, Adilabad,  Karimnagar, Khammam,  Mahbubnagar, Medak, Nalgonda,  Nizamabad, Rangareddy, Warangal,  Secunderabad, Karimnagar Uttar Pradesh-Aligarh, Baghpat,  Bareilly, Bulandshahar, Ghaziabad,  Gonda, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar,  Saharanpur, Amroha, Bijnor,  Budaun, Kasganj, Noida, Rampur,  Shamli, Agra, Hathras, Pratapgarh,  Azamgarh, Etah, Mainpuri, Mathura,  Muradabad, Sonbhadra, Bagpat,  Jaunpur, Shahjanpur, Deoria, Hapur.
Uttarakhand  -Nainital, Dehradun Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 218 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr. No CSR project or  activity  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered (clause no.
of  schedule VII to  the Companies  Act, 2013, as  amended) Projects or programs 1) Local area or other 2) Specify the State and district  where projects or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or  program  wise  (₹ in crore) Amount  spent on the  projects or  programs: Sub Heads  (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs (2) Overheads ( ` in crore) Cumulative  expenditure  upto the  reporting  period, i.e.,  March 31,  2016 (₹ in crore) Amount  spent direct  or through  implementing  agency West Bengal-Nadia, Bankura, Hugli,  Kolkata, Murshidabad, Purba  Medinipur, Howrah, Bardhaman,   South 24 Parganas, Paschim  Medinipur, Burdwan, Malda, North  24 Parganas, Purba Mednipur 5 Health - Autism  Project Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive   healthcare New Delhi 0.75 0.50 2.00 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 6 Health - To  develop innovative  technology that  will help train  medical students  and clinicians for  better diagnosis and  improved healthcare Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive  healthcare Maharashtra - Mumbai     30.00 26.43 50.68 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 7 Health - Partnerships  with Non-  Government  Organisations Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive   healthcare Maharashtra - Nashik   Gujarat- Bhavnagar   New Delhi     8.64 4.78 10.32 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 8 Community  Development Cl.
(ii) promoting  education; Cl.
(x) rural  development  projects Madhya Pradesh-Shadol   Andhra Pradesh- East Godavari   9.82 3.65 4.01 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 9 Disaster Relief Cl.
(x) rural  development  projects Jammu and Kashmir-Srinagar,  Jammu   Maharashtra - Beed   Tamil Nadu - Chennai   Gujarat – Amreli   20.90 9.45 16.52 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 10 Education - DA  Scholarships Cl.
(ii) promoting  education All States and UTs of India   4.97 2.49 6.50 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 11 Education - Reliance  Foundation Jr. NBA  Program Cl.
(ii) promoting  education;  Cl.
(vii) training to  promote sports Kerala- Kottayam and Kochi  Punjab- Ludhiana and Jalandhar  Delhi   Maharashtra-Mumbai   West Bengal-Kolkata   Tamil Nadu-Chennai   4.80 3.61 7.67 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 12 Education - Reliance  University Cl.
(ii) promoting  education Maharashtra-Raigad   131.47 126.31 127.66 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 219 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr. No CSR project or  activity  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered (clause no.
of  schedule VII to  the Companies  Act, 2013, as  amended) Projects or programs 1) Local area or other 2) Specify the State and district  where projects or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or  program  wise  (₹ in crore) Amount  spent on the  projects or  programs: Sub Heads  (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs (2) Overheads ( ` in crore) Cumulative  expenditure  upto the  reporting  period, i.e.,  March 31,  2016 (₹ in crore) Amount  spent direct  or through  implementing  agency 13 Environment - RF -  Urban Renewal Cl.
(iv) ensuring  environmental  sustainability,  ecological  balance Maharashtra-Nashik   Haryana- Gurgaon   1.90 0.85 0.96 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 14 Education-Initiatives  Digitisation of  education initiative.
Cl.
(ii) promoting  education Andhra Pradesh – Anantpur,  Chitoor, Guntur, Kadapa, Krishna,  Kurnool, Prakasham, Srikakaulam,  Vishakapatnam,   West Godavari  Telangana – Hyderabad   Gujarat – Junagadh,  Mehsana,  Vadodara, Gandhinagar     1.00 0.63 2.31 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 15 Health - Sir HN  Reliance Foundation  Hospital and  Research Centre Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive   healthcare Maharashtra – Mumbai 264.00 248.02 801.91 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 16 Health - Mother &  Child Health Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive   healthcare Rajasthan- Banswara, Sawai  Madhopur    Maharashtra - Gangakhed,  Yavatmal   Gujarat - Netrang, Jasdan   Madhya Pradesh - Chhindwara,  Seoni 1.35 0.78 0.78 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 17 Health - Lodhivali  Hospital Cl.
(i) promoting  healthcare  including  preventive   healthcare Maharashtra-Raigad 1.50 1.29 1.29 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 18 Promoting Traditional  Arts and Culture Cl.
(v)  protection  of national  heritage, art &  culture Maharashtra-Mumbai 1.00 0.28 0.28 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 19 RF Young Champs Cl.
(vii) training  to promote rural  sports, Nationally  recognised sports Maharashtra-Mumbai 7.00 4.99 4.99 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 20 Skilling,  Entrepreneurship  and Alternate  Livelihoods Cl.
(ii) promoting  education;  Cl.
(x) rural  development  projects Maharashtra-Mumbai,  Beed Andhra Pradesh – Vijaywada, East  Godavari  Telangana - Hyderabad 8.60 1.85 1.85 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* 21 Education –  Partnerships with  Non-Government  Organisations Cl.
(ii) promoting  education Maharashtra – Nashik, Mumbai Gujarat – Gandhinagar Telangana – Hyderabad Madhya Pradesh - Ujjain West Bengal - Kolkata New Delhi 53.54 41.15 41.15 Implementing  Agency -  Reliance  Foundation* Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 220 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr. No CSR project or  activity  identified Sector in which  the project is  covered (clause no.
of  schedule VII to  the Companies  Act, 2013, as  amended) Projects or programs 1) Local area or other 2) Specify the State and district  where projects or programs was  undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project or  program  wise  (₹ in crore) Amount  spent on the  projects or  programs: Sub Heads  (1) Direct  expenditure  on projects or  programs (2) Overheads ( ` in crore) Cumulative  expenditure  upto the  reporting  period, i.e.,  March 31,  2016 (₹ in crore) Amount  spent direct  or through  implementing  agency 22 Health- CSR at  Manufacturing  locations Cl.
(i) promoting  preventive  healthcare Andhra Pradesh- East Godavari Gujarat- Bharuch, Surat, Jamnagar,  Ahmedabad, Vadodara Punjab- Hoshiarpur Maharashtra- Nagpur, Raigad Madhya Pradesh- Shahdol Uttar Pradesh- Allahabad,  Barabanki Dadra & Nagar Haveli 26.87 22.69 37.09 Direct/  Implementing  Agency 23 Community  Development- CSR  at Manufacturing  locations Cl.
(x) rural  development  projects Andhra Pradesh- East Godavari Gujarat- Bharuch, Surat, Jamnagar,  Ahmedabad, Vadodara Punjab- Hoshiarpur Maharashtra- Nagpur, Raigad Madhya Pradesh- Shahdol Uttar Pradesh- Allahabad,  Barabanki Dadra & Nagar Haveli 5.35 1.15 3.03 Direct/  Implementing  Agency 24 Disaster Relief- CSR  at manufacturing  locations Cl.
(x) rural  development  projects  Andhra Pradesh- East Godavari - - 0.79 Direct/  Implementing  Agency 25 Education- CSR  at manufacturing  locations Cl.
(ii) promoting  education Andhra Pradesh- East Godavari Gujarat- Bharuch, Surat, Jamnagar,  Vadodara  Punjab- Hoshiarpur Maharashtra- Nagpur, Raigad Madhya Pradesh- Shahdol Uttar Pradesh- Barabanki 45.24 44.31 54.55 Direct/  Implementing  Agency 26 Other initatives- CSR  at manufacturing  locations Cl.
(vii) promoting  nationally  recognised &  rural sports Andhra Pradesh- Kakinada, East  Godavari 0.04 0.04 0.04 Direct/  Implementing  Agency 27 Other Initiatives - CSR  at manufacturing  locations Various Cl.
of  Schedule VII Andhra Pradesh- East Godavari Gujarat- Bharuch, Surat, Jamnagar,  Ahmedabad, Vadodara Punjab- Hoshiarpur Maharashtra- Nagpur, Raigad Madhya Pradesh- Shahdol Uttar Pradesh- Allahabad,  Barabanki Dadra & Nagar Haveli 5.03 4.90 8.99 Direct/  Implementing  Agency Total - Direct Expenditure 748.86 639.70 1,390.68 Total - Overheads 14.64 11.87 21.47 Grand Total 763.50 651.57 1,412.15 *Reliance Foundation (RF) is a company within the meaning of Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 and has a comprehensive approach towards development with an overall aim  to create and support meaningful and innovative activities that address some of India’s most pressing developmental challenges, with the aim of enabling lives, living and livelihood  for a stronger and inclusive India.
RF has an established track record of more than three years in undertaking such projects and programs.
Some CSR activities have been carried out through support to several other Non-Government Organisations or Charitable Institutions.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 221 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT  The Responsibility Statement of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Governance (CSR&G) Committee of the Board of Directors of  the Company, is reproduced below: ‘The implementation and monitoring of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, is in compliance with CSR objectives and policy  of the Company.
’   Y ogendra P .
Trivedi  Chairman, CSR&G Committee Nikhil R. Meswani  Executive Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016 POLICY FOR SELECTION OF DIRECTORS  AND DETERMINING DIRECTORS’  INDEPENDENCE 1.
INTRODUCTION: 1.1  Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) believes that an enlightened  Board consciously creates a culture of leadership to provide  a long-term vision and policy approach to improve the  quality of governance.
Towards this, RIL ensures constitution  of a Board of Directors with an appropriate composition,  size, diversified expertise and experience and commitment  to discharge their responsibilities and duties effectively.
1.2  RIL recognises the importance of Independent Directors in  achieving the effectiveness of the Board.
RIL aims to have  an optimum combination of Executive, Non-Executive and  Independent Directors.
2.
SCOPE AND EXCLUSION: 2.1  This Policy sets out the guiding principles for the Human  Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee for  identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors  and to determine the independence of Directors, in case  of their appointment as independent directors of the  Company.
3.
TERMS AND REFERENCES:   In this Policy, the following terms shall have the following  meanings: 3.1  “Director” means a director appointed to the Board of a  company.
3.2  “Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee” means the committee constituted by RIL ’s  Board in accordance with the provisions of Section 178  of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing  Regulations”).
3.3  “Independent Director”  means a director referred to in  sub-section (6) of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013  and Regulation 16 (1) (b) of Listing Regulations.
4.
POLICY: 4.1 QUALIFICATIONS AND CRITERIA  4.1.1  The Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  (HRNR) Committee, and the Board, shall review on  an annual basis, appropriate skills, knowledge and  experience required of the Board as a whole and its  individual members.
The objective is to have a Board  with diverse background and experience that are  relevant for the Company’s global operations.
4.1.2  In evaluating the suitability of individual Board  members, the HRNR Committee may take into account  factors, such as:     General understanding of the Company’s business  dynamics, global business and social perspective;    Educational and professional background;    Standing in the profession;     Personal and professional ethics, integrity and  values;  ANNEXURE IIIA TO  DIRECTORS’ REPORT Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 222 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Willingness to devote sufficient time and energy  in carrying out their duties and responsibilities  effectively.
4.1.3   The proposed appointee shall also fulfill the following  requirements:    Shall possess a Director Identification Number;     Shall not be disqualified under the Companies Act,  2013;    Shall give his written consent to act as a Director;     Shall endeavor to attend all Board Meetings and  wherever he is appointed as a Committee Member,  the Committee Meetings;     Shall abide by the Code of Conduct established by  the Company for Directors and Senior Management  Personnel;     Shall disclose his concern or interest in any  company or companies or bodies corporate, firms,  or other association of individuals including his  shareholding at the first meeting of the Board in  every financial year and thereafter whenever there  is a change in the disclosures already made;     Such other requirements as may be prescribed,  from time to time, under the Companies Act, 2013,  Listing Regulations and other relevant laws.
4.1.4   The HRNR Committee shall evaluate each individual  with the objective of having a group that best enables  the success of the Company’s business.
4.2  CRITERIA OF INDEPENDENCE  4.2.1   The HRNR Committee shall assess the independence of  Directors at the time of appointment / re-appointment  and the Board shall assess the same annually.
The Board  shall re-assess determinations of independence when  any new interests or relationships are disclosed by a  Director.
4.2.2   The criteria of independence, as laid down in Companies  Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, is as below:    An independent director in relation to a company,  means non-executive director, other than a managing  director or a whole-time director or a nominee director-   a.  who, in the opinion of the Board, is a person of  integrity and possesses relevant expertise and  experience;   b.
(i)  who is or was not a promoter of the company  or its holding, subsidiary or  associate  company;    (ii)  who is not related to promoters or directors  in the company, its holding, subsidiary or  associate company;   c.  who has or had no pecuniary relationship with  the company, its holding, subsidiary or associate  company, or their promoters, or directors, during  the two immediately preceding financial years or  during the current financial year;   d.  none of whose relatives has or had pecuniary  relationship or transaction with the company, its  holding, subsidiary or associate company, or their  promoters, or directors, amounting to two per  cent or more of its gross turnover or total income  or 50 lakh rupees or such higher amount as may  be prescribed, whichever is lower, during the two  immediately preceding financial years or during  the current financial year;   e. who, neither himself nor any of his relatives-    (i)  holds or has held the position of a key  managerial personnel or is or has been an  employee of the company or its holding,  subsidiary or associate company in any of the  three financial years immediately preceding  the financial year in which he is proposed to  be appointed;    (ii)  is or has been an employee or proprietor or  a partner, in any of the three financial years  immediately preceding the financial year in  which he is proposed to be appointed, of-     (A)  a firm of auditors or company secretaries  in practice or cost auditors of the  company or its holding, subsidiary or  associate company; or     (B)  any legal or a consulting firm that has or  had any transaction with the company, its  holding, subsidiary or associate company  amounting to 10 per cent or more of the  gross turnover of such firm.
(iii)  holds together with his relatives two per  cent or more of the total voting power of the  company; or    (iv)  is a Chief Executive or director, by whatever  name called, of any non-profit organisation  that receives twenty-five per cent or more  of its receipts or corpus from the company,  any of its promoters, directors or its holding,  subsidiary or associate company or that holds  two per cent or more of the total voting power  of the company; or Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 223 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54    (v)  is a material supplier, service provider or  customer or a lessor or lessee of the company.
f.  shall possess appropriate skills, experience and  knowledge in one or more fields of finance, law,  management, sales, marketing, administration,  research, corporate governance, technical  operations, corporate social responsibility or other  disciplines related to the Company’s business;   g.  shall possess such other qualifications as may  be prescribed, from time to time, under the  Companies Act, 2013; and   h. who is not less than 21 years of age.
4.2.3   The Independent Directors shall abide by the “Code for  Independent Directors” as specified in Schedule IV to  the Companies Act, 2013.
4.3   OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS / COMMITTEE  MEMBERSHIPS  4.3.1   The Board members are expected to have adequate  time and expertise and experience to contribute to  effective Board performance.
Accordingly, members  should voluntarily limit their directorships in other listed  public limited companies in such a way that it does not  interfere with their role as directors of the Company.
The HRNR Committee shall take into account the nature  of, and the time involved in a Director’s service on other  Boards, in evaluating the suitability of the individual  Director and making its recommendations to the Board.
4.3.2   A Director shall not serve as Director in more than 20  companies of which not more than 10 shall be Public  Limited Companies.
4.3.3   A Director shall not serve as an Independent Director  in more than 7 Listed Companies and not more than 3  Listed Companies in case he is serving as a Whole-time  Director in any Listed Company.
4.3.4   A Director shall not be a member in more than 10  Committees or act as Chairman of more than 5  Committees across all companies in which he holds  directorships.
For the purpose of considering the limit of the  Committees, Audit Committee and Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee of all Public Limited  Companies, whether listed or not, shall be included  and all other companies including Private Limited  Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies under  Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 shall be excluded.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016 ANNEXURE IIIB TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS,  KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND OTHER  EMPLOYEES 1.
INTRODUCTION: 1.1   Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) recognises the importance  of aligning the business objectives with specific and  measureable individual objectives and targets.
The  Company has therefore formulated the remuneration  policy for its directors, key managerial personnel and other  employees keeping in view the following objectives:  1.1.1   Ensuring that the level and composition of  remuneration is reasonable and sufficient to attract,  retain and motivate, to run the Company successfully.
1.1.2   Ensuring that relationship of remuneration to  performance is clear and meets the performance  benchmarks.
1.1.3   Ensuring that remuneration involves a balance between  fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and long-term  performance objectives appropriate to the working of  the Company and its goals.
2.
SCOPE AND EXCLUSION: 2.1   This Policy sets out the guiding principles for the Human  Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee  for recommending to the Board the remuneration of the  directors, key managerial personnel and other employees of  the Company.
3.
TERMS AND REFERENCES:   In this Policy, the following terms shall have the following  meanings: 3.1  “Director” means a director appointed to the Board of the  Company.
3.2 “Key Managerial Personnel” means  (i)  the Chief Executive Officer or the Managing Director or  the Manager; Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 224 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ANNEXURE IV TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT  (ii) the Company Secretary;  (iii) the Whole-time Director;  (iv) the Chief Financial Officer; and  (v)  such other officer as may be prescribed under the  Companies Act, 2013.
3.3  “Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee” means the committee constituted by RIL ’s  Board in accordance with the provisions of Section 178  of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing  Regulations”).
4.
POLICY: 4.1   REMUNERATION TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND  KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL  4.1.1   The Board, on the recommendation of the Human  Resources, Nomination and Remuneration (HRNR)  Committee, shall review and approve the remuneration  payable to the Executive Directors of the Company  within the overall limits approved by the shareholders.
4.1.2   The Board, on the recommendation of the HRNR  Committee, shall also review and approve the  remuneration payable to the Key Managerial Personnel  of the Company.
4.1.3   The remuneration structure to the Executive Directors  and Key Managerial Personnel shall include the  following components:   (i) Basic Pay   (ii) Perquisites and Allowances   (iii) Stock Options   (iv)  Commission (Applicable in case of Executive  Directors)   (v) Retiral benefits   (vi) Annual Performance Bonus  4.1.4   The Annual Plan and Objectives for Executive Directors  and Senior Executives (Executive Committee) shall  be reviewed by the HRNR Committee and Annual  Performance Bonus will be approved by the Committee  based on the achievements against the Annual Plan  and Objectives.
4.2  REMUNERATION TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  4.2.1   The Board, on the recommendation of the HRNR  Committee, shall review and approve the remuneration  payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company  within the overall limits approved by the shareholders.
4.2.2   Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled to sitting  fees for attending the meetings of the Board and the  Committees thereof.
The Non-Executive Directors shall  also be entitled to profit related commission in addition  to the sitting fees.
4.3   REMUNERATION TO OTHER EMPLOYEES  4.3.1   Employees shall be assigned grades according to their  qualifications and work experience, competencies as  well as their roles and responsibilities in the organisation.
Individual remuneration shall be determined within the  appropriate grade and shall be  based on various factors  such as job profile, skill sets, seniority, experience and  prevailing remuneration levels for equivalent jobs.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016 SECRETARIAL AUDIT RE PORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 [Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] To The Members Reliance Industries Limited Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of  applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by Reliance Industries Limited (hereinafter  called the Company).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a  manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the  corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my  opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute  books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained  by the Company and also the information provided by the  Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives  during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in  my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering  Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 225 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 the financial year ended on March  31, 2016 (‘Audit Period’)  complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also  that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance- mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to  the reporting made hereinafter: I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and  returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for  the financial year ended on March 31, 2016 according to the  provisions of: (i)  The Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies Act, 1956 (the  Act) and the rules made thereunder; (ii)  The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and  the rules made thereunder; (iii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye- laws framed thereunder; (iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings; (v)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under  the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI  Act’):-  (a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial  Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  (b)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition  of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and The Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider  Trading) Regulations, 2015 notified with effect from  May 15, 2015;  (c)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2009 ( Not applicable to the Company during the  Audit Period);  (d)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;  (e)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and  Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;  (f )  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars  to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations,  1993 regarding the Act and dealing with client;  (g)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting  of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 (Not applicable to  the Company during the Audit Period);  (h)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback  of Securities) Regulations, 1998  (Not applicable to the  Company during the Audit Period); and  (i)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 notified with effect from December 1, 2015.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of  the following: (i)   Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India notified with effect from July 1, 2015;  and (ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with  Stock Exchanges.
During the period under review the Company has complied  with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,  Standards, etc.
mentioned above.
I further report that , having regard to the compliance system  prevailing in the Company and on examination of the relevant  documents and records in pursuance thereof on test-check basis,  the Company has complied with the following laws applicable  specifically to the Company: (a)  Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 and Rules made thereunder; (b)  Petroleum Act, 1934 and Rules made thereunder; (c)  Oil Field (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 and Rules  made thereunder; (d)  The Mines Act, 1952 and Rules made thereunder; (e)  The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006  and the Rules made thereunder.
I further report that The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with  proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors  and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of  the Board of Directors that took place during the period under  review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the  Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board  Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at  least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and  obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda  items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the  meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings are  carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the  meetings of the Board of Directors or Committee of the Board,  as the case may be.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes  in the Company commensurate with the size and its operations  to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,  regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period the Company has  redeemed non-convertible debentures aggregating ₹ 164 crore.
Dr. K R Chandratre Place: Mumbai FCS No.
1370, C P No: 5144 Date: April 15, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 226 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ANNEXURE V TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT Particulars of Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption  and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo required under the  Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 A.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY (I)  STEPS TAKEN FOR CONSERVATION OF ENERGY   Energy efficiency is a cornerstone for sustainable growth and  advancement.
The Company has recognised the profound  responsibility of energy conservation to address the planet’s  undisputed warming and to adapt to future impacts.
The  Company has undertaken various measures for reducing  the Carbon di-oxide (CO 2 ) emissions and incorporate energy  efficient practices in day-to-day operations.
The Company contributes in diversifying the energy basket  with renewable sources of energy and ensuring to promote  energy efficiency measures to sustain the growing energy  needs of its operations.
A dedicated ‘Energy Cell’ , both at the site and group levels,  is focusing on energy management and closely monitors  energy consumption pattern across all manufacturing sites.
Periodic energy audits are conducted to improve energy  performance and benchmark with other international  refineries and petrochemical sites.
MAJOR ENERGY CONSERVATION INITIATIVES TAKEN  DURING THE FY 2015-16  REFINING & MARKETING  JAMNAGAR MANUFACTURING DIVISION (DTA)    Installation of new Medium Pressure (MP) steam  generator for heat recovery from LCNO circuit.
Replacing Medium Pressure (MP) steam with lower  grade LP steam in crude distillation columns and  achieve super heat with innovative steam to steam heat  exchange.
Reduction of energy by revamping / retrofitting of Air  preheater in Coker furnaces.
JAMNAGAR MANUFACTURING DIVISION (SEZ)    Utilisation of Light cycle gas oil residual heat from  pump around loop in stripper re-boiler.
Reducing the energy consumption by liquid seal drum  downstream purge gas switch over to nitrogen from  fuel gas.
Replacing Medium Pressure (MP) steam with lower  grade LP steam in crude distillation columns and  achieve super heat with innovative steam to steam heat  exchange.
MP Steam consumption reduction through additional  steam generation in Fluidised Catalytic Cracking flue  gas cooler through waste heat recovery.
Use of advanced technology to manage two distillation  column operation with only one and thus improve  quality of intermediate product with same energy  consumption.
Reduced flaring by redirecting lights vent gas line up to  tail gas treating unit.
Installation of pressure control valve at tail gas treating  unit preheater for high pressure steam inlet.
PETROCHEMICALS  HAZIRA MANUFACTURING DIVISION    Increased cogeneration by replacing fuel fired hot oil  based reboiler with steam based reboiler for low bleed  column.
Utilisation of  boiler feed water from captive power  plant in Cracker and recover heat to reduce steam  consumption in Cracker Deaerator.
Bypass of Thermo-compressor for usage of low pressure  steam in place of MP steam for Butadiene reboiler.
Cracker reduced steam consumption by increasing  steam generation pressure at inlet of steam turbines  driving compressors.
VADODARA MANUFACTURING DIVISION    Installation of new energy efficient turbines to drive  cracked gas compressor and propylene refrigeration  compressor.
Installation of back pressure steam turbine to generate  4.3 MW power from steam.
Replacing cooling water pumps with new high  efficiency pumps.
Heat recovery from wash water stream to cycle gas by  installing a pre-contactor in MEG plant.
Low Boiler Tower feed heating with High Boiler Tower  O/H stream.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 227 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54    Installation of refrigerant sub-cooler for energy  efficiency and capacity enhancement.
Recycling of coagulator and stripper boot water and  increase use of Condensate from finishing sections.
Replacement of the existing vinyl chloride monomer  recovery compressors with gearless compressors.
Additional heat recovery from industrial, commercial  and institutional water through heat integration.
Installation of new energy efficient Arzen air blower for  pellet conveying.
Replacement of old air compressors with an energy  efficient one.
DAHEJ MANUFACTURING DIVISION    Installation of 4 th hydrogen compressor to increase  hydrogen utilisation as fuel in captive power plant.
Energy savings by attending to faulty steam traps of  steam header.
Energy savings by optimisation of reboiler operation.
Energy savings by optimisation to reduce fuel  consumption.
Reducing steam consumption in Purification Column  reboiler by modification of condensate evacuation  system in Ethylene Glycol plant.
NAGOTHANE MANUFACTURING DIVISION    Energy consumption reduction by Gas Turbine uprate  in captive power plant to improve heat rate.
Replacement of 150W high pressure sodium vapor  lamps by 90W LED lights.
PATALGANGA MANUFACTURING DIVISION     Steam consumption reduction through optimising  crystallizer operation and better heat integration in  purified terephthalic acid plant.
OTHER MAJOR INITIATIVES TAKEN AT VARIOUS  MANUFACTURING DIVISIONS    Replacement of energy efficient motors at various  locations.
Replacement of inefficient pumps with energy efficient  ones at various locations.
Fluorescent lamps are being replaced with 18W LED  tubelight at Naroda.
Minimised distribution heat loss, improved combustion  efficiency and avoided heater auxiliary power by  conversion of Thermic fluid heated stenter with direct  gas fired stenter.
Saving chiller power by reducing Control A/c area,  stopping one Blower, Increasing the Cooling Coils and  automation in chiller compressor.
Installing cyclic timer for lighting in return air trenches  of worsted, Sulzer plant.
Avoiding consumption of no-load power by isolation of  two transformers after incorporation of bus coupling.
Optimisation of compressed air system by  interconnection of old & new networks and minimising   venting from LP compressor.
Replacement of orifice meters of air compressors to  avoid 0.2 bar pressure drop and reduce compressed air  generation pressure.
(II)  STEPS TAKEN BY THE COMPANY FOR  UTILISATION OF AL TERNATE SOURCES OF  ENERGY    One hybrid digester was converted to up flow anaerobic  sludge blanket reactor in Hazira to increase biogas  generation by 11%.
At Jamnagar, a 60 kWp solar PV plant has been installed  on administrative building canteen rooftop.
Bore well pump operation in PET  bottle to flakes, wash  line is operated on solar power at Barabanki.
Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 228 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(III )  THE CAPITAL INVESTMENT ON ENERGY CONSERVATION EQUIPMENT Sr.  No.
Manufacturing Division Capital investments on energy  conservation equipments (₹ in crore) Energy savings (Gcal/hr)   Financial saving (₹ in  crore per Annum) (a) Refining & Marketing 1 Jamnagar manufacturing division (DTA) 17.68 10.69 24.20 2 Jamnagar manufacturing division (SEZ) 103.14 34.99 70.24 (b) Petrochemicals 3 Hazira manufacturing division 6.19 14.76 34.69 4 Vadodara manufacturing division 150.64 16.46 46.46 5 Dahej manufacturing division 9.46 4.25 15.70 6 Nagothane manufacturing division 7.61 2.19 3.92 7 Patalganga manufacturing division 0.49 0.47 3.32 8 Other manufacturing divisions 0.42 124.28 3.18 The Company has also made capital investment in manufacturing locations for utilising alternate sources of energy to the extent of  ₹8.63 crore resulting in to energy savings of 1.1 Gcal/hr and financial savings of ₹ 2.18 crore.
B.
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION   Research and technology at RIL helps create superior value  by harnessing internal research and development skills  and competencies and creates innovations in emerging  technology domains related to RIL ’s various businesses.
R&D at Reliance focuses on (i) new products, processes  and catalyst development to support existing business  and create breakthrough technologies for new businesses,  (ii) advanced troubleshooting, and (iii) support to capital  projects, and profit and reliability improvements in  manufacturing plants.
(I)  MAJOR EFFORTS MADE TOWARDS TECHNOLOGY  ABSORPTION  REFINING & MARKETING    Removal of Oxygenates and CS 2 from petrochemical  naphtha.
Development of ZSM-5 additive (RMP-5) to improve  propylene yield in the FCC.
Development of liquid additive for coker yield / furnace  run length improvement.
Estimate true corrosivity of Crude to optimise crude  purchases and refinery operation.
Maximise  value of C5-C12 pool.
Fast characterisation of Crude using NIR and SIMDIS to  optimise crude purchases and refinery operation.
Develop Vacuum Gas Oil Hydrotreating (VGOHT)   catalyst/P Guard bed in collaboration with catalyst  majors.
Development of  high performance sulfur fertiliser  (RelfarmS).
Development of RelBitS for blending by-product sulfur  with Bitumen .
Profitable disposal of Gasifier slag and value creation by  extraction of Ni + V from slag.
Development of High Active FCC catalyst.
Production of nPnO, Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB)  feedstock from Light Coker Gas Oil (LCGO) at Jamnagar.
Demo unit to demonstrate multi zone catalytic cracking  process (MCC).
PETROCHEMICALS    Development of a Reliance proprietary process to  manufacture Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride (CPVC)  resin.
RIL Self Limiting Donors for RELCAT200Y to improve  polypropylene properties and operational reliability.
Development of pre-polymer Diester Catalyst for  Polypropylene Grades.
Development of reactor made high melt flow  polypropylene impact copolymer grade using RELCAT  300Y Diether Catalyst.
Development of catalyst for gas phase Polyethylene at  Nagothane and Jamnagar- HDPE & LLDPE.
Development of Reliance proprietary Metallocene  Catalyst for Gas Phase polyethylene at Nagothane.
HDPE Products & Process Improvement.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 229 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54    Development of Disentangled Ultra-high Molecular  Weight Polyethylene Resin for high performance  applications.
Layered zeolite material for Bromine Index reduction.
Development of self-healing elastomers for extended  life and safety of automotive tyres.
BIOFUELS AND BIO-CHEMICALS    Development of  ‘Green  Bio crude’  from algae using sea  water, sunlight and low cost nutrients.
Development of high yielding biofuel hybrid crops.
Development of high yielding, waste land based non- edible crops for large scale cultivation for production of  biofuels/chemicals.
In-house research and  external technology for  converting abundantly available cellulosic biomass in  India to fuels and chemicals.
Application of biotechnology to enhance the  productivity of biofuels species.
Testing the best hybrids produced by us and others  at different agro-climatic zones to identify most  productive cultivators.
Popularising the cultivation of bio-fuel crops by growers  by conducting method and varietal demonstrations.
Genetic modifications,     high     throughput screening  and metabolic flux analysis  for biomolecule production.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT    Development of a Reliance proprietary catalyst  and process to replace Hydrofluoric acid (HF) in the  manufacture of Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB) for use in  detergents.
Upgrading gasoline by benzene recovery unit /extract  hydrotreater and scanfining unit.
Hydro isomerisation catalyst for diesel production and  low pressure, ultra-low sulphur diesel hydrotreating  catalyst.
OTHER R&D ACTIVITIES ACROSS MULTIPLE  BUSINESSES    One step process for Production of Carbon Nanotubes  (CNT) for Non-Woven Mats (NWM) and Fiber.
Purification of crude terephthalic acid using ionic liquids  based technology to significantly reduce operating and  capital cost.
Desalter Brine treatment using ionic liquid based  technology.
Computational fluid dynamics studies for trouble  shooting plant operations.
Advanced Process Control (APC) and Real Time  Optimisation (RTO) throughout manufacturing.
Comparative evaluation and benchmarking of various  manufacturing technologies.
Development of reactor models in various refinery/ petrochemicals plants to optimise plant operations.
(II)  THE BENEFITS DERIVED LIKE PRODUCT  IMPROVEMENT, COST REDUCTION, PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT OR IMPORT SUBSTITUTION   The potential benefits derived from R&D and Technology  absorption, adoption and innovation initiatives in FY 2015- 16 is approximately ` 199 crore / annum.
(III)  INFORMATION REGARDING IMPORTED TECHNOLOGY (IMPORTED DURING LAST THREE YEARS) Details of technology imported Technology import from Year of import Status implementation / absorption AMT-ADP process for azeotropic distillation AMT, USA 2015-16 Plant under design and construction Halogenated Isobutylene Isoprene Rubber (HIIR),  JV with Sibur  Yarsintez, Russia 2015-16 Basic Engineering package  development is underway Ethylene (Cracker) – Ethane feed flexibility project Technip, Houston 2014-15 eBEP phase  in  progress Synthetic natural gas (SNG) Johnson Matthey, UK 2014-15 Plant under design and construction Hydro treatment of extract Axens, France 2014-15 Plant under construction High purity isobutylene CB&I - Lummus 2013-14 Plant under design and construction Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 230 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(IV)   EXPENDITURE INCURRED ON RESEARCH AND  DEVELOPMENT Sr.  No.
Particulars (` In crore) a) Capital 631 b) Revenue 628 Total 1,259 C.   FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND  OUTGO (I)   ACTIVITIES RELATING TO EXPORT, INITIATIVES  TO INCREASE EXPORTS, DEVELOPMENTS OF  NEW EXPORT MARKETS FOR PRODUCTS AND  SERVICES AND EXPORT PLAN.
The Company has continued to maintain focus and avail of  export opportunities based on economic considerations.
During the year, the Company has exports (FOB value)  worth ₹1,37,634 crore  (US$20.8 billion).
(II)   TOTAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNED AND USED (` In crore) Foreign Exchange earned in terms of Actual  Inflows 1,37,832 Foreign Exchange outgo in terms of Actual  Outflows 1,76,610 Note: Actual inflows does not include total savings in Foreign Exchange through products  manufactured by the Company and deemed exports amounting to ₹ 82,470 crore   (US$12.5 billion).
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016 ANNEXURE VI TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT FORM NO.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN  As on the financial year ended on March 31, 2016 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS i) CIN L17110MH1973PLC019786 ii) Registration Date 08-05-1973 iii) Name of the Company Reliance Industries Limited iv) Category / Sub-Category of the Company Public Company / Limited by shares v) Address of the Registered office and contact details 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 Tel: +91 22 22785000  Fax:+91 22 22785111 vi) Whether listed company Yes vii) Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District Nanakramguda,  Hyderabad – 500 032 Tel.
: +91 40 67161700 Toll Free No: 1800 425 8998 Fax: +91 40 67161680 II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY   All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of  the Company As per Attachment A III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE  COMPANIES  As per Attachment B Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 231 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS  PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EQUITY) i) Category-wise Share Holding As per Attachment C ii) Shareholding of Promoters As per Attachment D iii) Change in Promoters’ Shareholding As per Attachment E iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten  Shareholders (other than Directors,  Promoters  and Holders of GDRs and ADRs) As per Attachment F v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel As per Attachment G V. INDEBTEDNESS Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not  due for payment As per Attachment H VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL  PERSONNEL A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager As per Attachment I B. Remuneration to other directors As per Attachment J C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD/Manager/WTD As per Attachment K VII.
PENAL TIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES As per Attachment L ATTACHMENT A II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITES OF THE COMPANY  All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the Company are given below: - Sr. No.
Name and Description of   main products/services NIC Code of the product/service * % to total turnover   of the Company #  1 Refining 192- Manufacture of refined petroleum products 67.42  2 Petrochemicals  201- Manufacture of basic chemicals, fertilizers and nitrogen  compounds, plastic and synthetic rubber in primary forms  30.63 * As per National Industrial Classification - 2008, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation # On the basis of Gross Turnover ATTACHMENT B III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES/BODIES  CORPORATE Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 1 Affinity Names,  Inc Capitol Services, Inc.  1675 S. State Street, Suite B, Dover,   Delaware 19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 2 Central Park  Enterprises DMCC Unit No.
1801-B, JBC 3, Plot No JLT-PH2-Y1A,  Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai U.A.E  NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 3 Delta Corp East  Africa Limited L. R.  No.1870 / II /236, The Pride Rock, No.
6,  Donyo Sabuk Avenue, Off General Mathenge  Drive, P .O.
Box 69952- 00400, Nairobi NA Subsidiary 58.80 2(87)(ii) Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 232 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 4 Ethane Crystal LLC Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road,  Ajeltake Island, Majuro,   Marshall Islands MH96960 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 5 Ethane Emerald  LLC Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road,  Ajeltake Island, Majuro,   Marshall Islands MH96960 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 6 Ethane Opal LLC Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road,  Ajeltake Island, Majuro,   Marshall Islands MH96960 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 7 Ethane Pearl LLC Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road,  Ajeltake Island, Majuro,   Marshall Islands MH96960 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 8 Ethane Sapphire  LLC  Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road,  Ajeltake Island, Majuro,   Marshall Islands MH96960 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 9 Ethane Topaz LLC Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road,  Ajeltake Island, Majuro,   Marshall Islands MH96960 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 10 Gapco Kenya  Limited Plot L. R. No.
1870/1/443,   The West Wood, 8 th  Floor,  Vale Close,   Off., Ring Road, Park Plants,   P .O Box 40908, 00100 Nairobi N.A.
Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 11 Gapco Tanzania  Limited P .O Box No.
9103,   Mafuta Street, Kurasini,   DAR ES SALAM, Tanzania N.A.
Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 12 Gapco Uganda  Limited Plot 13, 7 th  Street,   Industrial Area, P O Box 7105,   Kampala, Uganda N.A.
Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 13 Gapoil (Zanzibar)  Limited Plot No.1282, Zanzibar N.A.
Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 14 Gulf Africa  Petroleum  Corporation IFS Court, Twenty Eight,   Cybercity, Ebene,   Mauritius N.A.
Subsidiary 76.00 2(87)(ii) 15 Indiawin Sports  Private Limited 3 rd  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U51109MH2007PTC176254 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 16 Kanhatech  Solutions Limited 5 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U52599MH2007PLC176414 Subsidiary 90.67 2(87)(ii) 17 Reliance Supply  Solutions Private  Limited (Formerly  known as Office  Depot Reliance  Supply Solutions  Private Limited) 5 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao   Mumbai- 400002 U36991MH1999PTC119874 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 18 Recron (Malaysia)  Sdn Bhd Suite 7.01 -7.03, Level 7, Wisma Goldhill,   67, Jalan Raja Chulan,   50200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 233 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 19 Reliance  Aerospace  Technologies  Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222 Nariman Point,  Mumbai - 400021 U35300MH2008PLC186471 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 20 Reliance Ambit  Trade Private  Limited 4th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai - 400002 U01119MH2006PTC162902 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 21 Reliance  Aromatics and  Petrochemicals  Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222 Nariman Point,   Mumbai - 400002 U23200MH1993PLC190934 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 22 Reliance Brands  Limited 5th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U51900MH2007PLC174470 Subsidiary 89.98 2(87)(ii) 23 Reliance  Chemicals Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222 Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021 U24110MH1990PLC059590 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 24 Reliance Clothing  India Private  Limited Court House, 3rd Floor,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U17120MH2008PTC180384 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 25 Reliance  Commercial Land  & Infrastructure  Limited 4th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400002 U51109MH2008PLC185389 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 26 Reliance  Comtrade Private  Limited 4th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400002 U52599MH2006PTC164458 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 27 Reliance  Corporate IT Park  Limited Reliance Corporate Park, Building No.4, 5,  TTC Industrial Area, Thane- Belapur Road,  Ghansoli, Navi Mumbai,   Thane – 400701.
U74140MH2001PLC131458 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 28 Reliance do  Brasil Industria  e Comercio de  Produtos Texteis,  Quimicios,  Petroquimicios e  Derivados Ltda.
Rua Antonio Loureiro, No.
346, Sala 8,   CEP 04376-110, Vila Santa Catarina,   São Paulo,   Brazil NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 29 Reliance Eagleford  Midstream LLC Delaware International Registry &  Incorporation Services LLC, 301, North Market  Street, Farmers Banks Building, Wilmington   Delaware -19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 30 Reliance Eagleford  Upstream GP LLC Capitol Corporate Services, Inc.  800 Brazos, Suite 400,   Austin, Texas  78701 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 31 Reliance Eagleford  Upstream Holding  LP Capitol Corporate Services, Inc.  800 Brazos, Suite 400,   Austin, Texas  78701 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 234 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 32 Reliance Eagleford  Upstream LLC Capitol Services, Inc.   1675 S. State Street, Suite B, Dover,   Delaware-19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 33 Reliance Eminent  Trading &  Commercial  Private Limited Raman Rati Apartment,   Near Ashapura Hotel, Saru Section Road,  Jamnagar- 361002 U51100GJ2005PTC046538 Subsidiary 100.00   2(87)(ii) 34 Reliance Energy  and Project  Development  Limited 9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222 Nariman Point,   Mumbai - 400021 U45201MH1993PLC190935 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 35 Reliance Energy  Generation and  Distribution  Limited 4 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U40108MH2008PLC185326 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 36 Reliance Ethane  Holding   Pte Limited 250 North Bridge Road,   #16-01, Raffles City Tower   Singapore -179101 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 37 Reliance  Exploration &  Production DMCC Unit No.
1801-A, JBC 3,   Plot No JLT-PH2-Y1A   Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai U.A.E NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 38 Reliance Gas  Pipelines Limited 9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai – 400021 U60300MH1991PLC059678 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 39 Reliance Global  Business B.V. Hoogoorddreef 15,  1101 BA, Amsterdam,   The Netherlands  NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 40 Reliance Global  Commercial  Limited 4 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400002 U24230MH1999PLC121318 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 41 Reliance Global  Energy Services  (Singapore) Pte  Ltd 250 North Bridge Road,   #16-01 Raffles City Tower,   Singapore-179101 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 42 Reliance Global  Energy Services  Limited 8 th  Floor, 105 Wigmore Street,   London W1U 1QY,   United Kingdom NA Subsidiary 100.00    2(87)(ii) 43 Model Economic  Township Limited  (Formerly known  as Reliance  Haryana SEZ  Limited) 3 rd  Floor, 77-B, IFFCO Road,   Sector-18, Gurgaon-122015 U70109HR2006PLC036416 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 44 Reliance Holding  USA, Inc Capitol Services, Inc.   1675 S. State Street, Suite B, Dover,   Delaware-19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 45 Reliance Industrial  Investments and  Holdings Limited 9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai – 400021 U65910MH1986PLC041081 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 235 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 46 Reliance  Industries (Middle  East) DMCC Unit No.
1801, Jumeirah,   Business Centre 3, Plot No.
Y 1, Jumeirah  Lakes Towers, Dubai, U.A.E NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 47 Reliance  Innovative  Building Solutions  Private Limited  4th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400 002 U52100MH2007PTC174895 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 48 Reliance Jio  Digital Services  Private Limited  9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai-400021 U72900MH2013PTC239846 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 49 Reliance Jio  Global Resources  LLC  5600, Tennyson Parkway,   Suite 115, Plano,   Texas-75024  NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 50 Reliance Jio  Infocomm Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai-400021 U72900MH2007PLC234712 Subsidiary 99.44 2(87)(ii) 51 Reliance Jio  Infocomm Pte  Limited 250 North Bridge Road, #16-01,   Raffles City Tower,   Singapore-179101 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 52 Reliance Jio  Infocomm UK  Limited 8th Floor, 105 Wigmore Street,   London, United Kingdom,   W1U 1Qy NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 53 Reliance Jio  Infocomm USA  Inc Capitol Corporate Services, Inc.,  800 Brazos, Suite 400,   Austin, Texas-78701.
NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 54 Reliance Jio  Infratel Private  Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai - 400021 U64200MH2013PTC239845 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 55 Reliance Jio Media  Private Limited  3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai - 400 021 U92100MH2013PTC239849 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 56 Reliance Jio  Messaging  Services Private  Limited  9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai - 400021 U32204MH2013PTC239944 Subsidiary 76.56 2(87)(ii) 57 Reliance Lifestyle  Holdings Limited 5th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400 002 U01403MH2007PLC172415 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 58 GenNext Holding  Investments LLC  (formerly known  as Reliance  Marcellus  Holding, LLC) Capitol Services, Inc.  1675 S. State Street,   Suite B, Dover,   Delaware -19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 59 Reliance Marcellus  II LLC Capitol Services, Inc.  1675 S. State Street, Suite B, Dover,   Delaware -19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 60 Reliance Marcellus  LLC  Capitol Services, Inc.  1675 S. State Street, Suite B, Dover,   Delaware -19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 236 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 61 Reliance Payment  Solutions Limited 5 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg, Dhobi Talao,  Mumbai – 400002 U65923MH2007PLC173923 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 62 Reliance Petro  Marketing Limited 5 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U74210MH1999PLC120377 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 63 Reliance  Petroinvestments  Limited 9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai – 400021 U72900MH1999PLC121039 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 64 Reliance  Polyolefins  Limited 9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222 Nariman Point,   Mumbai - 400021 U99999MH1992PLC065847 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 65 Reliance  Progressive  Traders Private  Limited Raman Rati Apartment,   Near Ashapura Hotel,   Saru Section Road, Jamnagar- 361002 U51100GJ2005PTC046466 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 66 Reliance Prolific  Commercial  Private Limited 4 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400002 U01122MH2006PTC161600 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 67 Reliance Prolific  Traders Private  Limited Raman Rati Apartment,   Near Ashapura Hotel,   Saru Section Road, Jamnagar- 361002 U51100GJ2005PTC046464 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 68 Reliance Retail  Finance Limited   9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai – 400021 U17110MH2000PLC123731 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 69 Reliance Retail  Insurance Broking  Limited 3 rd  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400002 U67200MH2006PLC165651 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 70 Reliance Retail  Limited 3 rd  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai -400002 U01100MH1999PLC120563 Subsidiary 99.95 2(87)(ii) 71 Reliance Retail  Ventures Limited 4 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U51909MH2006PLC166166 Subsidiary 94.45 2(87)(ii) 72 Reliance Sibur  Elastomers Private  Limited Admin Building, MTF Area,   Village Sikka,   Taluka & District Jamnagar – 361140 U25209GJ2012PTC068867 Subsidiary 74.90 2(87)(ii) 73 Reliance Strategic  Investments  Limited 9 th  Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai – 400021 U65990MH1999PLC120918 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 74 Reliance Textiles  Limited  Plot No.
384/2, Near Abhishek Complex,   Opp.
Amola Chambers, C.G.
Road,   Ahmedabad – 380009 U17291GJ2015PLC082664 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 75 Reliance Trading  Limited 3 rd  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai -400002  U51909MH2006PLC166165 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 76 Reliance Universal  Commercial  Limited 4 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai-400002 U15300MH1999PLC123315 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 237 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 77 Reliance Universal  Enterprises  Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai – 400021 U51100MH2005PLC190767 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 78 Reliance Universal  Traders Private  Limited Raman Rati Apartment,   Near Ashapura Hotel, Saru Section Road,  Jamnagar- 361002 U51100GJ2005PTC046467 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 79 Reliance USA Gas  Marketing LLC Capitol Services, Inc.  1675 S. State Street, Suite B,   Dover, Delaware 19901 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 80 Reliance Vantage   Retail Limited 1st Floor, High Street,Shrimali Society, Near  Navrangpura Railway Crossing, Navrangpura,  Ahmedabad , Gujarat – 380009  U51109GJ2007PLC049968 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 81 Reliance Ventures  Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400021 U24120MH1999PLC121009 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 82 Reliance World  Trade Private  Limited Avdesh House, 3rd Floor,   Pritam Nagar, 1st Slope,   Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad - 380006 U51100GJ1994PTC021590 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 83 Reliance- GrandOptical  Private Limited Dhobitalao, 5th Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Mumbai - 400002 U51900MH2007PTC175638 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 84 RIL (Australia) Pty  Ltd Level 9, 81, Flinders Street,   ADELAIDE, SA, 5000 NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 85 RIL USA, Inc Corporation Service Company, 2711,   Centerville Road, Suite 400,    Wilmington, Delaware, USA  NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 86 Strategic  Manpower  Solutions Limited 3rd Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U74999MH2007PLC167704 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 87 Surela Investment  & Trading Private  Limited Swadeshi Complex, Tower 2,   Swadeshi Mills Road,   Chunabhatti (East), Mumbai – 400022 U65990MH1986PTC041221 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 88 Wave Land  Developers  Limited L. R. No.
1870 / II /236, The Pride Rock, No.
6,  Donyo Sabuk Avenue, Off General Mathenge  Drive,  P .O.
Box 69952- 00400, Nairobi NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 89 Aurora Algae Inc 3325 Investment Boulevard, Hayword, California 94545, USA NA Subsidiary 94.82 2(87)(ii) 90 Aurora Algae Pty  Ltd Level 3, 679 Murray Street,   West Perth, WA 6005.
NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 91 Aurora Algae RGV  LLC 800 Brazos, Suite 400, Austin,   Texas 78701, USA.
NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 92 Reliance  Jio Asiainfo  Innovation Centre  Limited 9th Floor, Maker Chambers IV,   222, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400021 U74999MH2015PLC265376 Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 93 RIL Exploration  and Production  (Myanmar)  Company Limited Level 8, Centre Point Towers,   No.
65, Corner of Sule Pagoda Road &  Merchant Street, Kyauktada Township,  Yangon.
NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 238 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name of  Company/Bodies  Corporate Address of Company CIN/GLN Holding /  Subsidiary  / Associate % of  Shares  held* Applicable  section 94 RP Chemicals  (Malaysia) Sdn  Bhd Level 8, Symphony House,  Pusat Dgangan Dana1, Jalan PJU 1A/46,  47301 Petaling Jaya,   Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 95 Reliance Holding  Acquisition Corp 3521 Pierce Street,  San Francisco,   California- 94123,  USA.
NA Subsidiary 100.00 2(87)(ii) 96 Gujarat Chemicals  Port Terminal  Company Limited Po Lakhigam, Via Dahej,   Tal.
- Vagra,   Dist.- Bharuch-392130 U99999GJ1992PLC017798 Associate 41.80 2(6) 97 Indian Vaccines  Corporation  Limited Village Nainwal,   P .O.
Manesar, Gurgaon, Haryana U74900HR1989GOI030516 Associate 33.33 2(6) 98 Reliance Europe  Limited Devonshire House, 60,   Goswell Road,   London,  EC1M  7AD NA Associate 50.00 2(6) 99 Reliance Industrial  Infrastructure  Limited NKM International House, 5 th  Floor,  178 Backbay Reclamation, Behind LIC  Yogakshema Building, Babubhai Chinai Road,  Mumbai - 400020 L60300MH1988PLC049019 Associate 45.43 2(6) 100 Reliance LNG  Limited 4 th  Floor, Court House,   Lokmanya Tilak Marg,   Dhobi Talao, Mumbai – 400002 U23203MH2000PLC127885 Associate 45.00 2(6) * Representing aggregate % of the shares held by the Company and/or its subsidiaries ATTACHMENT C IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS PERCENTAGE OF  TOTAL EQUITY)  i) CATEGORY-WISE SHARE HOLDING Category of   Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the beginning of the year   (As on 01-04-2015) No.
of Shares held at the end of the year   (As on 31-03-2016) % of  change  during  the  year Demat Physical Total % of  total  shares Demat Physical Total % of  total  shares A PROMOTERS 1 Indian a) Individual / HUF 2,11,72,646 0 2,11,72,646 0.65 2,11,72,646 0 2,11,72,646 0.65 0.00 b) Central Govt.
0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 c) State Govt(s) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 d) Bodies Corporate 1,32,23,18,328 0 1,32,23,18,328 40.87 1,32,14,57,425 0 1,32,14,57,425 40.78 -0.09 e) Banks / FI 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 f) Any other    (f-i) Petroleum Trust (through  Trustees for sole  beneficiary- M/s Reliance   Industrial Investments  and Holdings Ltd.) 12,04,71,003 0 12,04,71,003 3.72 12,04,71,003 0 12,04,71,003 3.72 0.00 Sub - Total (A) (1) 1,46,39,61,977 0 1,46,39,61,977 45.24 1,46,31,01,074 0 1,46,31,01,074 45.15 -0.09 Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 239 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Category of   Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the beginning of the year   (As on 01-04-2015) No.
of Shares held at the end of the year   (As on 31-03-2016) % of  change  during  the  year Demat Physical Total % of  total  shares Demat Physical Total % of  total  shares 2 Foreign           a) NRIs – Individuals 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 b) Other – Individuals 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 c) Bodies Corporate 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 d) Banks / FI 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 e) Any other  0  0 0 0.00  0  0 0 0.00 0.00  Sub - Total (A) (2) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00  Total Shareholding of  Promoter(A) = (A)(1)  + (A)(2) 1,46,39,61,977 0 1,46,39,61,97745.24 1,46,31,01,074 0 1,46,31,01,07445.15 -0.09 B PUBLIC  SHAREHOLDING           1 Institutions           a) Mutual Funds 7,48,16,598 3,94,097 7,52,10,695 2.32 9,20,86,152 3,58,143 9,24,44,295 2.85 0.53 b) Banks / FI 39,85,589 2,17,107 42,02,696 0.13 26,53,326 2,05,733 28,59,059 0.09 -0.04 c) Central Govt 21,92,664 16,62,549 38,55,213 0.12 25,09,543 15,91,409 41,00,952 0.13 0.01 d) State Govt(s) 93,600 2,072 95,672 0.01 92,700 2,072 94,772 0.00 -0.01 e) Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 f) Insurance Companies 32,30,49,648 5,848 32,30,55,496 9.98 31,61,72,197 5,848 31,61,78,045 9.76 -0.22 g) FIIs 53,81,61,767 2,31,027 53,83,92,794 16.64 40,06,73,227 2,30,547 40,09,03,774 12.37 -4.27 h) Foreign Venture  Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (i) Others           (i-i) Qualified Foreign  Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (i-ii) Foreign Portfolio  Investors 7,02,36,908  0 7,02,36,908 2.17 23,22,33,755 0 23,22,33,755 7.17 5.00 (i-iii) UTI 0 3,03,909 3,03,909 0.01 0 3,01,608 3,01,608 0.01 0.00  Sub - Total (B) (1) 1,01,25,36,774 28,16,609 1,01,53,53,383 31.38 1,04,64,20,900 26,95,360 1,04,91,16,260 32.38 1.00 2 Non-institutions a) Bodies Corporate i) Indian 10,60,92,979 14,14,814 10,75,07,793 3.32 10,35,90,457 13,84,131 10,49,74,588 3.24 -0.08 ii) Overseas 1,81,958 36,186 2,18,144 0.01 1,81,778 36,186 2,17,964 0.01 0.00 b) Individuals I) Individual  shareholders holding  nominal share                        capital up to ₹ 1 lakh 24,59,25,430 6,11,61,839 30,70,87,269 9.49 23,17,51,468 5,85,11,113 29,02,62,581 8.96 -0.53 II) Individual  shareholders holding  nominal share                capital in excess of    ₹ 1 lakh 2,56,05,173 5,68,704 2,61,73,877 0.81 2,52,74,947 4,77,050 2,57,51,997 0.79 -0.02 (c) Others (c-i) Qualified Foreign  Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 240 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Category of   Shareholders No.
of Shares held at the beginning of the year   (As on 01-04-2015) No.
of Shares held at the end of the year   (As on 31-03-2016) % of  change  during  the  year Demat Physical Total % of  total  shares Demat Physical Total % of  total  shares (c-ii) NRIs 1,51,90,196 46,89,209 1,98,79,405 0.61 1,44,60,872 44,49,822 1,89,10,694 0.58 -0.03 (c-iii) Foreign Portfolio  Investors 0  0 0 0.00 421 0 421 0.00 0.00 (c-iv) Foreign Nationals 12,089  0 12,089 0.00 10,886 0 10,886 0.00 0.00 (c-v) Clearing Member 24,44,850 0 24,44,850 0.08 23,48,913 0 23,48,913 0.08 0.00 (c-vi) Shares held by  Subsidiary Companies  on which no voting  rights are exercisable 17,18,83,624 0 17,18,83,624 5.31 17,18,83,624 0 17,18,83,624 5.30 -0.01 (c-vii) Unclaimed Shares  Suspense Account-  Regulation 39 of SEBI  (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 2015) 1 61,38,914 0 61,38,914 0.19 60,47,599 0 60,47,599 0.19 0.00 (c-viii) Trusts 43,86,121 24,791 44,10,912 0.14 58,91,024 20,950 59,11,974 0.18 0.04 (c-ix) HUF 61,83,219 29,119 62,12,338 0.19 55,61,195 26,995 55,88,190 0.17 -0.02  Sub - Total (B) (2) 58,40,44,553 6,79,24,662 65,19,69,215 20.15 56,70,03,184 6,49,06,247 63,19,09,431 19.50 -0.65  Total Public  Shareholding (B) =  (B)(1) + (B)(2) 1,59,65,81,3277,07,41,271166,73,22,598 51.53 1,61,34,24,0846,76,01,6071,68,10,25,69151.88 0.35 C SHARES HELD BY  CUSTODIAN FOR  GDRs & ADRs 10,43,86,490 17,700 10,44,04,190 3.23 9,62,31,856 17,700 9,62,49,556 2.97 -0.26  Grand Total (A+B+C) 2 3,16,49,29,794 7,07,58,971 3,23,56,88,765 100.00 3,17,27,57,014 6,76,19,307 3,24,03,76,321 100.00 0.00 1 The voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner claims the shares [Refer to Regulation 39 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015)].
2 includes 307 equity shares of ₹ 10 each on which calls are in arrears to be paid by the shareholders who are not Promoters.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 241 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ATTACHMENT D IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS PERCENTAGE OF  TOTAL EQUITY)   ii)   SHAREHOLDING OF PROMOTERS Sr.  No.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the  year                    (As on 01-04-2015) Shareholding at the end of the year                                                                                            (As on 31-03-2016) %  change  in share  holding  during  the year No.
of Shares % of  total  Shares  of the  company % of Shares  Pledged /  encumbered  to total  shares * No.
of Shares % of  total  Shares  of the  company % of Shares  Pledged /  encumbered  to total  shares * 1 Kankhal Trading LLP 14,84,90,952 4.59 0.00 14,34,65,049 4.43 0.00 -0.16 2 Bhuvanesh Enterprises LLP 13,46,16,811 4.16 0.00 13,46,16,811 4.15 0.00 -0.01 3 Ajitesh Enterprises LLP 12,70,41,799 3.93 0.00 12,70,41,799 3.92 0.00 -0.01 4 Badri Commercials LLP 12,70,41,799 3.93 0.00 12,70,41,799 3.92 0.00 -0.01 5 Abhayaprada Enterprises LLP 12,45,14,168 3.85 0.00 12,45,14,168 3.84 0.00 -0.01 6 Trilokesh Commercials LLP 12,45,13,168 3.85 0.00 12,45,13,168 3.84 0.00 -0.01 7 Petroleum Trust (through Trustees for  sole beneficiary-M/s Reliance Industrial  Investments and Holdings Ltd.) 12,04,71,003 3.72 0.00 12,04,71,003 3.72 0.00 0.00 8 Farm Enterprises Limited 11,89,78,113 3.68 0.00 11,89,78,113 3.67 0.00 -0.01 9 Taran Enterprises LLP 10,63,73,069 3.29 0.00 10,63,73,069 3.28 0.00 0.00 10 Pitambar Enterprises LLP 10,49,00,070 3.24 0.00 10,49,00,070 3.24 0.00 0.00 11 Adisesh Enterprises LLP 8,10,99,093 2.51 0.00 8,10,99,093 2.51 0.00 0.00 12 Rishikesh Enterprises LLP 6,04,09,418 1.87 0.00 6,04,09,418 1.87 0.00 0.00 13 Pavana Enterprises LLP 3,56,73,400 1.10 0.00 3,56,73,400 1.10 0.00 0.00 14 Nagothane Agrofarms Private Limited 56,00,000 0.17 0.00 97,65,000 0.30 0.00 0.13 15 K D Ambani 73,31,074 0.23 0.00 73,31,074 0.23 0.00 0.00 16 Shreeji Comtrade LLP 66,77,500 0.21 0.00 66,77,500 0.21 0.00 0.00 17 Shrikrishna Tradecom LLP 66,77,500 0.21 0.00 66,77,500 0.21 0.00 0.00 18 Kamalakar Enterprises LLP 63,70,016 0.20 0.00 63,70,016 0.20 0.00 0.00 19 M D Ambani 36,15,846 0.11 0.00 36,15,846 0.11 0.00 0.00 20 Nita Ambani 33,98,146 0.11 0.00 33,98,146 0.11 0.00 0.00 21 Isha M Ambani 33,64,390 0.10 0.00 33,64,390 0.10 0.00 0.00 22 Akash M Ambani 33,63,190 0.10 0.00 33,63,190 0.10 0.00 0.00 23 Reliance Welfare Association 25,05,468 0.08 0.00 25,05,468 0.08 0.00 0.00 24 Narahari Enterprises LLP 6,16,840 0.02 0.00 6,16,840 0.02 0.00 0.00 25 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 1,72,000 0.01 0.00 1,72,000 0.01 0.00 0.00 26 Anant M Ambani 1,00,000 0.00 0.00 1,00,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 27 Reliance Industries Holding Private Ltd 0 0.00 0.00 25,550 0.00 0.00 0.00 28 Exotic Officeinfra Private Limited (Earlier  known as "Exotic Investments and Trading  Company Pvt Ltd") 12,688 0.00 0.00 12,688 0.00 0.00 0.00 29 Carat Holdings and Trading Co Pvt Ltd 5,100 0.00 0.00 5,100 0.00 0.00 0.00 30 Neutron Enterprises Private Limited 861 0.00 0.00 861 0.00 0.00 0.00 31 Futura Commercials Private Limited 845 0.00 0.00 845 0.00 0.00 0.00 32 Reliance Consultancy Services Private  Limited 200 0.00 0.00 200 0.00 0.00 0.00 33 Chakradev Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 34 Chakradhar Commercials LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 242 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the  year                    (As on 01-04-2015) Shareholding at the end of the year                                                                                            (As on 31-03-2016) %  change  in share  holding  during  the year No.
of Shares % of  total  Shares  of the  company % of Shares  Pledged /  encumbered  to total  shares * No.
of Shares % of  total  Shares  of the  company % of Shares  Pledged /  encumbered  to total  shares * 35 Chakresh Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 36 Chhatrabhuj Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 37 Devarshi Commercials LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 38 Harinarayan Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 39 Janardan Commercials LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 40 Karuna Commercials LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 41 Samarjit Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 42 Shripal Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 43 Srichakra Commercials LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 44 Svar Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 45 Synergy Synthetics Private Limited 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 46 Tattvam Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 47 Vasuprada Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 48 Vishatan Enterprises LLP 100 0.00 0.00 100 0.00 0.00 0.00 49 Anuprabha Commercials Private Limited 50 0.00 0.00 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 50 Elakshi Commercials Private Limited 50 0.00 0.00 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 51 Manuvidya Commercials Private Limited 50 0.00 0.00 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 52 Nirahankara Commercials Private Limited 50 0.00 0.00 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 53 Pinakin Commercials Private Limited 50 0.00 0.00 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 54 Vandhya Commercials Private Limited 50 0.00 0.00 50 0.00 0.00 0.00 55 Reliance Life Sciences Private Limited 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 56 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 57 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 58 Reliance Utilities Private Limited 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 59 Saumya Finance and Leasing Company  Private Limited (Amalgamated with Reliance  Industries Holding Private Limited w.e.f.
30.09.2015) 21,200 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 60 Ekansha Enterprise Private Limited                 (Amalgamated with Reliance Industries  Holding Private Limited w.e.f.
30.09.2015) 2,550 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 61 Amudha Venture Capital Private Limited                   (Amalgamated with Reliance Industries  Holding Private Limited w.e.f.
30.09.2015) 900 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 62 Relcom Venture Capital Private Limited  (Amalgamated with Reliance Industries  Holding Private Limited w.e.f.
30.09.2015) 600 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 63 Deccan Finvest Private Limited  (Amalgamated with Reliance Industries  Holding Private Limited w.e.f.
30.09.2015) 300 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00   Total 1,46,39,61,977 45.24 0.00 1,46,31,01,074 45.15 0.00 -0.09 (*) The term “encumbrance” has the same meaning as assigned to it in regulation 28(3) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
Shareholders listed in Sr No.
1 to 58 are promoters as per disclosure received under regulation 30(2) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011,  as on March 31, 2016.
Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 243 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ATTACHMENT E IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS PERCENTAGE OF  TOTAL EQUITY)  iii)  CHANGE IN PROMOTERS’ SHAREHOLDING  Sr.  No.
Shareholding at the beginning of  the year (As on 01-04-2015) Cumulative Shareholding during the  year (01-04-2015 to 31-03-2016) No.
of shares % of total shares  of the company No.
of shares % of total shares   of the company At the beginning of the year 1,46,39,61,977 45.24 Date wise Increase / Decrease in Promoters Share  holding during the year specifying the reasons for  increase / decrease (e.g.
allotment / transfer / bonus/  sweat equity, etc.)
Note-I At the end  of the year 1,46,31,01,074 45.15  NOTE-I DETAILS OF INCREASE AND DECREASE IN PROMOTERS’  SHAREHOLDING Sr.   No.
Name Shareholding Date Increase/  Decrease   in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year  (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at the  beginning (01-04-15)/ end of the year  (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company 1 Kankhal Trading  LLP 14,84,90,952 4.59 1-Apr-2015         18-Sep-2015 -50,25,903 Transfer (Inter se transfer) 14,34,65,049 4.43 14,34,65,049 4.43 31-Mar-2016     14,34,65,049 4.43               2 Farm  Enterprises  Limited 11,89,78,113 3.68 1-Apr-2015             18-Sep-2015 8,60,903 Transfer (Inter se transfer) 11,98,39,016 3.70     31-Mar-2016 -8,60,903 Off-market (Consequent  upon Capital Reduction)  11,89,78,113 3.67 11,89,78,113 3.67 31-Mar-2016     11,89,78,113 3.67               3 Nagothane  Agrofarms  Private Limited 56,00,000 0.17 1-Apr-2015             18-Sep-2015 41,65,000 Transfer (Inter se transfer) 97,65,000 0.30 97,65,000 0.30 31-Mar-2016     97,65,000 0.30               4 Reliance  Industries  Holding Private  Ltd 0 0.00 1-Apr-2015             9-Oct-2015 25,550 Transfer (Amalgamation) 25,550 0.00 25,550 0.00 31-Mar-2016     25,550 0.00               5 Saumya Finance  and Leasing  Company  Private Limited 21,200 0.00 1-Apr-2015             9-Oct-2015 -21,200 Transfer* 0 0.00 0 0.00 31-Mar-2016     0 0.00               Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 244 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.   No.
Name Shareholding Date Increase/  Decrease   in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at the  beginning (01-04-15)/ end of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of  Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company 6 Ekansha  Enterprise  Private Limited 2,550 0.00 1-Apr-2015             9-Oct-2015 -2,550 Transfer* 0 0.00 0 0.00 31-Mar-2016     0 0.00               7 Amudha  Venture Capital  Private Limited 900 0.00 1-Apr-2015             9-Oct-2015 -900 Transfer * 0 0.00 0 0.00 31-Mar-2016     0 0.00               8 Relcom  Venture  Capital Private  Limited 600 0.00 1-Apr-2015             9-Oct-2015 -600 Transfer* 0 0.00 0 0.00 31-Mar-2016     0 0.00               9 Deccan Finvest  Private Limited 300 0.00 1-Apr-2015             9-Oct-2015 -300 Transfer* 0 0.00 0 0.00 31-Mar-2016     0 0.00               * Amalgamated with Reliance Industries Holding Private Limited ATTACHMENT F IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS PERCENTAGE OF  TOTAL EQUITY)  iv)  SHAREHOLDING PATTERN OF TOP TEN SHAREHOLDERS (OTHER THAN DIRECTORS, PROMOTERS AND  HOLDERS OF GDRS AND ADRS) Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease  in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company 1 Life Insurance Corporation  of India 29,69,44,782 9.18 1-Apr-2015                 26-Jun-2015 -20,87,500 Transfer 29,48,57,282 9.10         30-Jun-2015 -83,997 Transfer 29,47,73,285 9.10         3-Jul-2015 -12,58,453 Transfer 29,35,14,832 9.06         10-Jul-2015 -12,85,210 Transfer 29,22,29,622 9.02         17-Jul-2015 -28,04,288 Transfer 28,94,25,334 8.93         24-Jul-2015 -16,14,351 Transfer 28,78,10,983 8.88         31-Jul-2015 -6,07,130 Transfer 28,72,03,853 8.86         7-Aug-2015 -5,74,949 Transfer 28,66,28,904 8.85         4-Sep-2015 20,71,687 Transfer 28,87,00,591 8.91 Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 245 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease   in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company         11-Sep-2015 18,75,495 Transfer 29,05,76,086 8.97         18-Sep-2015 15,94,524 Transfer 29,21,70,610 9.02         25-Sep-2015 8,07,669 Transfer 29,29,78,279 9.04         30-Sep-2015 26,60,082 Transfer 29,56,38,361 9.12         2-Oct-2015 1,24,204 Transfer 29,57,62,565 9.13         31-Dec-2015 -9,72,643 Transfer 29,47,89,922 9.10         1-Jan-2016 -1,89,286 Transfer 29,46,00,636 9.09         8-Jan-2016 -7,47,257 Transfer 29,38,53,379 9.07         15-Jan-2016 -6,90,000 Transfer 29,31,63,379 9.05         22-Jan-2016 -2,92,012 Transfer 29,28,71,367 9.04         5-Feb-2016 -5,000 Transfer 29,28,66,367 9.04         18-Mar-2016 -25,000 Transfer 29,28,41,367 9.04         25-Mar-2016 -10,000 Transfer 29,28,31,367 9.04     29,26,02,727 9.03 31-Mar-2016 -2,28,640 Transfer 29,26,02,727 9.03                   2 Reliance Chemicals Limited 6,22,39,998 1.92 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil  movement  during the  year                       6,22,39,998 1.92 31-Mar-2016 6,22,39,998 1.92                   3 Reliance Polyolefins Limited 6,11,94,924 1.89 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil  movement  during the  year                       6,11,94,924 1.89 31-Mar-2016 6,11,94,924 1.89                   4 Europacific Growth Fund 2,22,31,800 0.69 1-Apr-2015                 26-Jun-2015 29,08,018 Transfer 2,51,39,818 0.78         30-Jun-2015 9,71,641 Transfer 2,61,11,459 0.81         3-Jul-2015 20,49,974 Transfer 2,81,61,433 0.87         10-Jul-2015 25,46,585 Transfer 3,07,08,018 0.95         17-Jul-2015 11,93,782 Transfer 3,19,01,800 0.98         31-Dec-2015 3,66,852 Transfer 3,22,68,652 1.00         8-Jan-2016 36,33,148 Transfer 3,59,01,800 1.11         15-Jan-2016 6,40,000 Transfer 3,65,41,800 1.13         26-Feb-2016 30,77,187 Transfer 3,96,18,987 1.22         4-Mar-2016 50,71,511 Transfer 4,46,90,498 1.38         11-Mar-2016 23,98,885 Transfer 4,70,89,383 1.45         18-Mar-2016 6,40,383 Transfer 4,77,29,766 1.47         25-Mar-2016 5,03,467 Transfer 4,82,33,233 1.49     4,84,70,015 1.50 31-Mar-2016 2,36,782 Transfer 4,84,70,015 1.50                   5 Government of Singapore 2,66,37,648 0.82 1-Apr-2015                 10-Apr-2015 2,01,151 Transfer 2,68,38,799 0.83         24-Apr-2015 -15,897 Transfer 2,68,22,902 0.83         1-May-2015 -5,26,350 Transfer 2,62,96,552 0.81 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 246 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease  in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company         8-May-2015 -3,77,634 Transfer 2,59,18,918 0.80         5-Jun-2015 51,316 Transfer 2,59,70,234 0.80         12-Jun-2015 -26,254 Transfer 2,59,43,980 0.80         3-Jul-2015 4,78,126 Transfer 2,64,22,106 0.82         10-Jul-2015 3,10,330 Transfer 2,67,32,436 0.82         17-Jul-2015 17,767 Transfer 2,67,50,203 0.83         24-Jul-2015 1,40,708 Transfer 2,68,90,911 0.83         31-Jul-2015 5,27,436 Transfer 2,74,18,347 0.85         7-Aug-2015 4,65,947 Transfer 2,78,84,294 0.86         21-Aug-2015 -58,760 Transfer 2,78,25,534 0.86         28-Aug-2015 9,49,404 Transfer 2,87,74,938 0.89         4-Sep-2015 13,88,532 Transfer 3,01,63,470 0.93         11-Sep-2015 -5,25,204 Transfer 2,96,38,266 0.91         2-Oct-2015 2,65,825 Transfer 2,99,04,091 0.92         9-Oct-2015 9,05,394 Transfer 3,08,09,485 0.95         16-Oct-2015 9,636 Transfer 3,08,19,121 0.95         23-Oct-2015 4,26,031 Transfer 3,12,45,152 0.96         30-Oct-2015 -2,63,598 Transfer 3,09,81,554 0.96         6-Nov-2015 -43,716 Transfer 3,09,37,838 0.95         13-Nov-2015 8,86,881 Transfer 3,18,24,719 0.98         20-Nov-2015 -31,169 Transfer 3,17,93,550 0.98         27-Nov-2015 3,03,429 Transfer 3,20,96,979 0.99         4-Dec-2015 -2,29,671 Transfer 3,18,67,308 0.98         11-Dec-2015 -1,49,212 Transfer 3,17,18,096 0.98         18-Dec-2015 62,547 Transfer 3,17,80,643 0.98         31-Dec-2015 35,634 Transfer 3,18,16,277 0.98         8-Jan-2016 3,27,859 Transfer 3,21,44,136 0.99         15-Jan-2016 1,01,117 Transfer 3,22,45,253 1.00         22-Jan-2016 -1,09,889 Transfer 3,21,35,364 0.99         29-Jan-2016 6,67,768 Transfer 3,28,03,132 1.01         5-Feb-2016 13,83,848 Transfer 3,41,86,980 1.06         12-Feb-2016 3,29,075 Transfer 3,45,16,055 1.07         19-Feb-2016 5,82,100 Transfer 3,50,98,155 1.08         26-Feb-2016 13,034 Transfer 3,51,11,189 1.08         4-Mar-2016 -1,78,372 Transfer 3,49,32,817 1.08         11-Mar-2016 -12,844 Transfer 3,49,19,973 1.08         18-Mar-2016 -28,741 Transfer 3,48,91,232 1.08     3,50,35,922 1.08 31-Mar-2016 1,44,690 Transfer 3,50,35,922 1.08                   6 Abu Dhabi Investment  Authority 4,11,05,837 1.27 1-Apr-2015                 10-Apr-2015 4,23,510 Transfer 4,15,29,347 1.28         17-Apr-2015 3,00,000 Transfer 4,18,29,347 1.29         24-Apr-2015 -1,12,517 Transfer 4,17,16,830 1.29         1-May-2015 -6,04,500 Transfer 4,11,12,330 1.27 Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 247 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease   in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company         15-May-2015 66,063 Transfer 4,11,78,393 1.27         22-May-2015 -2,52,600 Transfer 4,09,25,793 1.26         29-May-2015 -15,12,378 Transfer 3,94,13,415 1.22         5-Jun-2015 -6,55,257 Transfer 3,87,58,158 1.20         12-Jun-2015 -81,371 Transfer 3,86,76,787 1.19         19-Jun-2015 13,000 Transfer 3,86,89,787 1.19         26-Jun-2015 5,735 Transfer 3,86,95,522 1.19         30-Jun-2015 -2,500 Transfer 3,86,93,022 1.19         3-Jul-2015 1,71,000 Transfer 3,88,64,022 1.20         24-Jul-2015 42,850 Transfer 3,89,06,872 1.20         31-Jul-2015 -1,50,692 Transfer 3,87,56,180 1.20         14-Aug-2015 24,657 Transfer 3,87,80,837 1.20         21-Aug-2015 -57,621 Transfer 3,87,23,216 1.20         28-Aug-2015 -6,07,832 Transfer 3,81,15,384 1.18         4-Sep-2015 -7,32,677 Transfer 3,73,82,707 1.15         11-Sep-2015 -3,09,693 Transfer 3,70,73,014 1.14         25-Sep-2015 -4,72,248 Transfer 3,66,00,766 1.13         23-Oct-2015 6,56,000 Transfer 3,72,56,766 1.15         30-Oct-2015 2,29,900 Transfer 3,74,86,666 1.16         20-Nov-2015 -82,804 Transfer 3,74,03,862 1.15         27-Nov-2015 -2,76,897 Transfer 3,71,26,965 1.15         4-Dec-2015 -5,00,572 Transfer 3,66,26,393 1.13         15-Jan-2016 -3,51,412 Transfer 3,62,74,981 1.12         22-Jan-2016 -18,612 Transfer 3,62,56,369 1.12         29-Jan-2016 -43,232 Transfer 3,62,13,137 1.12         5-Feb-2016 -2,58,941 Transfer 3,59,54,196 1.11         12-Feb-2016 -27,636 Transfer 3,59,26,560 1.11         19-Feb-2016 -1,51,500 Transfer 3,57,75,060 1.10         26-Feb-2016 -5,10,228 Transfer 3,52,64,832 1.09         4-Mar-2016 -5,01,097 Transfer 3,47,63,735 1.07         11-Mar-2016 -21,041 Transfer 3,47,42,694 1.07         18-Mar-2016 23,943 Transfer 3,47,66,637 1.07         25-Mar-2016 29,600 Transfer 3,47,96,237 1.07     3,46,91,237 1.07 31-Mar-2016 -1,05,000 Transfer 3,46,91,237 1.07                   7 Reliance Aromatics and  Petrochemicals Limited 2,98,89,898 0.92 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil  movement  during the  year                       2,98,89,898 0.92 31-Mar-2016 2,98,89,898 0.92                   8 Vanguard Emerging Markets  Stock Index Fund, A Series  of Vanguard International  Equity Inde X Fund 2,85,71,829 0.88 1-Apr-2015         Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 248 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease  in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company         1-May-2015 81,598 Transfer 2,86,53,427 0.88         8-May-2015 92,725 Transfer 2,87,46,152 0.89         3-Jul-2015 1,78,592 Transfer 2,89,24,744 0.89         24-Jul-2015 61,622 Transfer 2,89,86,366 0.89         14-Aug-2015 -92,725 Transfer 2,88,93,641 0.89         21-Aug-2015 -2,22,540 Transfer 2,86,71,101 0.88         28-Aug-2015 -4,33,953 Transfer 2,82,37,148 0.87         4-Sep-2015 -5,93,440 Transfer 2,76,43,708 0.85         11-Sep-2015 -3,11,556 Transfer 2,73,32,152 0.84         25-Sep-2015 -81,598 Transfer 2,72,50,554 0.84         30-Sep-2015 -5,89,625 Transfer 2,66,60,929 0.82         30-Oct-2015 -35,995 Transfer 2,66,24,934 0.82         6-Nov-2015 -11,587 Transfer 2,66,13,347 0.82         20-Nov-2015 -1,12,650 Transfer 2,65,00,697 0.82         27-Nov-2015 -26,285 Transfer 2,64,74,412 0.82         4-Dec-2015 -96,127 Transfer 2,63,78,285 0.81         18-Dec-2015 -2,19,567 Transfer 2,61,58,718 0.81         25-Dec-2015 -2,71,702 Transfer 2,58,87,016 0.80         31-Dec-2015 -1,35,964 Transfer 2,57,51,052 0.79         15-Jan-2016 -1,66,453 Transfer 2,55,84,599 0.79         22-Jan-2016 -1,86,040 Transfer 2,53,98,559 0.78         29-Jan-2016 -1,53,223 Transfer 252,45,336 0.78         5-Feb-2016 -3,48,203 Transfer 2,48,97,133 0.77         12-Feb-2016 -1,18,335 Transfer 2,47,78,798 0.76         26-Feb-2016 -1,70,963 Transfer 2,46,07,835 0.76         4-Mar-2016 -1,84,326 Transfer 2,44,23,509 0.75         11-Mar-2016 66,140 Transfer 2,44,89,649 0.76         18-Mar-2016 -69,641 Transfer 2,44,20,008 0.75         25-Mar-2016 -1,13,015 Transfer 2,43,06,993 0.75     2,43,06,993 0.75 31-Mar-2016     2,43,06,993 0.75                   9 Dimensional Emerging  Markets Value Fund 2,08,02,961 0.64 1-Apr-2015                 10-Apr-2015 1,08,786 Transfer 2,09,11,747 0.65         17-Apr-2015 13,072 Transfer 2,09,24,819 0.65         24-Apr-2015 28,830 Transfer 2,09,53,649 0.65         1-May-2015 99,027 Transfer 2,10,52,676 0.65         15-May-2015 1,42,062 Transfer 2,11,94,738 0.65         22-May-2015 95,973 Transfer 2,12,90,711 0.66         29-May-2015 51,923 Transfer 2,13,42,634 0.66         26-Jun-2015 -1,42,783 Transfer 2,11,99,851 0.65         3-Jul-2015 -47,656 Transfer 2,11,52,195 0.65         2-Oct-2015 -1,49,338 Transfer 2,10,02,857 0.65         30-Oct-2015 -98,635 Transfer 2,09,04,222 0.65         6-Nov-2015 -1,80,278 Transfer 2,07,23,944 0.64         13-Nov-2015 -1,15,451 Transfer 2,06,08,493 0.64 Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 249 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease   in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company         20-Nov-2015 -67,597 Transfer 2,05,40,896 0.63         27-Nov-2015 -2,248 Transfer 2,05,38,648 0.63         18-Dec-2015 -1,30,974 Transfer 2,04,07,674 0.63     2,04,07,674 0.63 31-Mar-2016     2,04,07,674 0.63                   10 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance  Company Ltd * 1,71,81,639 0.53 1-Apr-2015                 21-Aug-2015 -6,44,299 Transfer 1,65,37,340 0.51         28-Aug-2015 11,88,236 Transfer 1,77,25,576 0.55         4-Sep-2015 41,137 Transfer 1,77,66,713 0.55         11-Sep-2015 84,970 Transfer 1,78,51,683 0.55         18-Sep-2015 -85,440 Transfer 1,77,66,243 0.55         25-Sep-2015 1,74,398 Transfer 1,79,40,641 0.55         30-Sep-2015 -1,00,410 Transfer 1,78,40,231 0.55         2-Oct-2015 74,625 Transfer 1,79,14,856 0.55         9-Oct-2015 2,00,877 Transfer 1,81,15,733 0.56         16-Oct-2015 -70,137 Transfer 1,80,45,596 0.56         23-Oct-2015 26,329 Transfer 1,80,71,925 0.56         30-Oct-2015 53,874 Transfer 1,81,25,799 0.56         6-Nov-2015 -41,537 Transfer 1,80,84,262 0.56         13-Nov-2015 94,739 Transfer 1,81,79,001 0.56         20-Nov-2015 -39,400 Transfer 1,81,39,601 0.56         27-Nov-2015 1,33,918 Transfer 1,82,73,519 0.56         4-Dec-2015 1,45,629 Transfer 1,84,19,148 0.57         11-Dec-2015 23,826 Transfer 1,84,42,974 0.57         18-Dec-2015 82,120 Transfer 1,85,25,094 0.57         25-Dec-2015 -13,499 Transfer 1,85,11,595 0.57         31-Dec-2015 1,16,008 Transfer 1,86,27,603 0.57         8-Jan-2016 -1,02,400 Transfer 1,85,25,203 0.57         15-Jan-2016 37,584 Transfer 1,85,62,787 0.57         22-Jan-2016 -1,32,437 Transfer 1,84,30,350 0.57         29-Jan-2016 -63,596 Transfer 1,83,66,754 0.57         5-Feb-2016 -4,27,271 Transfer 1,79,39,483 0.55         12-Feb-2016 8,877 Transfer 1,79,48,360 0.55         19-Feb-2016 1,64,002 Transfer 1,81,12,362 0.56         26-Feb-2016 36,768 Transfer 1,81,49,130 0.56         4-Mar-2016 -7,85,893 Transfer 1,73,63,237 0.54         11-Mar-2016 1,19,612 Transfer 1,74,82,849 0.54         18-Mar-2016 -5,469 Transfer 1,74,77,380 0.54         25-Mar-2016 -69,766 Transfer 1,74,07,614 0.54     1,74,63,227 0.54 31-Mar-2016 55,613 Transfer 1,74,63,227 0.54                   11 Franklin Templeton  Investment Funds # 2,48,53,100 0.77 1-Apr-2015                 17-Jul-2015 1,12,200 Transfer 2,49,65,300 0.77         21-Aug-2015 -9,40,327 Transfer 2,40,24,973 0.74 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 250 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name Shareholding  Date Increase/  Decrease  in share- holding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of Shares at  the beginning  (01-04-15)/ end  of the year   (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company         28-Aug-2015 -67,10,773 Transfer 1,73,14,200 0.53         4-Sep-2015 -30,74,900 Transfer 1,42,39,300 0.44         25-Sep-2015 -53,06,300 Transfer 89,33,000 0.28         30-Sep-2015 -40,23,958 Transfer 49,09,042 0.15         2-Oct-2015 -1,49,700 Transfer 47,59,342 0.15         9-Oct-2015 -1,23,100 Transfer 46,36,242 0.14         20-Nov-2015 -8,99,400 Transfer 37,36,842 0.12         31-Dec-2015 3,47,300 Transfer 40,84,142 0.13         8-Jan-2016 -2,800 Transfer 40,81,342 0.13         22-Jan-2016 2,51,400 Transfer 43,32,742 0.13         5-Feb-2016 4,19,800 Transfer 47,52,542 0.15     47,52,542 0.15 31-Mar-2016     47,52,542 0.15   * Not in the list of Top 10 shareholders as on 01-04-2015.
The same has been reflected above since the shareholder was one of the Top 10 shareholders as on 31-03-2016.
# Ceased to be in the list of Top 10 shareholders as on 31-03-2016.
The same is reflected above since the shareholder was one of the Top 10 shareholder as on 01-04-2015.
ATTACHMENT G IV.
SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS PERCENTAGE OF  TOTAL EQUITY)  v)  SHAREHOLDING OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL Sr. No.
Name Shareholding Date Increase/  Decrease  in  shareholding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of  Shares at the  beginning  (01-04-15) / end of the  year  (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company A DIRECTORS:               1 Mukesh D. Ambani 36,15,846 0.11 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year         Chairman and Managing  Director               36,15,846 0.11 31-Mar-2016 36,15,846 0.11                 2 Nikhil R. Meswani 4,18,374 0.01 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year         Executive Director               4,18,374 0.01 31-Mar-2016 4,18,374 0.01                 Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 251 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr. No.
Name Shareholding Date Increase/  Decrease   in  shareholding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of  Shares at the  beginning  (01-04-15) / end of the  year  (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company 3 Hital R. Meswani 3,51,886 0.01 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year       Executive Director               3,51,886 0.01 31-Mar-2016 3,51,886 0.01 4 Nita M. Ambani 33,98,146 0.11 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year         Non-Executive Director               33,98,146 0.11 31-Mar-2016 33,98,146 0.11                 5 P .
M.S.
Prasad 1,36,666 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year       Executive Director               1,36,666 0.00 31-Mar-2016 1,36,666 0.00                 6 Pawan Kumar Kapil 8,000 0.00 1-Apr-2015           Executive Director     14-Jul-2015 1,000 ESOS Allotment 9,000 0.00         01-Sep-2015 2,000 ESOS Allotment 11,000 0.00         13-Oct-2015 9,000 ESOS Allotment 20,000 0.00         22-Mar-2016 6,500 ESOS Allotment 26,500 0.00     25,000 0.00 31-Mar-2016 -1,500  Transfer 25,000 0.00                   7 Mansingh L. Bhakta 3,30,000 0.01 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year       Independent Director               3,30,000 0.01 31-Mar-2016 3,30,000 0.01                 8 Yogendra P .
Trivedi 27,984 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year        Independent Director               27,984 0.00 31-Mar-2016 27,984 0.00                 9 Dr. Dharam Vir Kapur 13,544 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year       Independent Director               13,544 0.00 31-Mar-2016 13,544 0.00                 10 Prof. Ashok Misra 2,300 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil movement  during the year       Independent Director               2,300 0.00 31-Mar-2016 2,300 0.00                 11 Prof. Dipak C. Jain 0 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil Holding/   movement  during the year       Independent Director               0 0.00 31-Mar-2016 0 0.00                 Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 252 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr. No.
Name Shareholding Date Increase/  Decrease  in  shareholding Reason Cumulative Shareholding  during the year   (01-04-15 to 31-03-16) No.
of  Shares at the  beginning  (01-04-15) / end of the  year  (31-03-16) % of total  shares  of the  Company No.
of Shares % of total  shares  of the  Company 12 Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar 0 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil Holding/   movement  during the year       Independent Director               0 0.00 31-Mar-2016 0 0.00                 13 Adil Zainulbhai 0 0.00 1-Apr-2015 0 Nil Holding/   movement  during the year       Independent Director               0 0.00 31-Mar-2016 0 0.00 14 Raminder Singh Gujral 0 0.00 12-Jun-2015 0 Nil Holding/   movement  during the year       Independent Director             (Appointed  as a Director  w.e.f.
12-06-2015) 0 0.00 31-Mar-2016 0 0.00                 B KEY MANAGERIAL  PERSONNEL (KMP'S):               1 K. Sethuraman 40,000 0.00 1-Apr-2015           Group Company Secretary  and Chief Compliance  Officer       14-Apr-2015 1,000 ESOS Allotment 41,000 0.00         4-Aug-2015 9,000 ESOS Allotment 50,000 0.00         1-Mar-2016 4,500 ESOS Allotment 54,500 0.00     54,500 0.00 31-Mar-2016     54,500 0.00                   2 Alok Agarwal 1,40,626 0.00 1-Apr-2015           Chief Financial Officer     14-Apr-2015 9,000 ESOS Allotment 1,49,626 0.00         28-Apr-2015 9,000 ESOS Allotment 1,58,626 0.00         14-Jul-2015 36,000 ESOS Allotment 1,94,626 0.01         4-Aug-2015 9,000 ESOS Allotment 2,03,626 0.01         1-Sep-2015 7,500 ESOS Allotment 2,11,126 0.01         13-Oct-2015 6,000 ESOS Allotment 2,17,126 0.01     2,17,126 0.01 31-Mar-2016     2,17,126 0.01                   3 Srikanth Venkatachari 99,180 0.00 1-Apr-2015   Nil movement  during the year         Joint Chief Financial Officer                 99,180 0.00 31-Mar-2016   99,180 0.00                 Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 253 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ATTACHMENT H V.  INDEBTEDNESS    INDEBTEDNESS OF THE COMPANY INCLUDING INTEREST OUTSTANDING/ACCRUED BUT NOT DUE FOR  PAYMENT  (` in crore) Secured Loans   excluding deposits Unsecured     Loans Deposits Total  Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year (01.04.2015) i) Principal Amount 2,106.76 95,389.84 - 97,496.60 ii) Interest due but not paid - - - - iii) Interest accrued but not due 64.02 189.71 253.73 TOTAL (i+ii+iii) 2,170.78 95,579.55 - 97,750.33 Change in Indebtedness during the financial year Addition 1,69,597.34 52,746.91 - 2,22,344.25 Reduction 1,67,113.17 51,461.79 - 2,18,574.96 Exchange Difference 0.43 -5,769.80 - -5,769.37 Net Change 2,483.74 7,054.92 - 9,538.66 Indebtedness  at the end  of the financial year (31.03.2016) i) Principal Amount 4,590.50 1,02,444.77 - 1,07,035.27 ii) Interest due but not paid - - - - iii) Interest accrued but not due 66.09 233.09 - 299.18 TOTAL (i+ii+iii) 4656.59 1,02,677.86 - 1,07,334.45 ATTACHMENT I VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL   A.  REMUNERATION TO MANAGING DIRECTOR, WHOLE-TIME DIRECTORS AND/OR MANAGER (` in crore) Sr. No.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager  Total  Amount Mukesh D.  Ambani Nikhil R.  Meswani Hital R.  Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad Pawan  Kumar Kapil 1 Gross salary (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in  section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 4.25 2.10 1.68 7.02 2.63 17.68 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the  Income-tax Act, 1961 0.51 0.50 0.92 0.06 0.22 2.21 (c)  Profits in lieu of salary under section  17(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - - - - - - 2 Stock Option - - - - 0.44 0.44 3 Sweat Equity - - - - - - 4 Commission - as % of profit - others 9.53 11.60 11.60 - - 32.73 5 Others- Retiral Benefits 0.71 0.22 0.21 0.15 0.09 1.38 Total (A) 15.00 14.42 14.41 7.23 3.38 54.44 Ceiling as per the Act ₹3,572.10 crore (being 10% of the net profits of the Company calculated as per  Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013)       Annual Report 2015-16 Directors’ Report (Continued) 254 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ATTACHMENT J VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL   B.   REMUNERATION TO OTHER DIRECTORS: Name of Directors (` in crore) Sr.   No.
Particulars of Remuneration Mansingh  L. Bhakta Yogendra  P .
Trivedi Dr. Dharam   Vir Kapur Prof. Ashok  Misra Prof. Dipak  C Jain Dr. Raghunath  A. Mashelkar Adil  Zainulbhai Nita M.  Ambani Raminder Singh  Gujral (Appointed  w.e.f 12/06/2015)  Total  Amount 1.
Independent Directors  Fee for attending board /  committee meetings 0.06 0.27 0.21 0.13 0.08 0.21 0.23 - 0.12 1.31 · Commission 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 - 0.96 9.36 · Others - - - - - - - - - - Total (1) 1.26   1.47 1.41 1.33 1.28 1.41 1.43 - 1.08 10.67 2.
Other Non-Executive Directors Fee attending board /  committee meetings - - - - - - - 0.06 - 0.06 ·  Commission - - - - - - - 1.20 - 1.20 · Others - - - - - - - - - - Total (2) - - - - - - - 1.26 - 1.26 Total (B)=(1+2) 1.26 1.47 1.41 1.33 1.28 1.41 1.43 1.26 1.08 11.93 Total Managerial   Remuneration*     66.37 Overall Ceiling as per the Act  ₹357.21 crore (being 1% of the net profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013)  * Total remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-Time Directors and other Directors (being the total of A and B) Directors’ Report Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements Shareholder  Information Management  Review 255 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ATTACHMENT K VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL   C.  REMUNERATION TO KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL OTHER THAN MD/MANAGER/WTD (₹ in crore) Sr. No.
Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel  Total   Amount CEO Company  Secretary  (K. Sethuraman)  CFO  (Alok  Agarwal)  Joint CFO  (Srikanth  Venkatachari)  1 Gross salary Not   Applicable (a)  Salary as per provisions contained in  section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 1.60 11.53 10.44 23.57 (b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the  Income-tax Act, 1961 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.03 (c)  Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3)  of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - - - - 2 Stock Option 0.36 2.06 - 2.42 3 Sweat Equity        - - - - 4 Commission   - as % of profit - - - - 5 Others - Retiral Benefits 0.06 0.14 0.23 0.43 Total 2.03 13.74 10.68 26.45 ATTACHMENT L VII.
PENAL TIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES Type Section of  the  Companies Act Brief Description  Details of Penalty  / punishment /  compounding fees  imposed Authority (RD/ NCLT/ COURT) Appeal made, if  any (give details) A.
COMPANY  Penalty  Punishment  Compounding B.
DIRECTORS  Penalty  Punishment  Compounding C. OTHER OFFICERS IN DEFAUL T  Penalty  Punishment  Compounding For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Mukesh D. Ambani Chairman and Managing Director Mumbai, July 15, 2016  NIL   Annual Report 2015-16 256 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Financial  Statements   STANDALONE 257 /  Independent Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements 262 /  Balance Sheet 263 /  Statement of Profit and Loss 264 /  Cash Flow Statement 266 /  Significant Accounting Policies 270 /  Notes on Financial Statements Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 257 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54 Independent Auditors’ Report On The Standalone Financial Statements Of Reliance Industries Limited TO THE MEMBERS OF   RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED REPORT ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements  of RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED  (“the Company”), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016, the Profit and Loss  Statement and the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended  and a summary of the significant accounting policies and other  explanatory information.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters  stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with  respect to the preparation of these standalone financial statements  that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial  performance and cash flows of the Company in accordance with  the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including  Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act  for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and  detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of  appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates  that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were  operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of  the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation  of the financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free  from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone  financial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting  and auditing standards and matters which are required to be  included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the  Rules made thereunder and the Order under section 143 (11) of the  Act.
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in  accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under Section  143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with  ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment,  including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those  risk assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control  relevant to the Company’s preparation of the standalone financial  statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit  procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also  includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies  used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by  the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the standalone financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  standalone financial statements.
OPINION  In our opinion and to the best of our information and according  to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements give the information required by the Act in the manner  so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the  accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of  affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2016, and its profit and its  cash flows for the year ended on that date.
OTHER MATTERS The standalone financial statements and other financial information  include the Company’s proportionate share in jointly controlled  assets of ` 1,055 crore, liabilities of ` 95 crore, expenditure of ` 462  crore and the elements making up the Cash Flow Statement and  related disclosures in respect of an unincorporated joint venture  which is based on statements from the operator and certified by the  management.
Our opinion is not qualified / modified in respect of this matter.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY  REQUIREMENTS  1.
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that:  a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by  law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears  from our examination of those books.
c)  The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Statement, and  the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are  in agreement with the books of account.
d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements comply with the Accounting Standards  prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
e)  On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors as on 31st March, 2016 taken on  record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors  is disqualified as on 31st March, 2016 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of  the Act.
Annual Report 2015-16 258 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
f )  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting of the Company and  the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our  separate Report in “Annexure A” .
g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in  our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us:    i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of  pending litigations on its financial position in its  financial statements as referred to in Note 32.2  (d) (e) and Note 33 to the standalone financial  statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision, as required  under the applicable law or accounting  standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any,  on long-term contracts including derivative  contracts;    iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor  Education and Protection Fund by the Company  except for a sum of ` 17 crore, which are held in  abeyance due to pending legal cases.
2.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016  (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms of  Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement  on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
101720W) For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
117366W/ W-100018) For Rajendra & Co.  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
108355W) Rajesh D. Chaturvedi  Partner  Membership No.
: 45882 A.
B. Jani Partner  Membership No.
: 46488 A. R. Shah  Partner  Membership No.
:47166 Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 Independent Auditors’ Report (Continued) On The Standalone Financial Statements Of Reliance Industries Limited Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 259 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54 (Referred to in paragraph 1 (f ) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ of our report of even date) REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS OVER  FINANCIAL REPORTING UNDER CLAUSE ( i) OF SUB- SECTION 3 OF SECTION 143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013  (“THE ACT”) We have audited the internal financial controls over financial  reporting of RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED  (“the Company”)  as of March 31, 2016 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone  financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERNAL  FINANCIAL CONTROLS The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and  maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company  considering the essential components of internal control stated  in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include  the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the  orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence  to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention  and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal  financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit.
We  conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and  the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the  Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal  financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require  that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform  the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate  internal financial controls over financial reporting was established  and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all  material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over  financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit  of internal financial controls over financial reporting included  obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over  financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,  and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of  internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected  depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the  risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether  due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS OVER  FINANCIAL REPORTING A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a  process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the  reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance with generally  accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial  control over financial reporting includes those policies and  procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in  reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and  dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable  assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally  accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and payments of  the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations  of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide  reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of  unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets  that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL  CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over  financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper  management override of controls, material misstatements due  to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections  of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial  reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal  financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance  with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
OPINION In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material respects, an  adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting  and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were  operating effectively as at March 31, 2016, based on the internal  control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company  considering the essential components of internal control stated in  the Guidance Note.
For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
101720W) For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
117366W/ W-100018) For Rajendra & Co.  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
108355W) Rajesh D. Chaturvedi  Partner  Membership No.
: 45882 A.
B. Jani Partner  Membership No.
: 46488 A. R. Shah  Partner  Membership No.
:47166 Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 Annexure “A”  to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements of   Reliance Industries Limited Annual Report 2015-16 260 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Annexure “B”  to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements of   Reliance Industries Limited (Referred to in paragraph 2, under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our Report of even date) i.
In respect of its fixed assets:  a)  The Company has maintained proper records showing  full particulars including quantitative details and  situation of fixed assets on the basis of available  information.
b)  As explained to us, all the fixed assets have been  physically verified by the management in a phased  periodical manner, which in our opinion is reasonable  having regard to the size of the Company and nature  of its assets.
No material discrepancies were noticed on  such physical verification.
c)  As per the information and explanations provided to  us, title deeds of immovable properties are generally in  the name of the Company except in case of properties  acquired by entities that have since been amalgamated  with the Company and except in fourteen cases of  leasehold land, aggregating Rs.
317 crore (refer note  10.1 to the financial statements) in respect of which  lease deeds are pending execution.
We verified the title  deeds for immovable properties acquired during the  course of the year and in respect of other properties,  the same is under compilation.
ii.
In our opinion, the inventories have been physically verified  during the year by the Management at reasonable intervals  and as explained to us no material discrepancies were noticed  on physical verification.
iii.
In respect of the loans, secured or unsecured, granted by the  Company to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships  or other parties covered in the register maintained under  Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013: a)  In our opinion and according to the information given  to us, the terms and conditions of the loans given by  the Company are prima facie, not prejudicial to the  interest of the Company.
b)  The schedule of repayment of principal and payment  of interest has been stipulated and repayments of  principal amounts and /or receipts of interest have  been regular as per stipulations.
c)  There are no overdue amounts as at the year-end in  respect of both principal and interest.
iv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has complied with  the provisions of Sections 185 and 186 of the Companies Act,  2013 in respect of grant of loans, making investments and  providing guarantees and securities.
v. According to the information and explanations given to us,  the Company has not accepted any deposit from the public.
Therefore, the provisions of Clause (v) of paragraph 3 of the  Order is not applicable to the Company.
vi.
We have broadly reviewed the cost records maintained by  the Company pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and  Audit) Rules, 2014 prescribed by the Central Government  under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and are of  the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and  cost records have been maintained.
We have, however, not  made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view  to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii.
In respect of statutory dues: a)  According to the records of the Company, undisputed  statutory dues including Provident Fund, Employees’  State Insurance, Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax,  Customs Duty, Excise Duty, Value Added Tax, Cess and  other material statutory dues have been generally  regularly deposited with the appropriate authorities.
According to the information and explanations given  to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of the  aforesaid dues were outstanding as at March 31, 2016  for a period of more than six months from the date of  becoming payable.
b)  Details of dues of Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax,  Customs Duty, Excise Duty and Value Added Tax which  have not been deposited as on March 31, 2016 on  account of disputes are given below: Sr.  No Name of the  Statute Nature of  Dues Amount   (` in crore) Period to which the  amount relates Forum where  dispute is pending 1.
Central  Excise  Act,1944 Excise  Duty  and  Service  Tax 15 Various Years from  1990-91 to 2006-07 Commissioner  of Central Excise  (Appeals) 105 Various Years from  1991-92 to 2012-13 Customs, Excise  and Service  Tax Appellate  Tribunal 4 Various Years from  2006-07 to 2009-10 High Court 2.
Central  Sales Tax  Act,1956  and  Sales Tax  Act of  various  States Sales  Tax/ VAT and  Entry  Tax 1,207 Various Years from  1992-93 to 2009-10 Joint/Deputy  Commissioner/ Commissioner  (Appeals) 647 Various Years from  1983-84 to 2008-09 Sales Tax  Appellate  Tribunal 92 Various Years from  1994-95 to 2008-09 High Court 24 Various Years from  2000-01 to 2008-09 Supreme Court Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 261 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No Name of the  Statute Nature of  Dues Amount   (` in crore) Period to which the  amount relates Forum where  dispute is pending 3.
Customs  Act, 1962 Custom  Duty 20 2007-08 Customs, Excise  and Service  Tax Appellate  Tribunal Total 2,114 viii.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in  the repayment of loans or borrowings to financial institutions,  banks and Government and dues to debenture holders.
ix.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, monies raised by way of debt  instruments and the term loans during the year have been  applied by the Company for the purposes for which they were  raised.
x.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, no material fraud by the Company or  on the Company by its officers or employees has been noticed  or reported during the year.
xi.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has paid / provided  managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite  approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read  with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013. xii.
The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting  under clause (xii) of Paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable.
xiii.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us the Company’s transactions with its  related party are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of  the Companies Act, 2013, where applicable, and details of  related party transactions have been disclosed in the financial  statements etc.
as required by the applicable accounting  standards.
xiv.
During the year the Company has not made any preferential  allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly  convertible debentures and hence reporting under clause  (xiv) of Paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the  Company.
xv.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, during the year, the Company has  not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors  or persons connected with him and hence  reporting under  clause (xv) of Paragraph 3 of the Order is not applicable to the  Company xvi.
In our opinion and according to information and explanations  provided to us, the Company is not required to be registered  under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
101720W) For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
117366W/ W-100018) For Rajendra & Co.  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
108355W) Rajesh D. Chaturvedi  Partner  Membership No.
: 45882 A.
B. Jani Partner  Membership No.
: 46488 A. R. Shah  Partner  Membership No.
:47166 Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 Annexure “B” (Continued) to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements of   Reliance Industries Limited Annual Report 2015-16 262 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Balance Sheet  as at 31st March, 2016 (` in crore) Note As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ funds Share Capital 1 3,240 3,236 Reserves and Surplus 2 2,36,936 2,12,923 2,40,176 2,16,159 Share Application Money Pending Allotment 1 8 17 Non-Current Liabilities Long Term Borrowings 3 77,866 76,227 Deferred Tax Liability (Net) 4 13,159 12,677 Long Term Provisions 5 1,489 1,404 92,514 90,308 Current Liabilities Short Term Borrowings 6 14,490 12,914 Trade Payables 7 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 223 131 Others 54,298 54,339 Other Current Liabilities 8 54,841 19,063 Short Term Provisions 9 1,170 4,854 1,25,022 91,301 Total 4,57,720 3,97,785 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Fixed Assets Tangible Assets 10 91,477 79,792 Intangible Assets 10 39,933 34,771 Capital Work-in-Progress 10 97,296 65,178 Intangible Assets Under Development 10 9,583 10,575 Non-Current Investments 11 1,12,630 62,058 Long Term Loans and Advances 12 16,237 29,259 3,67,156 2,81,633 Current Assets Current Investments 13 39,429 50,515 Inventories 14 28,034 36,551 Trade Receivables 15 3,495 4,661 Cash and Bank Balances 16 6,892 11,571 Short Term Loans and Advances 17 11,938 12,307 Other Current Assets 18 776 547 90,564 1,16,152 Total 4,57,720 3,97,785 Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 37 As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 263 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54 Profit and Loss Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2016 (` in crore) Note 2015-16 2014-15 INCOME Revenue from Operations Sale of Products 19 2,51,100 3,40,727 Income from Services 141 87 2,51,241 3,40,814 Less: Excise Duty / Service Tax Recovered 18,083 11,738 Net Revenue from Operations 2,33,158 3,29,076 Other Income 20 7,582 8,721 Total Revenue 2,40,740 3,37,797 EXPENDITURE Cost of Materials Consumed 21 1,52,769 2,55,998 Purchases of Stock-in-Trade 4,241 7,134 Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-Process and   Stock-in-Trade 22 4,171 1,943 Employee Benefits Expense 23 4,260 3,686 Finance Costs 24 2,454 2,367 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 10 9,566 8,488 Other Expenses 25 27,578 28,713 Total Expenses 2,05,039 3,08,329 Profit Before Tax 35,701 29,468 Tax Expenses Current Tax 7,802 6,124 Deferred Tax 482 625 Profit for the Y ear 27,417 22,719 Earnings per equity share of face value of ` 10 each Basic and Diluted (in `) 30 84.66 70.25 Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 37 As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Annual Report 2015-16 264 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 A: CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net Profit Before Tax as per Profit and Loss Statement 35,701 29,468 Adjusted for: Write off of Investment [ ` Nil (Previous Year ` 26,96,800)] - - Loss on Sale / Discard of Assets (Net) 20 31 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 9,566 8,488 Effect of Exchange Rate Change (2,911) 1,408 Net Gain on Sale of Investments (2,781) (3,046) Dividend Income (691) (250) Interest Income (3,936) (5,414) Finance costs 2,454 2,367 1,721 3,584 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 37,422 33,052 Adjusted for: Trade and Other Receivables 146 5,462 Inventories 8,517 6,381 Trade and Other Payables 6,126 (3,528) 14,789 8,315 Cash Generated from Operations 52,211 41,367 Taxes Paid (Net) (8,129) (6,082) Net Cash from Operating Activities 44,082 35,285 B: CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of Fixed Assets (21,322) (42,720) Sale of Fixed Assets 293 86 Purchase of Investments in Subsidiaries / Trusts (25,255) (11,506) Redemption of Investments in Subsidiaries 444 169 Purchase of Other Investments (6,68,990) (6,55,591) Sale / Redemption of Other Investments 6,68,877 6,43,525 Movement in Loans and Advances (917) (133) Maturity of Fixed Deposits - 3,400 Interest Income 3,850 6,584 Dividend Income from Subsidiary and Associates 47 5 Dividend Income from Others 644 183 Net Cash (Used in) Investing Activities (42,329) (55,998) Cash Flow Statement for the year 20 15-16 Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 265 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54 Cash Flow Statement (Continued) for the year 20 15-16 (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 C: CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from Issue of Share Capital 283 226 Share Application Money  8 17 Proceeds from Long Term Borrowings 7,552 20,310 Repayment of Long Term Borrowings (4,591) (4,555) Short Term Borrowings (Net) 1,843 (10,302) Dividends Paid (including Dividend Distribution Tax) (7,259) (3,268) Interest Paid (4,268) (3,368) Net Cash (Used in) Financing Activities (6,432) (940) Net (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (4,679) (21,653) Opening Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents 11,571 33,224 Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents*  (Refer Note No.
16) 6,892 11,571 * Include towards Unclaimed Dividend of ` 223 crore  (Previous Year ` 199 crore) Note:  Other Receivables from Subsidiary aggregating to ` 3,263 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) have been converted into investments in Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully  Convertible Debentures.
As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Annual Report 2015-16 266 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Significant Accounting Policies A.
BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   These financial statements have been prepared to comply with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP),  including the Accounting Standards notified under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
The financial statements are prepared on accrual basis under the historical cost convention, except for certain Fixed Assets which are  carried at revalued amounts.
The financial statements are presented in Indian rupees rounded off to the nearest rupees in crore.
B.
USE OF ESTIMATES   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Indian GAAP requires judgements, estimates and assumptions to be made  that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities on the date of the financial statements and  the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Difference between the actual results and estimates  are recognised in the period in which the results are known/materialised.
The management believes that the estimates used in the  preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable.
C. FIXED ASSETS  Tangible Assets   Tangible Assets are stated at cost net of recoverable taxes, trade discounts and rebates and include amounts added on revaluation, less  accumulated depreciation and impairment loss, if any.
The cost of Tangible Assets comprises its purchase price, borrowing cost and any  cost directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use, net charges on foreign exchange contracts  and adjustments arising from exchange rate variations attributable to the assets.
Subsequent expenditures related to an item of Tangible Asset are added to its book value only if they increase the future benefits from  the existing asset beyond its previously assessed standard of performance.
Projects under which assets are not ready for their intended use are disclosed under Capital Work-in-Progress.
Intangible Assets   Intangible Assets are stated at cost of acquisition net of recoverable taxes less accumulated amortisation/depletion and impairment  loss, if any.
The cost comprises purchase price, borrowing costs, and any cost directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working  condition for the intended use and net charges on foreign exchange contracts and adjustments arising from exchange rate variations  attributable to the intangible assets.
D. LEASES  a)  Operating Leases: Rentals are expensed on a straight line basis with reference to the lease terms and other considerations.
b) (i)  Finance leases prior to 1st April, 2001: Rentals are expensed with reference to lease terms and other considerations.
(ii)  Finance leases on or after 1st April, 2001: The lower of the fair value of the assets and present value of the minimum lease  rentals is capitalised as Fixed Assets with corresponding amount disclosed as lease liability.
The principal component in  the lease rental is adjusted against the lease liability and the interest component is charged to Profit and Loss Statement.
c)  However, rentals referred to in (a) or (b) (i) above and the interest component referred to in (b) (ii) above, pertaining to the period  upto the date of commissioning of the asset are capitalised.
E. DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND DEPLETION  Tangible Assets   Depreciation on Fixed Assets is provided to the extent of depreciable amount on the Written Down Value (WDV) Method except in  case of  assets pertaining to Refining segment, SEZ units / developer and Petrochemical Plants capitalised after April 1, 2015 where  depreciation is provided on Straight Line Method (SLM).
Depreciation is provided based on useful life of the assets as prescribed in  Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of the following assets, where useful life is different than those prescribed in  Schedule II are used; Particular Depreciation Fixed Bed Catalyst (useful life: 2 years or more) Over its useful life as technically assessed Fixed Bed Catalyst (useful life: up to 2 years) 100% depreciated in the year of addition Assets acquired from 1st April, 2001 under finance lease Over the period of lease term Premium on Leasehold Land Over the period of lease term Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 267 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54   In respect of additions or extensions forming an integral part of existing assets and insurance spares, including incremental cost arising  on account of translation of foreign currency liabilities for acquisition of Fixed Assets, depreciation is provided as aforesaid over the  residual life of the respective assets.
Intangible Assets  These are amortised as under: Particular Amortisation / Depletion Technical Know-How Over the useful life of the underlying assets Computer Software Over a period of 5 years Development Rights Depleted in proportion of oil and gas production achieved vis-a-vis the proved reserves (net of  reserves to be retained to cover abandonment costs as per the production sharing contract and  the Government of India’s share in the reserves, where applicable) considering the estimated  future expenditure on developing the reserves as per technical evaluation Others Over the period of agreement of right to use, provided that in case of jetty, the aggregate  amount amortised to date is not less than the aggregate rebate availed by the Company.
F .
IMPAIRMENT   The Company assesses at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that an asset (tangible and intangible) may be  impaired.
An asset is treated as impaired, when the carrying cost of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is  higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s net selling price and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of estimated future  cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life.
An impairment loss is charged to Profit and Loss Account in the year in which an asset is identified as impaired.
The impairment loss  recognised in prior accounting period is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate of recoverable amount.
G. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS  a.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction or  that approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.
b.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are restated at year end rates.
In case of items which are  covered by forward exchange contracts, the difference between the year end rate and rate on the date of the contract is  recognised as exchange difference and the premium paid on forward contracts is recognised over the life of the contract.
c. Non-monetary foreign currency items are carried at cost.
d.  In respect of integral foreign operations, all transactions are translated at rates prevailing on the date of transaction or that  approximates the actual rate at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are restated at the year end rates.
e.  Any income or expense on account of exchange difference either on settlement or on translation is recognised in the Profit and  Loss Statement, except in case of long term liabilities, where they relate to acquisition of Fixed Assets, in which case they are  adjusted to the carrying cost of such assets.
H. INVESTMENTS   Current investments are carried at lower of cost and quoted/fair value, computed category-wise.
Non Current investments are stated at  cost.
Provision for diminution in the value of Non Current investments is made only if such a decline is other than temporary.
Investments that are readily realisable and intended to be held for not more than 12 months from the date of acquisition are classified  as current investment.
All other investments are classified as non-current investments.
I.
INVENTORIES   Items of inventories are measured at lower of cost and net realisable value after providing for obsolescence, if any, except in case of  by-products which are valued at net realisable value.
Cost of inventories comprises of cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other  costs including manufacturing overheads net of recoverable taxes incurred in bringing them to their respective present location and  condition.
Significant Accounting Policies Annual Report 2015-16 268 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Cost of raw materials, process chemicals, stores and spares, packing materials, trading and other products are determined on weighted  average basis.
J.
REVENUE RECOGNITION   Revenue is recognised only when risks and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred to the customer, it can be reliably measured  and it is reasonable to expect ultimate collection.
Revenue from operations includes sale of goods, services, service tax, excise duty and  sales during trial run period, adjusted for discounts (net), and gain/loss on corresponding hedge contracts.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the interest rate applicable.
Excise Duty / Service Tax   Excise duty / Service tax is accounted on the basis of both, payments made in respect of goods cleared / services provided and  provisions made for goods lying in bonded warehouses.
K. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  Short Term Employee Benefits   The undiscounted amount of short term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered by employees  are recognised as an expense during the period when the employees render the services.
Post-Employment Benefits  Defined Contribution Plans   A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays specified contributions to a separate  entity.
The Company makes specified monthly contributions towards Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund and Pension Scheme.
The  Company’s contribution is recognised as an expense in the Profit and Loss Statement during the period in which the employee renders  the related service.
Defined Benefit Plans   The liability in respect of defined benefit plans and other post-employment benefits is calculated using the Projected Unit Credit  Method and spread over the period during which the benefit is expected to be derived from employees’ services.
Actuarial gains and losses in respect of post-employment and other long term benefits are charged to the Profit and Loss Statement.
Employee Separation Costs   Compensation to employees who have opted for retirement under the voluntary retirement scheme of the Company is charged to the  Profit and Loss Statement in the year of exercise of option by the employee.
L. BORROWING COSTS   Borrowing costs include exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent they are regarded as an adjustment  to the interest cost.
Borrowing costs that are attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised as part  of the cost of such assets.
A qualifying asset is one that necessarily takes substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use.
All  other borrowing costs are charged to the Profit and Loss Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
M. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES   Revenue expenditure pertaining to research is charged to the Profit and Loss Statement.
Development costs of products are   charged to the Profit and Loss Statement unless a product’s technological feasibility has been established, in which case such  expenditure is capitalised.
N. FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES AND COMMODITY HEDGING TRANSACTIONS   In respect of derivative contracts, premium paid, gains/losses on settlement and losses on restatement are recognised in the Profit and  Loss Statement except in case where they relate to the acquisition or construction of Fixed Assets, in which case, they are adjusted to  the carrying cost of such assets.
Significant Accounting Policies Standalone 148 255Governance Corporate   Overview 256 379 Financial   Statements 269 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 380 396 55 147 02 54 O.
INCOME TAXES   Tax expense comprises of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid to the tax  authorities, using the applicable tax rates.
Deferred income tax reflect the current period timing differences between taxable income  and accounting income and reversal of timing differences of earlier years/period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent  that there is a reasonable certainty that sufficient future income will be available except that deferred tax assets, in case there are  unabsorbed depreciation or losses, are recognised if there is virtual certainty that sufficient future taxable income will be available to  realise the same.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates and tax law that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the  Balance Sheet date.
P .
PREMIUM ON REDEMPTION OF BONDS / DEBENTURES   Premium on redemption of bonds/debentures, net of tax impact, are adjusted against the Securities Premium Reserve.
Q.
PROVISIONS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CONTINGENT ASSETS   Provision is recognised in the accounts when there is a present obligation as a result of past event(s) and it is probable that an outflow  of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made.
Provisions are not discounted to their present  value and are determined based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
These estimates are  reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed unless the possibility of outflow of resources is remote.
Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the financial statements.
R.  ACCOUNTING FOR OIL AND GAS ACTIVITY   The Company has adopted Full Cost Method of accounting for its’ Oil and Gas activities and all costs incurred are accumulated  considering the country as a cost centre.
Costs incurred on acquisition of interest in oil and gas blocks and on exploration and  evaluation are accounted for as Intangible Assets under Development.
Upon a reserve being either ‘proved’ or deemed to be ‘dry’ , the  costs accumulated in Intangible Assets under Development are capitalised to intangible assets.
Development costs incurred thereafter  in respect of ‘proved’ reserves are capitalised to the said intangible asset.
All costs relating to production are charged to the Profit and  Loss Statement.
Oil and Gas Joint Ventures are in the nature of Jointly Controlled Assets.
Accordingly, assets and liabilities as well as income and  expenditure are accounted on the basis of available information on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Company’s financial  statements, according to the participating interest of the Company.
Significant Accounting Policies Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 270 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
The previous year figures have been regrouped / reclassified, wherever necessary to conform to the current year presentation.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 1.
SHARE CAPITAL Authorised Share Capital: 500,00,00,000 (500,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10 each 5,000 5,000 100,00,00,000 (100,00,00,000) Preference Shares of ` 10 each 1,000 1,000 6,000 6,000 Issued, Subscribed and Paid up: 324,03,76,321 (323,56,88,765) Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid up 3,240 3,236 Less: Calls in arrears - by others   [ ` 2,303 (Previous Year ` 3,113)] - - 3,240 3,236 Total 3,240 3,236 1.1 45,04,27,345 (45,04,27,345) Shares were allotted on conversion / surrender of Debentures and Bonds, conversion of Term Loans, exercise  of Warrants, against Global Depository Shares (GDS) and re-issue of Forfeited Equity Shares, since inception.
1.2 17,18,83,624 (17,18,83,624) Shares held by subsidiaries, which were allotted pursuant to the Schemes of Amalgamation sanctioned by  the Hon’ble High Courts in the previous years, do not have voting rights and are not eligible for Bonus Shares 1.3 4,62,46,280   (4,62,46,280) Shares were bought back and extinguished in the last five years.
1.4 The details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares : Name of the Shareholder As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 No.
of Shares % held No.
of Shares % held Life Insurance Corporation of India 29,26,02,727 9.03 29,69,44,782 9.18  1.5 The reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding is set out below :   Particulars As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 No.
of Shares No.
of Shares Equity Shares at the beginning of the year 323,56,88,765 323,19,01,858 Add : Shares issued on exercise of employee stock options 46,87,556 37,86,907 Equity Shares at the end of the year 324,03,76,321 323,56,88,765 1.6 The Company has reserved issuance of 12,20,30,651 (Previous year 12,67,18,207) Equity Shares of ` 10 each for offering to Eligible  Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries under Employees Stock Option Scheme (ESOS).
During the year the Company  has granted 14,967 options at a price of ` 887 per option, plus all applicable taxes, as may be levied in this regard on the  Company (Previous year 45,419 options which includes 21,367 options at a price of ` 936 per option, 13,052 options at a price of   ` 961 per option and 11,000 options at a price of ` 843 per option, plus all applicable taxes, as may be levied in this regard on the  Company) to the Eligible Employees.
The options would vest over a maximum period of 7 years or such other period as may be  decided by the Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee from the date of grant based on specified criteria.
1.7  Share Application Money Pending Allotment represents application money received on account of Employees Stock Option Scheme.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 271 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 2.
RESERVES AND SURPLUS Capital Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 291 291 Capital Redemption Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 48 48 Securities Premium Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 48,089 47,850 Add : On issue of shares 296 239 48,385 48,089 Less: Calls in arrears - by others   [ ` 1,03,189 (Previous Year ` 1,93,288)] - - 48,385 48,089 Debentures Redemption Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 1,117 1,117 General Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 1,53,210 1,35,210 Add: Transferred from Profit and Loss Account 22,000 18,000 1,75,210 1,53,210 Profit and Loss Account As per last Balance Sheet 10,168 9,326 Add: Profit for the year 27,417 22,719 37,585 32,045 Less: Appropriations Adjustment relating to Fixed Assets (Refer Note No.
10.9) - 318 Transferred to General Reserve 22,000 18,000 Proposed Dividend on Equity Shares [Dividend per Share ` Nil  (Previous year ` 10 /-)] - 2,944 Interim Dividend on Equity Shares [Dividend per Share ` 10.50 /-  (Previous year ` Nil)] 3,095 - Tax on Dividend* 605 615 11,885 10,168 Total 2,36,936 2,12,923 * Tax on Dividend is net of reversal of excess provision of ` 17 crore pertaining to Previous Year.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 272 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 Non  Current Current Non  Current Current 3.
LONG TERM BORROWINGS Secured Non Convertible Debentures 1,137 133 1,270 164 Long Term Maturities of Finance Lease Obligations   (Refer Note No.
10.8 and 31) 66 28 94 27 1,203 161 1,364 191 Unsecured Bonds 22,628 2,975 20,303 857 Term Loans- from Banks 54,035 11,638 54,560 7,428 76,663 14,613 74,863 8,285 Total 77,866 14,774 76,227 8,476 3.1 Non Convertible Debentures referred above to the extent of: a)  ` 370 crore are secured by way of first mortgage / charge on the immovable properties situated at Hazira Complex and at  Jamnagar Complex (other than SEZ unit) of the Company.
b)    ` 400 crore are secured by way of first mortgage / charge on all the properties situated at Hazira Complex and at  Patalganga Complex of the Company.
c)  ` 500 crore are secured by way of first mortgage / charge on the immovable properties situated at Jamnagar Complex  (SEZ unit) of the Company.
3.2 Maturity Profile and Rate of Interest of Non Convertible Debentures are as set out below : ( ` in crore) Non Current Current Rate of Interest 2020-21 2018-19 2017-18 Total 2016-17 6.25% -  134 133  267  133  8.75%  500 - -  500 - 10.75% -  370 -  370 - Total  500  504 133  1,137  133  3.3 Finance Lease Obligations are secured against Leased Assets.
3.4 Maturity Profile and Rate of Interest of Bonds are as set out below : ( ` in crore) Non Current Current Rate of  Interest 2096- 97   2046- 47   2044- 45  2035- 36  2027- 28   2026- 27   2025- 26  2024- 25  2023- 24  2022- 23  2021- 22  2020- 21  2019- 20  2018- 19   2017- 18 Total 2016-  17 2.06%  -    -    -    -    -    -    126  126  126  126  126  126  127 127 127 1,137  126  2.51%  -    -    -    -    -    -    149  149  149  149  149  149  149  149 150 1,342  149  4.13%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    6,626  -    -    -    -    -    -    -   6,626  -    4.88%  -    -    4,969  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   4,969  -    5.00%  -    -    -    1,325  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   1,325  -    6.21%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    332 6.24%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    1,073  6.34%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    252  -    252  -    6.51%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    861  6.61%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    1,127  -   1,127  -    7.63%  -    -    -    -    33  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    33  -    8.25%  -    -    -    -    -    225  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    225  -    9.38%  -    -    -    -    -    146  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    146  -    10.25%  82  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    82  -    10.38%  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    433  10.50%  -    64  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    64  -    Total  82  64 4,969 1,325  33  371  275 6,901  275  275  275  275  276 1,655  277 17,328  2,975  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 273 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 3.5 Bonds include 5.875% Senior Perpetual Notes (the “Notes”) of ` 5,300 crore.
The Notes have no fixed maturity date and the  Company will have an option, from time to time, to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, on any semi-annual interest payment  date on or after February 5, 2018 at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest.
3.6 Maturity Profile of Unsecured Term Loans are as set out below : ( ` in crore) Maturity Profile 6-11 years 2-5 years Total 1 year Term Loans- from Banks 8,065 45,970 54,035 11,638 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 4.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY (NET) Deferred Tax Liability Related to Fixed Assets 13,491 12,956 Deferred Tax Assets Disallowances under the Income Tax Act, 1961 332 279 Total 13,159 12,677 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 5.
LONG TERM PROVISIONS Provision for decommissioning of Assets* 1,489 1,404 Total 1,489 1,404 * The movement in the provision is solely because of changes in exchange rates.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 6.
SHORT TERM BORROWINGS Secured Working Capital Loans From Banks Foreign Currency Loans - 655 Rupee Loans 1,672 17 1,672 672 From Others Rupee Loans 1,649 - Unsecured Other Loans and Advances From Banks Foreign Currency Loans - Buyers/Packing Credit 11,169 12,242 Total 14,490 12,914 6.1 Working Capital Loans from Banks of ` 1,672 crore (Previous Year ` 672 crore)  are secured by hypothecation of present and  future stock of raw materials, stock-in-process, finished goods, stores and spares (not relating to plant and machinery), book  debts, outstanding monies, receivables, claims, bills, materials in transit, etc.
save and except receivables of Oil and Gas Division.
6.2  Working Capital Loans from Others of ` 1,649 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured by way of lien on Government Securities.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 274 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
7.
TRADE PAYABLES The details of amounts outstanding to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises based on information available with the Company is as  under: (` in crore) Particulars As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 Principal amount due and remaining unpaid - - Interest due on above and the unpaid interest - - Interest paid - - Payment made beyond the appointed day during the year - - Interest due and payable for the period of delay - - Interest accrued and remaining unpaid - - Amount of further interest remaining due and payable in succeeding years - - Total - - (` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 8.
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Current maturities of Long Term Debt 14,746 8,449 Current maturities of Finance Lease Obligations 28 27 (Refer Note No.
3 and 10.8) 14,774 8,476 Current maturities of Deferred Payment Liabilities - 3 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 300 254 Unclaimed Dividends # 223 199 Application money received and due for refund # 1 1 Unclaimed/ Unpaid matured Debentures and Interest accrued thereon # 1 1 Other payables * 39,542 10,129 Total 54,841 19,063  #  These figures do not include any amounts due and outstanding, to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund except ` 17 crore (Previous Year   ` 15 crore) which is held in abeyance due to legal cases pending.
* Includes Statutory Dues, Security Deposit, Creditors for Capital Expenditure and Advance from Customers.
(` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 9.
SHORT TERM PROVISIONS Provisions for Employee Benefits (Refer Note No.
23.1) 252 237 Proposed dividend - 2,944 Tax on dividend - 615 Provision for wealth tax 77 77 Other provisions # 841 981 Total 1,170 4,854  #  The Company had recognised liability based on substantial degree of estimation for excise duty payable on clearance of goods lying in stock as on   31st March, 2015 of ` 489 crore as per the estimated pattern of dispatches.
During the year, ` 489 crore was utilised for clearance of goods.
Provision  recognised under this class for the year is ` 527 crore which is outstanding as on 31st March, 2016.
Actual outflow is expected in the next financial year.
The  Company had recognised customs duty liability on goods imported under various export incentive schemes of ` 489 crore as at 31st March, 2015.
During  the year, further provision of ` 412 crore was made and sum of ` 587 crore were reversed on fulfillment of export obligation.
Closing balance on this account  as at 31st March, 2016 is ` 314 crore.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 275 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) Description GROSS BLOCK DEPRECIATION / AMORTISATION / DEPLETION NET BLOCK As at   01-04 2015 Additions /  Adjustment Deductions/   Adjustments As at   31-03-2016 As at   01-04 2015 For the  Year# Deductions/ Adjustments As at   31-03-2016 As at   31-03-2016 As at   31-03 2015 10.
FIXED ASSETS Tangible Assets : Own Assets : Leasehold Land  1,690  2,785  300  4,175  387  85  67  405  3,770  1,303  Freehold Land  1,598  247  3  1,842  -    -    -    -    1,842  1,598  Buildings  9,618  1,051  7  10,662  4,040  436  1  4,475  6,187  5,578  Plant & Machinery  149,043  14,502  425  163,120  81,863  5,570  359  87,074  76,046  67,180  Electrical Installations  2,910  171  2  3,079  1,334  391  1  1,724  1,355  1,576  Equipments $  4,235  290  37  4,488  2,194  514  36  2,672  1,816  2,041  Furniture & Fixtures  545  42  4  583  434  42  3  473  110  111  Vehicles  515  86  30  571  306  87  27  366  205  209  Ships  387  35  -    422  294  7  -    301  121  93  Aircrafts & Helicopters  46  -    -    46  32  2  -    34  12  14  Sub-Total  1,70,587  19,209  808  1,88,988  90,884  7,134  494  97,524  91,464  79,703  Leased Assets : Plant & Machinery  319  -    -    319  230  76  -    306  13  89  Ships  10  -    -    10  10  -    -    10  -    -    Sub-Total  329  -    -    329  240  76  -    316  13  89  Total (A)  1,70,916  19,209  808  1,89,317  91,124  7,210  494  97,840  91,477  79,792  Intangible Assets : * Technical Knowhow Fees  3,357  248  -    3,605  2,246  154  -    2,400  1,205  1,111  Software  950  19  -    969  780  61  -    841  128  170  Development Rights  51,660  7,502  -    59,162  26,286  2,355  -    28,641  30,521  25,374  Others  9,179  -    -    9,179  1,063  37  -    1,100  8,079  8,116  Total (B)  65,146  7,769  -    72,915  30,375  2,607  -    32,982  39,933  34,771  Total (A + B)  2,36,062  26,978  808  2,62,232  1,21,499  9,817  494  1,30,822  1,31,410  1,14,563  Previous Y ear  2,22,565  14,427  930  2,36,062  1,13,159  9,152  812  1,21,499  1,14,563   Capital Work-in-Progress 97,296 65,178 Intangible Assets under  Development  9,583 10,575  $ Includes Office Equipments  *  Other than internally generated  #  Depreciation for the year includes depreciation of  ` 251 crore (Previous Year  ` 182 crore) capitalised during the year.
10.1 Leasehold Land includes ` 317 crore (Previous Year ` 203 crore) in respect of which lease-deeds are pending execution.
10.2 Buildings includes : i)   Cost of shares in Co-operative Societies ` 1,99,950 (Previous Year ` 1 crore).
ii)   ` 135  crore (Previous Year ` 93 crore) in shares of Companies / Societies with right to hold and use certain area of  Buildings.
10.3 Intangible Assets - Others includes : i)   Jetties amounting to ` 812 crore (Previous Year ` 812 crore), the Ownership of which vests with Gujarat Maritime Board.
ii)  ` 8,367 crore (Previous Year ` 8,367 crore) in preference shares of subsidiaries and lease premium paid with right to hold  and use Land and Buildings.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 276 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
10.4 Capital Work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets under Development includes : i) ` 11,022 crore (Previous Year ` 6,770 crore) on account of Project Development Expenditure.
ii) ` 18,646 crore (Previous Year ` 16,346 crore) on account of cost of construction materials at site.
10.5 Project Development Expenditure  (in respect of Projects upto 31st March, 2016, included under capital work-in-progress and intangible Assets under Development) (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 Opening Balance 6,770 4,204 Add: Transferred from Profit and Loss Account  (Refer Note no.
25) 2,507 1,573  Interest Capitalised (Refer Note no.
24) 2,302 1,062 4,809 2,635 11,579 6,839 Less: Project Development Expenses Capitalised during the year 557 69 Closing Balance 11,022 6,770 10.6 The Gross Block of Fixed Assets includes ` 38,122 crore (Previous Year ` 38,122 crore) on account of revaluation of Fixed Assets  carried out since inception.
10.7 Additions in plant and machinery, Capital work-in-progress, Intangible Assets - Development Rights and Intangible assets under  Development includes ` 8,605 crore (net loss) [Previous Year ` 4,709 crore (net loss)] on account of exchange difference during  the year.
10.8 i)  In respect of Fixed Assets acquired on finance lease on or after 1st April, 2001, the minimum lease rentals outstanding as  on 31st March, 2016 are as follows: (` in crore) Total Minimum Lease  Payments outstanding  As at 31st March Future interest on  Outstanding Lease  Payments  Present value of  Minimum Lease  Payments As at 31st  March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Within one year 36 37 8 10 28 27 Later than one year and not later than five years 73 108 7 14 66 94 Total 109 145 15 24 94 121 ii)  General Description of Lease Terms:   Assets are taken on Lease over a period of 5 to 10 years.
iii)  Fixed Assets taken on finance lease prior to 1st April, 2001, amount to ` 444 crore (Previous Year ` 444 crore).
Future  obligations towards lease rentals under the lease agreements as on 31st March, 2016 amount to ` 1 crore (Previous Year   ` 1 crore).
(` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 Within one year ` 44,00,000 (Previous Year ` 44,00,000) - - Later than one year and not later than five years 1 1 Total 1 1 10.9 Pursuant to the enactment of Companies Act 2013, the company has applied the estimated useful lives as specified in   Schedule II, except in respect of certain assets as disclosed in Accounting Policy on Depreciation, Amortisation and Depletion.
Accordingly the unamortised carrying value is being depreciated / amortised over the revised / remaining useful lives.
The  written down value of Fixed Assets whose  lives have expired as at 1st April 2014 have been adjusted net of tax, in the opening  balance of Profit and Loss Account of the year ended 31st March, 2015, amounting to ` 318 crore.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 277 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 11.
NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS (Long Term Investments)  (Valued at cost less other than temporary diminution in value, if any) Trade Investments In Equity Shares - Unquoted, fully paid up 1,00,00,000   (1,00,00,000) Petronet India Limited of ` 10 each 10 10 10 10 In Equity Shares of Associate Companies - Unquoted, fully paid up 64,29,20,000 (64,29,20,000) Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company   Limited of ` 1 each  64 64 62,63,125 (62,63,125) Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited   of ` 10 each  1 1 11,08,500 (11,08,500) Reliance Europe Limited of Sterling   Pound 1 each  4 4 52,00,000 (52,00,000) Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Class ‘A’ shares of   ` 1 each [ ` 40,40,000 (Previous Year ` 40,40,000)] - -  69 69 In Preference Shares of Associate Company - Unquoted, fully paid up 50,00,00,000   (50,00,00,000) 9% Non-Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares of Reliance  Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited of  ` 10 each  2,000 2,000  2,000 2,000 Total Trade Investments (A)  2,079 2,079 Other Investments In Equity Shares of Associate Company - Quoted, fully paid up 68,60,064   (68,60,064) Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited   of ` 10 each  16 16  16 16 In Equity Shares of Associate Company - Unquoted, fully paid up 22,500   (22,500) Reliance LNG Limited of ` 10 each   [ ` 2,25,000 (Previous Year ` 2,25,000)] - - - - In Equity Shares of Subsidiary Companies - Unquoted, fully paid up 12,50,000 (12,50,000) Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited   of ` 10 each   1 1 18,20,60,000   (12,11,60,000) Reliance Ethane Holding Pte.
Limited   of $ 1 each  1,151 752 15,00,00,000   (15,00,00,000) Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited of ` 10 each  150 150 -   (2,00,000) Reliance Global Business B.V. of Euro 0.01 each   [ ` NIL (Previous Year ` 1,25,400)] - - Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 278 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 14,75,04,400   (14,75,04,400) Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited   of `10 each 148 148 42,450   (42,450) Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC of AED 1000 each  46 46 44,74,74,90,000   (29,74,74,90,000) Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited of `10 each  44,747 29,747 7,45,14,000   (5,50,000) Reliance Jio Messaging Services Private Limited of ` 10  each  75 1 5,66,70,00,000   (5,66,70,00,000) Reliance Retail Ventures Limited of ` 10 each  5,667 5,667 33,14,48,655   (-) Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited of ` 10 each  331 - 20,20,200   (20,20,200) Reliance Strategic Investments Limited of ` 10 each  2 2 50,000  (-) Reliance Textiles Limited of Rs.10 each   [ ` 5,00,000 (Previous Year ` Nil)]  - - 26,91,150   (26,91,150) Reliance Ventures Limited of ` 10 each  2,351  2,351  30,000   (-) RIL (Australia) Pty Limited of AUD 1 each   [ ` 14,07,840 (Previous Year ` NIL)] - -  54,669 38,865 In Corpus of Trust-Unquoted   Investment in Corpus of Independent Media Trust  3,366  1,089   3,366 1,089  58,051  39,970 In Preference Shares of Subsidiary Companies - Unquoted, fully paid up 12,77,836 (63,436) 5% Non Cumulative Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares  of Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC of AED 1000 each 2,302 85 4,02,800 (4,02,800) 9% Non Cumulative Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares  of Reliance Strategic Investments Limited of ` 1 each  113 113 -  (5,93,90,00,000) Reliance Global Business B.V.   ‘A’ Class Shares of Euro 0.01 each - 422  2,415 620 In Debentures of Subsidiary Companies - Unquoted, fully paid up 2,79,90,000   (2,79,90,000) 0% Unsecured Convertible Debentures of Reliance Industrial  Investments and Holdings Limited of ` 100 each  280 280 8,83,143   (8,83,143) 0% Unsecured Convertible Redeemable Debentures of Reliance  Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited of  ` 5,000 each  442 442 15,10,30,00,000   (1,10,00,00,000) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings  Limited of  ` 10 each   15,103  1,100  3,49,00,000   (1,11,60,000) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited of    ` 10 each   35 11 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 279 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 1,35,78,80,000   (1,23,60,00,000) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited   of  ` 10 each  1,358  1,236 3,50,10,000   (2,97,40,000) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited   of  ` 10 each   35 30 2,71,80,000   (1,97,90,000) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited   of  ` 10 each  27 20 36,76,50,000   (6,51,50,000) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited of  ` 10 each   368 65 6,00,00,000   (-) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited of  `10 each 60 - 3,26,33,70,000   (-) Zero Coupon Unsecured Optionally Fully Convertible  Debentures of Reliance Energy Generation & Distribution  Private Limited of `10 each   3,263 -  20,971 3,184 In Government Securities-Unquoted 6 Years National Savings Certificate (Deposited with Sales Tax  Department and other Government Authorities)   [ ` 89,497 (Previous Year ` 87,420)] - - - - In Government Securities-Quoted  4,616 3,551 In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted fully paid up   3,00,00,000  (-) Axis Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 47) - Growth  30 - 1,17,72,377 (1,50,75,101) Baroda Pioneer Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series J & M)  - Growth  12  15  99,16,10,709 (27,98,82,768) Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan - (Series JA/JI/JQ/JX/KA/KC/KE/KH/ KJ/KL/KP/KR/KT/MA/MD/MK/MP/MQ/MR/MU/MX/MY/NB/ND/ NE/NG/NH/NI/NK/NL) - Growth  992  280  40,07,31,150 (19,01,55,380) DHFL Pamerica Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 45/49/54/57/62/82/85/ 87/91/95) - Growth 401 190 - (20,93,53,761) DSP Black Rock  Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 146/149/151) - Growth -  209  1,14,50,00,000 (3,50,00,000) HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - ( Series 34/35/36 1105D/1111D/  1112D/1114D/1132D/1155D/1157D/1176D) - Growth  1,145  35  1,82,08,56,950 (77,12,14,635) ICICI Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 71/72/73/75/76/77/78) - Growth  1,821  771  2,50,00,000  (3,79,28,740) IDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series  49/50/51) - Growth  25  38  63,67,31,022 (5,45,14,579) Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 132/133/136/142/145/146/   147/149/175/176/178/179/180/182/185/190/191) - Growth  637  55  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 280 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 4,32,72,349 (-) L&T Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 10) - (Plan H/T) - Growth 43 - 5,50,00,000  (3,00,00,000) LIC Nomura Mutual Fund Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 86/89/90) - Growth  55  30  1,49,60,99,239 (32,99,25,439) Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund -   (Series 1/2/4/5/6/7/8/9/10/11/12/13/14/16/17/19/20/27/33) -  (Plan XXV/XXVI/XXVII/XXVIII/XXIX/XXX) -  Growth  1,496  330  39,00,00,000 (22,78,25,006) Religare Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 22/24/25/26/27) –   (Plan A/C/D/E/F/H) - Growth  390 228 1,16,19,16,665 (23,93,60,369) SBI Debt Fund - (Series A/B/1/2/3/4/5/6/8/9/10/11/14/16/17/18/ 19/20/22/23/25/26/27/29/31/33/34/35/36/366) - Growth  1,161  239  27,00,00,000  (-) Sundaram Fixed Term Plan – (GW/GY/HA/HB/HC)  270 - 8,50,15,846  (2,74,08,274) Tata Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 45/46) - (Scheme C/M/T)- Growth  85  27  83,09,64,579 (27,37,96,672) UTI Fixed Term Income Fund - (Series XXII - IX/XXIII-XV/XX-X/XI- XI/XXIII-III/XXIII-VII/XXII-X/XXII-XI/XXIV-VI/XVII-I/XXII-XIV/XXIII-XI/ XXIV-VIII/XXIV-IV/XVII-XIII/XXIV-IX/XX-VIII) - Growth   830  274   9,393 2,721 In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted 820 (820) Tata Sons Limited  83 83  83 83 In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted 100  (100) Export Import Bank of India  10 10 43,850   (55,350) Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited  2,948 4,389 900   (-) IDFC Bank Limited  91 - 57,70,976   (42,62,612) Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  577 426 5,850   (8 050) Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited  434 805 9,750   (11,250) LIC Housing Finance Limited  980 1,126 16,24,821   (-) National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development  4,213 - 39,44,752 (39,44,752) National Highways Authority of India  395 395 9,29,946   (9,49,946) National Thermal Power Company Limited  93 95 43,05,143   (42,79,543) Power Finance Corporation Limited  3,769 1,203 980   (950) Power Grid Corporation of India Limited  100 95 25,14,520   (12,100) Rural Electrification Corporation Limited  1,162 1,212 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 281 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 2,500   (-) Small Industries Development Bank Of India Limited  250 - -   (950) State Bank of India - 94  15,022  9,850  Total Other Investments (B)  110,551  59,979  Total Non Current Investments (A + B)  112,630 62,058 Aggregate amount of quoted investments 29,047 16,138 Market Value of quoted investments 30,647 16,950 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 83,583 45,920 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 12.
LONG TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES (Unsecured and Considered Good) Capital Advances # 3,055 6,717 Deposits with Related Parties (Refer Note No.
31) 1,714 1,666 Loans and advances to Related parties (Refer Note No.
31) 10,129 19,989 Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision) 1,012 685 Other Loans and Advances (Refer Note No.
32.2 (e)) 327 202 Total 16,237 29,259  #   Includes ` 28,16,626 (Previous Year ` 11,92,164) to Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited and  ` NIL (Previous Year ` 14,23,851) to Model Economic  Township Limited which are related parties.
12.1 Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans given to Subsidiaries and Associates: A) (i) Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans to Subsidiaries (Excluding Debentures): ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Name of the Company As at   31st March,  2016 Maximum  Balance  during the  year As at   31st March,  2015 Maximum  Balance  during the  year 1.
Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited 6,586 18,268 17,159 19,787 2.
Reliance Ventures Limited 105 2,465 249 2,579 3.
Reliance Strategic Investments Limited 3,025 3,271 2,121 5,114 4.
Reliance Retail Limited - - - 1,737 5.
Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC - - - 78 6.
Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 3,505 3,800 2,791 3,536 7.
Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited - 131 33 135 8.
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited - 3,260 - 1,867 9.
Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC 38 38 - 565 10.
Reliance Sibur Elastromers Private Limited - 89 - - Total 13,259 22,353    All the above loans and advances have been given for business purposes.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 282 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(ii) Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans to Associate : (` in crore) Sr.  No.
Name of the Company As at   31st March,  2016 Maximum  Balance  during the  year As at   31st March,  2015 Maximum  Balance  during the  year 1.
Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited - 6 6 6 Total - 6    The above loan has been given for the purpose of capital expenditure.
(iii)   Loans and Advances shown above, fall under the category of ‘Long Term Loans & Advances’ in nature of Loans and are  re-payable within 3 to 5 years except Short Term Loans and Advances to Reliance Ventures Limited and Reliance Strategic  Investments Limited.
(iv)  Loans to employees as per the Company’s policy are not considered.
B)  (i) Investment by the Loanee in the shares of the Company    *None of the loanees and loanees of subsidiary companies have, per se, made investments in shares of the  Company.
These investments represent shares of the Company allotted as a result of amalgamation of erstwhile  Reliance Petroleum Limited (amalgamated in 2001-02) and Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited with the  Company under the Schemes approved by the Hon’ble High Court of Judicature at Bombay and Gujarat and  certain subsequent inter se transfer of shares.
(` in crore) Sr.  No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares   held in RIL  Amount of   Loan Given 1.
*Reliance Aromatics and Petrochemicals Limited 2,98,89,898 71 2.
*Reliance Energy and Project Development Limited 20,58,000 303     (ii) Investment by Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited in Subsidiaries     In Equity Shares : Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited - Class A 13,69,22,912  2 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited 11,50,00,000  3 Kanhatech Solutions Private Limited    6,80,00,000  4 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private    6,46,93,950  5 Reliance Commercial Land & Infrastructure Limited    4,30,10,000  6 Reliance Jio Media Private Limited    1,10,10,000  7 Reliance Jio Digital Services Private Limited    1,00,00,000  8 Reliance Universal Enterprises Limited       64,25,000  9 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited       40,00,000  10 Indiawin Sports Private Limited       26,50,000  11 Reliance Retail Finance Limited       20,20,000  12 Reliance Chemicals Limited       10,10,600  13 Reliance Polyolefins Limited       10,10,000  14 Reliance Aromatics and Petrochemicals Limited       10,09,300  15 Reliance Energy and Project Development Limited       10,09,280  16 Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited       10,00,000  17 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC         1,76,200  18 RIL Exploration & Production Mayanmar Company Limited            74,999  19 Reliance Aerospace Technologies Limited            50,000  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 283 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 20 Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited - Class C              3,702  21 Reliance World Trade Private Limited              1,000  22 Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited - Class B              1,000 In Preference Shares : Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited 12,50,00,000 2 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC 14,70,955 (iii) Investment by Reliance Strategic Investments Limited in subsidiaries: In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Global Commercial Limited 25,500 2 Reliance Universal Commercial Limited 25,000 (iv) Investment by Reliance Ventures Limited in subsidiary: In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Model Economic Township Limited 9,70,00,000 (v) Investment by Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited in subsidiaries: In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Jio AsiaInfo Innovation Centre Limited 10,00,000 2 Strategic Manpower Solutions Limited 50,000 (vi) Investment by Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC in subsidiaries: In Equity Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 RP Chemical Malaysia Sdn Bhd 35,86,43,545 2 Recron Malaysia Sdn Bhd 11,31,87,500 3 Reliance Global Business BV 20,00,000 4 Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd. 15,00,000 5 Reliance Global Energy Services Ltd. (London) 5,00,000 In Class A Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Reliance Global Business BV 5,93,90,00,000 In Class A Redeemable preference Shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 RP Chemical Malaysia Sdn Bhd 79,800 In Preference shares: Sr. No.
Name of the Company No.
of Shares 1 Recron Malaysia Sdn Bhd 429,800,000 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 284 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 13.
CURRENT INVESTMENTS (Carried at lower of cost and quoted /  fair value, including current portion   of long term investment) In Government Securities - Quoted* 3,651 4,370 Collateral Borrowing and Lending Obligation - Unquoted -  100  - 100 In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted, fully Paid up 10,017   (4,850) Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited  2,014 486 7,50,000   (-) Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  75 - 1,075   (-) Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited  96 - 2,000  (-) LIC Housing Finance Limited  199 - 2,750   (-) National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development  275 - 33,12,714   (-) National Highways Authority of India  332 - 7,300                     (6,950) Power Finance Corporation Limited  733 695 2,100  (20) Power Grid Corporation of India Limited  216 3 1,950   (150) Rural Electrification Corporation Limited  196 15 -  (23,957) State Bank of India - 145 4,136 1,344 In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted, fully Paid up -  (2,150) Tata Sons Limited - 215 -  215  In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted, fully Paid up - (25,90,00,000) Axis Fixed Term Plan -   (Series 47/49/52/55/59/60) - Growth -  259  1,50,75,101  (6,00,00,000) Baroda Pioneer Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series J/M/N) - Growth  15  60  14,98,82,768  (64,10,00,000) Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan -   (Series JA/JI/JQ/JR/JX/KA/KC/KE/KH/KJ/KO/KP/KR/KT) - Growth  150  641  - (36,80,00,000) DHFL Pamerica Fixed Maturity Plan   (Series 45/47/49/52/53/54/57/63) - Growth - 368 20,93,53,761  (15,50,00,000) DSP BlackRock Fixed Maturity Plan-   (Series 36/37/146/149/150/151/152) - Growth  209  155  4,56,47,510 (84,56,47,510) HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 372D/377D/384D/390D/400D/  434D/435D/441D/447D/453D/478D/491D/504D/531D/540D) -  Growth  46  846  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 285 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 - (6,00,00,000) HSBC  Fixed Term Plan - (Series 105)- Growth  -    60  3,40,65,257 (7,50,00,000) ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 71) -   (Plan C/E/H/I) - Cumulative 34 75 9,51,59,378 (79,00,00,000) ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 72/73) -   (Plan A/B/C/D/E/F/G/I/J/K/L/N/O/S) - Growth 95 790 - (2,98,46,064) ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Annual Interval Plan - (Plan I) -  Cumulative  -    32  6,79,28,740  (31,30,00,000) IDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 21/49/50/51/57/60/64/66/70/7 2/74/75/79/84/86) - Growth  68  313   7,96,09,567  (8,79,22,280) IDFC Yearly Series Interval Fund -( Series I/II) - Growth  80  88   - (10,50,00,000) JP Morgan India Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 30/33) - Growth  -    105  11,45,14,578  (40,00,00,000) Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 132/133/136/141/142/145/146/147/149) - Growth  115  400  - (19,50,00,000) L&T Fixed Maturity Plan – (Series 9/X) –   (Plan B/H/J/M/Q/S/T) - Growth  -    195  3,21,69,789  (18,28,13,373) LIC Nomura  Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 1/64/72/76/77/79/81/86) - Growth  33  184  - (2,50,00,000) Principal PNB  Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series B10) - Growth  -    25   - (30,00,00,000) Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund -   (Series 2/5/27/33) - (Plan XXV/XXVI) - Growth  -    300  2,28,25,006  (7,00,00,000) Religare Invesco Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 22/XXI) – (Plan E/F/H)  - Growth  23  70  15,03,60,369  (64,50,00,000) SBI Debt Fund - (Series - 1/2/3/5/10/11/ 14/ 16/17/ 366) – Growth  150  645  - (8,80,00,000) Sundaram  Fixed Term Plan -   (Series EU/EX/FD/FI) - Growth  -    88  2,74,08,274  (17,00,00,000) Tata Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 45/46) - (Scheme C/K/M/N/Q/T) - Growth  27  170  2,28,32,093  (13,50,00,000) UTI Fixed Term Income Fund -   (Series XVII - VII/XVII-XIV/XVIII-I/XVII-IV/XVII-I) - Growth   23  135   1,068 6,004  In Mutual Fund - Quoted 2,50,000   (2,50,000)  Canara Robeco Capital Protection - Growth   [ ` 25,00,000 (Previous Year ` 25,00,000)] - - -   (14,23,59,900)  Franklin India Corp Bond Opportunities Fund - Growth - 200 -   (3,25,87,726) Franklin India Income Builder Account - Growth - 150 -   (18,69,31,029)  Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund - Growth - 300 -   (26,80,90,641)  Franklin India Low Duration Fund - Growth - 400 -   (3,25,53,638) Franklin India Savings Plus Fund - Growth - 75 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 286 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 -  (9,11,243) Franklin India Short Term Income Plan - Growth - 250 -  (97,58,08,342) HDFC Corporate Debt Opportunities Fund – Dividend - 1,000 -  (3,21,07,882) HDFC Dynamic Bond Fund - Growth - 150 -  (30,00,00,000) HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund - Long Term Plan - Dividend - 300 -  (5,30,69,730) HDFC Gilt Fund - Long Term - Growth - 150 -  (61,07,51,216) HDFC High Interest Fund Short Term Plan - Dividend - 625 -  (12,80,60,101) HDFC Income Fund  - Growth - 400 48,46,69,171   (33,79,24,449) HDFC Medium Term Opportunities Plan - Dividend 505 350 -  (29,42,59,007) HDFC Short Term Opportunities Fund - Dividend - 300 -  (47,91,71,028) HDFC Short Term Plan - Dividend - 485 1,66,50,000   (1,66,50,000) ICICI Prudential Nifty Exchange Traded Fund 149 149 -  (66,83,30,981) IDFC Dynamic Bond Fund - Dividend - 725 -  (21,42,10,231) IDFC Money Manager Fund Investment Plan - Dividend - 225 -   (8,15,59,748) IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Short Term Plan - Growth - 200 5,70,000   (5,70,000) Kotak Nifty Exchange Traded Fund - Growth 50 50 -  (4,43,27,649) Sundaram Growth Fund - Dividend - 70 -  (6,85,74,208) Sundaram Select Debt Fund - Dividend - 75  704 6,629  In Mutual Fund - Unquoted 6,59,60,044   (-) Axis Enhanced Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 70 - 7,59,94,772   (7,59,94,772)  Axis Short Term Fund - Growth 96 96 35,47,37,364   (12,45,78,631) Axis Short Term Fund - Dividend 365  125  7,83,14,262   (-) Baroda Balance Plan - Dividend 175 - 49,29,88,112   (1,98,28,31,662) Birla Sun Life Dynamic Bond Fund - Dividend 522 2,100 -  (9,73,33,060) Birla Sun Life Income Plus Plan - Growth  -   600 -  (6,07,43,008) Birla Sun Life Index Fund - Dividend  -  150 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 287 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 66,33,08,422   (28,92,79,309)  Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Dividend 690  300  22,34,01,784   (22,34,01,784)  Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Growth 1,000  1,000  -   (29,22,23,922) Birla Sun Life Dynamic Bond Fund - Growth  -   549  19,98,33,489   (2,29,32,203)  Birla Sun Life Enhanced Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 220  25  -   (60,94,85,042)  Birla Sun Life Short Term Opportunities Fund - Dividend - 875 8,22,25,877   (7,41,06,213)  Birla Sun Life Treasury Optimizer Plan - Dividend 950 850 10,09,60,780   (2,43,52,942)  DHFL Pamerica Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 105  25  16,49,64,780   (-)  DHFL Pamerica Banking and PSU  Debt Fund - Bonus 200  -    71,57,64,96   (71,57,64,96)  DHFL Pamerica Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Dividend 75  75  2,40,93,515   (2,40,93,515)  DHFL Pamerica Insta Cash Plus - Bonus 236  236  2,46,06,581   (2,46,06,581)  DHFL Pamerica Insta Cash Plus Fund   Super Institutional Plan - Bonus 243  243  15,92,96,546   - DHFL Pamerica Premier Bond Fund - Dividend 200  -    1,84,06,566   (1,84,06,566)  DHFL Pamerica Treasury Fund -  Bonus 18  18  -   (23,03,028)  DSP Black Rock Strategic Bond Institutional Fund - Dividend  -    250  13,27,46,938   (4,95,70,718)  DSP Black Rock Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Growth 150  50  -   (7,22,79,657)  DSP Black Rock Short Term Fund - Growth  -   147  -   (15,82,42,871)  DSP Black Rock Income Opportunities Fund - Growth  -    350  9,65,71,057   (-)  Edelweiss Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 100 - 2,15,42,067   (-)  Franklin India Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth 25 - 29,63,61,644   (29,63,61,644)  HDFC  Short Term Opportunities Fund - Growth 400  400  49,84,18,726   (-) HDFC  Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 520 - 6,78,03,505   (-) HDFC Banking and PSU Fund - Growth 80 - 50,00,000   (50,00,000)  HDFC Debt Fund for Cancer Cure - 50% Regular Option -  Dividend 5  5  37,50,03,000   (-)  HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund Long Term - Dividend 375  -    2,03,35,619   (-) HDFC Gilt Short Term Plan - Growth 50 - Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 288 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 -  (8,34,43,987)  HDFC Liquid Fund - Growth  -   230  18,54,84 708   (18,54,84,708)  HDFC Medium Term Opportunities  Fund  - Growth 241  241  79,66,20,979   (-)  HDFC Short Term Opportunities Fund - Division 860  -    62,86,60,113   (47,31,50,819)  ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Dividend 635 475 3,61,78,141   (3,61,78,141)  ICICI Prudential Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth 50  50  -  (66,48,88,122)  ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Dividend  -    675  48,90,38,446   (18,12,46,791)  ICICI Prudential Equity Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 680 255 9,84,25,197   (-)  ICICI Prudential Equity Income Fund - Dividend 100  -    1,07,95,80,337   (1,01,65,79,969)  ICICI Prudential Short Term Plan - Dividend 1,090 1,025 1,27,18,23,490   (7,50,00,000)  ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term Plan - Dividend 1,300 75 8,12,12,898   (8,12,12,898)  ICICI Prudential Blended Plan A - Dividend 110  110  11,08,46,926   (11,08,46,926)  ICICI Prudential Blended Plan B - Growth 200  200  -  (47,47,16,615)  ICICI Prudential Income Plan - Dividend  -    475   -  (2,66,12,448) ICICI Prudential Long Term Gilt Fund - Growth  -    125  -  (50,00,00,000)  ICICI Regular Saving Fund - Dividend  -    500  1,32,99,287   (-)  ICICI Short Term Gilt Fund - Growth 50 - -  (13,37,083)  IDBI Liquid Fund - Growth  -   200  55,34,30,728   (39,68,11,202)  IDFC  Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 705  505  -  (10 35,81,344) IDFC Arbitrage Plus Fund - Dividend  -    125  3,11,09,279   (-) IDFC Banking Debt Fund - Growth 40  -    22,42,65,435   (-) IDFC Corp Bond Fund - Growth 225  -    87,35,45,547   (-) IDFC Dynamic Bond Fund - Dividend 1,000  -    -  (7,48,48,058) IDFC Government Securities Fund - Growth  -    125  28,30,06,229   (-) IDFC Money Manager Investment Fund - Dividend 300 - 67,95,72,510   (60,22,44,143) IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Medium Term Plan - Dividend 710  625  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 289 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 27,70,26,789   (16,56,58,516) IDFC Super Saver Income Fund- Short Term Plan - Dividend 295  175  19,04,43,460   (10,88,83,711)  IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Short Term - Growth 475  275  4,83,12,913   (-)  Indiabulls Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 50  -    8,28,91,392   (-)  Indiabulls Blue Chip Fund - Dividend 125  -    6,74,35,163   (-)  Indiabulls Income Fund - Growth 85  -    20,94,33,717   (20,94,33,717)  JM Arbitrage Advantage Fund - Bonus 208  208  4,50,68,027   (4,50,68,027) JM Money Manager Fund - Super Plan - Bonus 44  44  19,71,60,883   (19,71,60,883)  JM Money Manager Fund - Super Plus Plan - Bonus 199  199  -   (13,99,57,033)  JPMorgan India Active Bond Fund - Dividend  -    200  5,46,63,541   (-) Kotak 50 Direct Fund - Dividend 250 - 2,25,38,225   (-)  Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Growth 75  -    17,01,02,554   (13,40,05,771)  Kotak Bond Short Term Plan - Growth 404 304 -   (3,81,67,259)  Kotak Bond Fund - Plan A - Dividend - 150 -   (3,15,22,512)  Kotak Bond Scheme - Plan A - Growth - 125 12,43,75,652   (-)  Kotak Bond Short Term - Dividend 126  -    51,23,10,625   (20,50,03,232)  Kotak Equity Arbitrage - Dividend 940 315 14,27,13,144   (-)  Kotak Equity Savings Scheme - Dividend 150  -    4,05,61,808   (-)  Kotak Flexi Debt Fund - Growth 75 - -   (16,88,74,261)  Kotak Income Opportunities Fund - Dividend  -    190  -   (11,16,73,351)  Kotak Medium Term Fund - Dividend  -    125  4,92,02,764   (2,00,00,000)  L&T Arbitrage Opportunities Fund 50  20  5,79,076   (5,79,076)  L&T Cash Bonus Liquid Fund 59  59  -   (15,01,53,208)  L&T Income Opportunity - Dividend  -    150  26,03,88,208   (10,00,92,744)  L&T Short Term Opportunities Fund- Dividend 265 100 4,46,61,818   (-)  L&T Short Term Opportunities Fund - Growth 64  -    Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 290 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 10,75,21,101   (10,75,21,101)  L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund - Bonus 133  133  -  (11,76 732)  LIC Nomura Liquid Fund - Growth  -    283  -  (4,72,07,221)  LIC Nomura Savings Plus Fund - Growth  -    100  65,73,20,449   (9,52,48,074)  Reliance Arbitrage Advantage Fund - Dividend 695  100  50,36,49,969   (-)  Reliance Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Dividend 525 - -  (11,53,39,989) Reliance Corporate Bond Fund - Growth  -    125  -  (4,66,24,829) Reliance Corporate Bond Fund - Dividend  -    50  77,03,25,139   (65,66,28,473) Reliance Floating Rate Fund - Short Term Plan - Dividend 795  675  -  (7,60,51,576)  Reliance Income Fund - Growth  -    350  -  (97,40,32,447)  Reliance Regular Savings Fund - Debt Plan - Dividend  -   1,000 1,66,55,55,075   (1,36,24,06,377) Reliance Short Term Fund - Dividend 1,755  1,425  5,42,06,239   (1,55,32,291) Religare Invesco Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 70  20  6,03,55,015   (6,03,55,015) Religare Invesco Arbitrage - Bonus 65  65  7,72,821   (-) Reliance Invesco Bank Debt Fund - Growth 100 - -  (2,33,47,858) Religare Invesco Growth Fund – Dividend  -    50  17,98,180   (17,98,180) Religare Invesco Short Term Fund - Growth 295 295  16,10,744   (5,58,353) Religare Invesco Short Term Fund - Dividend 225  75  24,64,62,740   (5,08,30,350)  SBI Arbitrage Opportunity Fund - Dividend 340  70  -  (23,19,53,980)  SBI Dynamic Bond Fund - Growth  -    400  -  (3,18,960) SBI Premier Liquid Fund - Growth -  70  47,97,91,326        (39,21,38,152) SBI Short Term Debt Fund - Growth 687  537  17,81,54,863   (17,81,54,863) Sundaram Flexible Fund Short Term Plan - Bonus 175  175  30,09,68,369   (30,09,68,369) Sundaram Money Fund - Bonus 272 272 9,57,31,798   (9,57,31,798) Sundaram Select Debt Short Term Asset Plan - Bonus 100  100  57,52,39,255   (34,20,77,650)  Tata Short Term Bond Fund - Dividend 805  475  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 291 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 -   (8,73,988)  UTI  Liquid Fund - Cash Plan - Growth  -   200  15,54,28,334   (-)  UTI  Banking and PSU Debt Fund 184 - -   (25,00,00,000) UTI Bond Fund - Dividend  -    250  -   (25,58,386) UTI Floating Rate Fund - Dividend  -    300  -                   (12,03,386) UTI Floating Rate Fund - Growth -  239  -   (12,62,99,078) UTI Income Opportunities Fund - Growth  -    160  23,13,94,231   (52,77,23,010) UTI Short Term Income Fund Institutional Plan - Dividend 246 550 56,47,36,316   (35,25,25,179) UTI Short Term Income Fund Institutional Plan - Growth 918 518 8,00,26,087   (-) UTI Spread Fund - Regular - Dividend 125  -   27,615 26,186 In Treasury Bills - Quoted  -    3   -    3  In Commercial Paper - Unquoted Small Industries Development Bank Of India Limited  -   230  -   230 In Certificate of Deposits - Unquoted Andhra Bank  -    644  Axis Bank  208  -    Canara Bank  197 2,624 Corporation Bank  463  IDBI Bank  1,387 461 Indian Bank  -   969 Oriental Bank of Commerce  -   736  2,255 5,434 Total Current Investments  39,429 50,515 Aggregate amount of quoted investments  9,559 18,350 Market Value of quoted investments  9,949 19,158 Aggregate amount of unquoted investments  29,870 32,165 * Includes ` 2,285 crore (Previous Year  ` 1,015 crore) given as collateral security.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 292 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 14.
INVENTORIES Raw Materials (Including Material In Transit) 14,285 18,974 Stock-in-Process 2,871 5,209 Finished Goods 7,595 9,409 Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials 3,215 2,872 Stock-in-Trade 68 87 Total 28,034 36,551 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 15.
TRADE RECEIVABLES (Unsecured and Considered Good) Outstanding for a period exceeding six months 104 80 Others 3,391 4,581 Total 3,495 4,661 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 16.
CASH AND BANK BALANCES Cash and Cash Equivalents:  Cash on Hand 16 15 Bank Balances:  In Current Accounts* 438 1,002  In Deposit ** 6,438 10,554 Total 6,892 11,571  * Include towards Unclaimed Dividend of ` 223 crore (Previous Year ` 199 crore).
** Includes Deposits of ` 500 crore (Previous Year ` 10,64,942) with maturity of more than 12 months.
16.1 Cash and Cash Equivalents includes deposits maintained by the Company with banks, which can be withdrawn by the Company  at any point of time without prior notice or penalty on the principal.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 17.
SHORT TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES (Unsecured and Considered Good) Loans and Advances to related parties (Refer Note No.
31) 4,973 6,763 Balance with customs, central Excise Authorities 3,400 2,490 Deposits 1,190 988 Others# 2,375 2,066 Total 11,938 12,307  # Includes primarily Interest Receivable.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 293 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 18.
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Interest Accrued on Investment 776 547 Total 776 547 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 19.
SALE OF PRODUCTS   Particulars of Sale of Products Petroleum Products 1,69,305 2,45,160 Petrochemical Products 76,903 89,944 Oil & Gas 4,259 4,907 Others 633 716 Total 2,51,100 3,40,727 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 20.
OTHER INCOME Interest From Current Investments 563 301 From Long Term Investments 1,070 1,054 From Others 2,303 4,059 3,936 5,414 Dividend From Current Investments 645 243 From Long Term Investments 46 7 691 250 Net Gain on Sale of Investments From Current Investments 1,261 1,000 From Long Term Investments 70 282 1,331 1,282 FMP Income 1,452 1,764 Other Non Operating Income 172 11 Total 7,582 8,721 ( ` in crore)  2015-16 % of  Consumption ( ` in crore)  2014-15 % of  Consumption 21.
COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED Imported 1,40,109 91.71 2,32,867 90.96 Indigenous 12,660 8.29 23,131 9.04 Total 1,52,769 100.00 2,55,998 100.00 21.1 Particulars of Materials Consumed ( ` in crore) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 Crude Oil 1,38,914 2,37,505 Others 13,855 18,493 Total 1,52,769 2,55,998 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 294 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 22.
CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS,   STOCK-IN-PROCESS AND STOCK-IN-TRADE Inventories (at close) Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 7,663 9,496 Stock-in-Process 2,871 5,209 10,534 14,705 Inventories (at commencement) Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 9,496 10,143 Stock-in-Process 5,209 6,546 14,705 16,689 Less: Capitalised during the year - 41 14,705 16,648 Total 4,171 1,943 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 23.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE Salaries and Wages 3,730 3,125 Contribution to Provident and other Funds 226 297 Staff Welfare Expenses 304 264 Total 4,260 3,686 23.1 As per Accounting Standard 15 “Employee benefits” , the disclosures as defined in the Accounting Standard are given below : Defined Contribution Plans Contribution to Defined Contribution Plans, recognised as expense for the year is as under : ( ` in crore) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 Employer’s Contribution to Provident Fund 95 93 Employer’s Contribution to Superannuation Fund 12 14 Employer’s Contribution to Pension Scheme 38 30    The Company’s Provident Fund is exempted under Section 17 of Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions  Act, 1952.
Conditions for grant of exemption stipulate that the employer shall make good deficiency, if any, in the interest rate  declared by the trust vis-a-vis statutory rate.
Defined Benefit Plan  The employees’ gratuity funds scheme managed by a Trust (Life Insurance Corporation of India for SEZ unit of the Company) is  a defined benefit plan.
I) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit Obligation ( ` in crore) Gratuity   (Funded) Compensated Absences  (Unfunded) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Defined Benefit Obligation at beginning of the year 615 521 236 189 Current Service Cost 33 30 10 9 Interest Cost 49 42 19 15 Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 10 61 13 47 Benefits Paid (50) (39) (27) (24) Defined Benefit Obligation at year end 657 615 251 236 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 295 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 II) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of Plan Assets ( ` in crore) Gratuity (Funded) 2015-16 2014-15 Fair value of Plan Assets at beginning of year 615 521 Expected Return on Plan Assets 49 42 Actuarial Gain / (Loss) 9 9 Employer Contribution 34 82 Benefits Paid (50) (39) Fair value of Plan Assets at year end 657 615 Actual return on Plan Assets 58 51 III) Reconciliation of fair value of Assets and Obligations ( ` in crore) Gratuity   (Funded)   As at 31st March Compensated Absences  (Unfunded)   As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fair value of Plan Assets 657 615 - - Present value of Obligation 657 615 251 236 Amount recognised in Balance Sheet - - 251 236 IV) Expenses recognised during the year ( ` in crore) Gratuity   (Funded) Compensated Absences  (Unfunded) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Current Service Cost 33 30 10 9 Interest Cost 49 42 19 15 Expected Return on Plan Assets (49) (42) - - Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 1 52 13 47 Net Cost 34 82 42 71 V) Investment Details : As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 ` in crore % Invested ` in crore % Invested GOI Securities 20 3.04 21 3.42 Public Securities 10 1.52 23 3.79 State Government Securities 1 0.15 5 0.78 Insurance Policies 590 89.81 560 91.04 Others (including bank balances) 36 5.48 6 0.97 657 100.00 615 100.00 VI) Actuarial assumptions Gratuity   (Funded) Compensated Absences  (Unfunded) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Mortality Table  (IALM) 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) Discount Rate (per annum) 8% 8% 8% 8% Expected rate of return on Plan Assets (per annum) 8% 8% - - Rate of escalation in Salary (per annum) 6% 6% 6% 6% Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 296 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation, take into account inflation, seniority,  promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market.
The above information  is certified by the actuary.
The Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets is determined considering several applicable factors, mainly the composition  of Plan Assets held, assessed risks, historical results of return on Plan Assets and the Company’s policy for Plan Assets  Management.
VII) Amounts recognised in current year and previous four years ( ` in crore) As at 31st March, Gratuity 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Defined Benefit Obligation 657 615 521 500 436 Fair value of Plan Assets 657 615 521 503 394 (Surplus) / Deficit in the plan - - - (3) 42 Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 10 61 (16) 26 17 Actuarial Gain / (Loss) on Plan Assets 9 9 3 10 2 VIII) The expected contributions for Defined Benefit Plan for the next financial year will be in line with FY 2015-16.
23.2 The Company had announced Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS) for the employees of Allahabad & Nagpur  Manufacturing Divisions (Previous Year Silvassa Manafacturing Division) during the year.
A sum of ` 156 crore (Previous Year   ` 32,00,000) has been paid during the year and debited to the Profit and Loss Statement under the head “Employee Benefits  Expense” .
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 24.
FINANCE COSTS Interest Expenses* 1,527 1,540 Other Borrowing Costs 10 12 Applicable loss on foreign currency transactions and translation 917 815 Total 2,454 2,367  *  Interest Expenses are net of Interest Capitalised of  ` 2,302 crore (Previous Year ` 1,062 crore) (Refer Note No.
10.5) ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 25.
OTHER EXPENSES Manufacturing Expenses Stores, C hemicals and P acking M aterials 4,765 4,702 Electric P ower, F uel and W ater 9,738 12,299 Labour P rocessing, P roduction Royalty and M achinery H ire C harges 1,224 1,325 Repairs to B uilding 58 35 Repairs to M achinery 1,084 957 Exchange D ifference (Net) 1 69 Excise Duty # 448 304 Lease Rent 10 2 17,328 19,693 Selling and Distribution Expenses Warehousing and D istribution E xpenses 5,871 5,521 Sales Tax / VAT 1,415 1,063 Other S elling and D istribution E xpenses 975 822 8,261 7,406 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 297 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 Establishment Expenses Professional Fees 1,307 514 General E xpenses* 899 387 Rent 107 107 Insurance 894 721 Rates & T axes 144 171 Other Repairs 245 267 Travelling Expenses 162 159 Payment to Auditors 25 22 Loss on Sale /Discard of Fixed Assets 37 34 Charity and Donations 676 805 4,496 3,187 Less: Transferred to Project Development Expenditure 2,507 1,573 Total 27,578 28,713  #  Excise Duty shown under expenditure represents the aggregate of excise duty borne by the Company and difference between excise duty on opening and  closing stock of finished goods.
* Includes Write Off of Investments of ` Nil (Previous Year ` 26,96,800).
25.1 Value of Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials Consumed : 2015-16 2014-15 ` in crore % of  Consumption ` in crore % of  Consumption Imported 1,810 37.99 2,176 46.28 Indigenous 2,955 62.01 2,526 53.72 Total 4,765 100.00 4,702 100.00 25.2 Payment to Auditors as : ( ` in crore) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 (a) Auditor:  Statutory Audit Fees 10 9  Tax Audit Fees 1 1 (b) Certification and Consultation Fees 13 11 (c) Cost Audit Fees 1 1 Total 25 22    Certification and consultation fees primarily includes certification fees paid to auditors.
Statutes and regulation require auditors to certify export  documentation, quarterly filings, XBRL filings, transfer pricing and bond issuances among others 25.3 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (a)   CSR amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Schedule VII thereof by the  company during the year is ` 558 crore (Previous Year ` 533 crore) (b)   Expenditure related to Corporate Social Responsibility is ` 652  crore (Previous  Year  ` 761crore).
Details of Amount spent towards CSR given below: ( ` in crore) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 Rural Transformation 107 127 Health 314 608 Education 215 18 Sports for Development 9 4 Others 7 4 Total 652 761 (c)  Out of note (b) above, ` 578 crore (Previous Year ` 729 crore) is spent through Reliance Foundation, a related party.
(d)   Out of note (b) above, ` 7 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) is towards construction / acquisition of an asset that will be owned by  the Company.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 298 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 26.
VALUE OF IMPORTS ON CIF BASIS IN RESPECT OF Raw Materials and Stock-in-Trade 1,46,516 2,41,456 Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials 4,142 3,217 Capital Goods 13,897 9,788 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 27.
EXPENDITURE IN FOREIGN CURRENCY : Oil and Gas Activity 2,273 2,812 Repairs to Machinery (Includes ` 16 crore for SEZ units) 87 30 Repairs to Building (Includes ` 3 crore for SEZ units)   (Previous Year ` 42,20,904) 3 - Employee benefits expense (Includes ` 12,44,230 for SEZ units) 15 19 Sales Promotion Expenses (Includes ` 81,483 for SEZ units) 40 40 Brokerage and Commission (Includes ` 12 crore for SEZ units) 274 224 Ocean Freight  (Includes ` 663 crore for SEZ units) 1,258 949 Warehousing and Distribution Expenses (Includes ` 1,539 crore   for SEZ units) 1,936 2,060 Insurance (Includes ` 18,86,344 for SEZ units) 2 1 Rent 1 2 Rates & Taxes 1 1 Other Repairs (Includes ` 3 crore for SEZ units) 12 37 Travelling Expenses 22 26 Professional Fees (Includes ` 8 crore for SEZ units) 314 225 Charity and Donations 8 12 Labour processing, production royalty and hire charges 17 12 Bank Charges (Includes ` 7 crore for SEZ units) 23 23 General Expenses (Includes ` 14 crore for SEZ units) 202 94 Interest Expenses (Includes ` 309 crore for SEZ units) 1,525 1,218 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 28.
EARNINGS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE FOB Value of Exports [Excluding captive transfers to   Special Economic Zone of ` 14,856 crore   (Previous Year ` 17,343 crore)] 1,37,634 2,09,169 Interest 13 24 Others (includes Guarantee Commission) 185 205 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 299 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 29.
REMITTANCE IN FOREIGN CURRENCY ON ACCOUNT OF DIVIDEND The Company has paid dividend in respect of shares held by Non-Residents on repatriation basis.
This inter-alia includes portfolio  investment and direct investment, where the amount is also credited to Non-Resident External Account (NRE A/c).
The exact amount  of dividend remitted in foreign currency cannot be ascertained.
The total amount remittable in this respect is given herein below: 2015-16   (Interim Dividend) 2015-16   (Final Dividend) 2014-15   (Final Dividend) a) Number of Non Resident Shareholders 34,293 34,666 34,412 b) Number of Equity Shares held by them 64,44,72,823 63,39,06,335 65,46,96,249 c) (i)  Amount of Dividend Paid (Gross)  ( ` in Crore) 677 634 622  (ii) Tax Deducted at Source - - -  (iii) Year to which dividend relates 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2015-16 2014-15 30.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) i)  Net Profit after Tax as per Profit and Loss Statement attributable  to Equity Shareholders ( ` in crore) 27,417 22,719 ii)  Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as  denominator for calculating EPS 3,23,83,16,609 3,23,42,13,408 iii) Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share ( `) 84.66 70.25 iv) Face Value per Equity Share ( `) 10.00 10.00 30.1  Based on alternate interpretation for calculation of Diluted EPS as per Accounting Standard (AS) 20, the Diluted EPS for the year ended  March’ 16 and year ended March’15 are  ` 84.49 and ` 70.09 respectively.
31.
RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES As per Accounting Standard 18, the disclosures of transactions with the related parties are given below: (i)   List of related parties where control exists and related parties with whom transactions have taken place and relationships: Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 1 Adventure Marketing Private Limited # Subsidiary 2 AETN18 Media Private Limited # 3 Affinity Names Inc. 4 Aurora Algae Pty Ltd  (From 21.04.2015) 5 Aurora Algae RGV LLC (From 21.04.2015) 6 Aurora Algea Inc. (From 21.04.2015) 7 Bhagyashri Mercantile Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 8 Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited # 9 Big Tree Entertainment Singapore Pte.
Ltd  # (From 04.11.2015) 10 Capital18 Fincap Private Limited # 11 Central Park Enterprises DMCC 12 Chitrani Mercantile Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 13 Colorful Media Private Limited # 14 Colosceum Media Private Limited # 15 Delta Corp East Africa Limited # Control by Independent Media Trust of which RIL is the sole beneficiary Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 300 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 16 Digital18 Media Limited # Subsidiary 17 E-18 Limited # 18 e-Eighteen.com Limited # 19 Equator Trading Enterprises Private Limited # 20 Ethane Crystal LLC 21 Ethane Emerald LLC 22 Ethane Opal LLC 23 Ethane Pearl LLC 24 Ethane Sapphire LLC 25 Ethane Topaz LLC 26 Fantain Sports Private Limited  # (From 17.02.2016) 27 Gapco Kenya Limited 28 Gapco Tanzania Limited 29 Gapco Uganda Limited 30 Gapoil (Zanzibar) Limited 31 GenNext Holding Investments LLC ** 32 Gopesh Commercials Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 33 Greycells18 Media Limited # 34 Gulf Africa Petroleum Corporation 35 Ibn18 Mauritius Limited # 36 Indiawin Sports Private Limited 37 Infomedia Press Limited # 38 Kanhatech Solutions Limited 39 Model Economic Township Limited 40 Moneycontrol Dot Com India Limited # 41 Nemita Commercials Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 42 Network18 Holdings Limited # 43 Network18 HSN Plc # 44 Network18 Media & Investments Limited # 45 Nisarga Commercials Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 46 Panorama Television Private Limited # 47 Prakruti Commercials Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 48 Prism TV Private Limited # (Ceased to be subsidiary from 31.07.2015) 49 RB Holdings Private Limited # 50 RB Media Holdings Private Limited # 51 RB Mediasoft Private Limited # 52 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 53 Reed Infomedia India Private Limited # 54 Reliance Aerospace Techonologies Limited 55 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited 56 Reliance Aromatics and Petrochemicals Limited 57 Reliance Brands Limited # Control by Independent Media Trust of which RIL is the sole beneficiary ** Formerly known as Reliance Marcellus Holding LLC Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 301 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 58 Reliance Chemicals Limited Subsidiary 59 Reliance Clothing India Private Limited 60 Reliance Commercial Land & Infrastructure Limited 61 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited 62 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited 63 Reliance do Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Produtos Têxteis, Químicos, Petroquímicos e  Derivados Limiteda 64 Reliance Eagleford Midstream LLC 65 Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC 66 Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP 67 Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC 68 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited 69 Reliance Energy and Project Development Limited 70 Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited 71 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte.
Limited 72 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC 73 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited 74 Reliance Global Business B.V. 75 Reliance Global Commercial Limited 76 Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited 77 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited 78 Reliance Holding Acquisition Corp (From 29.01.2016) 79 Reliance Holding USA, Inc. 80 Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited 81 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC 82 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private Limited 83 Reliance Jio AsiaInfo Innovation Centre Limited (From 10.06.2015) 84 Reliance Jio Digital Services Private Limited 85 Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC  86 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited 87 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Limited 88 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited 89 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc. 90 Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited (From 17.02.2016) 91 Reliance Jio Media Limited 92 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Private Limited 93 Reliance Lifestyle Holdings Limited 94 Reliance Marcellus II LLC 95 Reliance Marcellus LLC 96 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited 97 Reliance Petro Marketing Limited 98 Reliance Petroinvestments Limited 99 Reliance Polyolefins Limited 100 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited 101 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited 102 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited # Control by Independent Media Trust of which RIL is the sole beneficiary Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 302 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 103 Reliance Retail Finance Limited Subsidiary 104 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited 105 Reliance Retail Limited 106 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited 107 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited 108 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited 109 Reliance Textiles Limited 110 Reliance Trading Limited 111 Reliance Universal Commercial Limited 112 Reliance Universal Enterprises Limited 113 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited 114 Reliance USA Gas Marketing LLC 115 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited 116 Reliance Ventures Limited 117 Reliance World Trade Private Limited ^ 118 Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited ** 119 Reliance-GrandOptical Private Limited 120 Resolute Land Consortium Projects Limited (Ceased to be subsidiary from 29.02.2016) 121 RIL (Australia) Pty Limited 122 RIL Exploration and Production (Myanmar) Company Limited (From 11.09.2015) 123 RIL USA, Inc. 124 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (From 11.02.2016) 125 RRB Investments Private Limited # 126 RRB Mediasoft Private Limited # 127 RRK Finhold Private Limited # 128 RVT Finhold Private Limited # 129 RVT Media Private Limited # 130 Setpro18 Distribution Limited # 131 SpaceBound Web labs Private Limited # (From 23.04.2015)  132 Stargaze Entertainment Private Limited # (Upto 23.04.2015) 133 Strategic Manpower Solutions Limited 134 Surela Investment and Trading Private Limited 135 Television Eighteen Mauritius Limited # 136 Television Eighteen Media and Investments Limited # 137 Transenergy (Kenya) Limited (Liquidated w.e.f.
31.12.2015) 138 TV18 Broadcast Limited # 139 TV18 Home shopping Network Limited # 140 Vijayant Commercials Private Limited (Amalgamated with Model Economic Township  Limited w.e.f.
04.05.2015) 141 Watermark Infratech Private Limited # 142 Wave Land Developers Limited 143 Web18 Holdings Limited # 144 Web18 Software Services Limited # 145 Independent Media Trust Company / Subsidiary is a  beneficiary146 Petroleum Trust # Control by Independent Media Trust of which RIL is the sole beneficiary ^ Control by Petroleum Trust of which RIL is the sole beneficiary ** Formerly known as Office Depot Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 303 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 147 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associates 148 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 149 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited 150 Reliance Europe Limited 151 Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited 152 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 153 Reliance LNG Limited 154 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited 155 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited 156 Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key Managerial Personnel 157 Shri Nikhil R. Meswani 158 Shri Hital R. Meswani 159 Shri P .
M. S. Prasad 160 Shri P .
K. Kapil 161 Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of   Key Managerial Personnel 162 Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation Enterprises over which Key  Managerial Personnel are able to  exercise significant influence 163 Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust 164 HNH Trust and HNH Research Society 165 Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation 166 Reliance Foundation  (ii) Transactions during the year with related parties : ( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Transactions (Excluding Reimbursements) Subsidiaries/ Beneficiary Associates Key  Managerial  Personnel /  Relative Others Total 1.
Purchase of Fixed Assets  2,302  2,434  237  264 - - - -  2,539 2,698 2.
Purchase / Subscription of Investments  38,085  11,506 - - - - - -  38,085 11,506 3.
Sale / Redemption of Investments  422  150 - - - - - -  422  150 4.
Capital Advance Given/ (Returned) - - - (8) - - - - - (8) 5.
Net Loans and Advances, Deposits given/   (Returned)  (11,913) 133  43  166 - - - -  (11,870) 299 6.
Revenue from Operations  24,925  24,395 301 428 - - - -  25,226 24,823 7.
Other Income  1,721  1,536  17  27 - - - -  1,738 1,563 8.
Purchases / Material Consumed  2,201  1,562  631  267 - - - -  2,832 1,829 9.
Electric Power, Fuel and Water - -  1,719  1,579 - - - -  1,719  1,579 10.
Hire Charges - -  585  622 - - - - 585 622 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 304 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Transactions (Excluding Reimbursements) Subsidiaries/ Beneficiary Associates Key  Managerial  Personnel/  Relative Others Total 11.
Employee Benefit Expense  210  10 - - - - - -  210  10 12.
Payment to Key Managerial Personnel/Relative - - - - 54 48 - - 54 48 13.
Sales and Distribution Expenses  178  147  2,609  2,767 - - - -  2,787 2,914 14.
Rent - -  8  7 - - - -  8  7 15.
Professional Fees  1,244  990  39  42 - - - -  1,283  1,032 16.
General Expenses 25  45  430  293 - - - - 455 338 17.
Donations - - - - - -  603  742  603  742 18.
Finance Costs  10 12 - - - - - - 10 12 Balances as at 31st March 2016 1.
Investments  81,421  43,758  2,085 2,085 - - - -  83,506  45,843 2.
Trade Receivables  2,210  2,396  35  21 - - - -  2,245 2,417 3.
Loans and Advances  15,099  26,743 3 9 - - - -  15,102 26,752 4.
Deposits - -  1,714  1,666 - - - -  1,714  1,666 5.
Trade and Other Payables*  456  462  315  253 - - - - 771 715 6.
Finance Lease Obligations  94 121 - - - - - - 94 121 7.
Financial Guarantees  35,897  33,685  1,837  1,733 - - - -  37,734  35,418 8.
Performance Guarantees  192  159  135  115 - - - -  327  274  Note :  Figures in italic represents Previous Year’s amounts.
* Includes reimbursements  Disclosure in Respect of Major Related Party Transactions during the year :  ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 1 Purchase of Fixed Assets Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary 106  100  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 2,044  1,963 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited Subsidiary  75  105  Reliance Petro Marketing Limited Subsidiary 6  1  Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited Subsidiary  -  215  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary  27  31  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 305 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54  ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary  43  -  Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited Subsidiary - 18 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  -  2  Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate  -  46  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate  3  8  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  166  198  Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate  68  10  2 Purchase / Subscription of Investments Reliance Ambit Traders Private  Limited Subsidiary  7  20  Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited Subsidiary  3,263  -  Reliance Ethane Holding Pte.
Limited Subsidiary  399  752  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary  303  215  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary  14,091  1,100  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary  2,217  -  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary  15,000  7,052  Reliance Jio Messaging Services Private Limited Subsidiary  74  1  Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited Subsidiary  60  -  Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited Subsidiary  5  30  Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited Subsidiary  122  1,236  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary  243   -     Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited Subsidiary  24  11  Independent Media Trust Company / Subsidiary   is a beneficiary  2,277  1,089  3 Sale / Redemption of Investments Reliance Global Business B.V. Subsidiary -  150  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary 422 - 4 Capital Advances Given / (Returned) Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate - (3) Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate - (5) 5 Net Loans and Advances, Deposits Given / (Returned) Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary  713  1,846  Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited Subsidiary (3,263)  -  Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC Subsidiary - (78) Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary (33)   -     Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary (10,573) (1,782) Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary  482  -  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary - (1,737) Reliance Strategic Investments Limited Subsidiary  903  1,650  Reliance Ventures Limited Subsidiary (142)  234  Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  23  11  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate  20  155  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 306 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 6 Revenue from Operations Gapco Kenya Limited Subsidiary  9,373  9,089  Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary  468  2,013  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary  1  2  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary  3  4  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd. Subsidiary  3,915  1,969  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary  924  1,064  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary  522  415  Reliance Petro Marketing Limited Subsidiary  2,232  644  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary  188  210  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary  2  -  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary  7,297  8,985  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate  13  15  Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate 47  49  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  5  -  Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate  236  363  7 Other Income Gapco Kenya Limited Subsidiary  2  2  Gapco Tanzania Limited Subsidiary  3  3  Gapco Uganda Limited Subsidiary  1  1  Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary  7  8  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary  353  205  Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC Subsidiary -  1  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary  2  1  Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd. Subsidiary  11  2  Reliance Holding USA, Inc. Subsidiary  138  149  Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary  816  812  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary -  23  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited Subsidiary  37  42  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary -  61  Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited Subsidiary  6   -     Reliance Strategic Investments Limited Subsidiary  287  157  Reliance Ventures Limited Subsidiary  54  61  RIL USA, Inc. Subsidiary  4  8  Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  -  10  Reliance Europe Limited Associate  13  13  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  1  1  Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate  3  3  8 Purchases / Material Consumed Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary  2,200  1,561  Reliance Petro Marketing Limited Subsidiary 1 1 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate - 3 Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate -  3  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 307 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54  ( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate  19  19  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  611  241  9 Electric Power, Fuel and Water Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate  1,719  1,579  10 Hire Charges Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  117  90  Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate  214  194  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate  34  37  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  220  301  11 Employee Benefits Expense Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary  8  10  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 202 - 12 Payment To Key Managerial Personnel / Relative Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key Managerial  Personnel 15  15  Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Key Managerial  Personnel 14  12  Shri Hital R. Meswani Key Managerial  Personnel 14  12  Shri PMS Prasad Key Managerial  Personnel 7  6  Shri P .
K. Kapil Key Managerial  Personnel 3  2  Smt Nita M. Ambani Relative of Key  Managerial Personnel 1  1  13 Sales and Distribution Expenses Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary  178  146  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary  -  1  Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  33  16  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  2,576  2,751  14 Rent Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate  8  7  15 Professional Fees Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary  1,244  990  Reliance Europe Limited Associate  33  25  Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate  6  17  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 308 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 16 General Expenses Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited Subsidiary  2  1  Indiawin Sports Private Limited Subsidiary  -  13  Reliance Retail Limited Subsidiary  23  31  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate  418  282  Reliance Europe Limited Associate -  7  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  12  3  17 Donations Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust Others  4  2  Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Others  15  4  Reliance Foundation Others  584  735  18 Finance Costs Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary 10 12 Balances as at 31st March, 2016 1 Loans and Advances Gapco Kenya Limited Subsidiary  2  2  Gapco Tanzania Limited Subsidiary  -  3  Gapco Uganda Limited Subsidiary  -  1  Recron (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Subsidiary  -  8  Reliance Brands Limited Subsidiary  -  1  Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited Subsidiary  3,823  2,976  Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited Subsidiary  -  3,263  Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited Subsidiary  33  Reliance Holding USA, Inc. Subsidiary  35   -     Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited Subsidiary  7,321  17,890  Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC Subsidiary  482  -  Reliance Strategic Investments Limited Subsidiary  3,283  2,263  Reliance Ventures Limited Subsidiary  153  302  Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  -  6  Reliance Europe Limited Associate  3  3  2 Deposits Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate  139  111  Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate  175  155  Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate  1,050  1,050  Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate  350  350  Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 309 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54   32.1   Disclosure of the Company’s Interest in Oil and Gas Joint Ventures (Jointly Controlled Assets): Sr.  No.
Name of the Fields in  the Joint Ventures  Company’s  % Interest Partners and their Participating Interest (PI) Country 1 Panna Mukta 30% (30%) BG Exploration & Production India Limited - 30% ; Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited - 40% India 2 Tapti 30% (30%) BG Exploration & Production India Limited - 30% ; Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited - 40% India 3 NEC - OSN - 97/2 60% (60%) Niko (NELPIO) Limited - 10% * ;  BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 30% India 4 KG - DWN - 98/3 60% (60%) Niko (NECO) Limited - 10% ;  BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 30% India 5 GS - OSN - 2000/1 90% (90%) Hardy Exploration and Production (India) Inc. - 10% India 6 CY-DWN-2001/2 70% (70%) BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 30% India 7 CB-ONN-2003/1 70% (70%) BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited - 30% India 8 Block M-17 96% (96%) United National Resources Development Services Company  Limited (UNRD) - 4% Myanmar 9 Block M-18 96% (96%) United National Resources Development Services Company  Limited (UNRD) - 4% Myanmar   Figures in bracket represent Previous Year’s (%) Interest.
* During the year, Niko ( NELPIO ) Limited withdrew from Joint Operating Agreement.
RIL will assume  the Participating Interest of Niko ( NELPIO ) Limited in  proportion to RIL ’s Interest in Joint Operating Agreement.
The assignment process is underway.
32.2  (a) Net Quantities of Company’s Interest (on gross basis) in Proved Reserves and Proved Developed Reserves : Proved Reserves   in India  (Million MT) Proved Developed Reserves  in India   (Million MT) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Oil: Beginning of the year 1.96 2.47 1.47 2.09 Revision of estimates 2.78 (0.06) - (0.17) Production (0.42) (0.45) (0.42) (0.45) Closing balance for the year 4.32 1.96 1.05 1.47 Proved Reserves   in India  (Million M3*) Proved Developed Reserves   in India   (Million M3*) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Gas: Beginning of the year 65,741 86,230 18,812 15,444 Revision of estimates 9,008 (17,047) (1,212) 6,810 Production (3,018) (3,442) (3,018) (3,442) Closing balance for the year 71,731 65,741 14,582 18,812   *  1 cubic meter (M3) = 35.315 cubic feet, 1 cubic feet = 1000 BTU and 1 MT = 7.5 bbl  (b) In case of producing field and fields where development of drilling activities are in progress, the geological and reservoir  simulation are updated as and when new well information is available.
In all cases, reserve evaluation is carried out at  least once in a year.
(c) The reserves estimates related to KGD6 and CBM have been revised.
During the year, the Company recognized reserves  towards MJ1 field of KGD6 block post review of Declaration of Commerciality (DoC) by Management Committee.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 310 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(d) The Government of India (GoI), by its letters dated 2nd May 2012, 14th November 2013 and 10th July 2014 has  communicated that it proposes to disallow certain costs which the Production Sharing Contract (PSC), relating to   KG-DWN-98/3 entitles the Company to recover.
Based on legal advice received, the Company continues to maintain that  a Contractor is entitled to recover all of its costs under the terms of the PSC and there are no provisions that entitle the  GoI to disallow the recovery of any Contract Cost as defined in the PSC.
The Company has already referred the issue to  arbitration and already communicated the same to GoI for the resolution of dispute.
Pending decision of the arbitration,  the demand from the GoI of $ 117 million ( ` 777 crores) being the Company’s share (total demand $ 195 million) towards  additional Profit Petroleum has been considered as contingent liability.
(e) In supersession of the Ministry’s Gazette notification no.
22011/3/2012-ONG.D.V.
dated 10th January, 2014, the  GoI notified the New Domestic Natural Gas Pricing Guidelines, 2014, on 26th October 2014.
Consequent to the  aforesaid dispute referred to under 32.2 (d) above which has been referred to arbitration, the GoI has directed  the Company  to instruct customers to deposit differential revenue on gas sales from D1D3 field on account  of the prices determined under the above guidelines converted  to NCV basis and the prevailing price prior to   1st November 2014 ($ 4.205 per MMBTU) to be credited  to the gas pool account maintained by GAIL (India) Limited.
The  amount so deposited by customer to Gas Pool Account is ` 295 crore (net) as at 31st March 2016 is disclosed under Other  Long Term Loans and Advances.
Revenue has been recognized at the GoI notified prices in respect of gas quantities sold  from D1D3 field from 1st November 2014.
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 33.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (I) Contingent Liabilities (A) Claims against the Company / disputed liabilities not  acknowledged as debts* (a) In respect of Joint Ventures 847 798 (b) In respect of Others 2,639 1,770 (B) Guarantees (i)  Guarantees to Banks and Financial Institutions against  credit facilities extended to third parties and other  Guarantees (a) In respect of Joint Ventures - - (b) In respect of Others 37,734 35,418 (ii) Performance Guarantees (a) In respect of Joint Ventures - - (b) In respect of Others 327 274 (iii)  Outstanding Guarantees furnished to Banks and  Financial Institutions including in respect of   Letters of Credits (a) In respect of Joint Ventures 20 20 (b) In respect of Others 30,231 17,704 (C) Other Money for which the Company is contingently liable (i)  Liability in respect of bills discounted with Banks  (Including third party bills discounting) (a) In respect of Joint Ventures - - (b) In respect of Others 734 1,121 (II) Commitments (A)  Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on  capital account and not provided for: (a) In respect of Joint Ventures 176 865 (b) In respect of Others 6,089 20,569 Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 311 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 (B) Other Commitments (a) Sales Tax deferral liability assigned ( ` 29,847) - 787 (b) Guarantee against future cash calls ** 109 1,315  *  The Company has been advised that the demand is likely to be either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision is considered necessary.
**  The Company has issued guarantees against future cash calls to be made by JV Partners of its wholly owned subsidiary Reliance Marcellus LLC amounting  to ` 139 crore.
During the year Obligation fulfilled through cash call paid was ` 30 crore.
(III) The Income -Tax Assessments of the Company have been completed up to Assessment Year 2011-12.
There is no outstanding  demand as on date.
The assessed tax liability exceeds the provision made, by ` 1,119 core as at 31st March, 2016.
Based on  the decisions of the Appellate authorities and the interpretations of other relevant provisions, the company has been legally  advised that the additional demand raised is likely to be either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision  is considered necessary.
34.
FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS a) Derivative contracts entered into by the Company and outstanding as on 31st March, 2016  (i) For Hedging Currency and Interest Rate Related Risks:     Nominal amounts of derivative contracts entered into by the Company and outstanding as on 31st March, 2016 amount  to ` 1,26,039 crore (Previous Year ` 1,61,205 crore).
Category wise break up is given below: As at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2015 Sr.  No.
Particulars Amount ( ` in Crore) Amount ( ` in Crore) 1 Forward Contract 64,448 84,137 2 Currency Swap 1,438 1,356 3 Interest Rate Swap 56,803 69,218 4 Option 3,350 6,494  (ii) For Hedging Commodity related risks :   Category wise break up is given below : As at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2015 Sr.  No.
Particulars Petroleum  Product Feedstock Petroleum  Product Feedstock 1 Forward swaps 24,077 89,877 40,389 49,460 2 Futures 13,838 6,619 11,844 23,980 3 Spreads 83,191 98,906 88,393 1,04,653 4 Option 4,470 68,565 12,150 1,30,618     In addition the Company has margin hedges outstanding for contracts relating to petroleum product sales of 1,41,145  kbbl (Previous Year 88,508 kbbl) and freight hedges of 4,246 kbbl (Previous Year Nil).
b) Foreign Currency Exposures that are not hedged by derivative instruments as on 31st March 2016 amount to   ` 91,255 crore (Previous Year ` 82,812 crore).
The unhedged exposures are naturally hedged by future foreign currency earnings  and earnings linked to foreign currency.
35.
As per Accounting Standard (AS) 17 on “Segment Reporting” , segment information has been provided under the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements.
Notes on Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 312 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
36.
DETAILS OF LOANS GIVEN, INVESTMENTS MADE AND GUARANTEE GIVEN COVERED U/S 186 (4) OF THE COMPANIES  ACT, 2013 Loans given and Investments made  are given under the respective heads.
Corporate Guarantees given by the Company in respect of loans  as at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2015 Sr.  No.
Particulars Amount (` in Crore) Amount (` in Crore) 1 Reliance Global Business B.V. 1,432 1,539 2 Reliance Holding USA, Inc. 19,877 18,750 3 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited 23,477 16,813 4 RIL USA, Inc. 580 547 5 Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC 73 69 37.
DETAILS OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Sr.  No.
Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 a) Capital 631 722 810 738 654 b) Revenue 628 498 408 380 335 Total 1,259 1,220 1,218 1,118 989 As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Standalone Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 313 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Financial  Statements   CONSOLIDATED 314 /   Independent Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements 318 /  Consolidated Balance Sheet 319 /  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 320 / Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 322 / Significant Accounting Policies on Consolidated Accounts 323 / Notes on Consolidated Financial Statements 374 / Financial Information of Subsidiary Companies Annual Report 2015-16 314 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
TO THE MEMBERS OF RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial  statements of Reliance Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as  “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company  and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates  and jointly controlled entities, comprising of the Consolidated  Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016, the Consolidated Profit and  Loss Statement, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year  then ended, and a summary of the significant accounting policies  and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the  consolidated financial statements”).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the  matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the  Act”) with respect to the preparation of these consolidated financial  statements that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial  position, consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash  flows of the Group including its associates and jointly controlled  entities in accordance with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards prescribed  under Section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in  the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities are  responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets  of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other  irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable  and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of  adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively  for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting  records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been  used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial  statements by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as  aforesaid.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated  financial statements based on our audit.
While conducting the audit, we have taken into account the  provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and  matters which are required to be included in the audit report under  the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit of consolidated financial statements in  accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under Section  143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with  ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain  Independent Auditors’ Report reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated  financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the  auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements,  whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the Holding  Company’s preparation of the consolidated financial statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures  that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes  evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the  Holding Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the  overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and by the other  auditors in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters  paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for  our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
OPINION  In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of reports  of other auditors, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements  give the information required by the Act in the manner so required  and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of  affairs of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities as at  March 31, 2016, and their consolidated profit and their consolidated  cash flows for the year ended on that date.
OTHER MATTERS  a)  The consolidated financial statements and other financial  information include the Holding Company’s proportionate  share in jointly controlled assets of ` 1,055 crore, liabilities  of ` 95 crore, expenditure of ` 462 crore and the elements  making up the Cash Flow Statement and related disclosures  in respect of an Unincorporated Joint Venture which is  based on statements from the Operator and certified by the  management.
b)  Financial statements / consolidated financial statements  of certain subsidiaries which reflect total assets of   ` 2,35,478 crore as at March 31, 2016 / December 31,  2015, total revenues of ` 52,686 crore and net cash flows   amounting to ` 3,456 crore for the year then ended, have  been audited by one or jointly by two of us or two of us with  other and financial statements of certain associates in which  the share of profit (net) of the Group is ` 7 crore have been  audited by one of us.
c)  We did not audit the financial statements / consolidated  financial statements of certain subsidiaries, whose financial  statements / consolidated financial statements reflect total  Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 315 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 assets of ` 15,074 crore as at March 31, 2016 / December  31, 2015, total revenues of ` 16,377 crore and net cash flows  of ( ` 125) crore for the year then ended on that date and  financial statements of certain associates in which the share  of profit of the Group is ` 1 crore.
These financial statements /  consolidated financial statements have been audited by other  auditors whose reports have been furnished to us and our  opinion is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
d)  We have relied on the unaudited financial statements of certain  associates wherein the Group’s share of profit (net) aggregate   ` 51 crores.
These unaudited financial statements as approved  by the respective Board of Directors of these companies have  been furnished to us by the Management and our report  in so far as it relates to the amounts included in respect of  these associates is based solely on such approved unaudited  financial statements.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our  report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below is  not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to  our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other  auditors and the financial statements / consolidated financial  statements certified by the Management.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY  REQUIREMENTS  1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the  extent applicable, that:   a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of  the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by  law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated  financial statements have been kept so far as it appears  from our examination of those books and the reports of  the other auditors.
c)  The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit  and Loss Statement, and the Consolidated Cash Flow  Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement  with the relevant books of account maintained for the  purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial  statements.
d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial  statements comply with the Accounting Standards  prescribed under Section 133 of the Act.
e)  On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors of the Holding Company as on  March 31, 2016 taken on record by the Board of  Directors of the Holding Company and the reports  of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies,  Independent Auditors’ Report (Continued) associate companies and jointly controlled companies  incorporated in India, none of the directors of these  entities is disqualified as on March 31, 2016 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the  Act.
f )  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting and the operating  effectiveness of such controls, refer to our Report in  “Annexure A” , which is based on the auditors’ reports  of the Holding company, subsidiary companies,  associate companies and jointly controlled companies  incorporated in India.
g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of  the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in  our opinion and to the best of our information and  according to the explanations given to us:    i.
The consolidated financial statements disclose  the impact of pending litigations on the  consolidated financial position of the Group,  its associates and jointly controlled entities,  as referred to in note 30 to the consolidated  financial statements.
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated  financial statements, as required under the  applicable law or accounting standards, for  material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor  Education and Protection Fund by the Holding  Company and its subsidiaries, associates and  jointly controlled entities incorporated in India  except a sum of ` 17 crore, which are held in  abeyance due to pending legal cases.
For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
101720W) For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
117366W/ W-100018) For Rajendra & Co.  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
108355W) Rajesh D. Chaturvedi  Partner  Membership No.
: 45882 A.
B. Jani Partner  Membership No.
: 46488 A. R. Shah  Partner  Membership No.
:47166 Mumbai Date :  April 22, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 316 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(Referred to in paragraph 1 (f ) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ of our report of even date)  REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS OVER  FINANCIAL REPORTING UNDER CLAUSE ( i) OF SUB- SECTION 3 OF SECTION 143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013  (“THE ACT”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial  statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March 31,  2016, we have audited the internal financial controls over financial  reporting of Reliance Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as  “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company  and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates  and jointly controlled entities incorporated in India, as of that date.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERNAL  FINANCIAL CONTROLS The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company,  its subsidiaries, associates, and jointly controlled entities all  incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and  maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control  over financial reporting criteria established by these entities,  considering the essential components of internal control stated  in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants  of India.
These responsibilities include the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were  operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct  of its business, including adherence to Company’s policies, the  safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds  and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting  records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information,  as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company’s  internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the  “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants  of India and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under section  143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an  audit of internal financial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance  Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was  established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively  in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over  financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit  of internal financial controls over financial reporting included  obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over  financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,  and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of  internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected  depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment  of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the other  auditors in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters  paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for  our audit opinion on the Group’s, its associates’ and jointly controlled  entities’ , incorporated in India, internal financial controls system over  financial reporting.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS OVER  FINANCIAL REPORTING A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a  process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the  reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance with generally  accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial  control over financial reporting includes those policies and  procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,  in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions  and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide  reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary  to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and  expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance  with authorisations of management and directors of the company;  and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the  company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial  statements.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL  CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over  financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper  management override of controls, material misstatements due  to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections  of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial  reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal  financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance  with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
OPINION In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us and based on the consideration of reports  of other auditors, as referred to in the Other Matters paragraph, the  Holding Company, its subsidiaries, associates, and jointly controlled  entities which are  incorporated in India,  have, in all material  respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over  financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial  reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2016, based  ANNEXURE “A”  TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  OF RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 317 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ANNEXURE “A” (Continued) TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  OF RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established  by the these entities, considering the essential components of  internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India.
OTHER MATTERS Our aforesaid reports under section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the  adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial  controls over financial reporting in so far as it relates to consolidated/ standalone financial statements of 18 subsidiaries and 3 associates  which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the  corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies.
For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
101720W) For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  Chartered Accountants   (Registration No.
117366W/ W-100018) For Rajendra & Co.  Chartered Accountants  (Registration No.
108355W) Rajesh D. Chaturvedi  Partner  Membership No.
: 45882 A.
B. Jani Partner  Membership No.
: 46488 A. R. Shah  Partner  Membership No.
:47166 Mumbai Date :  April 22, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 318 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Balance Sheet  as at 31st March, 2016 (` in crore) Note As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ Funds Share Capital 1 2,948 2,943 Reserves and Surplus 2 2,40,695 2,15,539 2,43,643 2,18,482 Share Application Money Pending Allotment 1 8 17 Minority Interest 3,254 3,038 Non-Current Liabilities Long Term Borrowings 3 1,42,000 1,20,777 Deferred Payment Liabilities 13,310 7,388 Deferred Tax Liability (net) 4 13,821 12,974 Other Long Term Liabilities 5 2,439 1,703 Long Term Provisions 6 1,869 1,554 1,73,439 1,44,396 Current Liabilities Short Term Borrowings 7 23,954 27,965 Trade Payables 8 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 235 136 Others 61,017 59,271 Other Current Liabilities 9 99,028 45,789 Short Term Provisions 10 1,636 5,392 1,85,870 1,38,553 Total 6,06,214 5,04,486 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Fixed Assets Tangible Assets 11 1,07,781 99,198 Intangible Assets 11 61,999 52,863 Capital Work-in-Progress 11 1,74,831 1,06,256 Intangible Assets Under Development 11 75,111 60,206 Goodwill on Consolidation 5,251 4,397 Non-Current Investments 12 37,005 25,437 Long Term Loans and Advances 13 17,621 19,538 Other Non-Current Assets 14 28 14 4,79,627 3,67,909 Current Assets Current Investments 15 39,928 51,014 Inventories 16 46,964 53,248 Trade Receivables 17 4,897 5,315 Cash and Bank Balances 18 11,197 12,545 Short Term Loans and Advances 19 17,834 11,171 Other Current Assets 20 5,767 3,284 1,26,587 1,36,577 Total 6,06,214 5,04,486 Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 37 As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 319 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Profit and Loss Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2016 (` in crore) Note  2015-16  2014-15 INCOME Revenue from Operations Sale of Products 2,86,576 3,79,992 Income from Services 9,515 8,502 2,96,091 3,88,494 Less: Excise Duty / Service Tax Recovered 19,547 13,059 Net Revenue from Operations 2,76,544 3,75,435 Other Income 21 8,246 8,613 Total Revenue 2,84,790 3,84,048 EXPENDITURE Cost of Materials Consumed 1,58,186 2,66,862 Purchases of Stock-in-Trade 28,297 25,701 Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-Process and Stock-in-Trade 22 2,571 1,483 Employee Benefits Expense 23 7,724 6,262 Finance Costs 24 3,608 3,316 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 25 12,916 11,547 Other Expenses 26 35,509 37,763 Total Expenses 2,48,811 3,52,934 Profit Before Tax 35,979 31,114 Tax Expenses Current Tax 8,073 6,296 Deferred Tax 191 1,178 Profit for the year (before adjustment for Minority Interest) 27,715 23,640 Add: Share of (Profit) transferred to Minority Interest (85) (74) Profit for the year (after adjustment for Minority Interest) 27,630 23,566 Earnings per equity share of face value of ` 10 each Basic and Diluted (in `) 27 93.78 80.11 Significant Accounting Policies See accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 37 As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Annual Report 2015-16 320 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Cash Flow Statement for the year 2015-16 (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 A: CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net Profit Before Tax as per Profit and Loss Statement 35,979 31,114 Adjusted for: Miscellaneous Expenditure written off 1 38 Share in Income of Associates (211) (118) Loss on Sale / Discard of Assets (Net) 57 68 Depreciation / Amortisation and Depletion Expense 12,916 11,547 Effect of Exchange Rate Change (3,579) 1,372 Profit on De-subsidiarisation of Subsidiary (43) (8) Net gain on Sale of Investments (3,260) (3,516) Exceptional Item (423) - Dividend Income (734) (306) Interest Income (3,026) (4,513) Finance Costs 3,608 3,316 5,306 7,880 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 41,285 38,994 Adjusted for: Trade and Other Receivables (7,147) 1,097 Inventories 6,284 3,472 Trade and Other Payables 7,991 (2,754) 7,128 1,815 Cash Generated from Operations 48,413 40,809 Taxes Paid (Net) (8,602) (6,435) Net Cash from Operating Activities 39,811 34,374 B: CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of Fixed Assets (49,662) (63,364) Sale of Fixed Assets 344 402 Purchase of Investments (7,15,187) (6,78,241) Sale / Redemption of Investments 7,21,658 6,66,383 Movement in Loans and Advances 753 (232) Maturity of Fixed Deposits 66 3,551 Interest Income 2,956 6,055 Dividend Income from Associates 10 5 Dividend Income from Others 724 543 Net Cash (Used in) Investing Activities (38,338) (64,898) Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 321 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Cash Flow Statement (Continued) for the year 2015-16  (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 C: CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from Issue of Share Capital 284 226 Proceeds from Issue of Share Capital to Minority 51 117 Redemption of Preference Share Capital of Minority (2) (1) Share Application Money 8 17 Proceeds from Long Term Borrowings 35,059 29,413 Repayment of Long Term Borrowings (17,689) (5,465) Short Term Borrowings (Net) (4,025) (6,444) Dividends Paid (including Dividend Distribution Tax) (7,259) (3,268) Interest Paid (9,115) (6,149) Miscellaneous Expenditure / Issue Expenses (71) (2) Net Cash (Used in) / generated from Financing Activities (2,759) 8,444 Net (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (1,286) (22,080) Opening Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents 12,472 34,360 Add: Upon addition of Subsidiaries 4 192 12,476 34,552 Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents* (Refer Note No.
18) 11,190 12,472 * Include towards Unclaimed Dividend of ` 223 crore (Previous year ` 199 crore) As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah  Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Annual Report 2015-16 322 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
A.
BASIS OF PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   These consolidated financial statements have been prepared to comply with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India  (Indian GAAP), including the Accounting Standards notified under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
B.
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements relate to Reliance Industries Limited (‘the Company’) and its subsidiary companies, associates  and joint ventures.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the following basis:  a)  The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary companies are combined on a line-by-line basis by adding together  the book values of like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, after fully eliminating intra-group balances and intra- group transactions in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) 21 - “Consolidated Financial Statements”  b)  Interest in Joint Ventures have been accounted by using the proportionate consolidation method as per Accounting Standard  (AS) 27 - “Financial Reporting of Interest in Joint Ventures” .
c)  In case of foreign subsidiaries, being non-integral foreign operations, revenue items are consolidated at the average rate prevailing  during the year.
All assets and liabilities are converted at rates prevailing at the end of the year.
Any exchange difference arising  on consolidation is recognised in the Exchange Fluctuation Reserve.
d)  The difference between the cost of investment in the subsidiaries, over the net assets at the time of acquisition of shares in the  subsidiaries is recognised in the financial statements as Goodwill or Capital Reserve, as the case may be.
e)  The difference between the proceeds from disposal of investment in subsidiaries and the carrying amount of its assets less  liabilities as of the date of disposal is recognised in the consolidated Profit and Loss Statement being the profit or loss on disposal  of investment in subsidiary.
f )  Minority Interest’s share of net profit of consolidated subsidiaries for the year is identified and adjusted against the income of the  group in order to arrive at the net income attributable to shareholders of the Company.
g)  Minority Interest’s share of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries is identified and presented in the consolidated balance sheet  separate from liabilities and the equity of the Company’s shareholders.
h)  Investment in Associate Companies has been accounted under the equity method as per Accounting Standard (AS) 23 -  “Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements” .
i)  The Company accounts for its share of post acquisition changes in net assets of associates, after eliminating unrealised profits and  losses resulting from transactions between the Company and its associates to the extent of its share, through its Consolidated  Profit and Loss Statement, to the extent such change is attributable to the associates’ Profit and Loss Statement and through its  reserves for the balance based on available information.
j)  The difference between the cost of investment in the associates and the share of net assets at the time of acquisition of shares in  the associates is identified in the financial statements as Goodwill or Capital Reserve as the case may be.
k)  As far as possible, the consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and  other events in similar circumstances and are presented in the same manner as the Company’s separate financial statements.
C.  Investments other than in subsidiaries and associates have been accounted as per Accounting Standard (AS) 13 on “Accounting for  Investments” .
D.  Other significant accounting policies  These are set out under “Significant Accounting Policies” as given in the Company’s separate financial statements.
Significant Accounting Policies on Consolidated Accounts Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 323 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 The previous year figures have been regrouped / reclassified, wherever necessary to conform to the current year presentation.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 1.
SHARE CAPITAL Authorised Share Capital: 500,00,00,000 (500,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 10 each 5,000 5,000 100,00,00,000 (100,00,00,000) Preference Shares of ` 10 each 1,000 1,000 6,000 6,000 Issued, Subscribed and Paid up: 294,80,21,694 (294,33,34,138) Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid up 2,948 2,943 Less: Calls in arrears - by others   [ ` 2,303 (Previous Year ` 3,113)] - - 2,948 2,943 Total 2,948 2,943 1.1 45,04,27,345 (45,04,27,345) Shares were allotted on conversion / surrender of Debentures and Bonds, conversion of Term Loans,  exercise of Warrants, against Global Depository Shares (GDS) and re-issue of Forfeited Equity Shares,  since inception.
1.2 4,62,46,280   (4,62,46,280) Shares were bought back and extinguished in the last five years.
1.3  The reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding is set out below : Particulars As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 No.
of Shares No.
of Shares Equity Shares at the beginning of the year 294,33,34,138 293,95,47,231 Add : Shares issued on exercise of E mployee S tock Options 46,87,556 37,86,907 Equity Shares at the end of the year 294,80,21,694 294,33,34,138  1.4   The Company has reserved issuance of 12,20,30,651 (Previous year 12,67,18,207) Equity Shares of ` 10 each for offering to Eligible  Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries under Employees Stock Option Scheme (ESOS).
During the year the Company  has granted 14,967 options at a price of ` 887 per option, plus all applicable taxes, as may be levied in this regard on the  Company (Previous year 45,419 options which includes 21,367 options at a price of ` 936 per option, 13,052 options at a price of   ` 961 per option and 11,000 options at a price of ` 843 per option, plus all applicable taxes, as may be levied in this regard on the  Company) to the Eligible Employees.
The options would vest over a maximum period of 7 years or such other period as may be  decided by the Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration Committee from the date of grant based on specified criteria.
1.5   Issued, Subscribed and paid up capital excludes 29,23,54,627 (Previous Year 29,23,54,627) equity shares directly held by  subsidiaries/trust, before their becoming subsidiaries of the Company, which have been eliminated.
1.6   Share Application Money Pending Allotment represents application money received on account of Employees Stock Option  Scheme.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 324 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 2.
RESERVES AND SURPLUS Capital Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 166 207 Add: On Consolidation of Subsidiaries ( N et) - 45 Add: Transfer to Goodwill on Consolidation* 878 - 1,044 252 Less: Transferred to P rofit and L oss Account 753 86 291 166 Exchange Fluctuation Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 1,834 1,803 Add : During the year 4 31 1,838 1,834 Capital Redemption Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 95 94 Add : Transferred from Profit and Loss Account on redemption of Shares 1 1 96 95 Securities Premium Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 42,681 42,431 Add : O n issue of shares 312 250 42,993 42,681 Less : Calls in arrears - by others   [ ` 1,03,189 (Previous Year ` 1,93,288)] - - 42,993 42,681 Debentures Redemption Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 1,122 1,117 Add: Transferred from Profit and Loss Account 3 5 1,125 1,122 Statutory Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 147 100 Add : Transferred from Profit and Loss Account 35 47 182 147 Revaluation Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 827 848 Add: On Revaluation 10 - 837 848 Less: Transferred to Profit and Loss Account   (Refer Note No.
11.7) - 28 Add: Transferred from / (to) Minority Interest (2) 7 835 827 General Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 1,53,214 1,35,214 Add: Transferred from Profit and Loss Account 22,000 18,000 1,75,214 1,53,214 Share in Reserves of Associates Revaluation Reserve As per last Balance Sheet 10 10 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 325 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 Profit and Loss Account As per last Balance Sheet 15,443 13,906 Reclassification of Profit and Loss Account of subsidiary 28 - (Short) Provision of Tax for earlier years (Net) (Previous Year ` 49,19,979 ) (1) - Excess /(Short) Provision of Tax for earlier years (Net) - M inority I nterest (1) - Add: Transfer from Capital Reserve Account 753 - Add: Profit for the year 27,630 23,566 43,852 37,472 Less: Appropriations Adjustment relating to Fixed Assets (Refer Note No.
11.9) - 377 Adjustment on Amalgamation / Disposal of Subsidiary 2 40 Transferred to Statutory R eserve 35 47 Transferred to General Reserve 22,000 18,000 Transferred to Capital Redemption R eserve 1 1 Transferred to Debenture Redemption R eserve 3 5 Proposed Dividend on Equity Shares [Dividend per Share ` Nil  ; (Previous year ` 10/-)] - 2,944 Interim Dividend on Equity Shares [Dividend per Share ` 10.50 ; (Previous year ` Nil)] 3,095 - Tax on  D ividend## 605 615 18,111 15,443 Total 2,40,695 2,15,539  * As a result of Capital reserve on consolidation ( ` 878) crore being negative, it has been reclassified to Goodwill on Consolidation.
##  Tax on Dividend is net of reversal of excess provision of ` 17 crore pertaining to Previous Year.
2.1   The Debenture Redemption Reserve has not been created for a cumulative amount of ` 1,023 crore in terms of Section 71(4) of the  Companies Act, 2013 (Previous Year ` 466 crore).
Debenture Redemption Reserve has not been created in respect of the following  subsidiary companies in view of inadequate profit / loss for the year:   1.
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited   2.
Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited   3.
Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited   4.
Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited   5.
Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited   6.
Reliance Payment Solutions Limited   7.
Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited   8.
Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited   9.
Reliance Vantage Retail Limited   10.
Reliance Aromatics and Petrochemicals Limited   11.
Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited   12.
Reliance Energy and Project Development Limited   13.
Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited   14.
Indiawin Sports Private Limited   15.
Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited   16.
Reliance Commercial Land & Infrastructure Limited   The above Companies shall create the Debenture Redemption Reserve out of profits, if any, in future years.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 326 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 Non Current Current Non Current Current 3.
LONG TERM BORROWINGS Secured Non Convertible Debentures 8,637 133 1,270 164 Term Loans from Banks 2,299 5 4,696 - Term Loans from Others - - 1,500 - Long Term Maturities of Finance Lease Obligations - 11 9 13 10,936 149 7,475 177 Unsecured Bonds / Debentures 49,333 2,975 45,999 857 Term Loans- from B anks 80,449 11,703 66,807 11,084 Term Loans- from Others 1,282 298 496 - 1,31,064 14,976 1,13,302 11,941 Total 1,42,000 15,125 1,20,777 12,118  3.1  Non Convertible Debentures referred above to the extent of:   a)   ` 370 crore are secured by way of first mortgage / charge on the immovable properties situated at Hazira Complex and at  Jamnagar Complex (other than SEZ unit) of the Company.
b)    ` 400 crore are secured by way of first mortgage / charge on all the properties situated at Hazira Complex and at Patalganga  Complex of the Company.
c)   ` 500 crore are secured by way of first mortgage / charge on the immovable properties situated at Jamnagar Complex (SEZ unit)  of the Company.
d)  ` 7,500 crore are secured by hypothecation of movable properties of the Subsidiary Company “Reliance Jio Infocomm  Limited” except telecom licenses and spectrum.
3.2  Secured term loans from Banks referred above to the extent of:    a) ` 2,290 crore are secured by way of mortgage / hypothecation of movable, immovable properties and current   assets.
b)  ` 14 crore are secured by way of hypothecation of vehicles and are repayable over a period of 2 to 5 years.
3.3  Finance Lease Obligations are secured against leased assets.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 4.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY (NET) Deferred Tax Liability Related to fixed assets 22,006 19,983 Deferred Tax Assets Related to fixed assets 222 120 Disallowances under the Income Tax Act 381 321 Carried forward loss of subsidiaries 7,582 6,568 8,185 7,009 Total 13,821 12,974 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 327 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 5.
OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES Others # 2,439 1,703 Total 2,439 1,703  #   Includes interest accrued but not due on Deferred Payment Liabilities, Creditors for Capital Expenditure, Premium payable on forward contracts and exchange loss.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 6.
LONG TERM PROVISIONS Provisions for Annuities 65 53 Provision for decommissioning of Assets 1,804 1,501 Total 1,869 1,554 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 7.
SHORT TERM BORROWINGS Secured Working Capital Loans From Banks Foreign Currency Loans 74 843 Rupee Loans 2,941 2,142 3,015 2,985 From Others Rupee Loans 1,649 - Unsecured Other Loans and Advances From Banks Foreign Currency Loans * 16,226 24,535 Rupee Loans 2,173 332 From Others Rupee Loans 825 50 19,224 24,917 Loans from related parties (Refer Note No.
28) 66 63 Total 23,954 27,965  * Includes Buyers Credit/Packing Credit  7.1 Working Capital Loans from Banks referred above to the extent of:   (a)  ` 2,213 crore (Previous Year ` 2,774  crore) are secured by hypothecation of present and future stock of raw materials,  stock-in-process, finished goods, stores and spares (not relating to plant and machinery), book debts, outstanding monies,  receivables, claims, bills, materials in transit, etc.
save and except receivables of Oil and Gas Division.
(b)  ` 728 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured by way of first charge on all the Current Assets.
` Nil (Previous Year ` 23 crore)  are secured by standby Letter of Credit.
(c) `  74  crore (Previous Year ` 188 crore) is secured by hypothecation of plant and Machinery.
7.2 Working Capital Loan from Others of ` 1,649 crore  (Previous Year ` Nil) are secured by lien on Government Securities.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 328 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
8.
TRADE PAYABLES The details of amounts outstanding to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises based on information available with the Company is as  under: (` in crore) Particulars As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 Principal amount due and remaining unpaid - - Interest due on above and the unpaid interest - - Interest paid - - Payment made beyond the appointed day during the year - - Interest due and payable for the period of delay - - Interest accrued and remaining unpaid - - Amount of further interest remaining due and payable in succeeding years - - Total - - (` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 9.
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Current maturities of Long Term Debt 15,114 12,105 Current maturities of Finance Lease Obligations 11 13 (Refer Note No 3) 15,125 12,118 Current maturities of Deferred Payment Liabilities 739 3 Interest accrued but not due 1,988 928 Unclaimed Dividend # 223 199 Application money received and due for refund # 1 1 Unclaimed/Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon 4 2 Unclaimed/ Unpaid matured debentures and interest accrued thereon # 1 1 Other Payables * 80,947 32,537 Total 99,028 45,789  #  These figures do not include any amounts, due and outstanding, to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund except ` 17 crore (Previous Year  ` 15 crore) which is held in abeyance due to legal cases pending.
*  Includes Statutory Dues, Security Deposit, Creditors for Capital Expenditure and Advance from Customers.
(` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 10.
SHORT TERM PROVISIONS Provisions for Employee Benefits 443 364 Proposed Dividend - 2,944 Tax on Dividend - 615 Provision for Wealth Tax 77 77 Provision for Income Tax (Net of advance tax) 42 126 Other Provisions * 1,074 1,266 Total 1,636 5,392  * Includes primarily provision for Customs Duty, Excise Duty on Finished Goods, Other Duties and Taxes.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 329 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) Description GROSS BLOCK DEPRECIATION / AMORTISATION / DEPLETION NET BLOCK As at   01-04-2015 Additions/  Adjustments Deductions/ Adjustments As at   31-03-2016 As at   01-04-2015 For the Year# Deductions/ Adjustments As at    31-03-2016 As at    31-03-2016 As at    31-03-2015 11.
FIXED ASSETS Tangible Assets : Own Assets : Leasehold Land  2,866  2,914  362  5,418  765  186  106  845  4,573  2,101  Freehold Land  6,993  270  24  7,239  -    -    -    -    7,239  6,993  Buildings  13,967  1,317  8  15,276  4,536  586  33  5,089  10,187  9,431  Plant & Machinery  1,58,421  10,877  444  1,68,854  84,632  5,450  606  89,476  79,378  73,789  Electrical Installations  3,622  268  43  3,847  1,539  482  32  1,989  1,858  2,083  Equipments $  6,793  497  112  7,178  2,956  703  81  3,578  3,600  3,837  Furniture & Fixtures  1,213  98  36  1,275  686  121  28  779  496  527  Vehicles  665  106  40  731  361  112  35  438  293  304  Ships  387  35  -    422  294  7  -    301  121  93  Aircrafts & Helicopters  45  -    -    45  32  2  -    34  11  13  Sub-Total  1,94,972  16,382  1,069  2,10,285  95,801  7,649  921  1,02,529  1,07,756  99,171  Leased Assets : Plant & Machinery  277  -    -    277  250  2  -    252  25  27  Ships  10  -    -    10  10  -    -    10  -    -    Sub-Total  287  -    -    287  260  2  -    262  25  27  Total (A) 1,95,259  16,382  1,069 2,10,572  96,061  7,651  921 1,02,791 1,07,781  99,198  Intangible Assets* : Technical Knowhow Fees  3,435  251  -    3,686  2,246  154  -    2,400  1,286  1,189  Software  1,536  119  -    1,655  1,028  178  -    1,206  449  508  Development Rights  80,271  17,424  2,365  95,330  31,927  5,932  -    37,859  57,471  48,344  Others  3,968  30  14  3,984  1,146  66  21  1,191  2,793  2,822  Total (B)  89,210  17,824  2,379 1,04,655  36,347  6,330  21  42,656  61,999  52,863  Total (A+B)  2,84,469  34,206  3,448  3,15,227  1,32,408  13,981  942  1,45,447  1,69,780  1,52,061  Previous Y ear 2,61,019 25,074 1,624 2,84,469 1,19,602 13,930 1,124 1,32,408 1,52,061 Capital Work-in-Progress 1,74,831  1,06,256  Intangible Assets under  Development 75,111  60,206   $ Includes Office Equipments  * Other than internally generated  # Depreciation for the year includes depreciation of ` 351 crore (Previous Year ` 254 crore) capitalised during the year.
11.1  Leasehold Land includes ` 317  crore (Previous Year ` 203 crore) in respect of which lease-deeds are pending execution.
11.2  Buildings includes :   i) Cost of shares in Co-operative Housing Societies ` 1,99,950 (Previous Year ` 1 crore).
ii)  ` 135  crore (Previous Year ` 93 crore) in shares of Companies / Societies with right to hold and use certain area of Buildings.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 330 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
11.3 Intangible assets - Others includes:   i) Jetties amounting to ` 812 crore (Previous Year ` 812 crore), the Ownership of which vests with Gujarat Maritime Board.
ii)  ` 2,899 crore (Previous Year ` 2,899 crore) in shares of companies and lease premium paid with right to hold and use Land  and Buildings.
11.4 Capital Work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets under Development includes:   i) ` 37,327 crore (Previous Year ` 19,935 crore) on account of project development expenditure.
ii) ` 33,984 crore (Previous Year ` 27,610 crore) on account of cost of construction materials at site.
11.5  Project Development Expenditure:   (in respect of Projects up to 31st March, 2016, included under Capital Work-in-Progress and Intangible Assets under Development) (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 Opening Balance 19,935 9,982 Add: Transferred from Profit and Loss Account (Refer Note No.
26) 2,507  1,573  Expenses on Project under Construction 7,118 4,051 Interest Capitalised 8,324 4,409 17,949 10,033 Less: Project Development Expenses Capitalised during the year 557 80 Closing Balance 37,327 19,935  11.6   Gross Block includes ` 10 crore added on revaluation of Buildings, Plant & Machinery and Storage Tanks as at 31st December,  2015,  ` 346 crore added on revaluation of Buildings, Plant & Machinery and Storage Tanks as at 31st December, 2013,  based on  reports issued by international valuers.
11.7   The Gross Block of Fixed Assets includes ` 38,882  crore (Previous Year ` 38,872 crore) on account of revaluation of Fixed Assets  carried out since inception.
` Nil (Previous Year ` 114 crore) has been withdrawn from Revaluation Reserve and Capital Reserve.
11.8   Additions in Plant and Machinery, Capital Work-in-Progress, Intangible Assets - Development Rights and Intangible Assets under  Development include ` 11,844 crore (net loss) [Previous Year ` 6,867 crore (net loss)] on account of exchange difference during  the year.
11.9   Pursuant to the enactment of Companies Act 2013, the company has applied the estimated useful lives as specified in   Schedule II, except in respect of certain assets as disclosed in Accounting Policy on Depreciation, Amortisation and Depletion.
Accordingly the unamortised carrying value is being depreciated / amortised over the revised / remaining useful lives.
The  written down value of Fixed Assets whose  lives have expired as at 1st April 2014 have been adjusted net of tax, in the opening  balance of Profit and Loss Account of the year ended 31st March, 2015, amounting to ` 377 crore.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 331 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 12.
NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS (Long Term Investments)   (Valued at Cost less other than temporary diminution in value, if any)   A .
Investments in Associates In Equity Shares - Quoted, fully paid up 68,60,064   (68,60,064) Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited of ` 10 each 164 157 164 157 In Equity Shares - Unquoted, fully paid up 1,60,40,769   (51,54,872) Algenol LLC 284 321 10,000   (10,000) Aeon Learnings Private Limited of ` 10 each - - -   (6,31,42,865) Aurora Algae Inc - - 2,600   (2,600) Book My Show Limited   [ ` 33,76,494  ; (Previous year ` 21,44,553)] - - EFS Midstream LLC - 1,795 60,94,190   (60,94,190) Eenadu Television Private Limited of ` 10 each 475 471 46,87,500   (46,87,500) Extramarks Education Private Limited of ` 10 each 125 125 64,29,20,000   (64,29,20,000) Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited   of ` 1 each 158 106 2,10,000   (1,05,000) Gaurav Overseas Private Limited of ` 10 each  [ ` 19,31,469 ; (Previous Year ` 9,45,470)] - - 62,63,125   (62,63,125) Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited of `10 each 1 1 52,49,344 (52,49,344) Matrix Genetics LLC 11 13 11,08,500    (11,08,500) Reliance Europe Limited of Sterling Pound 1 each 33 32 74,99,990   (74,99,990) Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited of `10 each 11 11 22,500   (22,500) Reliance LNG Limited of ` 10 each   [ ` 2,04,824 ; (Previous Year ` 2,14,493)] - - 5,000   (5,000) Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited   of ` 10 each - - 52,00,000   (52,00,000) Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Class ‘A’ shares of ` 1 each [ ` 40,40,000  ; (Previous Year ` 40,40,000)] - - -   (5,000) Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited of ` 10 each   (Previous Year ` 40,500) - - -   (8,014) Wespro Digital Private Limited of ` 10 each   (Previous Year ` 3,41,532) - - Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 332 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 1,07,593   (1,07,593) 24x7 Learning Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 31,76,645   (-) Vayana Private Limited of ` 10 each 21 - 4,16,907   (-) Vayana Private Limited of ` 10 each,   ` 5.50 paid up 3 1,122 2,875 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, fully paid up 50,00,00,000   (50,00,00,000) 9% Non Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares of  Reliance  Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited of   ` 10 each 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 In Debentures - Unquoted, fully Paid Up -  (4,17,319) Zero Coupon Secured Optionally Convertible  Redeemable Debentures of Reliance Commercial  Trading Private Limited - Series B of ` 1,000 each - 42 -   (1,00,000) 9% Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures of  Extramarks Education Private Limited of   ` 10,000 each - 100 - 142 In Limited Liability Partnership GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP   [ ` 22,49,001  ; (Previous Year ` 14,43,495)] - - Total Investment in Associates (A) 3,286 5,174 B.
Investments in others In Government Securities-Unquoted 6 Years National Savings Certificate (Deposited  with Sales Tax Department and other Government  Authorities) [ ` 19,32,097 ; (Previous Year ` 41,55,919)] - - - - In Government Securities-Quoted 4,616 3,551 Trade Investments In Equity Shares-Unquoted, fully paid up 1,00,00,000   (1,00,00,000) Petronet India Limited of ` 10 each 10 10 5,000   (5,000) Retailers Association’s Skill Council of India of ` 10 each [ ` 1,00,000; (Previous Year ` 1,00,000)] - - 25  (25) The Colaba Central Co-operative Consumer’s Wholesale  and Retail Stores Limited (Sahakari Bhandar) of ` 200 each.
[ ` 5,000  ; (Previous Year ` 5,000)] - - 10 10 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 333 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 Other Investments In Equity Shares-Quoted, fully paid up 4,52,88,158 (3,10,02,444) Algae.
Tech Limited of AU$ 0.1636 each 22 17 19,48,680   (19,48,680) Den Networks Limited of ` 10 each 19 19 10,59,07,273   (10,59,07,273) EIH Limited of ` 2 each 1,433 1,433 27,71,717   (36,58,400) Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited of   ` 2 each 193 241 35,47,800   (-) Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited  Warrant 63 - 4,85,32,764   (4,85,32,764) Himachal Futuristic Communications Limited   of ` 1 each 57 57 -   (8,100) Inca Finlease Limited of ` 10 each - - 4,74,308   (4,74,308) KSL Industries Limited of  ` 4 each   [ ` 88,69,560  ; (Previous Year ` 88,69,560)] 1 1 1,15,86,762   (1,15,86,762) Network 18 Media Trust 43 43 2,75,000   (2,75,000) Refex Refrigerants Limited of ` 10 each - - -   (2,20,000) Royal Traders Limited of ` 10 each - - 17,42,720 (22,32,720) State Bank of India of ` 1 each   (Previous Year ` 2 each) 39 49 1,870 1,860 In Equity Shares-Unquoted, fully paid up 10,000   (5,000) Airspan Networks Inc. @ $ 1,000 per share 66 32 4,89,518   (-) Airhop Corporation Inc. @ $ 0.0001 per share 3 - 1,000   (1,000) Air Controls and Chemical Engineering Company  Limited of ` 1 each [ ` 1,500 ; (Previous Year ` 1,500)] - - - ( 19,180 ) Covacsis Technologies Private Limited of ` 10 each - 3 8,98,500   (8,98,500) Delhi Stock Exchange Association Limited  of   ` 10 each - - 400 (400) Eshwar Land Private Limited of ` 10 each 80 80 Ecorithim Inc. 4 3 83,763   (83,763) Ensemble Infrastructure India Limited of ` 10 each - - 3,01,876   (3,01,876) MobileNXT Teleservices Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 85,000   (85,000) National Stock Exchange of India Limited of ` 10 each 28 28 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 334 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 1,500   (1,500) Reliance Research and Development Services Private  Limited of ` 10 each [ ` 15,000; ( P revious Y ear ` 15,000)] - - -  (2,53,800) Shinano Retail Private Limited of `10 each   [ ` Nil ; ( P revious Year ` 25,38,000)] - - 400   (400) Sonali Land Private Limited of ` 10 each   [ ` 4,000  ; (Previous Year ` 4,000)] - - -  (3,192) Skorydove Systems Private Limited of ` 10 each - - 44,54,799   (44,54,799) Terra Power LLC 102 97 -  (1,800) Teesta Retail Private Limited of ` 10 each   [ ` Nil ; ( P revious Year ` 18,125)] - - 27,500   (27,500) Ushodaya Enterprises Private Limited of ` 100 each 37 37 -  (72,643) Videonetics Technology Private Limited of ` 10 each - 10 27,00,000   (27,00,000) Yatra Online Inc. of $ 0.0001 each 15 14 1,09,348   (50,614) Yatraonline Private Limited of ` 10 each 20 9 355 313 In Preference Shares - Unquoted, fully paid up 2,50,000 (2,50,000) 0.10% Non Cumulative Redeemable Preference  Shares  of Series "II" of ` 100 each in   IBN Lokmat News Private Limited  3 3 25,00,000   (25,00,000) Preference shares of ` 10 each in   Den Entertainment Network Private Limited 3 3 2  (-) Preference shares of Aeon Learning Private Limited   [ ` 1,020 ; ( P revious Year ` Nil)] - - 15,00,015   (15,00,015) Series A Preference Shares of $ 0.0001 each in Yatra  Online Inc. 4 4 9,75,700   (9,75,700 )  Series B Preference shares of $ 0.0001 each in Yatra  Online Inc. 8 8 4,37,459   (4,37,459) Series C Preference Shares of $ 0.0001 each in Yatra  Online Inc. 9 9 27 27 In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted fully paid up   3,00,00,000  (-) Axis Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 47) - Growth  30 - 1,17,72,377 (1,50,75,101) Baroda Pioneer Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series J & M)  -  Growth  12  15  99,16,10,709 (27,98,82,768) Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan - (Series JA/JI/JQ/JX/KA/ KC/KE/KH/KJ/KL/KP/KR/KT/MA/MD/MK/MP/MQ/MR/MU/ MX/MY/NB/ND/NE/NG/NH/NI/NK/NL) - Growth  992  280  40,07,31,150 (19,01,55,380) DHFL Pamerica Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 45/49/54/57/62/82/85/ 87/91/95) - Growth 401 190 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 335 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 - (20,93,53,761) DSP Black Rock  Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 146/149/151) - Growth -  209  1,14,50,00,000 (3,50,00,000) HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - ( Series 34/35/36  1105D/1111D/ 1112D/1114D/1132D/1155D/1157D/117 6D) - Growth  1,145  35  1,82,08,56,950 (77,12,14,635) ICICI Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 71/72/73/75/76/77/78) - Growth  1,821  771  2,50,00,000  (3,79,28,740) IDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series  49/50/51) - Growth  25  38  63,67,31,022 (5,45,14,579) Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series  132/133/136/142/145/146/   147/149/175/176/178/179/180/182/185/190/191) -  Growth  637  55  4,32,72,349 (-) L&T Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 10) - (Plan H/T) - Growth 43 - 5,50,00,000  (3,00,00,000) LIC Nomura Mutual Fund Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 86/89/90) - Growth  55  30  1,49,60,99,239 (32,99,25,439) Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund -   (Series 1/2/4/5/6/7/8/9/10/11/12/13/14/16/17/19/20/27/ 33) - (Plan XXV/XXVI/XXVII/XXVIII/XXIX/XXX) -  Growth  1,496  330  39,00,00,000 (22,78,25,006) Religare Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 22/24/25/26/27) –   (Plan A/C/D/E/F/H) - Growth  390 228 1,16,19,16,665 (23,93,60,369) SBI Debt Fund - (Series A/B/1/2/3/4/5/6/8/9/10/11/14/1 6/17/18/19/20/22/23/25/26/27/29/31/33/34/35/36/366 ) - Growth  1,161  239  27,00,00,000  (-) Sundaram Fixed Term Plan – (GW/GY/HA/HB/HC)  270 - 8,50,15,846  (2,74,08,274) Tata Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 45/46) - (Scheme C/M/T)- Growth  85  27  83,09,64,579 (27,37,96,672) UTI Fixed Term Income Fund - (Series XXII - IX/XXIII-XV/ XX-X/XI-XI/XXIII-III/XXIII-VII/XXII-X/XXII-XI/XXIV-VI/XVII-I/ XXII-XIV/XXIII-XI/XXIV-VIII/XXIV-IV/XVII-XIII/XXIV-IX/XX- VIII) - Growth   830  274   9,393 2,721 In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted 3,000   (3,000) Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited - 0%   Secured Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of   ` 10,00,000 each 300 300 10,00,000   (10,00,000) IndiaCast Media Distribution Private Limited - Zero  Coupon compulsorily convertible debenture of   ` 10 each 3 3 2,250   (2,250) HDB Financial Services Limited  - 0% Secured  Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of   ` 10,00,000 each  225 225 1,252   (1,252) Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited -  0% Secured  Redeemable Non  Convertible Debentures of   ` 10,00,000 each  100 100 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 336 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 820 (820) Tata Sons Limited 83 83 30   (30) Unsecured Redeemable Non Convertible, Upper Tier II  Bonds of Yes Bank Limited of ` 10,00,000 each 3 3 2,50,000   (2,50,000) Unsecured Zero (Coupon) Optionally Redeemable/   Convertible Debentures of VT Media Private Limited of `  1,000 each 25 25 46,57,00,000   (-) Unsecured Zero (Coupon) Optionally Redeemable/   Convertible Debentures of Teesta Retail Private Limited  of ` 10 each 466 - 1,205 739 In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted -  (22,505) Citicorp Finance (India) Limited - Secured Redeemable Non  Convertible Debentures - Series 324 of ` 1,00,000 each  - 225 1,250   (-) Citicorp Finance (India) Limited - 0% Secured  Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures Series 570A of  ` 10,00,000 each  125 - 5,000   (-) Citicorp Finance (India) Limited - 0% Secured  Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures Series 575  Tranche 5 of ` 1,00,000 each  50 - 100  (100) Export Import Bank of India 10 10 43,850 (55,350) Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 2,948 4,389 900   (-) IDFC Bank Limited  91 - 57,70,976   (42,62,612) Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited 577 426 5,850 (8,050) Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited 434 805 9,750   (11,250) LIC Housing Finance Limited 980 1,126 16,24,821   (-) National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development  4,213 - 39,44,752   (39,44,752) National Highways Authority of India 395 395 9,29,946   (9,49,946) National Thermal Power Company Limited 93 95 43,05,143 (42,79,543) Power Finance Corporation Limited 3,769 1,203 1,000 (950) Power Grid Corporation of India Limited 100 95 25,14,520 (12,100) Rural Electrification Corporation Limited 1,162 1,212 2,500  (-) Small Industries Development Bank Of India Limited  250 - -  (950) State Bank Of India - 94 15,197 10,075 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 337 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 In Others 20,00,000   (10,00,000) DSP Blackrock India Enhanced Equity Fund 20 10 26,66,289   (27,10,745) Faering Capital India Evolving Fund of ` 1,000 each 267 271 92,435   (2,73,770) HDFC India Real Estate of ` 1,000 per unit 10 29 4,01,28,946   (-) GenNext Venture Fund - Class A Units of ` 10 each 40 - 50,000   (50,000) JM Financial Property Fund - I of ` 5,961.07 per unit;  (Previous Year ` 6,432.82 per unit)  30 32 30,00,000 (26,82,000) KKR India Debt Fund I of ` 1,000 each 312 274 25,000   (25,000) LICHFL Urban Development Fund of ` 10,000 each,   ` 7,848  paid up (Previous Year ` 3,145 paid up) 21 9 MPM Bioventure IV-QP , LP , USA 94 96 5,000   (5,000) Multiples Private Equity Fund - Scheme 1   of ` 1,00,000 each, ` 68,219  paid up   (Previous Year ` 62,297 paid up) 35 33 2,08,000   (-) Multiples Private Equity Fund - II of ` 1,000 each 19 - 1,931   (2,000) Peninsula Realty Fund of ` 1,00,000 each 23 25 21,600   (21,600) Urban Infrastructure Opportunities Fund   of ` 79,930  per unit (Previous Year ` 86,160 per unit) 175 188 1,046 967 Total Investments in Others (B) 33,719 20,263 Total Long Term Investments (A + B) 37,005 25,437 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 13.
LONG-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES  (Unsecured and Considered Good) Capital Advances# 10,540 11,783 Deposits## 4,361 4,050 Loans and Advances to R elated P arties (Refer Note No.
28) 156 18 Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision) 2,038 1,554 Other Loans and Advances* 526 2,133 Total 17,621 19,538 #  Includes ` 28,16,626 (Previous Year ` 11,92,164) to Reliance Utilities & Power Private Limited which is related party.
## Includes ` 2,221 crore (Previous Year ` 2,172 crore) relating to Deposits with related parties (Refer Note No.
28).
* Includes claims receivable from statutory authorities, loans to employees etc.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 338 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 14.
OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS Others* 28 14 Total 28 14  * Includes Revaluation of Forward Contracts.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 15.
CURRENT INVESTMENTS (Carried at lower of cost and quoted /  fair value, including current portion   of long term investment) Investments in Equity Shares - Quoted fully Paid-up 6,98,288   (6,98,288) Den Network Limited of ` 10 each 1 1 In Government Securities - Quoted* 3,651 4,370 Collateral Borrowing and Lending Obligation - Unquoted - 100 In Debentures or Bonds - Quoted, fully Paid up 10,017   (4,850) Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited  2,014 486 7,50,000   (-) Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  75 - 1,075   (-) Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited  96 - 2,000  (-) LIC Housing Finance Limited  199 - 2,750   (-) National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development  275 - 33,12,714   (-) National Highways Authority of India  332 - 7,300                     (6,950) Power Finance Corporation Limited  733 695 2,100  (20) Power Grid Corporation of India Limited  216 3 1,950   (150) Rural Electrification Corporation Limited  196 15 -  (23,957) State Bank of India - 145 4,136 1,344 In Debentures or Bonds - Unquoted, fully Paid up -  (2,150) Tata Sons Limited - 215 -  215  Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 339 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 In Fixed Maturity Plan - Quoted, fully Paid up - (25,90,00,000) Axis Fixed Term Plan -   (Series 47/49/52/55/59/60) - Growth -  259  1,50,75,101  (6,00,00,000) Baroda Pioneer Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series J/M/N) - Growth  15  60  14,98,82,768  (64,10,00,000) Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan -   (Series JA/JI/JQ/JR/JX/KA/KC/KE/KH/KJ/KO/KP/KR/KT) - Growth  150  641  - (36,80,00,000) DHFL Pamerica Fixed Maturity Plan   (Series 45/47/49/52/53/54/57/63) - Growth - 368 20,93,53,761  (15,50,00,000) DSP BlackRock Fixed Maturity Plan-   (Series 36/37/146/149/150/151/152) - Growth  209  155  4,56,47,510 (84,56,47,510) HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 372D/377D/384D/390D/400D/  434D/435D/441D/447D/453D/478D/491D/504D/531D/540D) -  Growth  46  846  - (6,00,00,000) HSBC  Fixed Term Plan - (Series 105)- Growth  -    60  3,40,65,257 (7,50,00,000) ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 71) -   (Plan C/E/H/I) - Cumulative 34 75 9,51,59,378 (79,00,00,000) ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 72/73) -   (Plan A/B/C/D/E/F/G/I/J/K/L/N/O/S) - Growth 95 790 - (2,98,46,064) ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Annual Interval Plan - (Plan I) -  Cumulative  -    32  6,79,28,740  (31,30,00,000) IDFC Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series 21/49/50/51/57/60/64/66/70/7 2/74/75/79/84/86) - Growth  68  313   7,96,09,567  (8,79,22,280) IDFC Yearly Series Interval Fund -( Series I/II) - Growth  80  88   - (10,50,00,000) JP Morgan India Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 30/33) - Growth  -    105  11,45,14,578  (40,00,00,000) Kotak Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 132/133/136/141/142/145/146/147/149) - Growth  115  400  - (19,50,00,000) L&T Fixed Maturity Plan – (Series 9/X) –   (Plan B/H/J/M/Q/S/T) - Growth  -    195  3,21,69,789  (18,28,13,373) LIC Nomura  Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 1/64/72/76/77/79/81/86) - Growth  33  184  - (2,50,00,000) Principal PNB  Fixed Maturity Plan - (Series B10) - Growth  -    25   - (30,00,00,000) Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund -   (Series 2/5/27/33) - (Plan XXV/XXVI) - Growth  -    300  2,28,25,006  (7,00,00,000) Religare Invesco Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 22/XXI) – (Plan E/F/H)  - Growth  23  70  15,03,60,369  (64,50,00,000) SBI Debt Fund - (Series - 1/2/3/5/10/11/ 14/ 16/17/ 366) – Growth  150  645  - (8,80,00,000) Sundaram  Fixed Term Plan -   (Series EU/EX/FD/FI) - Growth  -    88  2,74,08,274  (17,00,00,000) Tata Fixed Maturity Plan -   (Series 45/46) - (Scheme C/K/M/N/Q/T) - Growth  27  170  2,28,32,093  (13,50,00,000) UTI Fixed Term Income Fund -   (Series XVII - VII/XVII-XIV/XVIII-I/XVII-IV/XVII-I) - Growth   23  135   1,068 6,004 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 340 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015  In Mutual Fund - Quoted 2,50,000   (2,50,000)  Canara Robeco Capital Protection - Growth   [ ` 25,00,000 (Previous Year ` 25,00,000)] - - -  (14,23,59,900)  Franklin India Corp Bond Opportunities Fund - Growth - 200 -  (3,25,87,726) Franklin India Income Builder Account - Growth - 150 -  (18,69,31,029)  Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund - Growth - 300 -  (26,80,90,641)  Franklin India Low Duration Fund - Growth - 400 -  (3,25,53,638) Franklin India Savings Plus Fund - Growth - 75 -  (9,11,243) Franklin India Short Term Income Plan - Growth - 250 -  (97,58,08,342) HDFC Corporate Debt Opportunities Fund – Dividend - 1,000 -  (3,21,07,882) HDFC Dynamic Bond Fund - Growth - 150 -  (30,00,00,000) HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund - Long Term Plan - Dividend - 300 -  (5,30,69,730) HDFC Gilt Fund - Long Term - Growth - 150 -  (61,07,51,216) HDFC High Interest Fund Short Term Plan - Dividend - 625 -  (12,80,60,101) HDFC Income Fund  - Growth - 400 48,46,69,171   (33,79,24,449) HDFC Medium Term Opportunities Plan - Dividend 505 350 -  (29,42,59,007) HDFC Short Term Opportunities Fund - Dividend - 300 -  (47,91,71,028) HDFC Short Term Plan - Dividend - 485 1,66,50,000   (1,66,50,000) ICICI Prudential Nifty Exchange Traded Fund 149 149 -  (66,83,30,981) IDFC Dynamic Bond Fund - Dividend - 725 -  (21,42,10,231) IDFC Money Manager Fund Investment Plan - Dividend - 225 -   (8,15,59,748) IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Short Term Plan - Growth - 200 5,70,000   (5,70,000) Kotak Nifty Exchange Traded Fund - Growth 50 50 -  (4,43,27,649) Sundaram Growth Fund - Dividend - 70 -  (6,85,74,208) Sundaram Select Debt Fund - Dividend - 75  704 6,629 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 341 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015  In Mutual Fund - Unquoted 6,59,60,044   (-) Axis Enhanced Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 70 - 7,59,94,772   (7,59,94,772)  Axis Short Term Fund - Growth 96 96 35,47,37,364   (12,45,78,631) Axis Short Term Fund - Dividend 365  125  -   (57,16,712) Axis Mutual Fund - 7 7,83,14,262   (-) Baroda Balance Plan - Dividend 175 - 49,29,88,112   (1,98,28,31,662) Birla Sun Life Dynamic Bond Fund - Dividend 522 2,100 -   (9,73,33,060) Birla Sun Life Income Plus Plan - Growth  -   600 -   (6,07,43,008) Birla Sun Life Index Fund - Dividend  -  150 66,33,08,422   (28,92,79,309)  Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Dividend 690  300  22,34,01,784   (22,34,01,784)  Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Growth 1,000  1,000  -   (29,22,23,922) Birla Sun Life Dynamic Bond Fund - Growth  -   549  19,98,33,489   (2,29,32,203)  Birla Sun Life Enhanced Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 220  25  -   (60,94,85,042)  Birla Sun Life Short Term Opportunities Fund - Dividend - 875 8,22,25,877   (7,41,06,213)  Birla Sun Life Treasury Optimizer Plan - Dividend 950 850 13,45,119   (19,22,375) Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Growth - Regular 6 8 3,26,385   (3,88,183) Birla Sun Life - Cash Plus - Direct Plan - Growth 6 9 16,95,597   (-) Birla Sun Life - Cash Plus - Growth - Regular Plan 41 - -   (86,068) Birla Sun Life Floating Rate Fund Short Term Growth - 2 296   (-) Birla Sun Life Savings Fund - Growth - Regular Plan [ ` 86,364;  (Previous Year ` Nil)] - - 10,09,60,780   (2,43,52,942)  DHFL Pamerica Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 105  25  16,49,64,780   (-)  DHFL Pamerica Banking and PSU  Debt Fund - Bonus 200  -    71,57,64,96   (71,57,64,96)  DHFL Pamerica Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Dividend 75  75  2,40,93,515   (2,40,93,515)  DHFL Pamerica Insta Cash Plus - Bonus 236  236  Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 342 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 2,46,06,581   (2,46,06,581)  DHFL Pamerica Insta Cash Plus Fund   Super Institutional Plan - Bonus 243  243  15,92,96,546   - DHFL Pamerica Premier Bond Fund - Dividend 200  -    1,84,06,566   (1,84,06,566)  DHFL Pamerica Treasury Fund -  Bonus 18  18  -  (23,03,028)  DSP Black Rock Strategic Bond Institutional Fund - Dividend  -    250  13,27,46,938   (4,95,70,718)  DSP Black Rock Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Growth 150  50  -  (7,22,79,657)  DSP Black Rock Short Term Fund - Growth  -   147  -  (15,82,42,871)  DSP Black Rock Income Opportunities Fund - Growth  -    350  -  (6,58,460) DHFL Pamerica Mutual Fund - 1 85,54,686   (85,54,686) DHFL Pramerica Short Maturity Fund Growth 20 20 9,65,71,057   (-)  Edelweiss Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 100 - 2,15,42,067   (-)  Franklin India Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth 25 - 29,63,61,644   (29,63,61,644)  HDFC  Short Term Opportunities Fund - Growth 400  400  49,84,18,726   (-) HDFC  Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 520 - 6,78,03,505   (-) HDFC Banking and PSU Fund - Growth 80 - 50,00,000   (50,00,000)  HDFC Debt Fund for Cancer Cure - Dividend 5  5  37,50,03,000   (-)  HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund Long Term - Dividend 375  -    2,03,35,619   (-) HDFC Gilt Short Term Plan - Growth 50 - 45,271   (9,69,16,031)  HDFC Liquid Fund - Growth 14 266 18,54,84 708   (18,54,84,708)  HDFC Medium Term Opportunities  Fund  - Growth 241  241  79,66,20,979   (-)  HDFC Short Term Opportunities Fund - Division 860  -    -  (1,19,97,216) HDFC Short Term Plan Growth - 30 -  (4,74,138) HDFC Mutual Fund [ ` Nil; (Previous Year ` 48,35,353)] - - 2,948   (2,942) HDFC Cash Management Fund - Savings Plan - Direct Plan -  Growth Option 1 1 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 343 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 1,73,190   (-) HDFC High Interest Fund - Short Term Plan Growth   [ ` 25,00,000; (Previous Year ` Nil)] - - 62,86,60,113   (47,31,50,819)  ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Dividend 635 475 3,61,78,141   (3,61,78,141)  ICICI Prudential Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Growth 50  50  -   (66,48,88,122)  ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Dividend  -    675  48,90,38,446   (18,12,46,791)  ICICI Prudential Equity Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 680 255 9,84,25,197   (-)  ICICI Prudential Equity Income Fund - Dividend 100  -    1,07,95,80,337   (1,01,65,79,969)  ICICI Prudential Short Term Plan - Dividend 1,090 1,025 1,27,18,23,490   (7,50,00,000)  ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term Plan - Dividend 1,300 75 8,12,12,898   (8,12,12,898)  ICICI Prudential Blended Plan A - Dividend 110  110  11,08,46,926   (11,08,46,926)  ICICI Prudential Blended Plan B - Growth 200  200  -   (47,47,16,615)  ICICI Prudential Income Plan - Dividend  -    475   -   (2,66,12,448) ICICI Prudential Long Term Gilt Fund - Growth  -    125  -   (50,00,00,000)  ICICI Regular Saving Fund - Dividend  -    500  1,32,99,287   (-)  ICICI Short Term Gilt Fund - Growth 50 - 5,70,005   (5,70,728) ICICI Prudential Liquid Plan - Direct - Growth 11 11 25,24,456   (8,69,439) ICICI Prudential - Liquid Regular Plan - Growth 56 17 -   (3,76,282) ICICI Prudential Flexible Income - Regular Plan - Growth - 10 -   (48,30,864) ICICI Prudential Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth Option - 100 1,89,988   (-) ICICI Prudential Liquid - Direct Plan - Daily Dividend 2 - -   (13,37,083)  IDBI Liquid Fund - Growth  -   200  55,34,30,728   (39,68,11,202)  IDFC  Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 705  505  -   (10 35,81,344) IDFC Arbitrage Plus Fund - Dividend  -    125  3,11,09,279   (-) IDFC Banking Debt Fund - Growth 40  -    Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 344 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 22,42,65,435   (-) IDFC Corp Bond Fund - Growth 225  -    87,35,45,547   (-) IDFC Dynamic Bond Fund - Dividend 1,000  -    -  (7,48,48,058) IDFC Government Securities Fund - Growth  -    125  28,30,06,229   (-) IDFC Money Manager Investment Fund - Dividend 300 - 19,04,43,460   (10,88,83,711)  IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Short Term - Growth 475 275 67,95,72,510   (60,22,44,143) IDFC Super Saver Income Fund - Medium Term Plan - Dividend 710  625  27,70,26,789   (16,56,58,516) IDFC Super Saver Income Fund- Short Term Plan - Dividend 295  175  1,03,52,836   (1,19,50,858) IDFC Arbitrage Fund - Dividend - Regular Plan 13 15 -  (20,52,369) IDFC Cash Fund - 3 -  (1,41,795) IDFC Cash Fund - Regular Plan - Growth - 24 4,64,107   (-) IDFC Cash Fund -  Growth - Direct Plan 85 - 4,83,12,913   (-)  Indiabulls Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 50  -    8,28,91,392   (-)  Indiabulls Blue Chip Fund - Dividend 125  -    6,74,35,163   (-)  Indiabulls Income Fund - Growth 85  -    20,94,33,717   (20,94,33,717)  JM Arbitrage Advantage Fund - Bonus 208  208  4,50,68,027   (4,50,68,027) JM Money Manager Fund - Super Plan - Bonus 44  44  19,71,60,883   (19,71,60,883)  JM Money Manager Fund - Super Plus Plan - Bonus 199  199  -  (13,99,57,033)  JPMorgan India Active Bond Fund - Dividend  -    200  5,46,63,541   (-) Kotak 50 Direct Fund - Dividend 250 - 2,25,38,225   (-)  Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Growth 75  -    17,01,02,554   (13,40,05,771)  Kotak Bond Short Term - Growth 404 304 -  (3,81,67,259)  Kotak Bond Fund - Plan A - Dividend - 150 -  (3,15,22,512)  Kotak Bond Scheme - Plan A - Growth - 125 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 345 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 12,43,75,652   (-)  Kotak Bond Short Term - Dividend 126  -    52,21,26,661   (20,50,03,232)  Kotak Equity Arbitrage - Dividend 951 315 14,27,13,144   (-)  Kotak Equity Savings Scheme - Dividend 150  -    4,05,61,808   (-)  Kotak Flexi Debt Fund - Growth 75 - -   (16,88,74,261)  Kotak Income Opportunities Fund - Dividend  -    190  -   (11,16,73,351)  Kotak Medium Term Fund - Dividend  -    125  4,92,02,764   (2,00,00,000)  L&T Arbitrage Opportunities Fund 50  20  5,79,076   (5,79,076)  L&T Cash Bonus Liquid Fund 59  59  -   (15,01,53,208)  L&T Income Opportunity - Dividend  -    150  26,03,88,208   (10,00,92,744)  L&T Short Term Opportunities Fund- Dividend 265 100 4,46,61,818   (-)  L&T Short Term Opportunities Fund - Growth 64  -    10,75,21,101   (10,75,21,101)  L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund - Bonus 133  133  -   (11,76 732)  LIC Nomura Liquid Fund - Growth  -    283  -   (4,72,07,221)  LIC Nomura Savings Plus Fund - Growth  -    100  65,73,20,449   (9,52,48,074)  Reliance Arbitrage Advantage Fund - Dividend 695  100  50,36,49,969   (-)  Reliance Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Dividend 525 - -   (11,53,39,989) Reliance Corporate Bond Fund - Growth  -    125  -   (4,66,24,829) Reliance Corporate Bond Fund - Dividend  -    50  77,03,25,139   (65,66,28,473) Reliance Floating Rate Fund Short Term Plan - Dividend 795  675  -   (7,60,51,576)  Reliance Income Fund - Growth  -    350  -   (97,40,32,447)  Reliance Regular Savings Fund Debt Plan - Dividend  -   1,000 1,66,55,55,075   (1,36,24,06,377) Reliance Short Term Fund - Dividend 1,755  1,425  5,42,06,239   (1,55,32,291) Religare Invesco Arbitrage Fund - Dividend 70  20  Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 346 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 6,03,55,015   (6,03,55,015) Religare Invesco Arbitrage - Bonus 65  65  7,72,821   (-) Reliance Invesco Bank Debt Fund - Growth 100 - -  (2,33,47,858) Religare Invesco Growth Fund – Dividend  -    50  17,98,180   (17,98,180) Religare Invesco Short Term Fund - Growth 295 295  16,10,744   (5,58,353) Religare Invesco Short Term Fund - Dividend 225  75  2,87,771   (-) Reliance Liquid Fund 44 - 24,64,62,740   (5,08,30,350)  SBI Arbitrage Opportunity Fund - Dividend 340  70  -  (23,19,53,980)  SBI Dynamic Bond Fund - Growth  -    400  16,32,512   (16,32,512)  SBI Dynamic Bond Fund 3 3 4,427   (3,18,960) SBI Premier Liquid Fund - Growth 1  70  7,61,038   (8,31,421) SBI Premier Liquid Fund Regular Plan - Growth Option 179 181 47,97,91,326        (39,21,38,152) SBI Short Term Debt Fund - Growth 687  537  17,81,54,863   (17,81,54,863) Sundaram Flexible Fund Short Term Plan - Bonus 175  175  30,09,68,369   (30,09,68,369) Sundaram Money Fund - Bonus 272 272 9,57,31,798   (9,57,31,798) Sundaram Select Debt Short Term Asset Plan - Bonus 100  100  -  (75,623) Templeton India - Short Term - Growth - 20 57,52,39,255   (34,20,77,650)  Tata Short Term Bond Fund - Dividend 805  475  342   (342) Tata Liquid Fund [ `  8,82,902; Previous Year `  8,82,902)] - - -  (8,73,988)  UTI  Liquid Fund - Cash Plan - Growth  -   200  15,54,28,334   (-)  UTI  Banking and PSU Debt Fund 184 - -  (25,00,00,000) UTI Bond Fund - Dividend  -    250  -  (25,58,386) UTI Floating Rate Fund - Dividend  -    300  -                   (12,03,386) UTI Floating Rate Fund - Growth -  239  Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 347 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 -   (12,62,99,078) UTI Income Opportunities Fund - Growth  -    160  23,13,94,231   (52,77,23,010) UTI Short Term Income Fund Institutional Plan - Dividend 246 550 56,47,36,316   (35,25,25,179) UTI Short Term Income Fund Institutional Plan - Growth 918 518 8,00,26,087   (-) UTI Spread Fund - Regular - Dividend 125  -   22,762   (-) UTI - Money Market - Institutional Plan - Growth 3 - 10,391   (-) UTI Floating Rate Fund - STP - Regular Plan - Growth 1 - 5,60,625   (-) UTI Short Term Income Fund Institutional Option Growth 1 - 28,113 26,684 In Treasury Bills - Quoted  -    3   -    3  In Commercial Paper - Unquoted Small Industries Development Bank Of India Limited  -   230  -   230 In Certificate of Deposits - Unquoted Andhra Bank  -    644  Axis Bank  208  -    Canara Bank  197 2,624 Corporation Bank  463 - IDBI Bank  1,387 461 Indian Bank  -   969 Oriental Bank of Commerce  -   736  2,255 5,434 Total Current Investments  39,928 51,014 * Includes ` 2,285 crore (Previous Year  ` 1,015 crore) given as collateral security.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 348 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 16.
INVENTORIES Raw Materials (Including Material in Transit) 14,997 20,276 Stock-in-Process 9,083 10,881 Stock-in-Trade 6,388 5,055 Finished Goods 9,257 11,310 Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials 3,460 3,056 Others 3,779 2,670 Total 46,964 53,248 ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 17.
TRADE RECEIVABLES (Unsecured and Considered Good) Outstanding for a period exceeding six months 279 189 Others 4,618 5,126 Total 4,897 5,315 ( ` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 18.
CASH AND BANK BALANCES Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash on hand 56 49 Bank Balances: In Current Accounts* 4,094 1,418 In Deposit ** 7,040 11,005 Sub-Total 11,190 12,472 Other Bank Balances In Deposit # 7 73 Sub-Total 7 73 Total 11,197 12,545  * Include Unclaimed Dividend of ` 223 crore (Previous Year ` 199 crore).
** Includes Deposits of ` 526 crore (Previous Year ` 25 crore) with maturity of more than 12 months.
# Deposits of ` 7 crore  (Previous Year ` 73 crore) are given as lien against Short Term Borrowings.
( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 19.
SHORT-TERM LOANS AND ADVANCES   (Unsecured and Considered Good) Loans and Advances to Related P arties (Refer Note No.
28) 3 3 Balance with C ustoms, C entral Excise Authorities 9,863 5,695 Deposits 1,536 1,170 Others# 6,432 4,303 Total 17,834 11,171  #  Includes primarily Interest Receivable and Advance to Employees.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 349 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 20.
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Interest Accrued on Investment 934 680 Share Application Money ( ` 25,00,000) - 2,277 Others 4,833 327 Total 5,767 3,284 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 21.
OTHER INCOME Interest From Current Investments 577 335 From Long Term Investments 1,098 1,076 From Others 1,351 3,102 3,026 4,513 Dividend From Current Investments 690 286 From Long Term Investments 44 20 734 306 Net Gain on Sale of Investments From Current Investments 1,660 1,294 From Long Term Investments 148 458 1,808 1,752 FMP Income 1,452 1,764 Profit on De-subsidiarisation of Subsidiary 43 8 Share in income of Associates 211 118 Other Non Operating Income 549 152 Exceptional Item* 423 - Total 8,246 8,613  *Exceptional items represent the net impact of the following transactions in Reliance Holding USA, Inc.:  • Reliance Eagle ford Midstream LLC, a subsidiary, sold  its 49.90% interest in EFS Midstream LLC at a profit of ` 3,684 crore (net of taxes).
•  The company follows full cost method of accounting.
In view of indicators of impairment, the company has tested for impairment of its Shale Gas assets.
Accordingly the recoverable amount was determined  on the basis of value in use being the net present value of future cash flows.
This has resulted in an  impairment of ` 3,261 crore (net of taxes ) in respect of development rights and Intangible assets under development.
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 22.
CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS,   STOCK-IN-PROCESS AND STOCK-IN-TRADE Inventories (at close) Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 15,645 16,365 Stock-in- P rocess 9,083 10,881 24,728 27,246 Inventories (at commencement) Finished Goods / Stock-in-Trade 16,365 17,294 Stock-in- P rocess 10,881 12,012 27,246 29,306 Less: Capitalised during the year - 41 Add: Opening Stock of Subsidiaries acquired / merged during the year 54 - Less: Cost of Land acquired by Government of Haryana, Consideration of  Land surrendered to HSIIDC, Reversal / Recovery of Annuity on HSIIDC  Surrendered Land  1 536 27,299 28,729 Total 2,571 1,483 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 350 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 23.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE Salaries and W ages 6,734 5,355 Contribution to P rovident and O ther F unds 453 468 Staff W elfare E xpenses 537 439 Total 7,724 6,262  23.1 As per Accounting Standard 15 “Employee benefits” , the disclosures as defined in the Accounting Standard are given below :   Defined Contribution Plans   Contribution to Defined Contribution Plans, recognised as expense for the year is as under : ( ` in crore) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 Employer’s Contribution to Provident Fund 228 188 Employer’s Contribution to Superannuation Fund 17 18 Employer’s Contribution to Pension Scheme 116 75   Defined Benefit Plan   I) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit Obligation ( ` in crore) Gratuity  (Funded) Gratuity  (Unfunded) Compensated  Absences   (Funded) Compensated  Absences  (Unfunded)  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15 Defined Benefit Obligation at  beginning of the year 782 630 25 11 48 41 297 217 Add : On Acquisition/Transfers 6 23 - 7 - - - 14 Current Service Cost 63 52 14 8 6 3 29 22 Interest Cost 62 53 2 1 4 3 24 18 Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 19 79 - 2 10 4 43 63 Benefits Paid (64) (55) (3) (4) (3) (3) (41) (37) Defined Benefit Obligation at year end 868 782 38 25 65 48 352 297   II) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of Plan Assets ( ` in crore) Gratuity  (Funded) Compensated Absences  (Funded)  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15 Fair value of Plan Assets at beginning of year 766 630 31 29 Add : On Acquisition/Transfers 6 8 - - Expected Return on Plan Assets 61 51 3 2 Actuarial Gain / (Loss) 12 10 - - Employer Contribution 67 114 5 3 Benefits Paid (61) (47) (3) (3) Fair value of Plan Assets at year end 851 766 36 31 Actual return on Plan Assets 73 54 - - Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 351 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54   III) Reconciliation of fair value of assets and obligations ( ` in crore) Gratuity   (Funded)   As at 31st March Gratuity   (Unfunded)   As at 31st March Compensated  Absences  (Funded)   As at 31st March Compensated  Absences  (Unfunded)   As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fair value of Plan Assets 851 766 - - 36 31 - - Present value of Obligation 868 782 38 25 65 48 352 297 Amount recognised in Balance Sheet 17 16 38 25 29 17 352 297   IV) Expenses recognised during the year ( ` in crore) Gratuity   (Funded) Gratuity   (Unfunded) Compensated  Absences  (Funded) Compensated  Absences  (Unfunded) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Current Service Cost 63 52 14 8 6 3 29 22 Interest Cost 62 53 2 1 4 3 24 18 Expected Return on Plan Assets (61) (51) - - (3) (2) - - Actuarial (Gain) / Loss 8 69 - 2 10 4 43 63 Net Cost 72 123 16 11 17 8 96 103   V) Investment Details : Gratuity  (Funded) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 ` in crore % Invested ` in crore % Invested GOI Securities  20 2.35 21 2.74 Public Securities  10 1.17 23 3.00 State Government Securities  1 0.12 5 0.65 Insurance Policies 784 92.13 711 92.82 Others (including Bank Balances)  36 4.23 6 0.79 851 100.00 766 100.00   VI) Actuarial assumptions Gratuity   (Funded) Gratuity   (Unfunded) Compensated  Absences (Funded) Compensated  Absences  (Unfunded)  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15  2015-16  2014-15 Mortality Table 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 2006-08 (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) (Ultimate) Discount Rate (per annum) 8% 8% 8% 8% 8% 8% 8% 8% Expected rate of return on  Plan Assets (per annum) 8% 8% - 8% 8% - Rate of escalation in Salary  (per annum) 6% 6% 6% 6% 6% 6% 6% 6%     The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation, take into account inflation, seniority,  promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market.
The above information is  certified by the actuary.
The Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets is determined considering several applicable factors, mainly the composition  of Plan Assets held, assessed risks, historical results of return on Plan Assets and the Company’s policy for Plan Assets  Management.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 352 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
VII) Amounts recognised in current year and previous four years    (` in crore) As at 31st March Gratuity 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Defined Benefit Obligation 906 807 641 585 476 Fair value of Plan Assets 851 766 630 560 422 (Surplus) / Deficit in the plan 55 41 11 25 54 Actuarial (Gain) / Loss on Plan Obligation 20 81 (15) 58 21 Actuarial Gain / (Loss) on Plan Assets 12 10 2 10 2   VIII) The expected contributions for Defined Benefit Plan for the next financial year will be in line with FY 2015-16.
23.2  The Company had announced Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS) for the employees of Allahabad & Nagpur Manufacturing  Divisions (Previous Year Silvassa Manafacturing Division) during the year.
A sum of ` 156 crore (Previous Year ` 32,00,000) has  been paid during the year and debited to the Profit and Loss Statement under the head “Employee Benefits Expense” .
(` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 24.
FINANCE COSTS Interest Expenses 2,513 2,486 Other Borrowing Costs 16 16 Applicable loss on foreign currency transactions and translation 1,079 814 Total 3,608 3,316 (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 25.
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE Depreciation and Amortisation (Refer Note No.
11) 12,916 11,661 Less: Transferred from Revaluation Reserve (Refer Note No.
11.7) - 28 Less: Transferred from Capital Reserve (Refer Note No.
11.7) - 86 Total 12,916 11,547 (` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 26.
OTHER EXPENSES Manufacturing Expenses Stores, Chemicals and Packing Materials 5,166 5,222 Electric Power, Fuel and Water 10,675 13,261 Labour Processing, Production Royalty and Machinery Hire Charges 1,312 1,384 Repairs to Building 99 67 Repairs to Machinery 1,214 1,105 Exchange Difference (Net) (550) 237 Excise Duty # 449 305 Lease Rent 13 3 18,378 21,584 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 353 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 Land Development and Construction Expenditure 45 35 Selling and Distribution Expenses Warehousing and D istribution E xpenses 6,213 5,935 Sales T ax /VAT 1,416 1,063 Other Selling and D istribution E xpenses 2,343 1,769 9,972 8,767 Establishment Expenses Professional Fees 1,865 1,242 General E xpenses 2,338 2,864 Programming and Telecast Related Expenses 1,225 858 Rent 1,240 1,095 Insurance 961 780 Rates & T axes 237 248 Other Repairs 508 556 Travelling Expenses 449 388 Payment to Auditors 38 28 Loss on Sale / Discard of Assets 76 85 Charity and Donations 684 806 9,621 8,950 Less: Transfer to Project Development Expenditure 2,507 1,573 Total 35,509 37,763  #  Excise Duty shown under expenditure represents the aggregate of excise duty borne by the Company and difference between excise duty on opening and  closing stock of finished goods.
26.1 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (a)   CSR amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Schedule VII thereof by the  company during the year is ` 566 crore (Previous Year ` 534 crore) (b)   Expenditure related to Corporate Social Responsibility is ` 660  crore (Previous  Year  ` 762 crore).
Details of Amount spent towards CSR given below: ( ` in crore) Particulars 2015-16 2014-15 Rural Transformation 111 127 Health 314 608 Education 218 19 Sports for Development 9 4 Others 8 4 Total 660 762 (c)  Out of note (b) above, ` 586 crore (Previous Year ` 730 crore) is spent through Reliance Foundation, a related party.
(d)   Out of note (b) above, ` 7 crore (Previous Year ` Nil) is towards construction / acquisition of an asset that will be owned by  the Company.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 354 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
2015-16 2014-15 27.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) i) Net Profit after Tax (after adjusting Minority Interest) as per Profit  and Loss Statement (` in crore) 27,630 23,566 ii) (Short) provision of tax for earlier years (Net) (` in crore)   (Previous Year ` 49,19,979) (1) - iii) (Short) Provision of Tax for earlier years (Net) - Minority Interest  (Previous Year ` Nil) (1) - iv) Net profit attributable to Equity Shareholders (` in crore) 27,628 23,566 v) Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used as denominator  for calculating EPS 2,94,59,61,982 2,94,18,58,781 vi) Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share (`) 93.78 80.11 vii) Face Value per Equity Share (`) 10.00 10.00  26.1  Based on alternate interpretation for calculation of Diluted EPS as per Accounting Standard (AS) 20, the Diluted EPS for the year  ending March’ 16 and year ended March’15 are ` 93.57 and ` 79.91 respectively.
28.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES :  (i) List of related parties and relationships Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 1.
24 X 7 Learning Private Limited Associate Companies 2.
Aeon Learning Private Limited 3.
Algenol LLC 4.
Ashwani Commercials Private Limited 5.
Atri Exports Private Limited 6.
Book My Show Limited 7.
Carin Commercials Private Limited 8.
Centura Agro Private Limited 9.
Chander Commercials Private Limited 10.
Creative Agrotech Private Limited 11.
Eenadu Television Private Limited 12.
Einsten Commercials Private Limited 13.
Extramarks Education Private Limited 14.
Fame Agro Private Limited 15.
Gaurav Overseas Private Limited 16.
GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP  17.
Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited 18.
Honeywell Properties Private Limited 19.
Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 20.
Jaipur Enclave Private Limited 21.
Kaniska Commercials Private Limited 22.
KCIPI Trading Company Private Limited 23.
Marugandha Land Developers Private Limited 24.
Matrix Genetics LLC 25.
N.C. Trading Company Private Limited 26.
Netravati Commercials Private Limited 27.
Noveltech Agro Private Limited 28.
Parinita Commercials Private Limited 29.
Pepino Farms Private Limited Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 355 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Sr.  No.
Name of the Related Party Relationship 30.
Prakhar Commercials Private Limited Associate Companies 31.
Rakshita Commercials Private Limited 32.
Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited 33.
Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited 34.
Reliance Europe Limited 35.
Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited 36.
Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 37.
Reliance LNG Limited 38.
Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited 39.
Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited 40.
Rocky Farms Private Limited 41.
R P Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
(Upto 10.02.2016) 42.
Shree Salasar Bricks Private Limited 43.
Vishnumaya Commercials Private Limited 44.
Vayana Private Limited 45.
Brooks Brothers India Private Limited  Joint Ventures 46.
D.E.
Shaw India Securities Private Limited 47.
Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited 48.
Football Sports Development Limited 49.
IBN Lokmat News Private Limited 50.
Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited 51.
IMG Reliance Limited 52.
India Gas Solutions Private Limited 53.
Indiacast Media Distribution Private Limited 54.
Indiacast UK Limited 55.
Indiacast US Limited 56.
Indiacast Distribution Private Limited 57.
Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited 58.
Prism Tv Private Limited 59.
Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited 60.
Reliance-GrandVision India Supply Private Limited 61.
Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited 62.
Roptonal Limited 63.
Ryohin - Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited 64.
Supreme Tradelinks Private Limited 65.
Ubona Technologies Private Limited 66.
Viacom18 Media (UK) Limited 67.
Viacom18 Media Private Limited 68.
Viacom18 US Inc. 69.
Zegna South Asia Private Limited 70.
Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key Managerial Personnel 71.
Shri Nikhil R. Meswani 72.
Shri Hital R. Meswani 73.
Shri P .
M. S. Prasad 74.
Shri P .
K. Kapil 75.
Smt.
Nita M. Ambani Relative of   Key Managerial Personnel  76.
Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation Enterprises over which   Key Managerial Personnel   are able to exercise   significant influence 77.
Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust 78.
HNH Trust and HNH Research Society 79.
Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation 80.
Reliance Foundation Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 356 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(ii) Transactions during the year with related parties : (` in crore) Sr.  No.
Nature of Transactions   (Excluding Reimbursements) Associates Key Managerial  Personnel /  Relative Others Total 1.
Purchase of Fixed Assets 237 264 - - - - 237 264 2.
Purchase / Subscription of Investments 49 1 - - - - 49 1 3.
Sale / Transfer / Redemption of Investments 1,476 1 - - - - 1,476 1 4.
Capital Advance Given / (Returned) - (8) - - - - - (8) 5.
Net Loans and Advances, Deposits Given / (Returned) 193 (11) - - - - 193 (11) 6.
Revenue from Operations 320 432 - - - - 320 432 7.
Other Income 22 50 - - - - 22 50 8.
Purchases / Material Consumed 1,376 1,319 - - - - 1,376 1,319 9.
Electric, Power, Fuel and Water 1,719 1,579 - - - - 1,719 1,579 10.
Hire Charges 585 622 - - - - 585 622 11.
Payment to Key Managerial Personnel / Relative - - 54 48 - - 54 48 12.
Sales and Distribution Expenses 2,609 2,767 - - - - 2,609 2,767 13.
Rent 9 8 - - - - 9 8 14.
Professional Fees 59 47 - - - - 59 47 15.
General Expenses 459 299 - - - - 459 299 16.
Donations - - - - 611 743 611 743 17.
Finance Cost 1 2 - - - - 1 2 Balance as at 31st March, 2016 1.
Investments 3,397 5,189 - - - - 3,397 5,189 2.
Trade Receivables 35 45 - - - - 35 45 3.
Loans and Advances 159 21 - - - - 159 21 4.
Deposits 2,221 2,172 - - - - 2,221 2,172 5.
Unsecured Loans 66 63 - - - - 66 63 6.
Trade and Other Payables * 322 670 - - - - 322 670 7.
Finance Lease Obligations 1 - - - - - 1 - 8.
Financial Guarantees 1,837 1,315 - - - - 1,837 1,315 9.
Performance Guarantees 135 115 - - - - 135 115 Note : Figures in italic represents Previous Year’s amounts.
* Includes reimbursements Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 357 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Disclosure in respect of Major Related Party Transactions during the year : Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 Purchase of Fixed Assets Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate - 2 Reliance Gas Transportation and Infrastructure Limited Associate - 46 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 3 8 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 166 198 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate 68 10 Purchase / Subscription of Investments Algenol LLC Associate 25 - Aurora Algae LLC Associate - 1 Vayana Private Limited Associate 24 - Sale / Transfer / Redemption of Investments EFS Midstream LLC Associate 1,334 - Extramarks Education Private Limited Associate 100 - Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited Associate 42 1 Capital Advance Given / (Returned) Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate - (3) Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate - (5) Net Loans and Advances, Deposits Given/ (Returned) Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associate - (1) Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate 28 12 Kaniska Commercials Private Limited Associate 1 1 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate 170 (23) Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited Associate (6) 1 Revenue from Operations Eenadu Television Private Limited Associate 1 - Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate 13 16 Reliance Foundation Others 4 - Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate 60 50 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 1 - Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 5 2 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate 236 363 Wespro Digital Private Limited Associate - 1 Other Income Extramarks Education Private Limited Associate 5 9 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate - 10 Reliance Europe Limited Associate 13 13 Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate - 14 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 1 1 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate 3 3 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 358 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 Purchases / Material Consumed Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate - 3 R P Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
Associate 745 1,052 Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate - 3 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 20 19 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 611 241 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate - - Electric Power, Fuel and Water Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate 1,719 1,579 Hire Charges Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate 117 90 Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited Associate 214 194 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 34 37 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 220 301 Payment To Key Managerial Personnel / Relative Shri Mukesh D. Ambani Key Managerial Personnel 15 15 Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Key Managerial Personnel 14 12 Shri Hital R. Meswani Key Managerial Personnel 14 12 Shri P .
M. S. Prasad Key Managerial Personnel 7 6 Shri P .
K. Kapil Key Managerial Personnel 3 2 Smt Nita M. Ambani Relative of Key   Managerial Personnel 1 1 Sales & Distribution Expenses Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate 33 16 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 2,576 2,751 Rent Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 9 8 Professional Fees  GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP Associate 1 5 Reliance Europe Limited Associate 34 25 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited Associate 24 17 General Expenses Eenadu Television Private Limited Associate 2 7 Matrix Genetics LLC Associate 27 - Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate 418 282 Reliance Europe Limited Associate - 7 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 12 3 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 359 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Particulars Relationship 2015-16 2014-15 Donations Hirachand Govardhandas Ambani Public Charitable Trust Others 4 2 Jamnaben Hirachand Ambani Foundation Others 15 4 Reliance Foundation Others 592 737 Finance Cost Reliance Europe Limited Associate 1 1 Loans & Advances Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate - 6 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate 150 - Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited Associate 6 12 Reliance Europe Limited Associate 3 3 Deposits Ashwani Commercials Private Limited Associate 65 65 Atri Exports Private Limited Associate 19 19 Carin Commercials Private Limited Associate 77 77 Centura Agro Private Limited Associate 10 10 Chander Commercials Private Limited Associate 34 33 Creative Agrotech Private Limited Associate 15 15 Einsten Commercials Private Limited Associate 43 43 Fame Agro Private Limited Associate 3 3 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited Associate 17 17 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited Associate 139 111 Honeywell Properties Private Limited Associate 50 50 Jaipur Enclave Private Limited Associate 4 4 Kaniska Commercials Private Limited Associate 23 23 Marugandha Land Developers Private Limited Associate 5 5 Netravati Commercials Private Limited Associate 6 6 Noveltech Agro Private Limited Associate 3 3 Parinita Commercials Private Limited Associate 6 6 Pepino Farms Private Limited Associate 1 1 Prakhar Commercials Private Limited Associate 48 48 Rakshita Commercials Private Limited Associate 6 6 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited Associate 175 155 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited Associate 1,050 1,050 Reliance Utilities and Power Private Limited Associate 350 350 Rocky Farms Private Limited Associate 29 29 Shree Salasar Bricks Private Limited Associate 33 33 Vishnumaya Commercials Private Limited Associate 10 10 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 360 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
29.
(a)  Net Quantities of Company’s interest (on gross basis) in Proved Reserves and Proved Developed Reserves : Reserves in India Reserves outside India   (North America) Proved Reserves   (Million MT) Proved Developed  Reserves (Million MT) Proved Reserves   (Million MT) Proved Developed  Reserves (Million MT) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Oil: Beginning of the year 1.96 2.47 1.47 2.09 23.51 20.51 7.44 6.08 Revision of estimates 2.78 (0.06) - (0.17) (0.85) 4.48 (0.17) 2.84 Production (0.42) (0.45) (0.42) (0.45) (1.39) (1.48) (1.39) (1.48) Closing balance for the year 4.32 1.96 1.05 1.47 21.27 23.51 5.88 7.44 Reserves in India Reserves outside India   (North America) Proved Reserves   (Million M3*) Proved Developed   Reserves   (Million M3*) Proved Reserves   (Million M3*) Proved Developed   Reserves   (Million M3*) 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 Gas: Beginning of the year 65,741 86,230 18,812 15,444 53,665 49,075 20,197 17,345 Revision of estimates 9,008 (17,047) (1,212) 6,810 (3,779) 7,450 4,661 5,712 Production (3,018) (3,442) (3,018) (3,442) (3,096) (2,860) (3,096) (2,860) Closing balance for the year 71,731 65,741 14,582 18,812 46,790 53,665 21,762 20,197  * 1 cubic meter (M3) = 35.315 cubic feet, 1 cubic feet = 1000 BTU and 1 MT = 7.5 bbl  (b)   In case of producing field and fields where development of drilling activities are in progress, the geological and reservoir  simulation are updated as and when new well information is available.
In all cases, reserve evaluation is carried out at least once  in a year.
(c)   The reserves estimates related to KGD6 and CBM have been revised.
During the year, the Company recognized reserves towards  MJ1 field of KGD6 block post review of Declaration of Commerciality (DoC) by Management Committee.
(` in crore) As at  31st March, 2016 As at  31st March, 2015 30.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (I) Contingent Liabilities (A) Claims against the company / disputed liabilities  not acknowledged as debts* (a) In respect of joint ventures 900  800  (b) In respect of others 3,072 2,330 (B) Guarantees (i) Guarantees to Banks and Financial Institutions against credit facilities  extended to third parties and other Guarantees (a) In respect of joint ventures 19 12 (b) In respect of others 7,112 9,579 (ii) Performance Guarantees (a) In respect of joint ventures - - (b) In respect of others 181 135 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 361 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ( ` in crore) As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 (iii) Outstanding guarantees furnished to Banks and Financial  Institutions including in respect of Letters of Credits (a) In respect of joint ventures 20 20 (b) In respect of others 35,774 18,224 (C) Other Money for which the company is contingently liable (i) Liability in respect of bills discounted with Banks (Including third  party bills discounting) (a) In respect of joint ventures - - (b) In respect of others 734 1,121 (II) Commitments (A) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital  account and not provided for: (a) In respect of Joint Ventures 219 886 (b) In respect of others 21,303 41,157 (B) Uncalled Liability on Shares and Other Investments Partly paid 115 83 (C) Other commitments Sales tax deferral liability assigned - 819 *  The Company has been advised that the demand is likely to be either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision is considered  necessary.
(III)  The Income -Tax Assessments of the Company have been completed up to Assessment Year 2011-12.
There is no outstanding  demand as on date.
The assessed tax liability exceeds the provision made, by ` 1,119 crore as at 31st March, 2016.
Based on  the decisions of the Appellate authorities and the interpretations of other relevant provisions, the company has been legally  advised that the additional demand raised is likely to be either deleted or substantially reduced and accordingly no provision  is considered necessary.
31.
FINANCIAL AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS  a) Derivative contracts entered into by the Company and outstanding as on 31st March, 2016   (i) For hedging Currency and Interest Rate Related Risks:     Nominal amounts of derivative contracts entered into by the Company and outstanding as on  31st March, 2016 amount  to ` 1,50,784  crore (Previous Year ` 1,74,754 crore).
Category wise break up is given below : As at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2015 Sr.  No.
Particulars Amount   (` in crore) Amount   ( ` in crore ) 1 Forward Contracts 88,168 95,886 2 Currency Swaps 2,463  2,381 3 Interest Rate Swaps 56,803  69,993 4 Options 3,350  6,494 Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 362 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(ii) For Hedging Commodity related risks :    Category wise break up is given below : As at 31st March, 2016 As at 31st March, 2015 Sr.  No.
Particulars Petroleum  Product Sales Feedstock Other   Products Petroleum  Product Sales Feedstock Other  Products (in Kbbl) (in Kbbl) (in Kg) (in Kbbl) (in Kbbl) (in Kg) 1 Forward Swaps 24,617 89,877 5,568  40,469  49,460  4,224  2 Futures 15,670 6,619 - 16,186  23,980  -    3 Spreads 86,536 98,906 -  89,290  1,04,653  -    4 Options 4,470 68,565 - 12,150  1,30,618  -         In addition the Company has margin hedges outstanding for contracts relating to petroleum product sales of 1,41,145  kbbl (Previous Year 88,508 kbbl) and freight hedges of 4,246 kbbl (Previous Year Nil).
b)  Foreign Currency Exposures that are not hedged by derivative instruments as on 31st March, 2016 amount to   ` 94,157 crore (Previous Year ` 85,791 crore).
The unhedged exposures are naturally hedged by future foreign currency earnings  and earnings linked to foreign currency.
c)  Other Option Contracts of  ` 251 crore (Previous Year ` 16 crore) and Future Contracts of ` 118 crore (Previous Year ` 306 crore)  are outstanding as on 31st March, 2016.
32.
In respect of Jointly Controlled Entities, the Company’s share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the joint venture  companies are as follows: (` in crore) Particulars As at   31st March, 2016 As at   31st March, 2015 (i) Assets Fixed Assets 177 172 Non-Current Investments - 13 Non-Current Assets 304 321 Current Investments 67 25 Current Assets 1,332 1,067 (ii) Liabilities Long Term Borrowings 101 91 Non-Current Liabilities and Provisions 40 35 Short Term Borrowings 194 126 Current Liabilities and Provisions 719 587 (iii) Income 2,166 1,428 (iv) Expenses 2,103 1,448 33.
The audited/unaudited financial statements of foreign subsidiaries / associates have been prepared in accordance with the Generally  Accepted Accounting Principle of its Country of Incorporation or International Financial Reporting Standards.
The differences in  accounting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries / associates are not material and there are no material transactions from 1st  January, 2016 to 31st March, 2016 in respect of subsidiaries / associates having financial year ended 31st December, 2015.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 363 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 34.
SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company has identified four reportable segments viz.
Refining, Petrochemicals, Oil & Gas and Organized Retail.
Segments have  been identified and reported taking into account nature of products and services, the differing risks and returns and the internal  business reporting systems.
The accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are in line with the accounting policy of the  Company with following additional policies for segment reporting.
a)  Revenue and Expenses have been identified to a segment on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the segment.
Revenue and Expenses which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to a segment on reasonable basis have  been disclosed as “Unallocable” .
b)  Segment Assets and Segment Liabilities represent Assets and Liabilities in respective segments.
Investments, tax related  assets and other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have been disclosed as  “Unallocable” .
(i) Primary Segment Information:  ( ` in crore) Particulars Refining Petrochemicals Oil and Gas Organized Retail Others Unallocable Total 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 1 Segment Revenue External Turnover 1,76,367 2,57,156 81,766 94,644  7,518 10,934  21,011 17,121 9,429 8,639  -   - 2,96,091 3,88,494 Inter Segment Turnover  58,579 82,734  644 2,160  9 600  601 519  2,012 1,868  -   -  -   - Gross Turnover 2,34,946 3,39,890 82,410 96,804  7,527 11,534 21,612 17,640  11,441 10,507  -   - 2,96,091 3,88,494 Less: Excise duty / Service  Tax recovered  11,399 4,552  6,684 7,183  139 224  147 91 1,178 1,009  -   - 19,547 13,059 Net Turnover 2,23,547 3,35,338 75,726 89,621  7,388 11,310 21,465 17,549  10,263 9,498  -   - 2,76,544 3,75,435 2 Segment Result before  Interest and Taxes 23,598 15,827 10,221 8,291 378 3,181  506 417  1,067 958 791 1,243 36,561 29,917 Less: Interest Expense - - - - - - - - -  3,608 3,316  3,608 3,316 Add: Interest Income - - - - - - - - -  3,026 4,513  3,026 4,513 Profit Before Tax 23,598 15,827 10,221 8,291 378 3,181  506 417  1,067 958 209 2,440 35,979 31,114 Current Tax  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  8,073 6,296  8,073 6,296 Deferred Tax  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   - 191 1,178 191 1,178 Profit after Tax (before  adjustment for Minority  Interest) 23,598 15,827 10,221 8,291 378 3,181  506 417  1,067 958  (8,055) (5,034)  27,715 23,640 Add: Share of (Profit) / Loss  transferred to Minority  (35) (23)  -   -  -   -  (13) (11)  (37) (40)  -   -  (85) (74) Profit after Tax (after  adjustment for Minority  Interest)  23,563 15,804  10,221 8,291 378 3,181  493 406  1,030 918  (8,055) (5,034) 27,630 23,566 3 Other Information Segment Assets 1,39,667 1,39,832 85,277 59,190  83,943 77,918  10,113 8,138  1,54,433 1,00,087  1,32,781 1,19,321  6,06,214 5,04,486 Segment Liabilities 61,180 47,312  12,895 12,700  6,268 5,996  3,703 1,937  59,800 31,221  21,074 6,390 1,64,920 1,05,556 Capital Expenditure  39,633 31,317  4,507 8,056  9,701 15,807  269 368  50,821 39,341  8,064 5,358  1,12,995 1,00,247 Depreciation / Amortisation  and Depletion expense  3,242 3,266  3,494 2,802  4,805 4,382  376 349 222 168  777 580  12,916 11,547  * Total Gross Turnover is after elimination of inter segment turnover of ` 61,845 crore (Previous Year ` 87,881 crore).
(ii) Inter segment pricing are at Arm’s length basis.
(iii) As per Accounting Standard on Segment Reporting (AS-17), the Company has reported segment information on consolidated basis  including businesses conducted through its subsidiaries.
Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 364 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
(iv) The reportable Segments are further described below : – The refining segment includes production and marketing operations of the petroleum products.
– The petrochemicals segment includes production and marketing operations of petrochemical products namely, High and Low  density Polyethylene, Polypropylene, Polyvinyl Chloride, Poly Butadiene Rubber, Polyester Yarn, Polyester Fibre, Purified Terephthalic  Acid, Paraxylene, Ethylene Glycol, Olefins, Aromatics, Linear Alkyl Benzene, Butadiene, Acrylonitrile, Caustic Soda and Polyethylene  Terephthalate.
– The oil and gas segment includes exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas.
– The organized retail segment includes organized retail business in India.
– The business, which were not reportable segments during the year, have been grouped under the “Others segment.
This mainly  comprises of:   Textile   SEZ development   Telecom / Broadband Business   Media (v) Secondary Segment Information: ( ` in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 1.
Segment Revenue – External Turnover - Within India 1,31,942 1,36,571 - Outside India 1,64,149 2,51,923 Total Revenue 2,96,091 3,88,494 2.
Segment Assets - Within India 5,45,303 4,47,372 - Outside India 60,911 57,114 Total Assets 6,06,214 5,04,486 3.
Segment Liabilities - Within India 1,61,307 1,00,867 - Outside India 3,613 4,689 Total Liabilities 1,64,920 1,05,556 4.
Capital Expenditure - Within India 1,07,786 90,776 - Outside India 5,209 9,471 Total Expenditure 1,12,995 1,00,247 35.
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY IN ACCORDANCE WITH ACCOUNTING STANDARD  21-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of ownership interest Adventure Marketing Private Limited India 100.00% AETN18 Media Private Limited India 21.27% Affinity Names Inc. * USA 100.00% Aurora Algae Inc. * USA 94.82% Aurora Algae Pty Limited * Australia 94.82% Aurora Algae RGV LLC * USA 94.82% Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited India 28.79% Big Tree Entertainment Singapore Pte.
Limited Singapore 28.79% Capital18 Fincap Private Limited India 73.16% Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 365 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of ownership interest Central Park Enterprises DMCC * UAE 100.00% Colorful Media Private Limited India 100.00% Colosceum Media Private Limited India 73.16% Delta Corp East Africa Limited Kenya 58.80% Digital18 Media Limited India 73.16% E-18 Limited Cyprus 73.16% e-Eighteen.com Limited India 67.27% Equator Trading Enterprises Private Limited India 41.70% Ethane Crystal LLC Marshall Islands 100.00% Ethane Emerald LLC Marshall Islands 100.00% Ethane Opal LLC Marshall Islands 100.00% Ethane Pearl LLC Marshall Islands 100.00% Ethane Sapphire LLC Marshall Islands 100.00% Ethane Topaz LLC Marshall Islands 100.00% Fantain Sports Private Limited India 14.68% Gapco Kenya Limited * Kenya 76.00% Gapco Tanzania Limited * Tanzania 76.00% Gapco Uganda Limited * Uganda 76.00% Gapoil (Zanzibar) Limited * Zanzibar 76.00% GenNext Holding Investments LLC * ## USA 100.00% Greycells18 Media Limited India 54.30% Gulf Africa Petroleum Corporation * Mauritius 76.00% Ibn18 (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius 41.70% Independent Media Trust India 100.00% Indiawin Sports Private Limited India 100.00% Infomedia Press Limited India 37.08% Kanhatech Solutions Limited India 90.67% Model Economic Township Limited India 100.00% Moneycontrol Dot Com India Limited India 67.27% Network18 Holdings Limited Mauritius 73.16% Network18 Media & Investments Limited India 73.16% NW18 HSN Holdings Plc Cyprus 39.29% Panorama Television Private Limited India 41.70% Petroleum Trust India 100.00% RB Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% RB Media Holdings Private Limited India 100.00% RB Mediasoft Private Limited India 100.00% Recron (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd * Malaysia 100.00% Reed Infomedia India Private Limited India 73.16% Reliance Aerospace Technologies Limited India 100.00% Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Aromatics and Petrochemicals Limited India 100.00% Reliance Brands Limited India  84.99% Reliance Chemicals Limited India 100.00% Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 366 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of ownership interest Reliance Clothing India Private Limited India 94.40% Reliance Commercial Land & Infrastructure Limited India 100.00% Reliance Comtrade Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited India 100.00% Reliance do Brasil Indústria e Comercio de Produtos Texteis, Quimicos Petroquimicos e  Derivados Ltda * Brazil 100.00% Reliance Eagleford Midstream LLC* USA 100.00% Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC* USA 100.00% Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP* USA 100.00% Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC* USA 100.00% Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Energy and Project Development Limited India 100.00% Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited India 100.00% Reliance Ethane Holding Pte.
Limited Singapore 100.00% Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC * UAE 100.00% Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited India 100.00% Reliance Global Business B.V. Netherlands 100.00% Reliance Global Commercial Limited India 100.00% Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited Singapore 100.00% Reliance Global Energy Services Limited UK 100.00% Reliance Holding USA, Inc.* USA 100.00% Reliance Holding Acquisition Corp. * USA 100.00% Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited India 100.00% Reliance Industries (Middle East) DMCC * UAE 100.00% Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Jio Asiainfo Innovation Centre Limited India 100.00% Reliance Jio Digital Services Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC * USA 99.44% Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited India 99.44% Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Limited * Singapore 99.44% Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited * UK 99.44% Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc. * USA 99.44% Reliance Jio Media Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Jio Messaging Services Private Limited India 76.56% Reliance Lifestyle Holdings Limited India  84.99% Reliance Marcellus LLC* USA 100.00% Reliance Marcellus II LLC* USA 100.00% Reliance Payment Solutions Limited India 100.00% Reliance Petro Marketing Limited India 94.40% Reliance Petroinvestments Limited India 100.00% Reliance Polyolefins Limited India 100.00% Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited India 100.00% Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 367 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of ownership interest Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance Retail Finance Limited India 100.00% Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited India 100.00% Reliance Retail Limited India  94.40% Reliance Retail Ventures Limited India 94.45% Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited India 74.90% Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited ** India 100.00% Reliance Strategic Investments Limited India 100.00% Reliance Textiles Limited India 100.00% Reliance Trading Limited India  94.40% Reliance Universal Commercial Limited India 100.00% Reliance Universal Enterprises Limited India 100.00% Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance USA Gas Marketing LLC * USA 100.00% Reliance Vantage Retail Limited India 100.00% Reliance Ventures Limited India 100.00% Reliance World Trade Private Limited India 100.00% Reliance-Grand Optical Private Limited India 94.40% RIL (Australia) Pty Limited Australia 100.00% RIL Exploration and Production (Myanmar) Company Limited Myanmar 100.00% RIL USA, Inc.* USA 100.00% RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
* Malaysia 100.00% RRB Investments Private Limited India 73.16% RRB Mediasoft Private Limited India 100.00% RRK Finhold Private Limited India 73.16% RVT Finhold Private Limited India 73.16% RVT Media Private Limited India 41.70% Setpro18 Distribution Limited India 73.16% Spacebound Web Labs Private Limited India 16.16% Strategic Manpower Solutions Limited India 100.00% Surela Investment and Trading Private Limited India 100.00% Television Eighteen Mauritius Limited Mauritius 73.16% Television Eighteen Media and Investments Limited Mauritius 73.16% TV18 Broadcast Limited India 41.70% TV18 Home Shopping Network Limited India 39.29% Watermark Infratech Private Limited India 100.00% Wave Land Developers Limited Kenya 100.00% Web18 Holdings Limited Cyprus 73.16% Web18 Software Services Limited India 73.16% ** Formerly known as Office Depot Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited ##  Formerly known as Reliance Marcellus Holding LLC * Subsidiary Company having 31st December as a reporting date Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 368 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
36.
Significant Enterprises consolidated as Associates and Joint Ventures in accordance with Accounting Standard 23 -  Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements and Accounting Standard 27 - Financial  Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures respectively: Name of the Enterprise Country of  Incorporation Proportion of  ownership interest 24 X 7 Learning Private Limited India 27.42% Aeon Learning Private Limited India 18.29% Algenol LLC# USA 30.95% Book My Show Limited New Zealand 7.48% Brooks Brothers India Private Limited India 41.64% D.E.
Shaw India Securities Private Limited India 50.00% Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited India 41.64% Eenadu Television Private Limited India 10.22% Extramarks Education Private Limited India 38.46% Football Sports Development Limited India 32.50% Gaurav Overseas Private Limited India 50.00% GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP India 50.00% Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited India 41.80% IBN Lokmat News Private Limited India 20.85% Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited India 42.49% IMG Reliance Limited India 50.00% India Gas Solutions Private Limited India 50.00% Indiacast Distribution Private Limited * India 31.27% Indiacast Media Distribution Private Limited India 31.27% Indiacast UK Limited UK 31.27% Indiacast US Limited USA 31.27% Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited India 33.33% Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited India 46.25% Matrix Genetics LLC# USA 30.63% Prism Tv Private Limited India 20.85% Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited India 50.00% Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited India 50.00% Reliance Europe Limited# UK 50.00% Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited India 45.
43% Reliance LNG Limited India 45.00% Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited India 42.49% Reliance-GrandVision India Supply Private Limited India 47.20% Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited India 47.20% Roptonal Limited Cyprus 20.85% Ryohin - Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited India 41.64% Supreme Tradelinks Private Limited India 46.25% Ubona Technologies Private Limited India 36.58% Vayana Private Limited India 39.15% Viacom18 Media (UK) Limited UK 20.85% Viacom18 Media Private Limited India 20.85% Viacom18 US Inc. USA 20.85% Zegna South Asia Private Limited India 41.64% #  Associate Company having 31st December as a reporting date.
*  Formerly known as Indiacast UTV Media Distribution Private Limited  Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 369 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 37 .
Additional Information, as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of enterprises consolidated as  Subsidiary / Associates / Joint Ventures.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in   profit or loss  As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount (` in crore) As % of  consolidated    profit or loss Amount (` in crore) Parent Reliance Industries Limited 98.58 2,40,176.62 99.23 27,417.02 Subsidiaries Indian 1 Adventure Marketing Private Limited (0.00)  (3.61) (0.00)  (0.01) 2 AETN18 Media Private Limited  0.01  32.60 0.00  0.65  3 Big Tree Entertainment Private Limited  0.07  163.39 0.01  3.17  4 Capital18 Fincap Private Limited  0.01  17.32 0.07  19.04  5 Colorful Media Private Limited (0.00)  (3.60) (0.00)  (0.01) 6 Colosceum Media Private Limited  0.01  15.22  0.01  2.30  7 Digital18 Media Limited (0.02)  (45.20) (0.01)  (3.04) 8 e-Eighteen.com Limited  0.02  54.59  0.07  20.27  9 Equator Trading Enterprises Private Limited  0.08  197.30 (0.00)  (0.17) 10 Faintain Sports Private Limited  0.00  3.02 (0.00)  (0.42) 11 Greycells18 Media Limited (0.00)  (5.29) (0.02)  (6.17) 12 Independent Media Trust  1.38  3,365.58 (0.00)  (0.02) 13 Indiawin Sports Private Limited (0.04) (102.50) (0.00) (0.21) 14 Infomedia Press Limited (0.01)  (27.34) (0.01)  (3.71) 15 Kanhatech Solutions Limited  0.03  71.23 (0.01) (1.59) 16 Model Economic Township Limited  0.04  88.38 (0.01) (1.64) 17 Moneycontrol Dot Com India Limited (0.00)  (0.01)  0.00  0.10  18 Network 18 Media & Investments Limited  1.08  2,624.06 (0.33)  (90.96) 19 Panorama Television Private Limited  0.04  101.65 (0.09)  (24.73) 20 Petroleum Trust  4.21 10,259.96 (0.00) (0.02) 21 RB Holdings Private Limited (0.13)  (304.86) (0.00)  (0.01) 22 RB Media Holdings Private Limited (0.00)  (3.68) (0.00)  (0.01) 23 RB Mediasoft Private Limited (0.00)  (0.03) (0.00)  (0.01) 24 Reed Infomedia India Private Limited  0.00  0.01  (0.00)  (0.00) 25 Reliance Aerospace Technologies Limited (0.00) (1.29)  0.00 0.01  26 Reliance Ambit Trade Private Limited  0.19 466.41 (0.00) (0.32) 27 Reliance Aromatics and Petrochemicals Limited  1.11  2,710.28 (0.00) (0.06) 28 Reliance Brands Limited (0.01) (30.78) (0.10) (28.26) 29 Reliance Chemicals Limited  1.07 2604.71 (0.00) (0.19) 30 Reliance Clothing India Private Limited (0.00) (5.64) (0.01) (3.54) 31 Reliance Commercial Land & Infrastructure Limited   1.71 4,172.37 (0.00) (0.68) 32 Reliance Comtrade Private Limited  0.10 242.85 (0.00) (0.01) 33 Reliance Corporate IT Park Limited  1.20  2,924.15  0.37  101.65  34 Reliance Eminent Trading & Commercial Private Limited  0.91  2,218.14 (0.03) (9.50) Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 370 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in   profit or loss  As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount (` in crore) As % of  consolidated    profit or loss Amount (` in crore) 35 Reliance Energy and Project Development Limited  0.39 952.74 (0.00) (0.07) 36 Reliance Energy Generation and Distribution Limited  0.15 372.99 (0.00) (0.00) 37 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited  0.06 148.47 (0.00) (0.05) 38 Reliance Global Commercial Limited  0.00 0.05 (0.00) (0.00) 39 Reliance Grand Optical Private Limited  0.00  0.02 (0.00) (0.00) 40 Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Limited  0.40  972.14  0.01 3.42  41 Reliance Innovative Building Solutions Private Limited  0.01 19.89 (0.01) (1.81) 42 Reliance Jio AsiaInfo Innovation Centre Limited  0.00 0.98 (0.00) (0.02) 43 Reliance Jio Digital Services Private Limited  0.00  9.86 (0.00) (0.02) 44 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited  18.49  45,050.29 (0.09) (23.88) 45 Reliance Jio Infratel Private Limited  0.00 0.96 (0.00) (0.04) 46 Reliance Jio Media Private Limited  0.00 9.93 (0.00) (0.17) 47 Reliance Jio Messaging Services Private Limited  0.04 95.92 (0.00) (1.00) 48 Reliance Lifestyle Holdings Limited (0.01) (25.14) (0.02) (5.75) 49 Reliance Payment Solutions Limited  0.05 109.70 (0.01) (1.79) 50 Reliance Petro Marketing Limited  0.01  17.03 (0.02) (5.76) 51 Reliance Petroinvestments Limited  0.07  181.98 (0.00) (1.12) 52 Reliance Polyolefins Limited  1.07  2,602.96  0.02 5.16  53 Reliance Progressive Traders Private Limited  0.78  1,905.17 (0.07) (18.50) 54 Reliance Prolific Commercial Private Limited  0.14  331.22 (0.00) (0.29) 55 Reliance Prolific Traders Private Limited  0.58  1,418.92 (0.03) (8.81) 56 Reliance Retail Finance Limited  0.04  101.77 (0.00) (0.02) 57 Reliance Retail Insurance Broking Limited  0.00 11.95  0.01 2.09  58 Reliance Retail Limited  2.26  5,494.90  1.11  306.54  59 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited  2.46  5,996.76 0.00 0.01 60 Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited  0.19  454.22  0.01 2.03  61 Reliance Strategic Investments Limited  0.54  1,316.31  0.21 58.20  62 Reliance Supply Solutions Private Limited  0.00 0.15 (0.00) (0.24) 63 Reliance Textiles Limited  0.00  0.04 (0.00) (0.01) 64 Reliance Trading Limited  0.00 2.09 (0.00) (0.15) 65 Reliance Universal Commercial Limited  0.00 0.05 (0.00) (0.00) 66 Reliance Universal Enterprises Limited  1.40  3,415.41 (0.00) (0.64) 67 Reliance Universal Traders Private Limited  0.03  64.09 (0.01) (1.73) 68 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited (0.02) (47.94) (0.01) (2.53) 69 Reliance Ventures Limited  1.11  2,702.65  0.42 115.44  70 Reliance World Trade Private Limited  2.52  6,132.34 (0.00) (0.99) 71 RRB Investments Private Limited (0.01)  (19.92) (0.00)  (0.03) 72 RRB Mediasoft Private Limited (0.00)  (0.03) (0.00)  (0.01) 73 RRK Finhold Private Limited (0.00)  (6.09)  0.00  0.49  74 RVT Finhold Private Limited (0.00)  (4.68) (0.00)  (0.01) 75 RVT Media Private Limited  0.01  34.53 (0.00)  (0.05) Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 371 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in   profit or loss  As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount ( ` in crore) As % of  consolidated    profit or loss Amount ( ` in crore) 76 Setpro18 Distribution Limited (0.00)  (1.63) (0.00)  (0.03) 77 Spacebound Web labs private Limited (0.00)  (0.38) (0.00)  (0.84) 78 Strategic Manpower Solutions Limited (0.02) (40.14) (0.04) (11.15) 79 Surela Investment and Trading Private Limited (0.00) (1.19) (0.00) (0.25) 80 TV18 Broadcast Limited  1.48  3,611.89  0.44  122.89  81 TV18 Home Shopping Network Limited (0.03)  (72.58) (0.31)  (84.30) 82 Watermark Infratech Private Limited (0.00)  (3.59) (0.00)  (0.01) 83 Web18 Software Services Limited (0.00)  (0.40) (0.00)  (0.03) Foreign 1 Affinity Names Inc. 0.00 0.00 (0.00) (0.99) 2 Aurora Algae Inc. 0.17 409.83 (0.22) (60.27) 3 Aurora Algae Pty.
Limited (0.10) (243.18) 0.14 39.85 4 Aurora Algae RGV LLC.
-   -  -   - 5 Big Tree Entertainment Singapore Pte.
Limited  0.00  6.63 (0.00)  (0.00) 6 Central Park Enterprises DMCC (0.00) (0.99) (0.00) (0.20) 7 Delta Corp East Africa Limited  0.00  10.32 (0.00) (0.20) 8 E-18 Limited  0.03  83.93  0.00  0.10  9 Ethane Crystal LLC  0.10  238.25 (0.00) (0.00) 10 Ethane Emerald LLC  0.10  237.72 (0.00) (0.00) 11 Ethane Opal LLC  0.07  160.73 (0.00) (0.00) 12 Ethane Pearl LLC  0.10  248.19 (0.00) (0.00) 13 Ethane Sapphire LLC  0.07  160.73 (0.00) (0.00) 14 Ethane Topaz LLC  0.07  160.73 (0.00) (0.00) 15 Gapoil (Zanzibar) Limited  0.00  9.69 (0.00) (0.24) 16 Gapco Kenya Limited  0.23  553.47  0.20  54.56  17 Gapco Tanzania Limited  0.25  598.43  0.24  66.14  18 Gapco Uganda Limited  0.06 148.63  0.11  29.32  19 GenNext Holding Investments LLC  -   -  -   - 20 Gulf Africa Petroleum Corporation  0.02  53.72 (0.03) (7.67) 21 Ibn18(Mauritius) Limited  0.13  327.41  0.03  8.17  22 Network 18 Holdings Limited (0.05)  (120.43) (0.01)  (2.93) 23 NW18 HSN Holdings Plc 0.22 529.93 0.01 3.14 24 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 0.50 1,217.43 (0.20) (54.85) 25 Reliance do Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Produtos Têxteis,  Químicos, Petroquímicos e Derivados Ltda.
0.00 0.08  0.00 0.02 26 Reliance Eagleford Midstream LLC  2.38  5,798.09  19.10  5,277.18  27 Reliance Eagleford Upstream GP LLC  0.00 0.22 (0.00) (0.00) 28 Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP  2.07  5,053.58 (2.80) (773.42) 29 Reliance Eagleford Upstream LLC  0.62 1,510.59 (0.00) (0.13) 30 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte.
Limited  0.50 1,206.84 (0.00) (0.04) Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Annual Report 2015-16 372 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in   profit or loss  As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount (` in crore) As % of  consolidated    profit or loss Amount (` in crore) 31 Reliance Exploration & Production DMCC  0.26  625.23 (0.08) (21.24) 32 Reliance Global Business B.V.  0.18  447.92 (0.01) (2.11) 33 Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte.
Limited  0.02  57.11  0.14  37.43  34 Reliance Global Energy Services Limited  0.00  8.88  0.01  1.43  35 Reliance Holding USA, Inc. (1.70) (4,147.46) (17.35) (4,795.18)  36 Reliance Holding Acquisition Corp.  -   -  -   - 37 Reliance Industries(Middle East) DMCC  0.01  21.63 (0.01) (1.52) 38 Reliance Jio Global Resources LLC  0.01  31.82  0.01 2.05 39 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte.
Limited  0.24  580.64 (0.05) (12.90) 40 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK Limited  0.00  7.16 (0.00) (0.29) 41 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA Inc.  0.08  198.73 (0.02) (6.09) 42 Reliance Marcellus LLC  1.66  4,047.43 (13.60) (3,757.14) 43 Reliance Marcellus II LLC  0.17  412.94 (4.66) (1,286.71) 44 Reliance USA Gas Marketing LLC  0.00  0.01 - - 45 RIL Exploration and Production (Myanmar) Company Limited  0.00  0.53 (0.00) (0.00) 46 RIL USA, Inc.  0.11  262.24  0.27  75.15  47 RIL(Australia) Pty Limited (0.00) (0.20) (0.00) (0.15) 48 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn.
Bhd.
-   -  -   - 49 Television Eighteen Mauritius Limited  0.01  25.22  0.00  0.29  50 Television Eighteen Media and Investments Limited  0.12  288.48 (0.02)  (6.30) 51 Wave Land Developers Limited  0.01  18.13  0.00  1.01  52 Web18 Holdings Limited  0.09  229.56 (0.00)  (0.43) Minority Interests in all subsidiaries (1.34) (3,254.06) (0.31) (85.00) Associates (Investments as per the equity method) Indian 1 24 X 7 Learning Private Limited  -    -    -    -    2 Aeon Learning Private Limited  -    -    -    -    3 Eenadu Television Private Limited  0.20  475.39  0.02  4.20  4 Extramarks Education Private Limited  0.05 125.00 - - 5 Gaurav Overseas Private Limited 0.00 0.19 (0.00) (0.01) 6 GenNext Ventures Investment Advisers LLP  0.00 0.22  0.00 0.04 7 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited  0.07 158.44  0.19 52.65 8 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 0.00 0.92 - - 9 Reliance Commercial Dealers Limited 0.00 11.43 0.00 0.11 10 Reliance Commercial Trading Private Limited - - - - 11 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited  0.07 163.58  0.03 6.98 12 Reliance LNG Limited  0.00 0.02 (0.00) (0.00) 13 Vayana Private Limited 0.01 24.48 (0.00) (1.58) Notes  on Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2016 Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 373 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Name of the Enterprise Net Assets i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in   profit or loss  As % of  consolidated  net assets Amount ( ` in crore) As % of  consolidated    profit or loss Amount ( ` in crore) Foreign 1 Algenol LLC  0.12 283.79 (0.29) (79.25) 2 Book My Show Limited  0.00 0.32  0.00 0.12 3 Matrix Genetics LLC  0.00 11.42 (0.01) (2.08) 4 Reliance Europe Limited  0.01 32.77 0.00 0.90 Joint Ventures(as per proportionate consolidation/Investment as  per the equity method) Indian  1 Brooks Brothers India Private Limited  0.01 12.74 (0.01) (2.95) 2 D. E. Shaw India Securities Private Limited  0.01 17.00 (0.00) (0.71) 3 Diesel Fashion India Reliance Private Limited  0.00 11.13 (0.01) (2.98) 4 Football Sports Development Limited  0.03 67.32 (0.13) (34.57) 5 IBN Lokmat News Private Limited  0.00 8.23  0.00 0.62 6 Iconix Lifestyle India Private Limited  0.00 6.61  0.01 3.50 7 IMG Reliance Limited  0.05 122.54  0.02 4.36 8 India Gas Solutions Private Limited  0.00 4.41  0.00 0.77 9 Indiacast Media Distribution Private Limited  0.00 7.62 (0.00) (0.05) 10 Indiacast Distribution Private Limited  0.00 4.58  0.00 0.90 11 Marks and Spencer Reliance India Private Limited  0.06 145.55 (0.10) (28.04) 12 Prism Tv Private Limited  0.02 44.20 (0.05) (15.04) 13 Reliance Paul & Shark Fashions Private Limited  0.00 4.90 (0.00) (1.03) 14 Reliance-GrandVision India Supply Private Limited  0.00 7.41 (0.00) (0.79) 15 Reliance-Vision Express Private Limited  0.01 17.81 (0.02) (4.56) 16 Ryohin - Keikaku Reliance India Private Limited  -   -  -   - 17 Supreme Tradelinks Private Limited (0.00) (5.06)  0.01 1.71 18 Ubona Technologies Private Limited  0.00 5.33  0.00 0.73 19 Viacom18 Media Private Limited  0.22 540.47  0.35 96.72 20 Zegna South Asia Private Limited  0.00 2.00 (0.01) (3.20) Foreign 1 Indiacast UK Limited  0.00 1.35 0.00 0.34 2 Indiacast US Limited  0.00 0.93 0.00 0.19 3 Roptonal Limited  0.07 160.20 0.00 0.91 4 Viacom18 Media (UK) Limited (0.00) (2.03) (0.00)  (0.00) 5 Viacom18 US Inc. (0.00) (3.91) (0.00)  (0.07) Annual Report 2015-16 374 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
ANNEXURE  “A”  Salient features of Financial Statements of Subsidiary / Associates / Joint Ventures As per  Companies Act , 2013 PART “A” : SUBSIDIARIES ` in crore   Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.   No.
Name of Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Share  Capital  Reserves &  Surplus  Total   Assets   Total  Liabilities Investments   Turnover  /  Total  Income  Profit  Before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Profit  After  Taxation  Proposed  Dividend   % of  Shareholding  ** 1 Affinity Names Inc.# INR 1.65 (1.65) 0.00 0.00  -    -   (0.99) - (0.99) - USD  0.25  (0.25)  0.00  0.00  -    -    (0.15)  -    (0.15) - 100.00 2 Aurora Algae Inc.#* INR 483.92 (74.09) 415.06 5.23 39.10 0.07 (60.27) - (60.27)  -    USD 73.15 (11.20) 62.74 0.79 5.91 0.01 (9.11)  -   (9.11) - 94.82 3 Aurora Algae Pty Limited# INR 29.92 (273.10) 0.92 244.10 - 43.53 39.85  -   39.85  -    AUD  6.18  (56.40)  0.19  50.41  -    8.99  8.23  -    8.23 - 94.82 4 Aurora Algae RGV LLC.# INR - - - - - - - - - - USD - - - - - - - - - - 94.82 5 Central Park Enterprises DMCC# INR 0.66 (1.65) 0.00 0.99  -    -   (0.20) - (0.20)  -    USD  0.10  (0.25)  0.00  0.15  -    -    (0.03) -  (0.03) -    100.00 6 Delta Corp East Africa Limited INR 4.95 5.37 12.43 2.11  -   (0.13) (0.20) - (0.20)  -    KSH  75.73 82.19  190.29 32.37  -    (1.94)  (3.03)  -    (3.03) - 58.80 7 Ethane Crystal LLC INR 238.25 (0.00) 239.71 1.46  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  35.96  (0.00)  36.18  0.22 - -  (0.00)  -    (0.00) -    100.00 8 Ethane Emerald LLC INR 237.72 (0.00) 239.18 1.46  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  35.88  (0.00)  36.10  0.22 - -  (0.00)  -    (0.00) -    100.00 9 Ethane Opal LLC INR 160.73 (0.00) 161.79 1.06  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  24.26  (0.00)  24.42  0.16  -    -    (0.00)  -    (0.00) -    100.00 10 Ethane Pearl LLC INR 248.26 (0.07) 249.12 0.93  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  37.47  (0.01)  37.60  0.14  -    -    (0.00)  -    (0.00) -    100.00 11 Ethane Sapphire LLC INR 160.73 (0.00) 161.79 1.06  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  24.26  (0.00)  24.42  0.16  -    -    (0.00)  -    (0.00) -    100.00 12 Ethane Topaz LLC INR 160.73 (0.00) 165.11 4.38  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  24.26  (0.00)  24.92 0.66 - -  (0.00)  -    (0.00) -    100.00 13 Gapoil (Zanzibar) Limited# INR 1.53 8.16 20.47 10.78  -   0.08 (0.24) - (0.24)  -    TZS  500.00  2,656.58  6,666.61  3,510.03  -    25.91  (79.49)  -    (79.49) - 76.00 14 Gapco Kenya Limited# INR 94.39 459.08 1,236.21 682.74  -   10,496.48 79.49 24.93 54.56  -    KSH  1,459.54  7,098.80  19,115.64 10,557.30 - 1,62,308.41  1,229.12  385.45  843.67 - 76.00 15 Gapco Tanzania Limited# INR 91.82 506.61 902.49 304.06 0.51 968.56 60.46 (5.68) 66.14  -    TZS 29,910.00  165,019.00 293,971.00 99,042.00  165.00  315,491.00 19,694.00 (1,851.00) 21,545.00 - 76.00 16 Gapco Uganda Limited# INR 17.15 131.48 178.89 30.26  -   398.35 41.66 12.34 29.32  -    USH  8,750.10  67,083.56  91,270.22 15,436.56 -  203,241.37 21,252.84 6,297.11 14,955.73 - 76.00 17 GenNext Holding Investments  LLC# INR - - - - - - - - - - USD - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 18 Gulf Africa Petroleum  Corporation# INR 145.54 (91.82) 338.18 284.46 337.99  -   (7.67) - (7.67)  -    USD  22.00  (13.88)  51.12  43.00  51.09  -    (1.16) -  (1.16) - 76.00 As on 31.12.2015:1EUR = 72.1125, 1US$ = 66.1550, 1Au$ = 48.4225, 1RM = 15.4075, 1KSH = 0.6467, 1TZS =0.0307, 1USH = 0.0196, 1BRL = 16.7599, 1GBP = 98.0650 As on 31.03.2016:1EUR = 75.3950, 1US$ =66.2550, 1Au$ = 50.9800, 1KSH = 0.6531, 1SGD = 49.2650, 1GBP = 95.4725 * Financial Information is based on Unaudited Results.
** Based on effective shareholding of Equity and Convertible Preference Shares.
# Company having 31st December as a reporting date.
Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 375 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ` in crore   Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.   No.
Name of Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Share  Capital  Reserves &  Surplus  Total   Assets   Total  Liabilities Investments   Turnover  /  Total  Income  Profit  Before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Profit  After  Taxation  Proposed  Dividend   % of  Shareholding  ** 19 Indiawin Sports Private Limited INR 2.65 (105.15) 169.92 272.42 13.50 192.73 (0.21) - (0.21) - 100.00 20 Kanhatech Solutions Limited INR 75.00 (3.77) 74.90 3.67 6.70 0.03 (1.59) - (1.59) - 90.67 21 Model Economic Township  Limited INR 97.00 (8.62) 6,197.05 6,108.67 0.01 116.89 (1.67) (0.03) (1.64) - 100.00 22 Recron (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd# INR 174.40 1,043.03 3,868.18 2,650.75 0.51 5,096.75 (116.51) (61.66) (54.85)  -    RM  113.19 676.96 2,510.58 1,720.43  0.33  3,307.97  (75.62)  (40.02)  (35.60) - 100.00 23 Reliance Aerospace  Technologies Limited INR 0.05 (1.34) 0.32 1.61 - 0.79 0.01 0.00 0.01 - 100.00 24 Reliance Ambit Trade Private  Limited INR 1.93 464.48 525.80 59.39 - 0.00 (0.32) - (0.32) - 100.00 25 Reliance Aromatics and  Petrochemicals Limited INR 4.52 2,705.76 2,780.07 69.79 2,780.06 0.02 (0.06) - (0.06)  -   100.00 26 Reliance Brands Limited INR 89.86 (120.64) 525.43 556.21 253.30 225.08 (40.78) (12.52) (28.26) - 84.99 27 Reliance Chemicals Limited INR 7.57 2,597.14 2,604.91 0.20 2,604.91 0.02 (0.19) - (0.19)  -   100.00 28 Reliance Clothing India Private  Limited INR 0.05 (5.69) 29.77 35.41  -   19.73 (3.54) - (3.54) - 94.40 29 Reliance Commercial Land &  Infrastructure Limited  INR 51.26 4,121.11 5,109.45 937.08 4,004.88 0.10 (0.68) - (0.68) - 100.00 30 Reliance Comtrade Private  Limited INR 1.48 241.37 243.06 0.21  -   0.00 (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00 31 Reliance Corporate IT Park  Limited INR 2,974.99 (50.84) 9,382.85 6,458.70 1.14 5,120.10 129.23 27.58 101.65 - 100.00 32 Reliance do Brasil Indústria e  Comércio de Produtos Têxteis,  Químicos, Petroquímicos eDerivados Ltda.
# INR 2.48 (2.40) 0.13 0.05 - 0.08 0.02 (0.00) 0.02  -    BRL  1.48  (1.43)  0.08  0.02 -  0.05  0.01  (0.00)  0.01 - 100.00 33 Reliance Eagleford Midstream  LLC# INR 309.61 5,488.48 5,835.27 37.18 - 5,456.53 5,277.18 - 5,277.18  -    USD  46.80 829.64 882.06 5.62 - 824.81 797.70  -   797.70 - 100.00 34 Reliance Eagleford Upstream  GP LLC# INR 0.24 (0.02) 0.22 - 0.13  -   (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  0.04  (0.00)  0.03  -    0.02  -    (0.00)  -    (0.00) - 100.00 35 Reliance Eagleford Upstream  Holding LP# INR 1,510.65 3,542.93 23,026.17 17,972.59  -   2,682.78 (773.42) - (773.42)  -    USD 228.35 535.55 3,480.64 2,716.74  -   405.53 (116.91)  -   (116.91) - 100.00 36 Reliance Eagleford Upstream  LLC# INR 1,511.05 (0.46) 19,006.79 17,496.20 1,510.52 685.30 (0.13) - (0.13)  -    USD  228.41  (0.07)  2,873.07  2,644.73 228.33  103.59  (0.02)  -    (0.02)  -   100.00 37 Reliance Eminent Trading &  Commercial Private Limited INR 14.67 2,203.47 2,442.02 223.88  -   1.14 (9.50) - (9.50) - 100.00 38 Reliance Energy and Project  Development Limited INR 1.01 951.73 1,256.23 303.49 1,255.99 0.02 (0.07) 0.00 (0.07) - 100.00 39 Reliance Energy Generation  and Distribution Limited INR 1.25 371.74 6,955.87 6,582.88 3,636.26 0.02 (0.00) - (0.00) - 100.00 As on 31.12.2015:1EUR = 72.1125, 1US$ = 66.1550, 1Au$ = 48.4225, 1RM = 15.4075, 1KSH = 0.6467, 1TZS =0.0307, 1USH = 0.0196, 1BRL = 16.7599, 1GBP = 98.0650 As on 31.03.2016:1EUR = 75.3950, 1US$ =66.2550, 1Au$ = 50.9800, 1KSH = 0.6531, 1SGD = 49.2650, 1GBP = 95.4725 * Financial Information is based on Unaudited Results.
** Based on effective shareholding of Equity and Convertible Preference Shares.
# Company having 31st December as a reporting date.
Annual Report 2015-16 376 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
` in crore   Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.   No.
Name of Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Share  Capital  Reserves &  Surplus  Total   Assets   Total  Liabilities Investments   Turnover  /  Total  Income  Profit  Before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Profit  After  Taxation  Proposed  Dividend   % of  Shareholding  ** 40 Reliance Ethane Holding Pte  Limited.
INR 1,206.90 (0.06) 1,206.88 0.04 1,206.41  -   (0.04) - (0.04)  -    USD  182.16  (0.01)  182.16  0.01 182.09 -  (0.01)  -    (0.01) - 100.00 41 Reliance Exploration &  Production DMCC# INR 2,958.12 (2,332.89) 664.33 39.10 525.93 1.92 (21.24) - (21.24)  -    USD  447.15  (352.64)  100.42  5.91  79.50  0.29  (3.21) -  (3.21) - 100.00 42 Reliance Gas Pipelines Limited INR 150.00 (1.53) 1,328.57 1,180.10 43.99  -   (0.05) - (0.05) - 100.00 43 Reliance Global Business BV INR 447.92 0.00 487.88 39.96 4.60 1.21 (2.11) - (2.11) 37.09 EUR  59.41  0.00  64.71  5.30  0.61  0.16  (0.28)  -    (0.28) 4.92 100.00 44 Reliance Global Commercial  Limited INR 0.05 0.00 4.48 4.43 4.47 0.00 (0.00) - (0.00) - 100.00 45 Reliance Global Energy Services  (Singapore) Pte Limited.
INR 7.82 49.29 1,359.88 1,302.77  -   7,634.76 39.42 1.99 37.43  -    USD  1.18  7.44 205.25 196.63  -    1,152.33 5.95 0.30 5.65 - 100.00 46 Reliance Global Energy Services  Limited INR 4.77 4.11 16.04 7.16  -   23.68 1.72 0.29 1.43  -    GBP  0.50  0.43  1.68 0.75  -    2.48  0.18  0.03  0.15 - 100.00 47 Reliance-Grand Optical Private  Limited INR 0.05 (0.03) 0.02 0.00  -    -   (0.00) - (0.00) - 94.40 48 Reliance Holding Acquisition  Corp # INR  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - USD  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 49 Reliance Holding USA, Inc# INR 0.33 (4,147.79) 39,018.02 43,165.48 6,686.22 1,690.39 (4,795.18) - (4,795.18) - USD 0.05 (626.98) 5,897.97 6,524.90 1,010.69 255.52 (724.84) - (724.84) - 100.00 50 Reliance Industrial Investments  and Holdings Limited INR 147.65 824.49 24,203.22 23,231.08 11,102.48 961.49 3.42 - 3.42 - 100.00 51 Reliance Industries(Middle East)  DMCC# INR 190.33 (168.70) 783.74 762.11 675.11 2,338.25 (1.52) - (1.52)  -    USD  28.77  (25.50)  118.47  115.20  102.05  353.45  (0.23)  -    (0.23) - 100.00 52 Reliance Innovative Building  Solutions Private Limited INR 64.69 (44.80) 24.22 4.33  -   1.76 (1.81) - (1.81) - 100.00 53 Reliance Jio AsiaInfo Innovation  Centre Limited INR 1.00 (0.02) 1.00 0.02 1.00  -   (0.02) - (0.02) - 100.00 54 Reliance Jio Digital Services    Private Limited INR 10.00 (0.14) 104.35 94.49 3.85  -   (0.02) - (0.02) - 100.00 55 Reliance Jio Global resources  LLC# INR 29.77 2.05 32.88 1.06  -   35.53 2.05 - 2.05  -    USD  4.50  0.31 4.97 0.16 - 5.37  0.31  -    0.31 - 99.44 56 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited INR 45,125.00 (74.71) 1,35,726.63 90,676.34 833.34 0.04 (23.88) - (23.88) - 99.44 57 Reliance Jio Infocomm Pte  Limited# INR 602.01 (21.37) 589.77 9.13  -   8.40 (12.90) - (12.90)  -    USD  91.00  (3.23)  89.15  1.38 -  1.27  (1.95)  -    (1.95) - 99.44 58 Reliance Jio Infocomm UK  Limited# INR 7.85 (0.69) 10.30 3.14  -    -   (0.29) - (0.29)  -    GBP  0.80  (0.07)  1.05  0.32 - -  (0.03)  -    (0.03) - 99.44 59 Reliance Jio Infocomm USA  Inc.# INR 215.00 (16.27) 200.85 2.12 99.23  -   (6.09) - (6.09)  -    USD  32.50  (2.46)  30.36  0.32  15.00  -    (0.92)  -    (0.92) - 99.44 ANNEXURE “A” Contd.
As on 31.12.2015:1EUR = 72.1125, 1US$ = 66.1550, 1Au$ = 48.4225, 1RM = 15.4075, 1KSH = 0.6467, 1TZS =0.0307, 1USH = 0.0196, 1BRL = 16.7599, 1GBP = 98.0650 As on 31.03.2016:1EUR = 75.3950, 1US$ =66.2550, 1Au$ = 50.9800, 1KSH = 0.6531, 1SGD = 49.2650, 1GBP = 95.4725 * Financial Information is based on Unaudited Results.
** Based on effective shareholding of Equity and Convertible Preference Shares.
# Company having 31st December as a reporting date.
Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 377 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 ` in crore   Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.   No.
Name of Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Share  Capital  Reserves &  Surplus  Total   Assets   Total  Liabilities Investments   Turnover  /  Total  Income  Profit  Before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Profit  After  Taxation  Proposed  Dividend   % of  Shareholding  ** 60 Reliance Jio Infratel Private  Limited INR 1.00 (0.04) 59.81 58.85 6.55 203.94 (0.04) - (0.04) - 100.00 61 Reliance Jio Media Private  Limited INR 11.01 (1.08) 45.66 35.73 15.75 0.07 (0.17) - (0.17) - 100.00 62 Reliance Jio Messaging Services  Private Limited INR 97.33 (1.41) 107.79 11.87 36.38 1.35 (1.00) - (1.00) - 76.56 63 Reliance Lifestyle Holdings  Limited INR 0.05 (25.19) 101.59 126.73  -   157.60 (5.75) - (5.75) - 84.99 64 Reliance Marcellus II LLC# INR 3,477.17 (3,064.23) 2,413.67 2,000.73  -   115.31 (1,286.71) - (1,286.71)  -    USD  525.61  (463.19)  364.85  302.43  -    17.43  (194.50)  -    (194.50) - 100.00 65 Reliance Marcellus LLC# INR 9,349.36 (5,301.93) 17,231.39 13,183.96  -   552.20 (3,757.14) - (3,757.14)  -    USD  1,413.25  (801.44)  2,604.70  1,992.89  -    83.47  (567.93)  -    (567.93) - 100.00 66 Reliance Payment Solutions  Limited INR 115.00 (5.30) 586.26 476.56 95.47 0.05 (1.79) - (1.79) - 100.00 67 Reliance Petro Marketing  Limited INR 4.05 12.98 334.74 317.71 0.01 2,200.37 (8.05) (2.29) (5.76) - 94.40 68 Reliance Petroinvestments  Limited INR 8.88 173.10 195.94 13.96 184.47 0.02 (1.12) - (1.12) - 100.00 69 Reliance Polyolefins Limited INR 13.26 2,589.70 2,603.01 0.05 2,600.84 62.06 8.08 2.92 5.16 - 100.00 70 Reliance Progressive Traders  Private Limited INR 14.05 1,891.12 2,339.10 433.93 0.00 7.07 (18.50) - (18.50) - 100.00 71 Reliance Prolific Commercial  Private Limited INR 1.66 329.56 412.91 81.69  -   0.06 (0.29) 0.00 (0.29) - 100.00 72 Reliance Prolific Traders Private  Limited INR 12.87 1,406.05 2,819.43 1,400.51  -   2.86 (8.81) - (8.81) - 100.00 73 Reliance Retail Finance Limited INR 2.02 99.75 101.78 0.01 101.78 0.00 (0.02) 0.00 (0.02) - 100.00 74 Reliance Retail Insurance  Broking Limited INR 4.00 7.95 12.69 0.74 6.75 19.00 3.13 1.04 2.09 - 100.00 75 Reliance Retail Limited INR 4,989.54 505.36 9,927.40 4,432.50 484.81 18,543.56 489.97 183.43 306.54 - 94.40 76 Reliance Retail Ventures Limited INR 6,000.00 (3.24) 5,996.99 0.23 5,634.05 2.39 0.01 - 0.01 - 94.45 77 Reliance Sibur Elastomers  Private Limited INR 442.52 11.70 784.06 329.84 85.38 2.76 2.51 0.48 2.03 - 74.90 78 Reliance Strategic Investments  Limited INR 2.33 1,313.98 4,703.32 3,387.01 441.45 357.75 64.17 5.97 58.20 - 100.00 79 Reliance Supply Solutions  Private Limited INR 136.93 (136.78) 0.72 0.57 - 0.46 (0.24) - (0.24) - 100.00 80 Reliance Textiles Limited INR 0.05 (0.01) 0.05 0.01  -    -   (0.01) - (0.01) - 100.00 81 Reliance Trading Limited INR 1.05 1.04 6.83 4.74  -   46.65 (0.15) - (0.15) - 94.40 As on 31.12.2015:1EUR = 72.1125, 1US$ = 66.1550, 1Au$ = 48.4225, 1RM = 15.4075, 1KSH = 0.6467, 1TZS =0.0307, 1USH = 0.0196, 1BRL = 16.7599, 1GBP = 98.0650 As on 31.03.2016:1EUR = 75.3950, 1US$ =66.2550, 1Au$ = 50.9800, 1KSH = 0.6531, 1SGD = 49.2650, 1GBP = 95.4725 * Financial Information is based on Unaudited Results.
** Based on effective shareholding of Equity and Convertible Preference Shares.
# Company having 31st December as a reporting date.
Annual Report 2015-16 378 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
` in crore   Foreign Currencies in Million Sr.   No.
Name of Subsidiary Company Reporting  Currency Share  Capital  Reserves &  Surplus  Total   Assets   Total  Liabilities Investments   Turnover  /  Total  Income  Profit  Before  Taxation    Provision  for  Taxation   Profit  After  Taxation  Proposed  Dividend   % of  Shareholding  ** 82 Reliance Universal Commercial  Limited INR 0.05 0.00 4.48 4.43 4.47 0.00 (0.00) - (0.00) - 100.00 83 Reliance Universal Enterprises  Limited INR 13.26 3,402.15 3,416.63 1.22 3,416.56 0.02 (0.64) - (0.64)  -   100.00 84 Reliance Universal Traders  Private Limited INR 10.12 53.97 146.28 82.19  -    -   (1.73) - (1.73) - 100.00 85 Reliance USA Gas Marketing  LLC# INR 0.02 (0.01) 0.01 -  -    -   - - -  -    USD  0.00  (0.00)  0.00  -   -  -    -    -    -    -   100.00 86 Reliance Vantage Retail Limited INR 0.56 (48.50) 78.78 126.72  -   0.03 (2.53) - (2.53) - 100.00 87 Reliance Ventures Limited INR 2.69 2,699.96 2,865.71 163.06 1,780.46 201.48 143.81 28.37 115.44 - 100.00 88 Reliance World Trade Private  Limited INR 12.28 6,120.06 6,133.62 1.28 6,133.50 0.00 (0.99) (0.00) (0.99) - 100.00 89 RIL Exploration and Production  (Myanmar)Company Limited INR 0.53 (0.00) 0.53 0.00  -   0.00 (0.00) - (0.00)  -    USD  0.08  (0.00)  0.08  0.00 - 0.00  (0.00)  -    (0.00) - 100.00 90 RIL USA, Inc# INR 19.85 242.39 1,249.87 987.63  -   10,221.81 116.10 40.95 75.15  -    USD  3.00  36.64  188.93  149.29  -    1,545.13  17.55  6.19  11.36 - 100.00 91 RIL(Australia) Pty Limited INR 33.80 (34.00) 0.15 0.35  -    -   (0.15) (0.15)  -    AUD  6.63  (6.67)  0.03  0.07 -  -    (0.03)  -    (0.03) - 100.00 92 RP Chemicals (Malaysia) Sdn  Bhd # INR  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    RM  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - 100.00 93 Strategic Manpower Solutions  Limited INR 0.05 (40.19) 90.51 130.65 - 929.24 (11.15) - (11.15) - 100.00 94 Surela Investment & Trading  Private Limited INR 0.05 (1.24) 20.88 22.07 2.59 0.00 (0.25) (0.00) (0.25) - 100.00 95 Wave Land Developers Limited INR 5.36 12.77 18.24 0.11 6.06 1.13 1.11 0.10 1.01  -    KSH  82.11  195.50  279.31  1.70  92.86  17.31  17.07  1.57  15.50 - 100.00 As on 31.12.2015:1EUR = 72.1125, 1US$ = 66.1550, 1Au$ = 48.4225, 1RM = 15.4075, 1KSH = 0.6467, 1TZS =0.0307, 1USH = 0.0196, 1BRL = 16.7599, 1GBP = 98.0650 As on 31.03.2016:1EUR = 75.3950, 1US$ =66.2550, 1Au$ = 50.9800, 1KSH = 0.6531, 1SGD = 49.2650, 1GBP = 95.4725 * Financial Information is based on Unaudited Results.
** Based on effective shareholding of Equity and Convertible Preference Shares.
# Company having 31st December as a reporting date.
The above statement also indicates performance and financial position of each of the subsidiaries.
Names of Subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations - Sr.  No.
Name of the Companies 1 Aurora Algae RGV LLC 2 Reliance Holding Acquisition Corp 3 GenNext Holding Investments LLC#  # formerly known as Reliance Marcellus Holdings LLC ANNEXURE “A” Contd.
Consolidated Governance Corporate   Overview Financial   Statements 379 Shareholder  Information Management  Review 148 255 256 379 380 396 55 147 02 54 Names of Subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year - Sr.  No.
Name of the Companies 1 Bhagyashri Mercantile Private Limited 2 Chitrani Mercantile Private Limited  3 Gopesh Commercials Private Limited  4 Nemita Commercials Private Limited 5 Nisarga Commercials Private Limited 6 Prakruti Commercials Private Limited 7 Resolute Land Consortium Projects Limited 8 Transenergy (Kenya) Limited 9 Vijayant Commercials Private Limited All the above Companies have been amalgamated pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation except:  1.
Resolute Land Consortium Projects Limited, which has been sold during the year.
2.
Transenergy (Kenya) Limited, which has been liquidated during the year.
PART “B” : ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act , 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by  the company on the year end Profit/Loss for the year Sr.  No.
Name of Associates/Joint Ventures Latest audited  Balance Sheet  Date No.
Amount of  Investment  in Associates/ Joint Venture  (` in crore) Extend of  Holding % Networth  attributable to  Shareholding  as per latest  audited  Balance Sheet   (` in crore) Considered in  Consolidation  (` in crore) Not  Considered in  Consolidation Description  of how there  is significant  influence Reason why the  associate/joint  venture is not  consolidated Associates 1 Gujarat Chemical Port Terminal Company Limited 31.03.2015 64,29,20,000 64.29 41.80 % 158.44 52.65 - Note - A - 2 Indian Vaccines Corporation Limited 31.03.2015 62,63,125 0.61 33.33 % 0.92 - - Note - A - 3 Reliance Europe Limited 31.12.2015 11,08,500 3.93 50.00 % 32.77 0.90 - Note - A - 4 Reliance Industrial Infrastructure Limited 31.03.2016 68,60,064 16.30 45.43 % 163.58 6.98 - Note - A - 5 Reliance LNG Limited 31.03.2016 22,500 0.02 45.00 % 0.02 (0.00) - Note - A - Note:  A.
There is significant influence due to percentage(%) of Share Capital.
The above statement also indicates performance and financial position of each of the associates.
As per our Report of even date For Chaturvedi & Shah   Chartered Accountants For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP Chartered Accountants For Rajendra & Co. Chartered Accountants Rajesh D. Chaturvedi Partner A.
B. Jani Partner A.R.
Shah Partner Alok Agarwal Chief Financial Officer Srikanth Venkatachari Joint Chief Financial Officer K. Sethuraman Company Secretary Mumbai Date : April 22, 2016 For and on behalf of the Board  M.D.
Ambani - Chairman & Managing Director N.R.
Meswani Executive DirectorsH.R.
Meswani P .M.S.
Prasad P .
K. Kapil M.L.
Bhakta Directors Y .P .
Trivedi Dr. D.V.
Kapur Prof. Ashok Misra Prof. Dipak C. Jain Dr. R.A. Mashelkar Adil Zainulbhai Raminder Singh Gujral Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
380 Shareholders’ Referencer AN OVERVIEW   The Company has currently around 2.64 million  shareholders holding Equity Shares.
The Company’s Equity Shares are listed on BSE Limited  (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of the Company  are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and traded  on International Order Book (London Stock Exchange) and  PORTAL System (NASD, USA).
The Company’s Equity Shares are the most actively traded  security on both BSE and NSE.
The Company’s Equity Shares are under compulsory trading  in demat form only.
97.91% of the Company’s Equity Shares are held in demat form.
Karvy Computershare Private Limited (Karvy), having its  office at Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,  Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032,  an ISO 9002 Certified Registrars and Transfer Agents, is the  Registrar and Transfer Agent (R&TA) of the Company.
INVESTOR SERVICE AND GRIEVANCE  HANDLING MECHANISM   All investor service matters are being handled by Karvy,  the largest Registrar in the country with a large number  of Investor Service Centres across the country, which  discharges investor service functions effectively, efficiently  and expeditiously.
The Company has appointed M/s.
Dayal and Lohia, Chartered  Accountants, Mumbai as Internal Auditors to concurrently  audit the securities related transactions being handled at  Karvy.
The Company has prescribed service standards to respond  to various investor related activities.
These standards are  being reviewed periodically by the Company.
The service standards set by the Company for various  investor related transactions/activities are as follows: Sl.
No.
Particulars Service Standards   (No.
of working days) (A) Registration Items 1 Transfers 3 2 Transmissions 3 3 Transpositions 3 4 Deletion of Name 3 5 Folio Consolidation 3 6 Change of Name 3 7 Demat 3 8 Remat 3 9 Issue of Duplicate Certificates 15 10 Replacement of Certificates 3 11 Certificate Consolidation 3 12 Certificate Split 3 13 Change of Address 2 Sl.
No.
Particulars Service Standards   (No.
of working days) 14 Bank Mandate / Details 2 15 Nomination by security holders 2 16 Recording Power(s) of Attorney  by security holders 2 (B) Correspondence 1 Non-receipt of Annual Reports 2 2 Non-receipt of Dividend Warrants 3 3 Non-receipt of Interest/  Redemption Warrants 3 4 Non-receipt of Certificates 2 5 Revalidation of Dividend  Warrants 3 6 Revalidation of Redemption  Warrants 3 7 Multiple Queries 4 8 IEPF Letters 3 1.
DEALING IN SECURITIES 1.1  What are the types of accounts required for  dealing in securities in demat form?
Beneficial Owner Account (B. O.
Account)/Demat  Account:  An account opened with a Depository Participant  (DP) in the name of investor for holding and transferring  securities.
Trading Account:  An account opened by the broker in the  name of the investor for buying and selling of securities.
Bank Account:  An account opened in the name of the  investor and linked to the B. O. Account/Demat account for  debiting or crediting money with respect to transactions in  the securities market.
1.2   What is Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) and what  precautions one should observe with respect to  DIS?
To give delivery of the securities, the beneficial owner has  to fill in a form called Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS).
DIS  may be compared to a cheque book of a bank account.
The  following precautions are to be taken in respect of DIS:    Ensure that DIS numbers are pre-printed and DP takes  acknowledgment for the DIS booklet issued to the  investor.
Ensure that the account number [client id] is pre-stamped.
If the account is a joint account, all the joint holders  have to sign the instruction slips.
Instruction cannot be  executed if all joint holders have not signed.
Avoid using loose slips.
Do not leave signed blank DIS with anyone viz., broker/ sub-broker, DPs or any other person/entity.
Keep the DIS book under lock and key when not in use.
If only one entry is made in the DIS book, strike out the  remaining space to prevent misuse.
316 336 381 Governance Corporate   Overview 380 396 Shareholder  Information 256 379 Financial   Statements Management  Review 148 255 55 147 02 54 Shareholders’ Referencer    Personally fill in target account-id and all details in the DIS.
If the DIS booklet is lost / stolen / not traceable, the  same must be intimated to the DP , immediately, in  writing.
On receipt of such intimation, the DP will cancel  the unused DIS of the said booklet.
1.3 What is online trading in securities?
Online trading in securities refers to the facility available  to an investor for placing his own orders using the internet  trading platform offered by the trading member viz., the  broker.
The orders so placed by the investor using internet  would be routed through the trading member.
1.4 What is SARAL Account Opening Form?
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide its circular  dated March 4, 2015, has introduced SARAL account opening  form for resident individuals trading in cash segment.
Individual investors trading in cash segment can open a  trading account and demat account by filling up a simplified  Account Opening Form (‘AOF’) termed as ‘SARAL AOF’ .
This  form is separately available with the intermediaries and  can also be downloaded from the Stock Exchanges’ and  Depositories’ website.
The investors who open such account  through SARAL AOF will also have the option to obtain other  facilities, whenever they require, on furnishing of additional  information as per prescribed regulations/circulars.
1.5 What precautions an online investor must take?
Investor trading online must take the following precautions:    Default password provided by the broker must be  changed before placing the order.
The password should not be shared with others and  password must be changed at periodic intervals.
Obtain proper understanding of the manner in which  the online trading software has to be operated.
Get adequately trained before using the software.
The online trading system has facility for order and  trade confirmation after placing the orders.
1.6  What are the other safety measures an online  client must observe?
Avoid placing order from shared PCs / through cyber  cafés.
Log out after having finished trading to avoid misuse.
Do not click “remember me” option while signing in  from shared PCs / through cyber cafes.
Do not leave the terminal unattended while “signed-in”  on the trading system.
Protect your personal computer against viruses by  placing a firewall and an anti-virus solution.
Do not open e-mails from people you do not know.
1.7  What are the do’s and don’ts while dealing in  securities market?
DO’S   Transact only through Stock Exchanges.
Deal only through SEBI registered intermediaries.
Complete all the required formalities of opening an  account properly (Client registration, Client agreement  forms etc.).
Ask for and sign “Know Your Client Agreement” .
Read and properly understand the risks associated with  investing in securities / derivatives before undertaking  transactions.
Assess the risk - return profile of the investment as well  as the liquidity and safety aspects before making your  investment decision.
Ask all relevant questions and clear your doubts with  your broker before transacting.
Invest based on sound reasoning after taking into  account all publicly available information and on  fundamentals.
Beware of the false promises and to note that there  are no guaranteed returns on investments in the Stock  Market.
Give clear and unambiguous instructions to your broker  / sub-broker / DP .
Be vigilant in your transactions.
Insist on a contract note for your transaction.
Verify all details in the contract note, immediately on  receipt.
Always settle dues through the normal banking  channels with the market intermediaries.
Crosscheck details of your trade with details as available  on the exchange website.
Scrutinize minutely both the transaction and the  holding statements that you receive from your DP .
Keep copies of all your investment documentation.
Handle DIS Book issued by DP’s carefully.
Insist that the DIS numbers are pre-printed and your  account number (client id) be pre-stamped.
In case you are not transacting frequently make use of  the freezing facilities provided for your demat account.
Pay the margins required to be paid in the time  prescribed.
Deliver the shares in case of sale or pay the money in  case of purchase within the time prescribed.
Participate and vote in general meetings either  personally or through proxy.
Be aware of your rights and responsibilities.
In case of complaints, approach the right authorities for  redressal in a timely manner.
Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
382  DON’TS    Don’t undertake off-market transactions in securities.
Don’t deal with unregistered intermediaries.
Don’t fall prey to promises of unrealistic returns.
Don’t invest on the basis of hearsay and rumours; verify  before investment.
Don’t forget to take note of risks involved in the  investment.
Don’t be misled by rumours circulating in the market.
Don’t blindly follow media reports on corporate  developments, as some of these could be misleading.
Don’t follow the herd or play on momentum - it could  turn against you.
Don’t be misled by so called hot tips.
Don’t try to time the market.
Don’t hesitate to approach the proper authorities for  redressal of your doubts / grievances.
Don’t leave signed blank DISs of your demat account  lying around carelessly or with  anyone.
Do not sign blank DIS and keep them with DP or broker  to save time.
Remember your carelessness can be your  peril.
Do not keep any signed blank transfer deeds.
COMPANY’S RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE  SHAREHOLDERS / INVESTORS: Deal with Registered Intermediaries Investors should transact through a registered intermediary who  is subject to regulatory discipline of SEBI, as it will be responsible  for its activities, and in case the intermediary does not act  professionally, investors may take up the matter with SEBI/Stock  Exchanges.
Obtain documents relating to purchase and sale of  securities A valid Contract Note/Confirmation Memo should be obtained  from the broker/sub-broker, within 24 hours of execution of  purchase or sale of securities and it should be ensured that the  Contract Note/Confirmation Memo contains order number,  order time, trade number, trade time , security descriptions,  bought and sold quantity, price, brokerage, service tax and  securities transaction tax.
In case the investors have any doubt  about the details contained in the contract note, they can avail  the facility provided by BSE / NSE to verify the trades on BSE /  NSE websites.
It is recommended that this facility be availed in  respect of a few trades on random basis, even if there is no doubt  as to the authenticity of the trade/transaction.
Transfer securities before Book Closure/Record Date The corporate benefits on the securities lying in the clearing  account of the brokers cannot be made available to the members  directly by the Company.
In case an investor has bought any  securities, he must ensure that the securities are transferred to  his demat account before the book closure / record date.
2. DIVIDEND 2.1  What are the modes by which the dividend is  paid?
Dividend is paid under four modes, viz.
:  (a) National Automated Clearing House (NACH)  (b) National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT)  (c) Direct Credit to shareholders’ account by bank  (d) Physical dispatch of Dividend Warrant 2.2  What is National Automated Clearing House  (NACH)   The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has  implemented an electronic payment service termed as  “National Automated Clearing House (NACH)” for banks,  financial institutions, Corporates and Government  Departments.
It is a centralised system, launched with an  aim to consolidate multiple ECS systems running across  the country, and has both Debit and Credit variants.
NACH  aims at facilitating interbank, high volume, debit/credit  transactions, which are bulk and repetitive in nature.
NACH  system covers over 700 Core Banking enabled Banks spread  across the geography of the country irrespective of the  location of the bank branches.
2.3  What is NACH Credit for payment of dividend and  how does it operate?
NACH Credit is an electronic payment service used for  affording credits to a large number of beneficiaries in  their bank accounts for the payment of dividend by  raising a single debit to the bank account of the user  entity.
NACH operates on the principle of single debit  to the sponsor bank’s account and multiple credits to  different destination banks’ accounts.
2.4  What are the benefits of NACH (payment through  electronic facilities)?
Some of the major benefits are:  a.
Investor need not make frequent visits to his bank for  depositing the physical paper instruments.
b.
Prompt credit is given to the bank account of the  investor through electronic clearing.
c.  Fraudulent encashment of warrants is avoided.
d.  Exposure to delays / loss in postal service are avoided.
e.  Issue of duplicate warrants is avoided as there can be  no loss in transit of warrants.
2.5 How to avail of NACH Facility?
Investors holding shares in physical form may send their  NACH Mandate Form, duly filled in, to the Company’s R&TA.
The Form may be downloaded from the “Downloads” section  under the “Investor Relations” dropdown on the Company’s  website, www.ril.com.
However, if shares are held in dematerialised form, NACH  Mandate has to be filed with the concerned DP directly, in  Shareholders’ Referencer (Continued) 316 336 383 Governance Corporate   Overview 380 396 Shareholder  Information 256 379 Financial   Statements Management  Review 148 255 55 147 02 54 Shareholders’ Referencer the format prescribed by the DP .
Investors must note that NACH essentially operates on the  new and unique bank account number, allotted by banks  post implementation of Core Banking Solutions (CBS) for  centralized processing of inward instructions and efficiency  in handling bulk transactions.
In this regard, shareholders are requested to furnish their  new bank account number allotted by the banks post  implementation of CBS, along with a cancelled cheque  pertaining to the concerned account:   (a) to the R&TA of the Company in case the shareholders  hold shares in physical form; and (b) to the concerned DP in  case the shareholders hold shares in demat form.
2.6 Can investors opt out of NACH Facility?
Investors have a right to opt out from this mode of payment  by giving an advance notice of four weeks, prior to payment  of dividend, either to the Company’s R&TA or to the  concerned DP , as the case may be.
2.7  What is payment of dividend through NEFT  Facility and how does it operate?
NEFT is a nation-wide payment system facilitating electronic  transfer of funds from one account to another.
Dividend  payment through NEFT denotes payment of dividend  electronically through RBI clearing to selected bank  branches which have implemented CBS.
This extends to  all over the country, and is not necessarily restricted to the  designated centres where payment can be handled through  Electronic Clearing System.
To facilitate payment through  NEFT, the shareholder is required to ensure that the bank  branch where his/her account is operated, is under CBS.
The shareholders shall also ensure that particulars of the  updated bank account are registered with the Company’s  R&TA in case shares are held in physical form and with the  concerned DP in case shares are held in demat form.
2.8  What is payment of dividend through Direct  Credit and how does it operate?
The Company appoints a bank as its Dividend banker for  distribution of dividend.
The said banker carries out direct  credit to those investors who are maintaining accounts  with the said bank, provided the bank account details are  registered with the DP for dematerialised shares and / or  registered with the Company’s R&TA prior to the payment of  dividend for shares held in physical form.
2.9  What should a shareholder do in case of non- receipt of dividend?
Shareholders should write to the Company’s R&TA,  furnishing the particulars of the dividend not received, and  quoting the folio number /DPID and Client ID particulars  (in case of dematerialised shares).
On expiry of the validity  period, if the dividend warrant remains unpaid in the  records of the Company, a duplicate warrant will be issued.
The R&TA would request the concerned shareholder to  execute an indemnity before issuing the duplicate warrant.
No duplicate warrants will be issued against those shares  wherein a ‘stop transfer indicator’ has been instituted either  by virtue of a complaint or by law, unless the procedure for  releasing the same has been completed.
2.10  Why do the shareholders have to wait till the  expiry of the validity period of the original  warrant for issue of duplicate warrant?
Since the dividend warrants are payable at par at several  centres across the country, banks do not accept ‘stop  payment’ instructions.
Hence, shareholders have to wait till  the expiry of the validity of the original warrant for issue of  duplicate warrant.
Validity of dividend Warrant is for three  months from the date of issue.
2.11  Why shares should be transferred before the Book  Closure/Record Date fixed for dividend payment?
The dividend on shares lying in the clearing account of  the brokers cannot be made available to the members  directly by the Company.
In case an investor has bought  any shares, he must ensure that the shares are transferred  to his demat account before the book closure / record  date.
2.12  What are the Statutory provisions governing  unpaid dividend?
Dividend lying in the Unpaid Dividend Account which  remains unpaid or unclaimed for a period of seven years  is required to be transferred to the Investor Education and  Protection Fund (IEPF).
As per Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013(yet to come  into force), all shares in respect of which dividend has not  been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more  shall be transferred by the Company in the name of IEPF.
Further, the shareholders whose amounts and shares would  be transferred to IEPF as above, would be entitled to get  refund of the dividend and claim the transfer of shares from  IEPF after complying with the prescribed procedure under  the Companies Act, 2013.
2.13  Where can the status of unclaimed dividend not  transferred to IEPF account be verified?
The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and  unclaimed dividend amounts lying with the Company as on  July 15, 2015 on the website of the Company (www.ril.com),  which can be accessed by the shareholders.
2.14  What is the status of unclaimed and unpaid  dividend for different years?
The status of unclaimed and unpaid dividend of the  Company is captured in Chart 1 below: Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
384  Chart 1: Status of unclaimed and unpaid dividend for different years: Unclaimed Dividend up  to1994-95 Unclaimed Dividend for 1995- 96 to 2007-08 Unclaimed Dividend for 2008- 09 and thereafter Transfer of unpaid dividend Transferred to General  Revenue account of the Central  Government Transferred to Central Govern - ment’s Investor Education and  Protection Fund (IEPF) Will be transferred to IEPF on  due date(s) Claims for unpaid dividend Can be claimed from ROC,  Maharashtra* Cannot be claimed from IEPF Can be claimed from the  Company’s R&TA within the  time limits provided in Chart 2  given below   * Shareholders who have not encashed their dividend warrant(s) relating to one or more of the financial year(s) (i)up to and including 1994-95 are requested to claim such  dividend from the Registrar of Companies, Maharashtra, CGO Complex, 2nd Floor, “A Wing” , CBD- Belapur, Navi Mumbai - 400 614.
Telephone 91 22 2757 6802 and (ii) from  1995-96 to 2006-07, from IEPF after complying with the prescribed procedure which is yet to come into force under the Act.
Shareholders’ Referencer (Continued)   Chart 2: Information in respect of unclaimed and  unpaid dividends declared for 2008-09 and thereafter Financial year  ended Date of  declaration of  dividend Last date for  claiming unpaid  dividend March 31, 2009 October 07, 2009 October 06, 2016 March 31, 2010 June 18, 2010 June 17, 2017 March 31, 2011 June 03, 2011 June 02, 2018 March 31, 2012 June 07, 2012 June 06, 2019 March 31, 2013 June 06, 2013 June 05, 2020 March 31, 2014 June 18, 2014 June 17, 2021 March 31, 2015 June 12, 2015 June 11, 2022 March 31, 2016 March 10, 2016 March 09, 2023 2.15  What are the provisions relating to Tax on  Dividend and Sale of Shares?
The provisions relating to tax on dividend and sale of shares  are provided for ready reference of shareholders:    No tax is payable by shareholders on dividend.
However,  the Company is required to pay dividend tax @ 17.647%  (grossed up) and surcharge @12% together with  education cess @ 2% and secondary higher education  cess @ 1%, i.e., 20.36%;    As per the Finance Act, 2016, income by way of  dividend in excess of `10 lakh shall be chargeable to  tax in the case of an individual, Hindu undivided family  (HUF) or a firm who is resident in India, @ 10%.
The  taxation of dividend income in excess of `10 lakh is on  gross basis and made effective from the assessment   year 2017-18.
Short Term Capital Gains (STCG) tax is payable in case  the shares are sold within 12 months from the date of  purchase @ 15% in case of ‘individuals’ together with  education cess @ 2% and secondary higher education  cess @ 1%; Surcharge @ 12% is payable for income  exceeding `1 crore in the case of individuals also.
No Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG) tax is payable on  sale of shares through a recognised stock exchange,  provided Securities Transaction Tax (STT) has been paid  and shares are sold after 12 months from the date of  purchase.
In any other case, lower of the following is  payable as long term capital gain tax:   a)  20% of the capital gain computed after  substituting ‘cost of acquisition’ with ‘indexed cost  of acquisition’ together with education cess @ 2%  and secondary higher education cess @ 1% in the  case of ‘individuals’ .
Surcharge @ 12 %is payable  for income exceeding `1 crore in the case of  individuals also.
b)  10% of the capital gain computed without  substituting ‘cost of acquisition’ with ‘indexed cost  of acquisition’ together with education cess @ 2%  and secondary higher education cess @ 1% in the  case of ‘individuals’ .
Surcharge @ 12 % is payable  for income exceeding `1 crore in the case of  individuals also.
INITIATIVES TAKEN BY THE COMPANY Reminder letters to Investors The Company gives an opportunity to investors by sending  reminder letters on yearly basis for claiming their outstanding  dividend amount which is due for transfer to Investor Education  & Protection Fund.
COMPANY’S RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE  SHAREHOLDERS / INVESTORS Register NACH Mandate and furnish correct bank  account particulars to Company’s R&TA/Depository  Participant(DP) Investors holding shares in physical form should provide the  NACH Mandate to the Company’s R&TA and investors holding  shares in demat form should ensure that correct and updated  particulars of their bank account are available with the Depository  Participant (DP).
This would facilitate in receiving direct credits of  dividends, refunds etc., from companies and avoid postal delays  and loss in transit.
Investors must update their new bank account  316 336 385 Governance Corporate   Overview 380 396 Shareholder  Information 256 379 Financial   Statements Management  Review 148 255 55 147 02 54 Shareholders’ Referencer numbers allotted after implementation of Core Banking Solution  (CBS) to the Company’s R&TA in case of shares held in physical  form and to the DP in case of shares held in demat form.
3.
DEMATERIALISATION/ REMATERIALISATION OF SHARES 3.1 What is Dematerialisation of shares?
Dematerialisation (Demat) is the process by which securities  held in physical form are cancelled and destroyed and  the ownership thereof is retained in fungible form in a  depository by way of electronic balances.
3.2  Why dematerialise shares?
Is Trading Compulsory  in Demat Form?
SEBI has notified various companies whose shares shall be  traded compulsorily in demat form only.
By virtue of such  notification, the shares of the Company are also subject to  compulsory trading in demat form on the Stock Exchanges.
3.3  What are the benefits of Dematerialisation?
Elimination of bad deliveries    Elimination of all risks associated with physical  certificates   No stamp duty on transfers   Immediate transfer / trading of securities   Faster settlement cycle    Faster disbursement of non-cash corporate benefits like  rights, bonus, etc.
SMS alert facility    Lower brokerage is charged by many brokers for trading  in dematerialised securities    Periodic status reports and information available on  internet    Ease related to change of address of investor    Elimination of problems related to transmission of  demat shares    Ease in portfolio monitoring    Ease in pledging the shares 3.4   What is the procedure for dematerialisation of  shares?
Shareholders should submit the duly filled in Demat  Request Form (DRF) along with physical certificate(s) to  the concerned DP .
DP intimates the relevant Depository of such requests  through the system.
DP submits the DRF and the Certificate(s) to the  Company’s R&TA.
The Company’s R&TA confirms the dematerialisation  request from Depository.
The Company’s R&TA, after dematerialising the  certificate(s), updates accounts and informs concerned  depository regarding completion of dematerialisation.
Depository updates its accounts and informs the DP .
DP updates the demat account of the shareholder.
The entire process should be completed within 21 days.
3.5  Can shares held jointly in physical form be  dematerialised, if the sequence of names  mentioned in certificate differs from sequence of  names as per beneficiary account?
Depositories provide “Transposition cum Demat facility” to  help joint holders to dematerialize securities in different  sequence of names.
For this purpose, DRF and Transposition  Form should be submitted to the DP .
3.6  What is SMS alert facility?
NSDL and CDSL have launched SMS Alert facility for demat  account holders whereby the investors can receive alerts  for debits and credits in their demat accounts.
Under this  facility, investors can receive alerts, a day after such debits  (transfers) / credits take place.
These alerts are sent to those  account holders who have provided their mobile numbers  to their DPs.
Alerts for debits are sent, if the debits (transfers)  are up to five ISINs in a day.
In case debits (transfers) are for  more than five ISINs, alerts are sent with a message that  debits for more than five ISINs have taken place and that the  investor can check the details with the DP .
3.7  Why the Company cannot take on record bank  details in case of dematerialised shares?
As per the Depository Regulations, the Company is obliged  to pay dividend on dematerialised shares as per the bank  account details furnished by the concerned Depository.
Therefore, investors are requested to keep their bank  particulars updated with their concerned DP .
3.8  What is rematerialisation of shares?
It is the process through which shares held in electronic  form are converted into physical form by issuance of share  certificate(s).
3.9  What is the procedure for rematerialisation of  shares?
Shareholders should submit the duly filled in  Rematerialisation Request Form (RRF) to the  concerned DP .
DP intimates the relevant Depository of such requests.
DP submits RRF to the Company’s R&TA.
Depository confirms rematerialisation request to the  Company’s R&TA.
The Company’s R&TA updates accounts and prints  certificate(s) and informs the Depository.
Depository updates the Beneficiary Account of the  shareholder by deleting the shares so rematerialised.
Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
386    Share certificate(s) is despatched to the shareholder by  Company’s R&TA.
COMPANY’S RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE  SHAREHOLDERS / INVESTORS Open Demat Account and Dematerialise your shares Investors should convert their physical holdings of securities into  demat holdings to reap the benefits of dematerialisation set out  under para 3.3 of this referencer.
Monitor holdings regularly Demat account should not be kept dormant for long period of  time.
Periodic statement of holdings should be obtained from  the concerned DP and holdings should be verified.
Where the  investor is likely to be away for a long period of time and where  the securities are held in electronic form, the investor can make  a request to the DP to keep the account frozen so that there can  be no debit to the account till the instruction for freezing the  account is countermanded by the investor.
Register for SMS alert facility Investors should register their mobile numbers with DPs for  SMS alert facility.
National Securities Depository Limited and  Central Depository Services (India) Limited proactively inform  the investors of transaction in the demat account by sending  SMS.
Investors will be informed about debits and credits to their  demat account without having to call-up their DPs and investors  need not wait for receiving Transaction Statements from DPs to  know about the debits and credits.
4.
NOMINATION FACILITY 4.1  What is nomination facility and to whom is it more  useful?
Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides the facility  of nomination to shareholders.
This facility is mainly useful  for individuals holding shares in sole name.
In the case of  joint holding of shares by individuals, nomination will be  effective only in the event of death of all joint holders.
4.2  What is the procedure for appointing a nominee?
Investors, especially those who are holding shares in  single name, are advised to avail of the nomination  facility by submitting the prescribed Form SH-13 for initial  registration of nomination and Form SH-14 for cancellation/ variation of nomination as per Companies Act, 2013 to the  Company’s R&TA.
The said forms may be downloaded from  the Company’s website, www.ril.com under the section  “Investor Relations” .
However, if shares are held in dematerialised form,  nomination has to be registered with the concerned DP  directly, as per the format prescribed by the DP .
4.3  Who can appoint a nominee and who can be  appointed as a nominee?
Individual shareholders holding the shares / debentures in  single name or joint names can appoint a nominee.
In case  of joint holding, joint holders together have to appoint the  nominee.
An individual having capacity to contract only  can be appointed as a nominee.
Minor(s) can, however, be  appointed as a nominee.
4.4  Can a nomination once made be revoked / varied?
It is possible to revoke / vary a nomination once made.
If  nomination is made by joint holders, and one of the joint  holders dies, the remaining joint holder(s) can make a fresh  nomination by revoking the existing nomination.
4.5  Are the joint holders deemed to be nominees to  the shares?
Joint holders are not nominees; they are joint holders of the  relevant shares having joint rights on the same.
In the event  of death of any one of the joint holders, the surviving joint  holder(s) of the shares is / are the only person(s) recognised  under law as holder(s) of the shares.
Surviving Joint holder(s)  may appoint a nominee.
4.6 Is nomination form required to be witnessed?
A nomination form must be witnessed.
4.7  What rights are conferred on the nominee and  how can he exercise the same?
As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Companies Act,  2013 the nominee is entitled to all the rights in the securities  of the deceased shareholder in relation to such securities to  the exclusion of all other persons.
In the event of death of  the shareholder, all the rights of the shareholder shall vest  in the nominee.
In case of joint holding, all the rights shall  vest in the nominee only in the event of death of all the joint  holders.
The nominee is required to apply to the Company  or to the DP as may be applicable by reporting death of  the nominator along with the attested copy of the death  certificate.
COMPANY’S RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE  SHAREHOLDERS / INVESTORS: Submit Nomination Form Investors should register their nominations in case of physical  shares with the Company’s R&TA and in case of dematerialised  shares with their DP .
Nomination would help the nominees to  get the shares transmitted in their favour without any hassles.
Investors must ensure that nomination made is in the prescribed  Form and must be witnessed in order to be effective.
The Form  may be downloaded from the Company’s website www.ril.com  under the section “Investor Relations” .
5.
TRANSFER / TRANSMISSION /  TRANSPOSITION / DUPLICATE  CERTIFICATES ETC.
5.1  What is the procedure for transfer of shares in  favour of transferee(s)?
Transferee(s) need to send share certificate(s) along with  share transfer deed(s) in the prescribed Form SH-4 as per  the Companies Act, 2013, duly filled in, executed and share  Shareholders’ Referencer (Continued) 316 336 387 Governance Corporate   Overview 380 396 Shareholder  Information 256 379 Financial   Statements Management  Review 148 255 55 147 02 54 Shareholders’ Referencer transfer stamps affixed and also duly attested PAN of the  transferor(s)to the Company’s R&TA.
It takes about three  working days for the Company’s R&TA to process the transfer  from the date of lodgement, although the statutory time  limit fixed for completing a transfer is fifteen days under the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing  Regulations) and one month under the Companies Act,  2013.
5.2  Is submission of Permanent Account Number  (PAN) mandatory for transfer / transmission /  transposition of shares in physical form?
SEBI has made it mandatory to furnish a copy of the PAN  to the Company / R&TA in the following cases, viz., (a) for  securities market transactions and off-market transactions  involving transfer of shares in physical form; (b) Deletion of  name of the deceased holder(s), where the shares are held  in the name of two or more shareholders; (c) Transmission  of shares to legal heir(s), where deceased shareholder was  the sole holder of the shares; and (d) Transposition of shares  - where there is a change in the order of names in which  physical shares are held jointly in the names of two or more  shareholders.
5.3  What should transferee (purchaser) do in case  transfer form is returned with objections?
Transferee (purchaser) needs to immediately proceed to  get the errors/ discrepancies corrected.
Transferee needs to  contact the transferor (seller) either directly or through his  broker for rectification or replacement with good securities.
After rectification or replacement of the securities, the  same should be resubmitted for effecting transfer.
In case  the errors are non-rectifiable, purchaser has recourse to the  seller and/or his broker through the Stock Exchange to get  back his money.
However, in case of off-market transactions,  matter should be settled with the seller only.
5.4  Can single holding of shares be converted into  joint holdings or joint holdings into single  holding?
If yes, what is the procedure involved in  doing the same?
Yes, conversion of single holding into joint holdings or joint  holdings into single holding or transfer within the family  members leads to a change in the pattern of ownership, and  therefore, the procedure for a normal transfer as mentioned  above needs to be followed.
5.5  How to get shares registered which are received  by way of gift?
Does it attract stamp duty?
The procedure for registration of shares gifted (held in  physical form) is the same as the procedure for a normal  transfer.
The stamp duty payable for registration of gifted  shares would be @ 25 paise for every `100 or part thereof,  of the market value of the shares prevailing as on the date  of the document, if any, conveying the gift or the date of  execution of the transfer deed, whichever is higher.
In case  the shares held in demat form are gifted, no stamp duty is  payable.
5.6  What is the procedure for getting shares in the  name of surviving shareholder(s), in case of joint  holding, in the event of death of one shareholder?
The surviving shareholder(s) will have to submit a request  letter supported by an attested copy of the death certificate  of the deceased shareholder and accompanied by the  relevant share certificate(s).
The Company’s R&TA, on receipt  of the said documents and after due scrutiny, will delete  the name of the deceased shareholder from its records and  return the share certificate(s) to the surviving shareholder(s)  with necessary endorsement.
5.7  What is the procedure for getting physical shares  in the name of legal heir(s) in the event of death  of the sole shareholder without nomination?
If the value of shares of the Company as on the date of  application is up to `2,00,000, the legal heir(s) should  submit the following documents along with a request letter,  transmission form, attested copy of the death certificate  of the deceased shareholder and the share certificate(s)  in original, to the Company’s R&TA for transmission of the  shares in his / their name(s):    No objection certificate [NOC] from all legal heir(s) who  do not object to such transmission (or) copy of Family  Settlement Deed executed by all the legal heirs of the  deceased holder and duly notarized or attested by a  Gazetted Officer.
Indemnity made on appropriate non judicial stamp  paper – indemnifying the R&TA and the Company.
If the value of shares of the Company as on the date  of application is more than `2,00,000, the legal heir(s)  should submit the following documents along with a  request letter, transmission form, attested copy of the  death certificate of the deceased shareholder and the  share certificate(s) in original, to the Company’s R&TA  for transmission of the shares in his / their name(s):    Succession certificate (or) Probate of will (or) Letter of  Administration (or) Court decree.
5.8  What is the procedure for getting demat shares in  the name of legal heir(s) in the event of death of  the sole beneficial owner without nomination?
If the value of shares of the Company as on the date of  application is up to `5,00,000, the legal heir(s) should submit  the following documents to the DP:   Notarized copy of the death certificate   Transmission Request Form(TRF),    Affidavit – to the effect of the claim of legal ownership  to the shares,    Deed of indemnity – Indemnifying the depository and  Depository Participants (DP),    NOC from legal heir(s), if applicable, or family settlement  Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
388 deed duly executed by all legal heirs of the deceased  beneficial owner.
If the value of shares of the Company as on the date of  application is more than `5,00,000, the legal heir(s) should  additionally submit one of the following documents to the DP:    Surety form    Succession certificate    Probated will    Letter of Administration Note: As per SEBI Circular dated October 28, 2013, the timeline  for processing the transmission requests by the DP for  securities held in dematerialized form is 7 days and by  the Company/R&TA for the securities held in physical  form shall be 21   days, after receipt of the prescribed  documents from the claimants/legal heirs.
5.9  How can the change in order of names   (i.e., transposition) be effected?
Share certificate(s) along with a request letter duly signed  by all the joint holders may be sent to the Company’s R&TA  for change in order of names, known as ‘transposition’ .
Transposition can be done only for the entire holdings  under a folio and therefore, request for transposition of  part holding cannot be accepted by the Company / R&TA.
For shares held in demat form, investors are advised to  approach their DP concerned for transposition of names.
5.10  What is the procedure for obtaining duplicate  share certificate(s) in case of loss / misplacement  of original share certificate(s)?
Shareholders who have lost / misplaced share certificate(s)  should inform the Company’s R&TA, immediately about loss  of share certificate(s), quoting their folio number and details  of share certificate(s), if available.
The R&TA shall immediately mark a ‘stop transfer’ on the folio  to prevent any further transfer of shares covered by the lost  share certificate(s).
It is recommended that the shareholders  should lodge FIR with police station regarding loss of share  certificate(s).
They should send their request for duplicate share  certificate(s) to the Company’s R&TA and submit documents  as required by the R&TA.
5.11  What is the procedure to get the certificates  issued in various denominations consolidated  into a single certificate?
Consolidation of share certificates helps in saving cost while  dematerialising the share certificates and also provides  convenience in holding the shares physically.
Shareholders  having certificates in various denominations under the same  folio should send all such certificates to the Company’s R&TA  for consolidation into a single certificate.
If the shares are not under the same folio but have the same  order of names, shareholders should write to the Company’s  R&TA in the prescribed form for consolidation of folios.
This  will help the investors to efficiently monitor their holding  and the corporate benefits receivable thereon.
INITIATIVES TAKEN BY THE COMPANY Consolidation of Folios The Company has initiated a unique investor servicing measure  for consolidation of small holdings within the same household.
In terms of this, those shareholders holding shares in small  numbers under a single folio in the Company, within the same  household, can send such shares for transfer along with transfer  forms duly filled in and signed, free of cost; the stamp duty  involved in such cases will be borne by the Company.
Scheme for disposal of ‘Odd Lot’ Equity Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on June 26,  1998, Company’s Founder Chairman Shri Dhirubhai H. Ambani,  announced for the benefit of small shareholders, a scheme  for disposal of ‘Odd Lot’ shares (the Scheme) to facilitate such  shareholders to realise the full market value without having to  suffer a discount for odd lots.
In order to assist small shareholders in disposal of such odd lot  shares held in physical form, the Company has formed a Trust  known as ‘Reliance Odd Lot Shares Trust’ which will dispose-off   the odd lot shares on behalf of the shareholders.
The salient features of the Scheme in force from July 1, 1998, are  as under:   This Scheme is available to Indian national residents in  respect of any master folio having holdings up to 49 shares;   The holders of Equity Shares in odd lot (less than 50 shares)  may avail of the Scheme by lodging duly filled in application  form and a duly executed transfer deed along with the  relevant share certificate(s);   The odd lot shares offered under the Scheme are sold  through designated brokers in the BSE / NSE;   All costs of implementing the Scheme is borne by the  Company.
COMPANY’S RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE  SHAREHOLDERS / INVESTORS Consolidate Multiple Folios Investors should consolidate their shareholding held in multiple  folios.
This would facilitate one-stop tracking of all corporate  benefits on the shares and would reduce time and efforts  required to monitor multiple folios.
It will also save cost while  dematerialisation of their shareholding.
Shareholders’ Referencer (Continued) 316 336 389 Governance Corporate   Overview 380 396 Shareholder  Information 256 379 Financial   Statements Management  Review 148 255 55 147 02 54 Shareholders’ Referencer Opt for Corporate Benefits in Electronic Form In case of non-cash corporate benefits like split of shares / bonus  shares, the holders of shares in physical form must opt to get  the shares in electronic form by providing the details of demat  account to the R&TA.
Exercise caution There is likelihood of fraudulent transfers in case of folios with  no movement or where a shareholder has either expired or is  not residing at the address registered with the Company.
The  Company’s R&TA should be updated on any change of address  or contact details.
Similarly, information of death of shareholder  should also be communicated promptly.
Mode of Postage It is recommended to use registered post or speed post or courier  facility when investors send important/high value documents,  share certificates etc.
to the Company / R&TA.
6.
UNCLAIMED SHARES 6.1  What are the Regulatory provisions and  procedure governing consolidation of unclaimed  shares?
As per Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations read with  Schedule VI thereto:  a)  Shares issued in dematerialised form pursuant to a  public issue or any other issue, which remain unclaimed,  shall be credited to a demat suspense account opened  by the company for this purpose with one of the  depository participants.
b)  Shares issued in physical form pursuant to a public  issue or any other issue, which remain unclaimed, shall  be transferred into one folio in the name of “unclaimed  suspense account” and shall be dematerialised in the  unclaimed suspense account opened by the company  for this purpose with one of the depository participants.
Any corporate benefits accruing on such shares, viz., bonus  shares, split etc., shall also be credited to such demat  suspense account or unclaimed suspense account, as  applicable, for a period of seven years and thereafter shall be  transferred in accordance with the provisions of applicable  laws.
The voting rights on such unclaimed shares shall remain  frozen till the rightful owner claims the shares.
6.2  What is the status of compliance by the Company  with regard to these provisions?
In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations read  with Schedule V thereto, details relating to aggregate  number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in  the suspense account lying at the beginning of the year,  number of shareholders who had approached the Company  for transfer of shares from suspense account during the  year, number of shareholders to whom the said unclaimed  shares were transferred from the suspense account during  the year, and the aggregate number of shareholders and  the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying at the  end of the year, have been set out under “Equity Shares in  Suspense Account” in the Corporate Governance Report.
As per Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 (once the  same is notified), all shares in respect of which dividend  has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years  or more shall be transferred by the company in the name  of IEPF.
However, the shares can be claimed by the claimant  after following the prescribed procedure under the  Companies Act, 2013.
INVESTOR SERVICING AND GRIEVANCE  REDRESSAL - EXTERNAL AGENCIES 1.
Ministry of Corporate Affairs   Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has launched its  e-Governance initiative, i.e., MCA21, on the MCA portal  (www.mca.gov.in).
One of the key benefits of this initiative  is timely redressal of investor grievances.
MCA21 system  accepts complaints under the e-Form prescribed, which has  to be filed online.
The status of complaint can be viewed by quoting the  Service Request Number (SRN) provided at the time of filing  the complaint.
2.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)   SEBI, in its endeavour to protect the interest of investors, has  provided a platform wherein the investors can lodge their  grievances.
This facility is known as SEBI Complaints Redress  System (SCORES) and is available on the SEBI website (www.
sebi.gov.in) and on SCORE’s website (http://scores.gov.in).
3.
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES)   The investor complaints are processed in a centralized web  based complaints redress system.
The salient features of this  system are: Centralised database of all complaints, online  upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by the concerned  companies and Online viewing by investors of actions taken  on the complaint and its current status.
All companies against whom complaints are pending  on SCORES, have to take necessary steps to resolve the  complaint and submit action taken report within thirty days  of receipt of complaint and also keep the complainant duly  informed of the action taken.
SEBI has issued frequently asked questions (FAQs) in respect  of SCORES which inter alia lists down the matters which are  considered as complaints and handled by SEBI, the matters  which are not considered as complaints, how the investor  complaints’ are handled by SEBI, the arbitration mechanism,  etc.
These FAQs can be accessed on the link: http://scores.
gov.in/Docs/FAQ-SCORES.pdf .
Annual Report 2015-16 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
390 4.
Stock Exchanges   National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) - NSE has  formed an Investor Grievance Cell (IGC) to redress investors’  grievances electronically.
The investors have to log on to  the website of NSE i.e.
www.nseindia.com and go to the link  “Investors Service” .
BSE Limited (BSE) - BSE provides an opportunity to the  investors to file their complaints electronically through its  website www.bseindia.com under the “Investor Grievances” .
5.
Depositories   National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) - In order to  help its clients resolve their doubts, queries, complaints,  NSDL has provided an opportunity wherein they can raise  their queries by logging on to: www.nsdl.co.in  under the  “Investors” section or an email can be marked mentioning  the query to: relations@nsdl.co.in.
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) - Investors  who wish to seek general information on depository  services may mail their queries to: investors@cdslindia.com.
With respect to the complaints / grievances of the demat  account holders relating to the services of the DP , e-mails  may be addressed to: complaints@cdslindia.com.
MISCELLANEOUS Change of address What is the procedure to get change of address  registered in the Company’s records?
Shareholders holding shares in physical form may send a  request letter, duly signed by all the holders, giving the details  of the new address along with Pin Code, to the Company’s R&TA.
Shareholders are requested to quote their folio number(s) and  furnish proof of new address such as attested copies of Ration  Card / Passport / Latest Electricity or Telephone Bill / Lease  Agreement, Aadhaar Card, etc.
If shares are held in dematerialised  form, information about change of address needs to be sent to  the DP concerned.
Change of name What is the procedure for registering change of name of  shareholders?
Shareholders holding shares in physical form may request  the Company’s R&TA for effecting change of name in the  share certificate(s) and records of the Company.
Original share  certificate(s) along with the supporting documents such as duly  attested copies of marriage certificate, court order, etc.
should  be enclosed.
The Company’s R&TA, after verification, will effect  the change of name and send the share certificate(s) in the new  name of the shareholders.
Shareholders holding shares in demat  form, may request the concerned DP in the format prescribed  by DP .
Authority to another person to deal with shares What is the procedure for authorising any other person to  deal with the shares of the Company?
A shareholder needs to execute a Power of Attorney in favour  of the concerned person and submit a notarised copy of the  same to the Company’s R&TA.
After scrutiny of the documents,  the R&TA shall register the Power of Attorney and inform the  registration details to the shareholder concerned.
Whenever the  Power of Attorney holder proposes to enter into a transaction,  the registration number mentioned above should be quoted in  the correspondence.
Permanent Account Number (PAN) It is mandatory to quote PAN before entering into any transaction  in the securities market.
The Income Tax Department of India  has highlighted the importance of PAN on its website: www.
incometaxindia.gov.in wherein lot of queries with respect to PAN  have been replied to in the FAQ section.
Insider Trading In order to strengthen the legal framework for prohibition  of insider trading in securities, SEBI notified the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 2015 (New Regulations).
The New Regulations  came into force from May 15, 2015, replacing its over two decade  old antecedent.
Under the New Regulations, promoters, key  managerial personnel and directors of a company are required to  file initial disclosure whereas continual disclosure is required to  be filed by promoters, employees and directors of the company.
In view of the New Regulations, the Company has revised its  Code to Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading by Insiders (new  Reliance Code).
The new Reliance Code inter alia prohibits insiders  from trading in securities while in possession of unpublished  price sensitive information in relation to the Company and also  during the period when the Trading Window is closed.
Takeover Regulations SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011 (Takeover Regulations) cast obligation on the  investor (acquirer) to make disclosure w.r.t.
acquisition/disposal  of shares.
The relevant provisions are summarised below: Disclosure of acquisition Any acquirer who acquires shares (including convertible  securities) or voting rights in a target company which taken  together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him and  by persons acting in concert with him in such target company,  aggregating to five per cent or more of the shares of such target  company, should disclose their aggregate shareholding and  voting rights in such target company, to the target company  and Stock Exchanges within 2 working days of the receipt of  intimation of allotment / acquisition of shares or voting rights in  the target company, as the case may be.
Shareholders’ Referencer (Continued) 316 336 391 Governance Corporate   Overview 380 396 Shareholder  Information 256 379 Financial   Statements Management  Review 148 255 55 147 02 54 Shareholders’ Referencer Disclosure in case of change in holding Any person, who together with persons acting in concert with  him, holds shares or voting rights entitling them to five per  cent or more of the shares or voting rights in a target company,  should disclose the number of shares or voting rights held and  change in shareholding or voting rights, even if such change  results in shareholding falling below five per cent, if there has  been change in such holdings from the last disclosure made;  and such change exceeds two per cent of total shareholding or  voting rights in such target company, to the target company and  Stock Exchanges within 2 working days of such change.
E-voting The Companies Act, 2013, the Companies (Management  and Administration) Rules, 2014 and Clause 44of the Listing  Regulations require a listed company to provide e-voting facility  to its shareholders in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions to be  passed at General Meetings.
Register e-mail address To contribute towards greener environment and to receive  all documents, notices, including Annual Reports and other  communications of the Company, investors are requested to  register their e-mail addresses with Karvy, if shares are held in  physical form or with their DP , if the holding is in electronic form.
Intimate mobile number Shareholders are requested to intimate their mobile number and  changes therein, if any, to Karvy, if shares are held in physical  form or to their DP if the holding is in electronic form, to receive  communications on corporate actions and other information of  the Company.
SHAREHOLDERS’ GENERAL RIGHTS   To receive not less than 21 clear days’ notice of general  meetings.
To receive notice and forms for Postal Ballots in terms of  the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant  Rules issued thereunder.
To receive copies of Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit  and Loss along with all annexures / attachments (Generally  known as Annual Report) not less than 21 days before the  date of the Annual General Meeting.
To participate and vote at General Meetings either personally  or through proxy (proxy can vote only in case of a poll).
To receive Dividends and other corporate benefits like  Bonus, Rights etc.
once approved.
To demand poll on any resolution at a General Meeting in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
To inspect Statutory Registers and documents as permitted  under law.
To require the Board of Directors to call an Extraordinary  General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of the  Companies Act, 2013.
DUTIES / RESPONSIBILITIES OF INVESTORS   To remain abreast of corporate developments, company  specific information and take informed investment  decision(s).
To be aware of relevant statutory provisions and ensure  effective compliance therewith.
To deal with only SEBI registered intermediaries while  dealing in the securities.
Not to indulge in fraudulent and unfair trading in securities  nor to act upon any unpublished price sensitive information.
To participate effectively in the proceedings of shareholders’  meetings.
To contribute to the Greener Environment and accordingly  register email addresses to enable the Company to send all  documents / notices including Annual Reports electronically.
To register nominations, which would help the nominees  to get the shares transmitted in their favour without any  hassles.
To participate in the e-voting facility provided by the  company or attend the General Meeting of the Company  and cast their vote   To respond to communications seeking shareholders’  approval through Postal Ballot.
To respond to communications of SEBI / Depository / DP /  Brokers / Sub-brokers / Other Intermediaries / Company,  seeking investor feedback / comments.
NOTE This Referencer contains general information.
Readers are  advised to refer to the relevant Acts / Rules / Regulations /  Guidelines / Clarifications before dealing in securities.
Annual Report 2015-16 392 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Notice NOTICE is hereby given that the Forty-second Annual General  Meeting of the members of Reliance Industries Limited will  be held on Thursday, September 1, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. at Birla  Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Near  Bombay Hospital & Medical Research Centre, New Marine Lines,  Mumbai 400 020, to transact the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To consider and adopt (a) the audited financial statement of  the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2016 and  the reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon;  and (b) the audited consolidated financial statement of the  Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2016 and  the report of the Auditors thereon and in this regard, pass  the following resolution(s) as an Ordinary Resolution(s):  a)  “ RESOLVED THAT  the audited financial statement  of the Company for the financial year ended   March 31, 2016 and the reports of the Board of Directors  and Auditors thereon laid before this meeting, be and  are hereby considered and adopted.
”  b)  “ RESOLVED THAT the audited consolidated financial  statement of the Company for the financial year ended  March 31, 2016 and the report of Auditors thereon laid  before this meeting, be and are hereby considered and  adopted.
” 2.
To confirm the interim dividend declared and in this regard,  pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:   “ RESOLVED THAT interim dividend at the rate of `10.50   (Ten rupees and paise fifty only) per equity share of `10/-   (Ten rupees) each declared by the Board of Directors of the  Company at its meeting held on March 10, 2016, be and  is hereby confirmed as final dividend for the financial year  ended March 31, 2016.
” 3.
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Nikhil R. Meswani   (DIN 00001620), who retires by rotation and being eligible,  offers himself for re-appointment and in this regard, pass  the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:   “ RESOLVED THAT  pursuant to the provisions of  Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, Shri Nikhil R. Meswani   (DIN 00001620), who retires by rotation at this meeting and   being eligible has offered himself for re-appointment, be   and is hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Company,  liable to retire by rotation.
” 4.
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil   (DIN 02460200), who retires by rotation and being eligible,  offers himself for re-appointment and in this regard, pass  the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:   “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section  152 of the Companies Act, 2013, Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil  (DIN 02460200), who retires by rotation at this meeting and  being eligible has offered himself for re-appointment, be  and is hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Company,  liable to retire by rotation.
” 5.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration and in  this regard, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary  Resolution:   “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 139  and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies  Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors)  Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or  re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force),   M/s.
Chaturvedi & Shah, Chartered Accountants (Registration  No.
101720W), M/s.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered  Accountants (Registration No.
117366W / W – 100018) and  M/s.
Rajendra & Co., Chartered Accountants (Registration No.
108355W), be and are hereby appointed as Auditors of the  Company to hold office from the conclusion of this Annual  General Meeting till the conclusion of the next Annual  General Meeting of the Company at such remuneration as  shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Company.
” SPECIAL BUSINESS 6.
To ratify the remuneration of Cost Auditors for the financial  year ending March 31, 2017 and in this regard, pass the  following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:   “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148  and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies  Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors)  Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or  re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the  remuneration, as approved by the Board of Directors and  set out in the Statement annexed to the Notice convening  this meeting, to be paid to the Cost Auditors appointed by  the Board of Directors of the Company, to conduct the audit  of cost records of the Company for the financial year ending  March 31, 2017, be and is hereby ratified.
” 7.
To approve offer or invitation to subscribe to Redeemable   Non-Convertible Debentures on private placement and  in this regard, pass the following resolution as a Special  Resolution:   “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections  42, 71 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the  Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Prospectus  and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 and the Companies  (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 (including any  statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for  the time being in force) and subject to the provisions of  the Articles of Association of the Company, approval of the  members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of Directors  of the Company to offer or invite subscriptions for secured /  unsecured redeemable non-convertible debentures, in one  or more series / tranches, of the aggregate nominal value up to   ₹10,000 crore (Rupees Ten thousand crore), on private  placement, from such persons and on such terms and  conditions as the Board of Directors of the Company may,  Notice 393 Governance Corporate   Overview Shareholder  Information Management  Review Financial   Statements 256 379 148 255 380 396 55 147 02 54 from time to time, determine and consider proper and most  beneficial to the Company including, without limitation,  as to when the said debentures are to be issued, the face  value of debentures to be issued, the consideration for the  issue, mode of payment, coupon rate, redemption period,  utilization of the issue proceeds and all matters connected  therewith or incidental thereto;   RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the  Company be and is hereby authorised to do all acts and  take all such steps as may be necessary, proper or expedient  to give effect to this resolution and for matters connected  therewith or incidental thereto.
” By Order of the Board of Directors K. Sethuraman Group Company Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer July 15, 2016 Mumbai Registered Office: 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point,   Mumbai 400 021, India CIN: L17110MH1973PLC019786 Website: www.ril.com      E-mail: investor_relations@ril.com Tel.
: +91 22 2278 5000     Fax: +91 22 2278 5111 NOTES: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the   Forty-second Annual General Meeting (the “Meeting”) is  entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on a poll  instead of himself and the proxy need not be a member  of the Company.
The instrument appointing the proxy  should, however, be deposited at the Registered Office  of the Company not less than forty-eight hours before  the commencement of the Meeting.
A person can act as a proxy on behalf of members  not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not  more than ten percent of the total share capital of the  Company carrying voting rights.
A member holding  more than ten percent of the total share capital of  the Company carrying voting rights may appoint a  single person as proxy and such person shall not act  as a proxy for any other person or shareholder.
The  holder of proxy shall prove his identity at the time of  attending the Meeting.
2.
Corporate members intending to send their authorised  representative(s) to attend the Meeting are requested to  send to the Company a certified true copy of the relevant  Board Resolution together with the specimen signature(s)  of the representative(s) authorised under the said Board  Resolution to attend and vote on their behalf at the Meeting.
3.
Attendance slip, proxy form and the route map of the venue  of the Meeting are annexed hereto.
4.
A Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013 (“the Act”), relating to the Special Business to be  transacted at the Meeting is annexed hereto.
5.
The Company is providing facility for voting by electronic  means (e-voting) through an electronic voting system  which will include remote e-voting as prescribed by the  Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,  2014 as presently in force and the business set out  in the Notice will be transacted through such voting.
Information and instructions including details of user id  and password relating to e-voting is being sent to members  separately along with a copy of the Notice.
6.
In terms of Section 152 of the Act, Shri Nikhil R. Meswani  (DIN 00001620) and Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil (DIN  02460200), Directors, retire by rotation at the Meeting  and being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Human Resources, Nomination and Remuneration  Committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of  Directors of the Company commend their respective   re-appointments.
Details of Directors retiring by rotation, as required to be provided pursuant to the provisions of (i) the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and (ii) Secretarial Standard on  General Meetings (“SS-2”), issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and approved by the Central Government  are provided herein below: Particulars Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil Age 50 years 70 years Qualification Chemical Engineer from University Institute of  Chemical Technology (UICT), Mumbai Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering Experience (including expertise in specific  functional area)/Brief Resume Please refer Corporate Governance Report section of  the Annual Report 2015-16 Please refer Corporate Governance Report  section of the Annual Report 2015-16 Terms and Conditions of   Re-appointment As per the resolution passed by the shareholders at  the Annual General Meeting held on   June 7, 2012, Shri Nikhil R. Meswani was   re-appointed as a Whole-time Director designated  as Executive Director of the Company As per the resolution passed by the shareholders  at the Annual General Meeting held on   June 7, 2012, Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil was   re-appointed as a Whole-time Director  designated as Executive Director of the Company Remuneration last drawn ` 14.42 crore ` 3.38 crore Remuneration proposed to be paid As per existing terms and conditions As per existing terms and conditions Annual Report 2015-16 394 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
Particulars Shri Nikhil R. Meswani Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil Date of first appointment on the Board June 26, 1986 May 16, 2010 Shareholding in the Company Please refer Corporate Governance Report section of  the Annual Report 2015-16 Please refer Corporate Governance Report  section of the Annual Report 2015-16 Relationship with other Directors/Key  Managerial Personnel Number of meetings of the Board  attended during the financial year Directorships of other Boards Membership/Chairmanship of  Committees of other Boards 7.
Shri Nikhil R. Meswani and Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil  are interested in the Ordinary Resolutions set out at   Item Nos.
3 and 4, respectively, of the Notice with regard  to their re-appointment.
The relatives of Shri Nikhil R.  Meswani and Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil may be deemed to  be interested in the said Resolutions to the extent of their  shareholding interest, if any, in the Company.
Save and  except the above, none of the Directors / Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company / their relatives are, in any way,  concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the  Ordinary Resolutions set out under Item Nos.
1 to 5 of   the Notice.
8.
Members / Proxies / Authorised Representatives are requested  to bring to the Meeting necessary details of their shareholding,  attendance slip(s) and copy(ies) of their Annual Report.
9.
In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, only such  joint holder who is higher in the order of names will be  entitled to vote at the Meeting.
10.
Relevant documents referred to in the Notice are open for  inspection by the members at the Registered Office of the  Company on all working days (i.e., except Saturdays, Sundays  and Public Holidays) during business hours up to the date of  the Meeting.
The aforesaid documents will also be available for  inspection by members at the Meeting.
11.
The Company’s Registrars & Transfer Agents for its share  registry (both, physical as well as electronic) is Karvy  Computershare Private Limited (“Karvy”) having its office at  Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial  District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 500 032 (Unit: Reliance  Industries Limited).
12.
Members holding shares in electronic mode are requested  to intimate any change in their address or bank mandates  to their Depository Participants (DPs) with whom they are  maintaining their demat accounts.
Members holding shares  in physical mode are requested to advise any change in their  address or bank mandates to the Company / Karvy.
13.
The Company has transferred the unpaid or unclaimed  dividends declared up to financial years 2007-08, from  time to time, to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund (IEPF) established by the Central Government.
The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and  unclaimed dividend amounts lying with the Company  as on July 15, 2016 on the website of the Company and  the same can be accessed through the link: http://www.
ril.com/InvestorRelations/ShareholdersInformation.aspx  Members who have not encashed the dividend so far in  respect of the financial years from 2008-09 to 2015-16 are  requested to write to Karvy who shall arrange to send the  unclaimed dividend amount.
14.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) has  mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number  (PAN) by every participant in securities market.
Members  holding shares in electronic mode are, therefore,  requested to submit their PAN to their DPs with whom  they are maintaining their demat accounts.
Members  holding shares in physical mode can submit their PAN to  the Company / Karvy.
15.
Members holding shares in physical mode are advised to  make nomination in respect of their shareholding in the  Company.
A downloadable version of the nomination  form (SH-13) is available in ‘Downloads’ section under  Investor Relations dropdown on the Company’s website:   www.ril.com.
Members holding shares in electronic  mode may contact their respective DPs for availing the  nomination facility.
16.
Members who hold shares in physical mode in multiple  folios in identical names or joint holding in the same  order of names are requested to send the share  certificates to Karvy, for consolidation into a single folio.
17.
Members who have not registered / updated their  e-mail addresses with Karvy, if shares are held   in physical mode or with their DPs, if shares are held in  electronic mode, are requested to do so for receiving  all future communications from the Company  including Annual Reports, Notices, Circulars,   etc., electronically.
18.
Non-Resident Indian members are requested to inform  Karvy / respective DPs, immediately of:  a)  Change in their residential status on return to India for  permanent settlement.
b)  Particulars of their bank account maintained in India  with complete name, branch, account type, account  number and address of the bank with pin code number,  if not furnished earlier.
Notice 395 Governance Corporate   Overview Shareholder  Information Management  Review Financial   Statements 256 379 148 255 380 396 55 147 02 54 19.
Members are advised to refer to the Shareholders’ Referencer provided in the Annual Report.
The same can also be  viewed through the link: http://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/Downloads.aspx 20.
Members are requested to fill in and send the Feedback form provided in the Annual Report.
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE ACT”) The following Statement sets out all material facts relating to the Special Business mentioned in the Notice: ITEM NO.
6 The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved the appointment and remuneration of the Cost Auditors  to conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company across various segments, for the financial year ending March 31, 2017 as per  the following details: (₹ in lakhs) Sr. No.
Name of the Cost Auditor Industry Audit fees 1 M/s.
Diwanji & Associates Chemicals 8.35 2 M/s.
K. G. Goyal & Associates Chemicals 3.61 3 M/s.
V. J. Talati & Co.
Chemicals, Oil & Gas and Polyester 8.25 4 M/s.
Kiran J. Mehta & Co.
Textiles and Chemicals 3.64 5 Shri Suresh D. Shenoy Polyester, Chemicals and Petroleum 7.63 6 M/s.
V. Kumar & Associates Polyester 5.21 7 M/s.
Shome & Banerjee Oil & Gas and Chemicals 7.89 8 M/s.
Dilip M. Malkar & Co. Electricity and Chemicals 6.51 9 M/s.
Shome & Banerjee (Lead Auditor) Lead Audit Fees 7.00 In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act  read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the  remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors as recommended by  the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of Directors,  has to be ratified by the members of the Company.
Accordingly, ratification by the members is sought to the  remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors for the financial year  ending March 31, 2017 by passing an Ordinary Resolution as set  out at Item No.
6 of the Notice.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company / their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested,  financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No.
6 of  the Notice.
The Board commends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item  No.
6 of the Notice for approval by the members.
ITEM NO.
7 The members of the Company, at the Forty-first Annual  General Meeting held on June 12, 2015, had passed a special  resolution authorising the Board of Directors of the Company  to offer or invite subscriptions for redeemable non-convertible  debentures, in one or more series / tranches, aggregating up to   ₹10,000 crore on private placement.
The said resolution was valid  and effective for one year from June 12, 2015.
The members may  note that the Company has not made any private placement of   redeemable non-convertible debentures pursuant to the said  authorisation.
The Board may, at an appropriate time, consider offering or  inviting subscriptions for secured/ unsecured redeemable  non-convertible debentures, in one or more series / tranches,  on private placement, issuable / redeemable at par, in order to  augment long-term resources for financing inter alia the ongoing  capital expenditure and for general corporate purposes.
Section 71 of the Act which deals with the issuance of debentures  read with Section 42 of the Act which deals with the offer or  invitation for subscription of securities of a company on private  placement and Rule 14 of the Companies (Prospectus and  Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 provide that a company  which intends to make a private placement of its non-convertible  debentures, shall, before making an offer or invitation for  subscription, obtain approval of its shareholders by means of a  special resolution.
It shall be sufficient if the company passes a  special resolution only once in a year for all the offers or invitations  for such non-convertible debentures during the year.
Keeping in view the above, consent of the members is sought  for passing the Special Resolution as set out at Item No.
7 of  the Notice.
This enabling resolution authorises the Board of  Directors of the Company to offer or invite subscription for    Annual Report 2015-16 396 Reliance Industries Limited Enhancing the quality of life.
Starting up to a digital life.
redeemable non-convertible debentures, as may be required by the Company, from time to time and as set out herein, for a year from  the date of passing this resolution.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the Company / their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially  or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No.
7 of the Notice.
The Board commends the Special Resolution set out at Item No.
7 of the Notice for approval by the members.
By Order of the Board of Directors K. Sethuraman Group Company Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer July 15, 2016 Mumbai Registered Office: 3 rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India CIN: L17110MH1973PLC019786 Website: www.ril.com      E-mail: investor_relations@ril.com Tel.
: +91 22 2278 5000    Fax: +91 22 2278 5111 ROUTE MAP Birla Matushri Sabhagar 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Near  Bombay Hospital & Medical Research Centre,  New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020 Latitude and Longitude: 18.9404260 N 72.8280710 E  Approximate distance from: Churchgate Railway Station: 650 meters (via Maharshi  Karve Road) Marine Lines Railway Station: 900 meters (via Maharshi  Karve Road/   Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg) Chatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST): 1200 meters (via Mahapalika Marg) Marine Lines  Railway Station Gol Masjid Queens Road Bombay Hospital  & Medical  Research Centre Birla Matushri  Sabhagar Azad Maidan METRO Big Cinema Mahapalika Building Marine Lines Flyover Maharshi Karve Road Maharshi Karve Road Mahatma Gandhi Road Mahapalika Marg Mahapalika Marg Maharshi Karve Road Churchgate Railway Station Chatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) D N Road D N Road UAH Khan Marg Aayakar  Bhavan Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg Flora Fountain PLEASE FILL ATTENDANCE SLIP AND HAND IT OVER AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE MEETING HALL   Joint shareholders may obtain additional Slip at the venue of the Meeting.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE SHAREHOLDER: I hereby record my presence at the FORTY-SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the members of the Company held on Thursday,  September 1, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Near Bombay Hospital & Medical Research  Centre, New Marine Lines, Mumbai 400 020.
*Applicable for investors holding shares in electronic form.
Signature of Shareholder / Proxy ATTENDANCE  SLIP CIN: L17110MH1973PLC019786 Registered Office: 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Website: www.ril.com; E-mail: investor_relations@ril.com; Tel.
: +91 22 2278 5000; Fax: +91 22 2278 5111 DP Id* Client Id* Folio No.
No.
of Shares  PROXY FORM CIN: L17110MH1973PLC019786 Registered Office: 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Website: www.ril.com; E-mail: investor_relations@ril.com; Tel.
: +91 22 2278 5000; Fax: +91 22 2278 5111 [Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies  Act, 2013 and rule 19(3) of the Companies  (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] Name of the member(s): Registered address: e-mail Id: Folio No/ *Client Id: *DP Id: I/We being the member(s) of   shares of Reliance Industries Limited, hereby appoint: 1)  of  having e-mail id   or failing him 2)  of  having e-mail id   or failing him 3)   of  having e-mail id   and whose signature(s) are appended below as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the    Forty-second Annual General Meeting of the members of the Company to be held on Thursday, September 1, 2016 at 11:00 a.m. at  Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Near Bombay Hospital & Medical Research Centre, New Marine Lines, Mumbai  400 020 and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated below: ** I wish my above proxy to vote in the manner as indicated in the box below: Resolutions For Against 1.
Consider and adopt: a) Audited Financial Statement for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2016 and the Reports of the  Board of Directors and Auditors thereon b) Audited Consolidated Financial Statement for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2016 and the  Report of the Auditors thereon 2.
Confirmation of interim dividend declared 3.
Re-appointment of Shri Nikhil R. Meswani, a Director retiring by rotation 4.
Re-appointment of Shri Pawan Kumar Kapil, a Director retiring by rotation 5.
Appointment of Auditors and fixing their remuneration P .T.O.
* Applicable for investors holding shares in electronic form.
Notes:   1) This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered  Office of the Company, not less than forty-eight hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
2) A proxy need not be a member of the Company and shall prove his identity at the time of attending  the Meeting.
3) A person can act as a proxy on behalf of members not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more  than 10% of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
A Member holding more than 10%  of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights may appoint a single person as proxy and such  person shall not act as a proxy for any other person or shareholder.
** 4) This is only optional.
Please put a ‘ ’ in the appropriate column against the resolutions indicated in the Box.
If  you leave the ‘For’ or ‘Against’ column blank against any or all the resolutions, your Proxy will be entitled to vote  at the Meeting in the manner he/she thinks appropriate.
5) Appointing a proxy does not prevent a member from attending the Meeting in person if he so wishes.
When a  Member appoints a Proxy and both the Member and Proxy attend the Meeting, the Proxy will stand automatically  revoked.
6) In the case of jointholders, the signature of any one holder will be sufficient, but names of all the jointholders  should be stated.
7) This form of proxy shall be signed by the appointer or his attorney duly authorized in writing, or if the appointer  is a body corporate, be under its seal or be signed by an officer or an attorney duly authorized by it.
8) This form of proxy will be valid only if it is duly complete in all respects, properly stamped and submitted as per  the applicable law.
Incomplete form or form which remains unstamped or inadequately stamped or form upon  which the stamps have not been cancelled will be treated as invalid.
9) Undated proxy form will not be considered valid.
10) If Company receives multiple proxies for the same holdings of a member, the proxy which is dated last will be  considered valid; if they are not dated or bear the same date without specific mention of time, all such multiple  proxies will be treated as invalid.
Affix a  15 paise  Revenue  Stamp Signature of shareholder Signed this..................... day of..................2016 Signature of first proxy holder Signature of second proxy holder Signature of third proxy holder   Resolutions For Against 6.
Ratification of the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the financial year ending March 31, 2017 7.
Approval of offer or invitation to subscribe to redeemable non-convertible debentures on private  placement Members  Feedback Form  2015-16 CIN: L17110MH1973PLC019786  Registered Office: 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Website: www.ril.com; E-mail: investor_relations@ril.com; Tel.
: +91 22 2278 5000; Fax: +91 22 2278 5111 Name : .....................................................................................................e-mail id :  ............................................................................................................
Address : .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... DP ID.
:  ....................................................................................................
Client ID.
:   ............................................................................................................ Folio No.
:  ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  (in case of physical holding) No.
of equity shares held : ..............................................................................  Signature of Member Excellent Very Good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory ANNUAL REPORT Management’s Discussion  and Analysis Report Contents Presentation Business Responsibility  Report Contents Presentation Report on Corporate Social  Responsibility Contents Presentation Corporate Governance  Report Contents Presentation Directors’ Report Contents Presentation Shareholders’ Referencer Contents Presentation Quality of Financial and  non-financial information in  the Annual Report Contents Presentation Information on Company’s  website Contents Presentation INVESTOR SERVICES Turnaround time for  response to shareholder’s  query Quality of response Timely receipt of Annual Report Conduct of Annual General Meeting Timely receipt of dividend warrants/ payment through ECS Promptness in confirming demat/remat  requests Overall rating Views/Suggestions for improvement, if any:........................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Members are requested to send this feedback form to the address given overleaf.
BUSINESS REPLY INLAND LETTER Postage will  be paid   by the  Addressee No postage  stamp   necessary   if posted in  INDIA To,  Sandeep Deshmukh Vice President - Corporate Secretarial Reliance Industries Limited C/o.
Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot No.
31-32, Gachibowli,   Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500 032.
Fold Business Reply Permit No.
HDC/B-1226 Hyderabad - 500001 OUR VALUES AND BEHAVIOURS OUR CUL TURE TO SEE THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE WITH INSIGHT AND EMPATHY .
We believe the success and  reputation of the company is  paramount.
Having an ownership  mindset is fundamental to our  existence.
It creates a sense of  inspiration and purpose.
It enables  accountability and accomplishment.
It ensures our strong commitment to  the highest standards of safety and  environment.
We believe that without respecting  all our stakeholders there can be no  Reliance.
We acknowledge that there  may be a difference of perspectives  but there must always be respect.
Focus on unleashing the most  productive energies of our people  and enabling new leaders   to emerge.
Values and Behaviours that emerge  from this insight:  Respect and One Team Whatever the strength of the  individual, we will accomplish more  together.
We put the team ahead of  our personal success and commit to  building its capability.
We trust each  other to deliver on our respective  obligations.
Values and Behaviours that emerge  from this insight:  Customer Value and Excellence Focus on the entire ecosystem of  operations to ensure that every  touch point produces delightful  experiences to customers and  stakeholders.
Focus on targets, goals, platforms,  processes, and ROI, which are the  fundamental truths of operating a  viable business.
Values and Behaviours that emerge  from this insight:  Ownership Mindset and Integrity We believe the customer is the  reason for our existence and the only  guarantee to our future.
Everything  that we do must delight our  customer, each time and always.
We are committed to excellence,  in spirit and action.
We believe  everything that we do and  everything we think can always get  better.
We see all of our activities  in terms of our higher purpose and  ideals, which drives our quest for  excellence, always.
Upholding our reputation is  paramount as we are judged by  how we act.
We are committed to  be truthful in all our actions.
We  strive to be honest and forthright  with one another and with all our  stakeholders.
We respect the world  in which we operate.
It begins  with compliance with laws and  regulations.
We hold ourselves to  the highest ethical standards and  behave in ways that earn the trust  of others.
EXPERIENCE OF  CUSTOMERS ENERGY OF  PEOPLE TRUTH OF  BUSINESS “You have gifted beauty to the world!
Through your imagination, you have helped spread  awareness and take the mission of Drishti forward.
” Nita M. Ambani  Founder & Chairperson  Reliance Foundation More than 14,500 cornea transplants completed Registered international Braille newspaper in Hindi With winners of Reliance Foundation Drishti National Hindi Braille Essay Competition 2015 creative consultants - aicl  (info@aicl.in) BSE • 500325 NSE • RELIANCE EQ BLOOMBERG • RIL:IN CIN • L17110MH1973PLC019786 Registered Office 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,  222, Nariman Point,  Mumbai - 400 021  Tel: +91 22 2278 5000  Fax: +91 22 2278 5111  www.ril.com