AUTOMATE INNOVATE EDUCATE ANNUAL REPORT 2016-17 AUTOMATE.
INNOVATE.
EDUCATE.
A timeless beacon towards our future At the National Archaeological Museum in Athens, Greece, sit three seemingly  unremarkable bronze parts, covered in a greenish patina.
Together with missing  pieces, they represent one of the most complex and sophisticated examples of  ancient engineering known to man.
This 2,000-year-old marvel is believed to have  had 30 interlocking gearwheels, with epicyclical gearing, a crankshaft, and rotating  hands.
Named for the Greek island near which it was discovered inside the wreckage  of a ship, the Antikythera mechanism is considered the world’s first ‘computer’.
Built to calculate and display information about astronomical phenomena, the  technologies used in it were unique for its time, the likes of which were not seen  again for a millennium.
From the invention of the arrowhead, to the bicycle, the printing press, and the digital  computer, the primary goal for technology has always been to simplify and automate  complicated or onerous tasks for humans, so that the resulting efficiencies could be  applied elsewhere — towards innovation, and the achievement of loftier goals.
Today,  when we develop breakthrough technologies like artificial intelligence and machine  learning to automate mundane cognitive tasks, we accelerate progress by enabling  the application of human effort and ingenuity towards finding innovative solutions to  even bigger unsolved problems.
Meanwhile, these innovative solutions lead to the  next phase of automation.
Automation and Innovation are intertwined like the facets  of a Mobius strip, locked into a continuous virtuous cycle of progress.
If Innovation is the engine that powers the vehicle of progress, and Automation the  fuel that feeds it, then Education is the context that surrounds them — the routes,  the maps, the vistas, the pitfalls, and the destinations.
By sharing our knowledge  and experiences with the rest of the world, and with future generations, we help to  scale and sustain the virtuous cycle.
Taken together, Automation, Innovation and  Education form the basis of all hope, all progress, and of ultimate transcendence  from human suffering.
The amazing Antikythera mechanism is for us more than an interesting historical  artifact.
It is a timeless beacon from our ancestors, and a testament to the human  spirit of invention, ambition, and dedication to relentless progress.
Within it, we  witness the synergy between Automation, Innovation and Education — the pillars of  our strategy, and our guiding themes for this year’s Annual Report.
2 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 CULTIVATING THE POWER OF AUTOMATION A view of our one-acre model farm at the Hyderabad Pocharam campus, where we have  implemented our digital agriculture solution.
In addition to using automation to design  a unique real-time irrigation capability, the solution also deploys sensors to detect  vital parameters, such as soil moisture, ambient temperature and humidity, besides  employing drones fitted with cameras for real-time monitoring.
The solution leverages  Big Data analytics to deliver actionable and timely insights to stakeholders across the  agriculture value chain.
Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Many things that were seen as unique and innovative  even in the recent past are commonplace today.
Technological advancement is one driver of this process  — common, repetitive, routine and mundane tasks  performed by humans are slowly but surely automated.
Over the years, this has held true for agriculture,  manufacturing, financial services, retail, and healthcare,  and many other industries and functions.
Success in  business requires embracing this change, and rapidly  adapting to the inevitable commoditization of core  products and services via a cycle of automation and  innovation.
Automation improves productivity, saves  time, saves resources, and takes basic routine tasks  off human hands, so people then have the bandwidth  and the resources to look beyond routine tasks better  performed by machines, and focus on finding and solving  a new set of problems.
It is with this belief that we have  built deep strength and momentum into our automation  programs at Infosys.
Our automation destination We are not far from the time when all well-understood,  well-defined, and well-articulated problems — regardless  of if they require physical effort, computational capacity  or cognitive reasoning — will be solved by automation.
At an extreme, one could argue that any problem  once solved by anyone, anywhere, should never have  to be solved again by anyone else.
This is captured  in the age- old adage of wastefulness in ‘re-inventing  the wheel’.
This is especially true in the software and  technological domains, where artificial intelligence  (AI)-based automation can be applied to a wide array  of   tasks.
To address this trend in the context of our industry and  our business, we have undertaken the renewal of our  traditional service lines from a ‘people-only’ delivery  model to a ‘people + software’ model — where the  software results in a significant improvement in both the  scale and the scope at which people can act.
We have already brought this type of software-led  automation to L1 and L2 support, and also extended it  to cover the more challenging L3 / last-line support in  LEVERAGING AUTOMATION TO TRANSCEND THE MUNDANE Ravi Kumar S. President and   Deputy Chief Operating Officer Mohit Joshi President and Segment Head —  Financial Services, Healthcare &  Life   Sciences  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 automation (RPA) governance, and process discovery —  flank the product.
A ‘drag-and-drop’ design studio with  assorted menus and tools, along with ‘record and play’  capability, further complements and deeply automates  the process management workflow.
At a broader level, Infosys Nia, our next-gen AI platform,  is playing a big role in bringing significant automation - led  productivity improvements to our delivery efficiencies  — across service lines.
It supports the deterministic,  intelligent and cognitive automation of a broad set  of IT services management activities and business  processes.
For example, it helps us automate extraction,  classification and resolution of incidents.
It comes with  an out-of-the-box repository of automation workflows  and scripts that is simple for anyone to use.
Today, our  engineers use Infosys Nia to automate tasks from both  basic L1 / L2 and also the last line of IT operations  support.
Infosys Nia automates root-cause and impact  analysis, and generates test plans for them.
By providing  deeper organizational context to incident tickets, it helps  lower time-to-resolution, and helps create opportunities  for specialists to find and solve other interesting  problems.
In fact, the cumulative impact of this journey of the  past 12 months has been massive — it has helped us  eliminate around 11,000 full-time employees worth of  effort, and repurpose those people into more valuable  and rewarding tasks.
Bringing automation advantages to clients The capabilities of the automation software that we use  to amplify the potential of our people, when combined  with in-depth understanding of our client businesses and  their IT landscapes, can bring the same definitive edge  Leveraging Automation to Transcend the Mundane IT operations — often involving fixes to software code,  automated test frameworks, knowledge curating and  also process management.
This strategy has been especially effective in our BPO  services, application services, and verification and  infrastructure services.
Our broad set of automated  offerings tailored to specific industry and business  function requirements, along with our large Agile and  DevOps capability to deliver modern applications in  a shorter timeframe, have helped to create dramatic  efficiencies in this domain.
Our Panaya offering is another driver of automation in the  area of enterprise application testing.
Many enterprise  application-testing teams still manually support user  acceptance testing using Office tools like Microsoft Word  and Excel.
To these clients, Panaya offers a significantly  more capable, agile and usable alternative to automate  verification support for digital projects.
By building  formal representations of a company’s ERP system,  including the many customizations users deploy, Panaya  is able to predict the effects of any changes or upgrades  to these systems.
It also helps business users create  test scripts for business processes and, at the same  time, generates full documentation of those processes,  resulting in significant time and cost improvements over  existing manual processes.
Next-gen intelligence with Infosys Nia TM On the business process management front, AssistEdge,  our robotic automation tool is helping rapidly digitize and  automate our work.
Well-defined frameworks — including  an automation center of excellence, robotic process  SOFTWARE-LED AUTOMATION PEOPLE + SOFTWARE AI LAST-LINE SUPPORT BEYOND L1 AND L2 IMPROVING SOFTWARE CODE PROCESS MONITORING FIXING TEST-FRAMEWORKS KNOWLEDGE CURATION DATA ANALYTICS NLP+ML DETERMINISTIC INTELLIGENT  COGNITIVE INFOSYS NIA TM EXTRACTION CLASSIFICATION FASTER RESOLUTION OF INCIDENTS SCRIPTS OUT-OF-THE-BOX REPOSITORY AUTOMATION WORKFLOWS BACKEND FRONTEND Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Leveraging Automation to Transcend the Mundane to their businesses as well.
An additional advantage  comes from our experienced implementation teams that  are able to support them with the services they need to  optimize deployment costs and accelerate time-to-value.
Today, across industries, enterprises rely on Infosys Nia  to transform their landscapes and enable their systems  to predict and automate tasks traditionally executed  by   humans.
CPG companies are using Infosys Nia for faster revenue  reconciliation; pharmaceuticals for better forecasting;  healthcare and insurance companies for managing their  claims processes; banks for dynamic fraud analysis; and  several others for applications from smart HR process  management to just-in-time business reporting.
They are  increasingly realizing that intelligent systems can enable  people to overcome the limitations of their senses  and attention spans, and enhance and amplify their  capabilities.
As an example, some of our banking clients are using  Infosys Nia to manage their Tax Relief at Source (TRS)  compliance.
Local regulations require them to provide  TRS in the form of a refund or reduction in mortgage  payment to their customers.
But often, banks must  deal with a large number of exceptions that require  significant people effort.
These banks are now investing  in training Infosys Nia’s machine learning model with  historical exception and tax account data.
Business  rules are set up to classify accounts, correlate analyses  and arrive at exceptions — and Infosys Nia then presents  an easy- to- review unified dashboard view.
Infosys Nia’s  prediction model even estimates the likelihood of an  exception for an account, and automatically resolves  exceptions when they occur.
Harnessing the power of knowledge Another example involves clients who employ unionized  labor, and hence need to manage multiple labor contracts  with the various unions they work with.
Understandably,  all labor-related exceptions are sensitive and must  be addressed in accordance with the mutually agreed  contract.
This often translates to long lead times and  significant productivity drains before exceptions can be  satisfactorily resolved.
Today, Infosys Nia ingests the  clients’ labor contract agreements to create a knowledge  model complete with rules, exceptions and resolutions.
The model automatically responds to queries and  provides resolutions to exceptions based on information  from the contracts.
A conversational interface allows  for natural language queries into the knowledge model,  making the task of labor exception management simpler  than it has ever been before.
With the possibilities and early use cases multiplying  by the day, we are growing in our conviction that we  can become great partners for all our clients and help  them chart their own purposeful automation journeys.
Zero Distance, our ground-up, grassroots movement to  bring innovation in every single project, covering almost  15,000 projects can serve as an effective vehicle  to bring the advantages of automation to each of our  projects.
Thus, we can amplify our clients’ ability to  invent a new future for themselves and their people —  a future where software and automation enable us all  to be more innovative, and find and solve bigger, more  relevant problems together.
A   future where we can all  be more and do more, completely in sync with these  disruptive technological advances.
6 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 ENERGY-EFFICIENT CHILLERS USING DIGITAL TWINS A digital twin is a digital representation of a physical asset that establishes a digital thread  across the asset’s life cycle.
As part of Infosys’ Smart Connected Buildings initiative,  chillers were identified as assets consuming substantial energy.
Our infrastructure experts  instrumented sensors on the chillers to measure their operational performance.
Data from  the sensors were used to develop digital twins of the chiller plants that utilized both the  design and the operational data.
Our integrated next-gen artificial intelligence platform  Infosys NiaTM was then leveraged to apply technologies like machine learning, virtual  reality and augmented reality using the digital twin data to improve the assets’  efficiency .
EXPLORING NEW FRONTIERS WITH INNOVATION A fundamental digital transformation of everything is  under way.
Technology has always been a disruptor —  but in our times, it is breaking long-standing business  assumptions at an unprecedented pace.
Businesses  that do not recast themselves to keep pace with the new  reality quickly become irrelevant.
More than a third of  the Fortune 500 companies from just a decade ago no  longer make the list today.
This challenge of re-invention is no truer for any company  than our own.
For us, vitalizing the spirit of innovation  is central to anything and everything we do — internally  and with our clients.
With this in mind, we have launched  multiple game-changing initiatives like Zero Distance,  Design Thinking, employee micro-entrepreneurship,  partnership and funding for startups via the Infosys  Innovation Fund, and strategic acquisitions.
Closing the gap Zero Distance is a grassroots initiative that makes  innovation and creative thinking a mandatory deliverable  for every project we do, regardless of its size.
By  continuously empowering our workforce with the latest  cutting-edge tools and technical and design skills, we  ensure that we are always pushing the boundaries of the  possible.
Together, these have created a rich culture of  innovation-by-default, which has firmly established itself  within the company, as is evident in every one of our  interactions.
With Zero Distance, we can simultaneously  show the agility of a small entrepreneurial startup, as  well as the stability, reach and scale of a large global  company.
And this makes us a trusted partner for our  clients in both the traditional IT services domain, as  well as in the next generation of digital transformation  services.
In March this year, we celebrated two years of the Zero  Distance program, and the implementation of 2,000  innovative ideas.
Among these were key engagements  with Aon Affinity, Colony Brands, and others.
As Zero  Distance evolves, we are also turning our focus to  converting the best ideas to business solutions and IP  that will help us drive new opportunities across industry  segments.
Platform power We are redefining customer experience for Manufacturing,  CPG and Financial Services with our next-generation  platforms and micro-services.
The acquisition of  Skava has augmented our capabilities tremendously,  and helped us build an integrated platform to provide  modern micro-services-based architecture for industries  at the cusp of a digital revolution, and those entering the  era of direct customer outreach.
We are creating flexible  technical solutions that help our customers choose the  specific commerce services they need, while retaining  control over any aspect of it as they require.
For a leading  car manufacturer, we are building a direct-to-consumer  Rajesh K. Murthy President and Segment Head  — Energy, Resources, Utilities,  Communications & Services Sandeep Dadlani President and Segment  Head — Manufacturing,  Retail, CPG & Logistics Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 platform that will leverage Skava’s high-performance,  hosted micro-services platform on a custom user  interface built outside of Skava.
In Financial Services too, we are using the Skava  platform to create highly personalized loyalty services  with superior customer experience.
A leading CPG client  was facing challenges in closing end-of-the-month  financial reconciliations on time, owing to upstream  issues in data, IT systems, business processes and  synchronization.
We exported all relevant data to Infosys Nia TM , our  next - gen artificial intelligence (AI) platform, and  continuously analyzed failure points based on 300+  rules in order to alert global finance heads and enable  them to take timely action.
With this, our client recorded  99% improvement in master data quality, 100%  right - time first-transaction rate, 98% buy-sell accuracy,  and a record on-time closure   success.
When an established staffing business facing threats  from new business models and venture-funded  startups expressed a desire to build a next-generation  staffing platform, we became their innovation and  co - creation   partners.
We delivered a mobile-first, cloud-hosted marketplace  within 12 weeks to help the client implement a shared  digital economy model for one major market, with a  roadmap to expand to 62 countries and across seven  digital channels in the next five years.
The platform is  currently in production, and the client recognized our  contribution with a Best Partner award for Infosys.
Exploring New Frontiers with Innovation Our AI platform has also brought cutting-edge innovation  to the shop floor for a European automotive client, helping  prevent expensive equipment failures.
We leveraged our  expertise in Internet of Things (IoT) to design a predictive  maintenance system.
This is an end-to-end Industrial IoT  solution for condition-based monitoring, predicting useful  remaining life of spindles, and forecasting the failure  condition of various components for machine   centers.
Collaborating to win We leveraged the Design Thinking methodology with a  client to build a mortgage borrower experience targeted  at Gen Y.
A major banking client had no digital borrower  capabilities, and the existing home buying process was  believed to induce stress and confusion in customers.
With 62% of the market being Gen Y, we used Design  Thinking and ethnographic research to identify the ideal  digital borrower experience.
Within four months, we  launched a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) that received  a 4-star rating at the launch, besides winning the project  team an innovation award from the bank.
We have been helping our retail and CPG clients  mobilize multiple channels for some time now.
More  recently, we have been driving rapid omni-channel  innovation through the EPOCH Cloud based Global Order  Management   platform.
With pre-configured process flows, this is one of the  fastest ways for a client to implement its omni-channel  strategy.
Using this innovative solution, one of our largest  clients has reduced omni-channel fulfillment costs by  40% and customer delivery time by 75%, and increased  sales by 20% above business case targets.
What’s  more, features like same-day delivery, custom - designed  products, and self-service kiosks are easier to implement  for the client going forward.
The digital / physical world In the hybrid physical and digital world of today, some  of our clients are exploring the digital replication of  real-world physical assets.
These ‘digital twins’ help  our clients improve the efficiency and health of the  physical assets and monitor their performance based  on cutting - edge analytics from a parallel, data-rich  digital   asset.
For a large European CPG company facing challenges  in leveraging direct access to brand-loyal shoppers,  we developed a unique Digital Rewards solution, in  association with the largest loyalty and rewards service  The challenge ON-TIME CLOSURE OF MONTH-END RECONCILIATIONS INNOVATION THROUGH AI Our solution improvement in99% MASTER DATA QUALITY RIGHT-TIME         FIRST-TRANSACTION RATE 100% BUY-SELL  ACCURACY98% on-time closure success RECORD SKAVA Infosys NIA Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 provider, to help the client get closer to the consumer.
The creation of a personalized one-on-one channel  allows shoppers to upload the physical point-of-sale  receipts through a mobile application to earn reward  points for their brand shopping.
More than 50 million  shoppers have enrolled already, and the numbers are  rapidly increasing.
We also helped transform the match-viewing experience  for tennis fans, with the ATP Stats Leaderboards™,  powered by the Infosys Nia platform.
It is a powerful  analytics tool that analyzes three parameters across  decades of tennis matches played.
It has brought  the power of data to the fingertips of not only live  commentators and tennis journals on ATPWorldTour.com,  but has also spiked traffic to the ‘Stats’ section of the  ATP’s official website by 27%, thus giving ATP the unique  opportunity to monetize data.
Innovating for sustainability The spirit of innovation is not limited to ensuring  near- term business value, but also extends to building  sustainable solutions.
The cutting-edge smart connected  building enterprise designed by the Infosys Facilities  team across our Indian campuses is a leading example  of innovation in the area of environmental sustainability.
Using AI, machine learning, virtual reality and augmented  reality to build smart appliances, intelligent devices and  command centers, we have demonstrated substantial  energy savings, and made available a wealth of data and  best practices available for other organizations to adopt.
New challenges, new solutions Innovation is a continuous journey.
We challenge  ourselves every day to bring innovative solutions to  the table and to realize greater business benefits for  our clients.
As the pace of technological advancement  accelerates, we continue to explore new avenues  of business applicability from — connected devices,  augmented and virtual reality, and legacy modernization,  to — wearables, new technology frameworks and  continuous collaboration with complementary ecosystem  players.
We are helping define, to ourselves and the rest  of the industry, what it means to be a next-generation  services   company.
Exploring New Frontiers with Innovation DIGITAL REWARDS SOLUTION FOR CPG CLIENT DIGITAL INNOVATION SHOPPERS ENROLLED 50 million+ REWARD POINTS FOR BRAND SHOPPING PERSONALIZED ONE-ON-ONE CHANNELMOBILE APP FOR UPLOADING POINT-OF-SALE RECEIPTS 10 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 REIMAGINING THE FUTURE OF LEARNING Learning at Infosys means finding meaningful problems, delivering unique solutions  to our clients through collaboration and hands-on engagement, and empowering our  creative confidence as innovators.
We leveraged Design Thinking to do just this with Fudan  University, where we helped the school chart a new strategic direction, working closely  with them to reimagine the future of business education around a more personalized and  purposeful student experience for the Class of 2026.
Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Education serves as the bedrock of our culture and our  path forward as a company, the fundamental enabler  of our strategy to Automate and Innovate.
It provides us  with the resources to learn new techniques in artificial  intelligence (AI) and next-generation digital experiences  to automate the things we already know, while at the  same time helping us develop an innovator’s mindset  to discover new possibilities.
This culture is brought to  life by each one of us, from new hires to executive-level  leadership, and all the lifelong learners in between.
As technology continues to bring dramatic changes in  everything we do, we have accordingly built upon our  great legacy as a learning organization and have evolved  our strategy to suit the digital age, not only in what we  teach but also in how we teach it — leveraging new digital  platforms and innovative teaching methods to amplify  our potential.
More specifically, this means  :   Fluency in AI, automation, and emerging  technologies In a software-defined world, we aim to keep our  engineers at the forefront of technological knowledge  and skill.
The future of computing — AI, machine  learning, and intelligent platforms — is fundamental to  our training curriculum.
We have developed completely  new content and methods to help our people gain broad  as well as specialized fluency in these technologies.
The training program for our first-generation AI platform  was designed to accelerate its usage internally across  the organization and to build solutions within each  industry vertical.
Nearly 1,150 employees have been  trained in the course, with several thousand more to be  trained next year, as part of its next-gen incarnation in  Infosys   Nia TM .
AI and automation are fundamental to the innovation we  bring to our clients, becoming a key focus of our Zero  Distance initiative.
The Automation content we developed  specifically for the Foundation Program will be delivered  to 3,000+ incoming hires next year.
This commitment to  new technologies extends to our leadership, including  our CEO, who has produced videos on AI on Digital Tutor,  our streaming video platform containing 3,150+ videos  on various topics.
For new technologies and platforms, a hands-on agile  course integrated with the Infosys DevOps platform has  trained 15,000+ employees, including 5,000 project  managers.
We continue to train our engineers in our new  digital platforms such as Skava and AssistEdge.
Fostering an innovation culture around  Design Thinking, Zero Distance To solve today’s complex problems, we have been  institutionalizing collaboration as a core part of our  education curriculum, bringing it into every class at our  Global Education Center, Mysuru.
In our data science  class, we reduced the number of code issues from 28%  for individuals to 12% in a group of 10.
Navin Budhiraja Head — Architecture, Technology  &   Education Robin Kirby Head — Leadership Development EDUCATION AND LEARNING — THE PATH TO OUR TRANSFORMATION Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Education and Learning — The Path to our Transformation  Last year,  we  launched three nano-degree courses for  prospective hires.
While 84% passed in the first attempt,  70% were ranked as ‘high performers’.
Building on  this success, we are developing a course on ‘Machine  Learning Specialization’ to increase scope and reach.
Making the leaders of the future We have also reimagined our executive leadership  development to be more experiential, personalized,  and immersive, leveraging technology to amplify their  potential, and covering 967 senior leaders in fiscal 2017.
Based on a new leadership development blueprint,  we designed and launched five custom-built,  blended - learning leadership tracks for our most senior  leaders.
The best internal and external faculty, through  classroom and virtual sessions, lead them to develop  innovative, inspirational leaders who build influential  relationships with our clients and partners.
We also launched the Infosys Leadership Program  in partnership with the Stanford Graduate School of  Business, the learning components of which include  immersive classroom sessions, case work, and business  projects for 120 hand-picked senior leaders.
Our first  batch of leaders graduated in 2016, and our second  batch in April, 2017.
A significant pillar of our strategy is targeted towards  the key needs of our sales leadership.
Almost 80%  of our newly promoted sales leaders are undergoing  an eight - month program that emphasizes hands-on,  experiential learning, incorporating self-discovery tools,  sales-skill building, and networking opportunities.
We are encouraging our leaders to ’learn by doing‘ by  becoming teachers and coaches.
Our ‘Leaders Teach’  programs ensure that our senior leaders have access to  internal and external coaches, and are also able to use  their experience and wisdom to mentor potential leaders.
In all these ways, we are investing in education as the  fundamental path to our transformation, and to the  transformation of the entire services industry, enabling  our strategy to leverage next-gen technologies to renew  businesses and push into new, unknown areas.
We drive  this at every level of the organization, from new hires to  senior managers, from software engineers to executive  officers.
Learnability is our unique legacy, one that  continues to grow and adapt from its founding to the  present, and in time, to the digital future.
Design Thinking enables us to find new problems and  rapidly develop high-quality solutions.
We have extended  the world’s largest corporate adoption of Design  Thinking training to more than 1,35,000 employees.
This has empowered us to be innovators, driving our  Zero Distance initiative to bring design-oriented thinking  in collaboration with our clients, and finding, learning,  and solving problems that are most valuable to them.
Interactive, hands-on training focused on  real-life problems Design Thinking and ZD have helped to refocus our  learning culture on finding and solving real-life problems.
With this in mind, we asked our engineers to gain  fluency in a minimum of three programming languages,  to prioritize the problem rather than the tool.
A total of  17,435 engineers have already risen to the challenge.
We are integrating hands-on learning across our  curriculum.
The Foundation Program and our continuous  education efforts have been redesigned around real-life  content, in areas like data science, Big Data, UI, IVS, and  Java.
In the Foundation Program, key concepts are taught  through 24 real-life scenarios collected from our delivery  teams.
The Program is capped off with an integrated  project to model real-life collaboration using appropriate  tools within real-life environments.
Over 10,000 students  will be trained in this program next   year.
We are also piloting ’flight simulator’ models as part of  our hands-on learning strategy.
Learning in a digital age Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) have expanded  the possibilities of education beyond traditional  classrooms.
At Infosys, the ability to provide on-demand,  decentralized learning is vital to maintaining our  cultural foundation.
We partnered with two top MOOC  platforms to offer tailored courses for our students.
967DEVELOPED IN EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP dT TRAINED 1,35,000+ NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PLATFORMS TRAINED15,000+ 17 ,435 ENGINEERS PROFICIENT IN 3+ PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES CONTENTS  Letter to the stakeholder ................................ 2 Ele vating Infosys with Automation, Innovation and Education  .. 6 The  Infosys Board of Directors.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
8 The Infosys leadership team  ............................ 10 Bo ard and committees — Infosys Limited .................. 12 K ey trends  ........................................... 1 3 The year at a glance ................................... 15 Bo ard’s report  ........................................ 1 7 Annexures to the Board’s report  ...................... 29 Manage ment’s discussion and analysis  ................... 62 Co rporate governance report  ............................ 80 Risk manage ment report  .............................. 1 01 CEO and CFO certification  ............................. 10 4 Standalone financial statements  ....................... 10 5 Consolidated financial statements  ...................... 15 9 Shareholder information  .............................. 21 6 Business responsibility report  .......................... 223 2 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer   and Managing Director Letter to the Stakeholder LETTER TO THE STAKEHOLDER Dear stakeholder, Three years ago, when I met the Board of Infosys for  the first time, I articulated our long-term strategy for  ’the second-third’ — a vision for the next 33 years of  our iconic, globally respected company.
It was a crucial  time in the history of our company, and a turning point  in the IT services industry as we knew it.
The technology- led transformation of our world, and indeed our every  experience, was becoming strikingly clear.
Our company  was already facing the challenges that come with lower  differentiation and subdued growth relative to peers.
The second-third had to be not only about addressing  near-term challenges, but especially about charting  a new path that keeps us resilient and relevant in this  age of software-driven business innovation; a path  into higher-value work that leverages automation and  transcends it, a path into entrepreneurship where  problem-finding comes from our uniquely human  ingenuity.
We articulated this strategy as ‘Renew’ and  ‘New’, on a foundation of creativity and education —  software and services coming together in a culture of  innovation, to deliver unprecedented value to our clients,  our stakeholders, and the world around us.
The next  33 years had to be, and have to be, about being more,  about helping clients transform themselves for their  digital futures, embracing artificial intelligence (AI), and  becoming the masters and orchestrators of technology  disruption rather than the victims of it.
Our confidence  for a successful transformation of Infosys would be  steeped in the intellect, learnability and strong value  system of our company, of every Infoscion.
As I write this letter, three years into this exciting  journey, this transformation has started to reveal itself.
In fiscal 2017, the results of our client survey showed  satisfaction levels at their highest in the 12-year history  of the survey, with a significant improvement in CXO  satisfaction scores.
Industry analysts have endorsed  the differentiation of our offerings, including NelsonHall  for our services offerings, both renewed and new; IDC,  HfS and Forrester for Infosys NiaTM, our new AI platform.
Revenue from software-related services, including  Infosys Nia, Edge, Panaya and Skava, grew by 42% in  fiscal 2017 at a much higher Revenue Per Employee  (RPE) than the rest of the company.
New services such  as mainframe modernization, cloud applications and  infrastructure, enabling the API economy, Internet of  Things, cybersecurity, digital experiences and complex  analytics showed rapid momentum with clients.
We have  been able to attract, excite and retain high-quality talent  as evidenced in the addition of top talent and the decline  in employee attrition.
When I started, our attrition was  quite high; standalone attrition was at 23.4% in Q1 of  fiscal 2015, and 18.9% in fiscal 2015; in Q1 of fiscal 2017  “But there’s a big difference between ‘impossible’ and ‘hard to imagine’.
The first is about it; the second is about you!” — Marvin Minsky, the father of Artificial Intelligence Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Letter to the stakeholder | 3  it was 15.8%, and 15.0% overall in fiscal 2017.
Attrition  among top performers, the most important metric we  track in evaluating attrition, is now in single  digits.
All this resulted in us crossing the US  $1 0 billion revenue  milestone.
In fiscal 2017, revenue grew 8.3% in constant  currency, and for the second year in a row, our growth  has been in line with industry peers.
We won US  $3.5   billion in large deals, including committed value deals  as well as framework deals in fiscal 2017, and added  five more US  $1 00 million client accounts in fiscal 2017,  bringing the total number of US  $1 00 million clients  to 19.
Operating margins have remained stable within  our stated band of 24%-25% despite pricing headwinds  and employee wage increases.
Revenue per Full- time Employee (FTE) increased by 1.2% as a result of  automation, utilization and productivity improvements.
Automation itself released  about 11,000 FTE worth of  effort through the year, a clear  demonstration of how software is  going to play a crucial role in our  business model.
At the same time, we relentlessly  focused on optimizing traditional  operating levers and costs.
Employee utilization excluding  trainees reached high levels  of 81.7%.
We realized the  highest levels of net operating  cash flow at US  $2.
1 billion for the year.
We approved  a comprehensive Capital Allocation Policy after taking  into consideration the strategic and operational cash  requirements of the company in the medium term.
We continued to strengthen our management team with  internal promotions to create four presidents, including  the appointment of Ravi Kumar S. as our Deputy COO and  the addition of Pervinder Johar as the CEO of EdgeVerve.
We strengthened our organizational structure by  establishing industry sub-segments for agility in the  market and for creating more management bandwidth.
There is now more ownership and accountability across  the organization at the middle and senior management  levels in contributing toward key company priorities.
Fiscal 2017 also brought with it environmental  challenges such as rising protectionism, accelerating  commoditization, elevated client expectations and new  competition.
Internally, we had challenges to bring  stability to our consulting business and growth to our  Finacle and BPO businesses.
But amidst all of this, it  behooves us to stay focused on our longer-term mission  to drive rapid growth in software-led offerings, to capture  demand in newer service lines and to renew our core  services — a mission to deliver consistent, profitable  growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Renewing our core services and growing new  services During the last fiscal, we grew multiple new services  in the areas of cloud applications and infrastructure,  mainframe modernization to cloud, cybersecurity,  developing new digital end-user  experiences, advanced analytics  and data science, engineering  services and Internet of Things  and many more.
These services  represent a rapidly growing  portion of our incremental  revenue each year, demonstrating  our continued relevance to the  transformation of our clients’  businesses.
We continued to renew our core  service offerings, largely work  in maintenance, operations and run areas, by driving  automation, agility and innovation into every service line.
In March 2017, we celebrated two years of our Zero  Distance program, which continues to drive grassroots  innovation in every project, finding new value for clients.
The program has generated more than 15,000 ideas,  and implementation of more than 2,000 innovation  ideas for clients.
Our focus now is on further elevating  our innovations, including turning these into scalable  intellectual property for us.
In May 2017, we announced our plans to hire 10,000  American technology professionals as Infoscions over  the next two years.
Indiana is the first of four hubs where  “In fiscal 2017, the results  of our client survey  showed satisfaction levels  at their highest in the  12-year history of the  survey, with a significant  improvement in client CXO  satisfaction   scores.” Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 4 | Letter to the stakeholder we will build a strong local presence, with a focus on  education and innovation in areas such as AI, Big Data,  and more.
This journey to increase our local hiring efforts  first started in the fall of 2014 with our endeavor to hire  2000+ visa-independent talent into our workforce.
It was  further elevated by the inspiring work being done by the  Infosys Foundation USA to help bring Computer Science  education to the masses and close the gaps with the  skills of the future.
In its first two years, more than  1,34,000 students, over 2,500 teachers and almost  2,500 schools across America have benefited from  high quality computer science training and classroom  equipment funded by the Infosys Foundation USA.
Driving rapid growth in software-led offerings On April 26, 2017, we launched our next-generation  AI platform, Infosys Nia — converging the Big Data /  analytics, machine learning, knowledge management,  and cognitive capabilities of our first-generation AI  platform; the end-to-end robotic process automation  (RPA) capabilities of AssistEdge; advanced machine  learning capabilities of Skytree; and optical character  recognition (OCR), natural  language processing (NLP)  capabilities and infrastructure  management services.
Infosys  Nia builds on the strong adoption  of our AI and automation  capabilities over the last year,  with more than 130 client  engagements, and strong analyst  endorsements.
With Infosys Nia, we have the ability to deliver both IT  operational efficiencies through automation, and drive  breakthrough business scenarios, bringing the power  of AI in a purposeful way to our clients’ most complex  business challenges.
For example, helping clients keep  pace with increasingly more sophisticated fraud and  enabling agility in addressing new regulatory compliance  requirements.
Our other software offerings, Skava, Edge and Panaya,  are all seeing strong traction and we continue to invest  in expanding their capabilities.
We have brought all of  our software offerings, under Pervinder’s leadership,  to leverage knowledge and synergies, to help scale this  new frontier for us to great new heights.
In fiscal 2017, we made six new investments in startup  companies working in AI, autonomous unmanned  vehicles, data insights, cloud, and more — all areas  relevant to our and our clients’ futures — thus extending  the innovation we bring to our clients.
Building a culture of learning, creativity and  purpose To strengthen the bedrock on which all of these initiatives  can thrive, we continued to focus on the most important  aspect of our transformation, our culture.
To move from  solving the defined problems to finding the unknown  problems requires a deep sense of our own abilities,  both in the things we know and the things we are yet to  learn, and the belief that we can learn anything.
Design  Thinking training, now at more than 1,35,000 Infoscions,  helps give Infoscions the creative confidence, as well as  the tools, to go after our clients’ big problems in agile  and tangible   ways.
In learning and education, we  continued to work towards  empowering employees in the  critical skills of our future such  as AI and Machine Learning,  and developed completely new  programs in these technologies  that have now been delivered  to more than 1,300 employees,  with several thousand more  to be trained in the year ahead.
We have made our  curriculum immersive through our ’flight simulator’  and other experiential trainings, with over 20% higher  engagement levels.
We have instituted a program to  train all new hires in three programming languages  (17,000+ employees have already gone through this  program), giving individual employees confidence in  their ’learnability’ and giving Infosys a much more agile  way of looking at the talent pool of the company.
We  have created new learning platforms to meet the varying  needs of Infoscions, including the Digital Tutor social  learning platform and the Infosys Learning Platform.
“Infosys Nia enables  us   to bring the power of  AI in a purposeful   way   to  our clients’ most  complex   problems.” Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Letter to the stakeholder | 5  In employee engagement, we continued to revamp  our employee rewards programs to focus much more  on performance.
In a modern, innovation-driven  company,   every employee must be measured on  performance.
In fact,   the best  and most talented employees  want to be measured on  performance — not role maturity,  or tenure, or other factors.
It   is about performance, and  rewarding those with the  passion, entrepreneurship  and the imagination to help  drive our transformation.
As  part of this, in fiscal 2017, we  introduced our stock incentive  plan for top performers, covering  approximately 25% of mid- to  senior-level employees.
It has  been my personal endeavor since joining Infosys to  enable all employees to share in the successes of the  company, and in fiscal  20 17, we made the first step of this  a reality.
In addition, we restructured the compensation  of senior leaders to be more performance-based,  with a significant portion of their compensation now  coming through stock incentives, creating a more direct  alignment with the interest of shareholders.
Finally, we continued to be a purposeful contributor  in our communities, particularly in India and in the  U.S.
In fiscal 2017, the Infosys Foundation continued  its great work in the areas of eradication of hunger  and malnutrition, promoting education, art and  culture, healthcare, destitute care and rehabilitation,  disaster relief and rural development projects with a  focus on solving social challenges and accelerating  economic growth.
Key projects included initiation of  the construction of an Akshaya Patra high-tech kitchen  at Hyderabad, sanitation and water storage projects in  Chennai, donation of medical equipment to the Vittala  International Institute of Ophthalmology, support of  computer education in schools in multiple states,  pan - India relief support to martyrs and ex-servicemen,  and contribution to the Swachh Bharat project, among  many other impactful initiatives.
In the U.S., we have had  a tremendous impact on our communities in helping to  empower and enable teachers and students alike, as  I   mentioned earlier.
Looking ahead As we look ahead to the next 33  years, I deeply believe that we  have the ability to create and  shape the technology disruption  that is in front of us.
And why  not?
Infosys has always been  a technology company with  the best and brightest talent  from India and from around the  world.
The very people who, over  the last 35+ years, have built,  managed and maintained the  mainstream systems that we see  today.
We are exactly the people  who can learn the technologies that will transform the  world around us, the people who can learn to be the  innovators, not the bystanders, not the order-takers, not  the ones optimizing the past, but the ones who find, and  deliver, the great breakthroughs for the next 33 years.
The ones who leverage technology to fulfill our own  unlimited potential, and help others find theirs as well,  to shape a better world at a time of pervasive global  anxiety about the future of jobs and indeed the future  of our humanity.
We can be the next-generation services  company, as differentiated and iconic as we once were,  a company that admires its past and builds on it, or  we can be a somewhat improved, but dying, previous- generation company that is mired in that past.
It is within  us to embrace the tough choices and to move headlong,  unabashedly, into creating great new futures.
Our work  in these early years of our transformation is leading  us along this path.
It will continue to be a challenging  journey, but it is one worth fighting for.
Palo Alto  May 19, 2017 Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director “We can be the  next - generation services  company, as differentiated  and iconic as we once were,  a company that admires its  past and builds on it.
It is  within us to embrace the  tough choices and to move  headlong, unabashedly, into  creating great new futures.” Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 6  U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer   and Whole-time Director ELEVATING INFOSYS WITH AUTOMATION, INNOVATION AND EDUCATION Much of our success, not just that of Infosys but of  the entire IT services industry, has been built on the  opportunity we saw two decades ago to perform technical  jobs across multiple locations in a ‘flat world’, without  loss in quality, and with improved economics.
This global  delivery model has made solving known IT problems more  convenient and efficient for clients.
But, over the years,  the task of problem-finding — idea generation and the  proactive exploration and experimentation needed to find  new avenues of value creation — has taken a backseat  in our industry.
In recent times, the rapid improvement in  practical applications for artificial intelligence (AI) has all  but ensured that, in the near future, people will no longer  be employed to solve well-defined problems that can be  easily automated.
In today’s competitive environment,  businesses need more than the on-quality, on-time,  and on-budget value that the delivery of IT services has  traditionally brought them.
Now is the time for Infosys, and the entire IT industry,  to move into the next phase of our collective evolution.
The  opportunity we see before us is to lead that change.
We can become that next-generation software and  services partner to our clients, helping them do not only  the things they know how to do — and doing it cheaper,  but also enabling them to do the things they cannot do  at all today.
We need to become the partner that plays a  pivotal role at the core of their business, one that impacts  the success of their unique and differentiated strategy by  bringing to bear innovation at speed, and at scale.
The Zero Distance initiative has provided us with that new  approach to building the ideas-based culture we need.
As  a result of this program, each person in the organization  can find a deeper sense of purpose in his or her job,  and is motivated to realize that purpose.
As a result,  innovation has become an integral component of their  job description.
To make this approach work, we are first  working on freeing our people from the complexities that  some of our processes, policies and systems impose, and  on releasing them from the monotony of routine manual  tasks that can be automated.
Our employee satisfaction survey has always served  to point us towards the opportunities for change that  are likely to make the greatest difference to people’s  productivity and their experience at work.
Evolving it from  an annual exercise to one that is conducted every quarter  is helping us gain greater empathy for the real needs of  our people.
The result has been a renewal in the way we  work, and the way we conduct 50+ of our most frequent,  cross-functional activities.
This effort has improved our  proposal workflows, project management frameworks  and travel-related procedures, while bringing automation  tools to our sales force and predictive health monitoring to  our projects.
In tandem with this renewal, Process++, the  ELEVATING INFOSYS WITH AUTOMATION, INNOVATION AND EDUCATION “We have modified our environment so radically that we must now modify ourselves  in order to exist in   this   new   environment.” — Norbert Wiener, The Human Use of Human Beings Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Elevating Infosys with Automation, Innovation and Education | 7  program launched more than a year ago to reimagine our  systems landscape and drive breakthrough efficiencies,  is serving to aggressively unify several functions that  were previously in silos across the organization.
Much of this improvement has been made possible by  looking outside of our own context.
We have sought to  benchmark each of our processes against not just the  best in our industry, but also the best in the world.
After  all, this is the kind of diligence that we bring to the work  we do for our clients — a roster of  the world’s best companies.
Thus has begun our journey to  improve, and to improve the way  we improve.
Today, our efforts  have translated into cycle- time  reduction of around 45% for  key cross-functional processes,  and human effort reduction of around 30% that can be  repurposed into creating bandwidth for higher value work  that is more relevant to our   clients.
To further drive cost and productivity advantages, we  have also been working to automate the delivery of our  IT services through a people + software model.
Bringing  automation beyond L1 and L2, to the more complex  L3 support in IT operations, to test automation, to our  knowledge-curating frameworks, and to robotic process  automation (RPA), is where we have focused these e fforts.
Our first-generation AI platform, which is now subsumed  within our next-gen AI platform called Infosys NiaTM ,  has made a big part of this possible.
In parallel with  improving our own productivity with Infosys Nia, we  are leveraging its capabilities to drive intelligent, high- value, next-generation automation for our clients.
It is  enabling their systems to automate tasks and perform  predictions that were traditionally done by skilled people.
In HR automation, infrastructure monitoring, anomaly  detection, and support for contract management and  fraud investigation, Infosys Nia is amplifying our own IT  services and fueling a massive re-engineering of systems  and processes around the world.
While automation of well-defined cognitive tasks, many  performed by humans today, has become feasible with   AI,  the ability to bring creativity and innovation into finding  and solving the most significant unknown problems  will remain firmly outside the domain of automation for  the conceivable future.
However, automation helps to  create bandwidth for our people to engage in innovation,  which begins with effective problem articulation and  culminates in new ideas coming to life.
In order to realize  this opportunity, we need to help our people embrace  problem-finding as a methodology, as a process to explore  new avenues of value creation in  very practical and agile ways.
That  is why we have invested in Design  Thinking and have now trained  more than 1,35,000 employees  — unprecedented in any industry  and a key aspect of our strategy  to empower everybody at Infosys  to be an innovator.
This, along with other aspects of learning — as a  continuous, lifelong process — is what really powers  our journey of automation and innovation.
In addition  to Design Thinking, we are accelerating our training  efforts around DevOps and Agile.
Over 50% of our project  managers and more than 15,000 of our employees are  training in these capabilities.
We also continue to focus  on expanding the core competence of every trainee we  welcome to Infosys.
They are now required to train in  at least three programming languages before they are  deemed fit to contribute to mainstream delivery.
These — Automation, Innovation and Education — then  constitute the three-part formula, which I believe will  elevate Infosys to be the next-generation services  company.
It is the way for us to renew ourselves, and  at the same time, venture into new horizons.
It is the  only way forward for us — and in fact, for many of our  clients, partners and even competitors in the industry  :   To find ways for humans and machines to cooperate, and  amplify human abilities to release people from the toil of  well-defined, commoditized and repetitive work, in favor  of more innovative, creative and valuable work, which  pushes all of us forward.
It is, as Norbert Wiener might say, the only way to make  human use of human beings.
“The Zero Distance  initiative  has provided us with  that   new approach to  building the ideas-based  culture we   need.” Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 8  Clockwise from top left : R. Seshasa yee Chairman of the Board and   Independent Director Ravi Venkatesan Co-Chairman of the Board and   Independent Director Dr.  Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director  U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and   Whole-time Director Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw  Independent Director As on April 13, 2017 THE INFOSYS BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Infosys Board of Directors  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17  9  As on April 13, 2017 Clockwise from top left  : D. N .
Prahlad Independent Director Roopa Kudva Independent Director Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha Independent Director Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Independent Director Prof. John W. Etchemendy Independent Director  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Sandeep Dadlani Segment Head — Manufacturing,  Retail, CPG & Logistics 10  THE INFOSYS LEADERSHIP TEAM The Infosys Leadership T eam PRESIDENTS M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and   Whole-time Director Dr.  Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director  Mohit Joshi Segment Head — Financial  Services, Healthcare,  Life   Sciences & Insurance  Rajesh K. Murthy Segment Head — Energy,  Resources, Utilities,  Communications & Services Ravi Kumar S. Deputy Chief Operating Officer  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Deepak Padaki Group Head — Corporate  Strategy, and Chief Risk Officer  11  Koushik R. N. Group Head — Procurement &  Global Immigration Krishnamurthy Shankar Group Head — Human  Resources, and Infosys  Leadership Institute Ramadas Kamath U.
Group Head — Administration,  Facilities, Infrastructure &  Security, and Sustainability THE INFOSYS LEADERSHIP TEAM Binod R. Hampapur Global Head — Talent &   Technology Operations Jayesh Sanghrajka Deputy Chief Financial Officer Karmesh Vaswani Industry Head — Manufacturing,  Retail, CPG & Logistics  (Europe   &   RoW) Narsimha Rao M. Head, Global Services —  Independent Validation Solutions,  and Cloud & Infrastructure  Services Richard Lobo Head, HR — Infosys Limited  Ritika Suri Global Head — Corporate  Development & Ventures Sangita Singh Industry Head —  Healthcare   &   Life Sciences Satish H. C. Head, Global Services —  Data   & Analytics Srikantan Moorthy Head, Global Services —  Application Development &  Maintenance EXECUTIVE   VICE PRESIDENTS Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 12 | Board and committees – Infosys Limited BOARD AND COMMITTEES — INFOSYS LIMITED BOARD AND COMMITTEES – INFOSYS LIMITED The Board of Directors R. Seshasayee Chairman and Independent Director Ravi Venkatesan Co-Chairman and Independent Director Dr.  Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and Whole-time  Director Prof.  Jeffrey S. Lehman Independent Director Prof.  John W. Etchemendy Independent Director Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw Independent Director D. N. Prahlad Independent Director Dr.  Punita Kumar-Sinha Independent Director Roopa Kudva Independent Director Executive officers Dr.  Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and Whole-time  Director M. D. Ranganath  Chief Financial Officer Ravi Kumar S. Deputy Chief Operating Officer Mohit Joshi President Rajesh K. Murthy President Sandeep Dadlani  President Krishnamurthy Shankar Executive Vice President and   Group Head, HRD Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan Acting General Counsel Board committees Audit committee Roopa Kudva Chairperson and Financial Expert Prof.  Jeffrey S. Lehman  Ra vi Venkatesan R. Seshasayee Committee of directors R. Seshasayee Chairperson D. N. Prahlad Ravi Venkatesan Corporate social responsibility  committee R. Seshasayee Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw Dr.   Vishal Sikka Finance and investment  committee Dr.  Punita Kumar-Sinha Chairperson Prof.  John W. Etchemendy Kiran Mazu mdar-Shaw  Ravi Venkatesan Roopa Kudva Nomination and remuneration  committee Prof.  Jeffrey S. Lehman Chairperson Prof.  John W. Etchemendy Kiran Mazu mdar-Shaw D. N. Prahlad R. Seshasayee Risk and strategy committee Ravi Venkatesan Chairperson Prof.  John W. Etchemendy Kiran Mazu mdar-Shaw  D. N. Prahlad Dr.   Punita Kumar-Sinha Roopa Kudva Stakeholders relationship  committee Prof.  Jeffrey S. Lehman Chairperson Prof.  John W. Etchemendy D. N. Prahlad Ra vi Venkatesan As on April 13, 2017 Key trends | 13  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Key trends Net profit (1) (in US $ million) 2,140 1,725 1,751 2,013 2,052 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenues (1) (in US $ million)  7,398  8,249  8,711  9,501  10,208 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dividend payout ratio (2) (in %) 29.9 39.7 49.8 49.7 49.6 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Basic EPS (1)(4) (in `) 41.22 46.59 53.94 59.03 62.80 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenues (1) (in ` crore)  40,352  50,133  53,319  62,441  68,484 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net profit (1) (in ` crore)  9,421  10,648  12,329  13,491  14,353 Total equity attributable to equity  holders of the Company  (1)(3) (in ` crore) 61,779 54,763 47,530 39,797 68,982 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Book value per share (1)(3)(4) (in `)  173  207  238  269  300 (1) Based on IFRS consolidated financial statements (2) Based on dividend declared, excluding special dividend and including corporate dividend tax (3) At the end of the fiscal (4) Adjusted for bonus, wherever applicable 14 | Key trends Infosys Annual Report 2016-17    Liquid assets (1)(2)(4) (in ` crore) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 23,958 30,251 32,585 34,468 38,773 Net cash provided by operating activities (1) (in ` crore) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 9,478 12,187 10,752 12,243 14,063 Number of employees (2)(3)1,94,044 1,76,187 1,60,405 1,56,688 2,00,364 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of clients (2)(3) 1,092 950 890 798 1,162 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Return on Equity (RoE) (1) (in %) 34.9 33.7 33.7 32.2 30.5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Market capitalization (2) (in ` crore)  2,79,837  2,54,771  1,88,510  1,65,917  2,34,805 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (1) Based on IFRS consolidated financial statements (2) At the end of the fiscal (3) Infosys group (4) Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents and investments other than investments in unquoted equity and preference securities, convertible  promissory note and others.
The year at a glance | 15  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The year at a glance Ind AS – standalone in ` crore, except per equity share data 2017 2016 Growth (%) Financial performance Revenues 59,289 53,983 9.8 Gross profit 22,232 20,574 8.1 Operating profit 15,876 14,594 8.8 Profit after tax 13,818 12,693 8.9 EPS (par value of ` 5 each) : Basic 60.16 55.26 8.9 Diluted 60.15 55.26 8.9 Financial position     Cash and cash equivalents 19,153 29,176 (34.4) Current investments 9,643 2 (1) Net current assets 35,896 34,509 4.0 Property , plant and equipment (including capital work-in-progress) 9,852 9,182 7.3 Other non-current assets 22,351 17,453 28.1 Total assets 79,885 72,732 9.8 Non-current liabilities 82 62 32.3 Total equity 68,017 61,082 11.4 (1) % of growth greater than 1,000 due to small base Ind AS – consolidated in ` crore, except per equity share data 2017 2016 Growth (%) Financial performance Revenues 68,484 62,441 9.7 Gross profit 25,231 23,343 8.1 Operating profit 16,901 15,620 8.2 Profit after tax 14,353 13,489 6.4 EPS (par value of ` 5 each) : Basic 62.80 59.02 6.4 Diluted 62.77 59.02 6.4 Financial position     Cash and cash equivalents 22,625 32,697 (30.8) Current investments 9,970 75 (1) Net current assets 39,692 38,514 3.1 Property , plant and equipment (including capital work-in-progress) 11,116 9,597 15.8 Goodwill 3,652 3,764 (3.0) Intangible assets 776 985 (21.2) Other non-current assets 14,106 9,251 52.5 Total assets 83,355 75,350 10.6 Non-current liabilities 360 367 (1.9) Total equity 68,982 61,744 11.7 (1) % of growth greater than 1,000 due to small base 16 | The year at a glance Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 IFRS – consolidated in ` crore, except per equity share data 2017 2016 Growth (%)  Financial performance Revenues 68,484 62,441 9.7 Gross profit 25,231 23,343 8.1 Operating profit 16,901 15,620 8.2 Net profit 14,353 13,491 6.4 EPS (par value of ` 5 each) : Basic 62.80 59.03 6.4 Diluted 62.77 59.02 6.4 Financial position     Cash and cash equivalents 22,625 32,697 (30.8) Current investments 9,970 75 (1) Net current assets 39,692 38,456 3.2 Property , plant and equipment 11,716 10,530 11.3 Goodwill 3,652 3,764 (3.0) Intangible assets 776 985 (21.2) Other non-current assets 13,506 8,415 60.5 Total assets 83,355 75,389 10.6 Non-current liabilities 360 371 (3.0) Total equity 68,982 61,779 11.7 (1) % of growth greater than 1,000 due to small base in US $ million, except per equity share data 2017 2016 Growth (%) Financial performance Revenues 10,208 9,501 7.4 Gross profit 3,762 3,551 5.9 Operating profit 2,520 2,375 6.1 Net profit 2,140 2,052 4.3 EPS (par value of ` 5 (US $0.16) each) : Basic 0.94 0.90 4.3 Diluted 0.94 0.90 4.3 Financial position     Cash and cash equivalents 3,489 4,935 (29.3) Current investments 1,538 11 (1) Net current assets 6,121 5,804 5.5 Property , plant and equipment 1,807 1,589 13.7 Goodwill 563 568 (0.9) Intangible assets 120 149 (19.5) Other non-current assets 2,082 1,270 63.9 Total assets 12,854 11,378 13.0 Non-current liabilities 56 56 – Total equity 10,637 9,324 14.1 (1) % of growth greater than 1,000 due to small base Board’s report | 17  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Board’s report Dear members, The Board of Directors hereby submits the report of the business and operations of your Company (‘the Company’ or ‘Infosys’),  along with the audited financial statements, for the financial year ended March 31, 2017.
The consolidated performance of the  Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
1.
Results of our operations in ` crore, except per equity share data Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue from operations 59,289 53,983 68,484 62,441 Cost of sales 37,057 33,409 43,253 39,098 Gross profit 22,232 20,574 25,231 23,343 Operating expenses Selling and marketing expenses 2,728 2,695 3,591 3,431 General and administration expenses 3,628 3,285 4,739 4,292 Total operating expenses 6,356 5,980 8,330 7,723 Operating profit 15,876 14,594 16,901 15,620 Other income, net 3,062 3,006 3,080 3,123 Profit before non-controlling interests /   share in net loss of associate 18,938 17,600 19,981 18,743 Share in net loss of associate and others – – (30) (3) Profit before tax 18,938 17,600 19,951 18,740 Tax expense 5,120 4,907 5,598 5,251 Profit after tax 13,818 12,693 14,353 13,489 Non-controlling interests – – – – Profit for the period 13,818 12,693 14,353 13,489 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (47) (2) (50) (12) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 29 – (228) 303 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax (18) (2) (278) 291 Total comprehensive income 13,800 12,691 14,075 13,780 Retained earnings – opening balance 44,698 40,065 47,063 41,606 Add : Profit for the period 13,818 12,693 14,353 13,489 Transfer from Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve  on utilization (1) 953 591 953 591 Less : Dividends including dividend tax (6,980) (6,843) (6,952) (6,814) Transfer to general reserve (1,579) (1,217) (1,582) (1,217) Transfer to other reserve (2) – – – (1) Transfer to Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve (1) (953) (591) (953) (591) Retained earnings – closing balance 49,957 44,698 52,882 47,063 Earnings per share (EPS) (3) Basic 60.16 55.26 62.80 59.02 Diluted 60.15 55.26 62.77 59.02 Notes : The above figures are extracted from the standalone and consolidated financial statements as per Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS).
For  the purposes of transition to Ind AS, the Company has followed the guidance prescribed in Ind AS 101, First-Time Adoption of Indian Accounting  Standards, with April 1, 2015 as the transition date and IGAAP as the previous GAAP .
1 crore = 10 million   (1) The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Re-investment Reserve has been created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of Section  10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax Act,1961.
The reserve should be utilized by the Company for acquiring new plant and machinery for the purpose of  its business in the terms of Section 10AA(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
(2) Under the Swiss Code of Obligation, a few Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) subsidiaries are required to appropriate  a certain percentage of the annual profit to legal reserve, which may be used only to cover the losses or for measures designed to sustain the Company  through difficult times, to prevent unemployment or to mitigate its consequences.
(3) Equity shares are at par value of ` 5 per share.
18 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Indian Accounting Standards The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), vide its notification  in the Official Gazette dated February 16, 2015, notified the  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) applicable to certain  classes of companies.
Ind AS has replaced the existing Indian  GAAP prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act,  2013, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules,  2014.
For the Infosys group, Ind AS is applicable from  April 1, 2016, with a transition date of April 1, 2015 and  IGAAP as the previous GAAP .
The following are the areas which had an impact on account  of transition to Ind AS : • Business combinations including recording of intangibles  and deferred taxes and accounting for common control  transactions • Fair valuation of certain financial instruments • Employee costs pertaining to defined benefit obligations • Discounting of certain long-term liabilities • Share-based payments The reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the  transition from IGAAP to Ind AS have been provided in  Note  2.2 in the notes to accounts in the standalone and  consolidated financial statements.
Revenues – standalone Our revenue from operations on a standalone basis increased  to ` 59,289 crore from ` 53,983 crore in the previous year, at a  growth rate of 9.8%.
Our software export revenues aggregated  to ` 57,491 crore, up by 9.1% from ` 52,709 crore in the  previous year.
Out of the total revenue, 65.1% came from  North America, 22.0% from Europe, 3.0% from India and  9.9% from the Rest of the World.
On a standalone basis, our  share of revenues from all parts of the world outside North  America has increased to 34.9% in the current year from  34.0% in the previous year.
Revenues – consolidated Our revenue from operations on a consolidated basis increased  to ` 68,484 crore from ` 62,441 crore in the previous year, at a  growth rate of 9.7%.
Our software export revenues aggregated  to ` 66,304 crore, up by 9.0% from ` 60,818 crore in the  previous year.
Out of the total revenue, 61.9% came from  North America, 22.5% from Europe, 3.2% from India, and  12.4% from the Rest of the World.
On a consolidated basis,  our share of revenues from all parts of the world outside  North America increased to 38.1% in the current year from  37.3% in the previous year.
Profits – standalone Our gross profit on a standalone basis amounted to  ` 22,232 crore (37.5% of revenue), as against ` 20,574 crore  (38.1% of revenue) in the previous year.
Sales and marketing  costs were 4.6% of our revenue for the year ended March 31,  2017, as compared to 5.0% for the year ended March 31,  2016.
General and administration expenses were 6.1% of  our revenues each during the current and previous years.
The operating profit amounted to ` 15,876 crore (26.8% of  revenue), as against ` 14,594 crore (27.0% of revenue), in the  previous year.
The profit before tax was ` 18,938 crore (31.9%  of revenue), as against ` 17,600 crore (32.6% of revenue) in  the previous year.
Net profit was ` 13,818 crore (23.3% of  revenue), as against ` 12,693 crore (23.5% of revenue) in  the previous year.
Profits – consolidated Our gross profit on a consolidated basis amounted to  ` 25,231 crore (36.8% of revenue), as against ` 23,343 crore  (37.4% of revenue) in the previous year.
Sales and marketing  costs were 5.2% of our revenue for the year ended March 31,  2017, as compared to 5.5% for the year ended March 31,  2016.
General and administration expenses were 6.9% of  our revenues each during the current and previous years.
The operating profit amounted to ` 16,901 crore (24.7% of  revenue), as against ` 15,620 crore (25.0% of revenue) in the  previous year.
The profit before tax was ` 19,951 crore (29.1%  of revenue), as against ` 18,740 crore (30.0% of revenue) in  the previous year.
Net profit was ` 14,353 crore (21.0% of  revenue), as against ` 13,489 crore (21.6% of revenue) in  the previous year.
Capital expenditure on tangible assets –  standalone This year, on a standalone basis, we capitalized ` 1,817 crore.
This comprises ` 654  crore for investment in computer  equipment, ` 6  crore in vehicles, and the balance of  ` 1,157 crore in infrastructure.
In the previous year, we capitalized ` 2,163  crore.
This  comprised ` 945 crore for investment in computer equipment,  ` 5 crore in vehicles, and the balance of ` 1,213 crore in  infrastructure.
Capital expenditure on tangible assets –  consolidated On a consolidated basis, we capitalized ` 2,799  crore.
During the current year, ` 800 crore has been invested in  computer equipment, ` 8 crore in vehicles, and the balance  of ` 1,991 crore in infrastructure.
In the previous year, we capitalized ` 2,379 crore, including  assets having gross book value of ` 4 crore taken over on  acquisitions.
This comprised ` 1,105 crore for investment in  computer equipment, ` 6 crore in vehicles, and the balance  of ` 1,268 crore in infrastructure.
Liquidity We continue to be debt-free and maintain sufficient  cash to meet our strategic and operational requirements.
We understand that liquidity in the Balance Sheet has to  balance between earning adequate returns and the need to  cover financial and business risks.
Liquidity enables us to  be agile and ready for meeting unforeseen business needs.
We believe that our working capital is sufficient to meet  our current requirements.
As on March  31, 2017, on a  standalone basis, we had liquid assets (includes cash and  cash equivalents and investments other than investments  in unquoted equity and preference securities, convertible  promissory note and others) of ` 34,561 crore, as against  ` 30,711 crore at the previous year end.
On a consolidated  basis, we had liquid assets of ` 38,773 crore at the current  year end, as against ` 34,371 crore at the previous year -end.
These funds comprise deposits with banks and highly-rated  Board’s report | 19  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 financial institutions, liquid mutual funds, including  investment in fixed maturity plan securities, tax-free  bonds, government bonds, non-convertible debentures of  highly-rated companies and certificates of deposit (CDs).
CDs  represent marketable securities of banks and eligible financial  institutions for a specified time period with high credit rating  given by domestic credit rating agencies.
The details of these  investments are disclosed under the ‘non-current and current  investments’ section in the standalone and consolidated  financial statements in this Annual Report.
Appropriations Dividend The Board, in its meeting held on October  14, 2016,  declared an interim dividend of ` 11.00 per equity share.
Further, the Board, in its meeting held on April 13, 2017,  has recommended a final dividend of ` 14.75 per equity share  for the financial year ended March 31, 2017.
The proposal  is subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing  Annual General Meeting (AGM) to be held on June  24,  2017.
The total dividend declared (excluding dividend tax)  for the current year is ` 5,915 crore, as against ` 5,570 crore  in the previous year.
Dividend (including dividend tax), as  a percentage of consolidated net profit after tax, is 49.6% as  compared to 49.7% in the previous year.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will  remain closed on June 3, 2017 for the purpose of payment  of the final dividend for the financial year ended March 31,  2017, and the AGM.
The AGM is scheduled to be held on  June 24, 2017.
Bonus shares During the current year, there has been no change in the  capital structure.
During the previous year, the Company  had allotted 1,14,84,72,332 fully-paid-up equity shares of  face value ` 5 each to the shareholders of the Company in  proportion of 1:1 and consequently , the number of shares  increased from 1,14,84,72,332 to 2,29,69,44,664.
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments Loans, guarantees and investments covered under Section  186 of the Companies Act, 2013 form part of the Notes to the  financial statements provided in this Annual Report.
Transfer to reserves We propose to transfer ` 1,382 crore to the general reserve  on account of declaration of dividend at both standalone and  consolidated levels.
Fixed deposits We have not accepted any fixed deposits and, as such, no  amount of principal or interest was outstanding as of the  Balance Sheet date.
Particulars of contracts or arrangements made with  related parties Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties  referred to in Section 188(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, in  the prescribed Form AOC-2, is appended as Annexure 2 to  the Board’s report.
Material changes and commitments affecting financial  position between the end of the financial year and date  of the report • The Board, at its meeting held on April 13, 2017, approved  the following policies : Capital Allocation Policy : The Board reviewed and  approved the Capital Allocation Policy of the Company  after taking into consideration the strategic and operational  cash requirements of the Company in the medium term.
The key aspects of the Capital Allocation Policy are : The  Company’s current policy is to pay dividends of up to 50%  of the post-tax profits of the fiscal.
Effective fiscal 2018, the  Company expects to pay out up to 70% of the free cash flow  of the corresponding fiscal in such manner (including by  way of dividend and / or share buyback) as may be decided  by the Board from time to time, subject to applicable laws  and requisite approvals, if any .
Free cash flow is defined  as net cash provided by operating activities less capital  expenditure as per the consolidated statement of cash flows  prepared under IFRS.
Dividend payout includes dividend  distribution tax.
In addition to the above, the Board has also identified an  amount of up to ` 13,000 crore (US $2 billion, converted  with exchange rate as on March 31, 2017) to be paid out to  shareholders during fiscal 2018, in such manner (including  by way of dividend and / or share buyback), to be decided  by the Board, subject to applicable laws and requisite  approvals, if any .
Dividend Distribution Policy : As per Regulation 43A of the  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations’), the top 500  listed companies shall formulate a dividend distribution  policy .
Accordingly , the policy was adopted to set out  the parameters and circumstances that will be taken into  account by the Board in determining the distribution of  dividend to its shareholders and / or retaining profits earned  by the Company .
The policy is enclosed as Annexure 9 to  the Board’s report and is also available on the Company’s  website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate- governance/Documents/dividend-distribution.pdf.
Details of the other policies approved by the Board during  fiscal 2017 are provided in Annexure 10 to the Board’s report.
• The Board / nomination and remuneration committee  (‘the committee’) approved the following : CEO compensation : Following the shareholders’ approval  of the CEO’s compensation through a postal ballot on  March 31, 2016, and based on fiscal 2017 performance,  the Board, in its meeting held on April 13, 2017, granted  performance-based equity and stock options for fiscal  2017 to the CEO.
Additionally , the Board approved annual  time-based vesting grant for fiscal 2018.
The grants would  be made w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
The Board also approved the  variable pay for the year ended March 31, 2017.
COO compensation : Following the shareholders’ approval  of the COO’s compensation through a postal ballot on  March 31, 2017, the Board granted RSUs and ESOPs to  the COO in its meeting held on April 13, 2017.
The RSUs  and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
20 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The details of RSUs and ESOPs granted are provided as part  of the notes to the standalone and consolidated financial  statements.
Management’s discussion and analysis In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34 of the Listing  Regulations, the Management’s discussion and analysis is set  out in this Annual Report.
2. Business Strategy Our strategic objective is to build a sustainable organization  that remains relevant to the agenda of our clients, while  generating profitable growth for our investors.
In order to do  this, we will apply the priorities of ‘renew’ and ‘new’ to our  own business and cascade it to everything we do.
These translate to the following strategic focus areas : Build expansive, lasting relationships with our clients by  delivering differentiated offerings : Our strategy is to engage  with clients on their large transformative programs, both in  traditional IT areas as well as for their new digital business  initiatives.
We expand existing client relationships by  providing them a broad set of end-to-end service offerings  and increase the size, nature and number of projects we  do with them.
Our specific industry , domain, process, and  technology expertise allow us to enable clients to transform  their businesses with innovative strategies and solutions.
We invest in building our own and acquiring proprietary  software platforms targeted at addressing the strategic  imperatives of our clients in various industries.
The combination  of our intellectual property and the services surrounding it  generates unique value propositions for our clients.
Through our Zero Distance program, we help our clients  innovate and derive more value from their projects.
Zero  Distance is the process of everyday innovation at  Infosys whereby all employees are expected to innovate  in their individual capacities and through their individual  jobs.
Zero Distance has a three-fold emphasis : to reduce the  gap between us and the code we write, between us and our  clients, and between us and the end-user.
We also invest in targeted business development and  marketing to acquire new clients, and increase our presence  in new geographies and market segments.
We position our  brand as differentiated, global and respected.
Deliver solutions and services leveraging highly cost-effective  models : Our strategy is to leverage software-based automation  and our Global Delivery Model to deliver solutions and  services to our clients in the most cost-effective manner,  while at the same time optimizing our cost structure to  remain competitive.
We are embracing artificial intelligence-based automation  techniques and software automation platforms to boost  productivity of our projects.
We are also taking advantage  of the new advances in software process engineering and  collaboration technologies to enhance our productivity .
Our Global Delivery Model provides scale, quality , expertise,  cost, and time-to-market advantages to our client projects.
The model enables us to work at the location where the best  talent is available and where it makes the best economic sense  with the least amount of risk.
Over the last 30 years, we have  developed our distributed execution capabilities to deliver  high-quality and scalable services.
This scalable infrastructure  complements our ability to deliver project components that  are executed round the clock and across time zones enabling  us to optimize and reduce project delivery times.
Enhance our operational processes for agility and optimal cost :  We periodically assess the effectiveness of our organization  structure and processes to optimize them for alignment with  our strategic objectives and agility .
We continually evaluate  critical cross-functional processes and benchmark them with  best-in-class practices to optimize costs and enable swift and  effective response to our clients.
We constantly monitor and  optimize various operational parameters such as the cost and  utilization of resources, distribution of employees around the  world, the cost of operating our campuses and the optimal  realization of the efficiencies of scale.
In fiscal 2017, our Zero Bench program ensured sustained  engagement of employees in internal projects throughout  the year.
Zero Bench is helping us fast-track our service line  strategy on automation and innovation.
Attract and retain a global, diverse, motivated and  high-performing employee base : Our employees are our  biggest assets.
To meet the evolving need of our clients,  our priority is to attract and engage the best talent in the  right locations with the right skills.
We offer our employees  challenging work assignments, benchmarked compensation,  and a collaborative, productive work environment.
We have  an objective performance management system that rewards  high performers.
We invest substantially in employee  engagement to motivate employees and encourage social  communication and collaboration.
Teaching and learning are central to the Infosys culture.
Our  investments in our Global Education Center and in  creating various learning opportunities for our employees  help them stay abreast of new developments in software  technologies, spur innovation and help them build a lifelong  career at Infosys.
We are guided by our value system which motivates our  attitudes and actions.
Our core values are Client Value,  Leadership by Example, Integrity and Transparency , Fairness  and Excellence (C-LIFE).
Pursue strategic alliances and acquisitions : We leverage  alliances that complement our core competencies.
We  partner with leading technology software and hardware  providers in creating, deploying, integrating and operating  business solutions for our clients.
We have also expanded  the scope of our collaborations to encompass universities and  research organizations.
We will deploy our capital in making selective business  acquisitions that augment our expertise, complement our  presence in certain market segments and accelerate the  execution of our strategies.
We have an innovation fund with an outlay of  US $500 million to support the creation of a global ecosystem  of strategic partners.
Board’s report | 21  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Organization Our go-to-market business units are organized as : • Financial Services • Manufacturing • Retail, CPG and Logistics • Energy & utilities, Communications and Services • Hi-Tech • Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance • China • Japan • India • Infosys Public Services Our service delivery is organized as horizontal centers of  excellence : • Infosys Consulting • Global Delivery  – Enterprise Solutions  – Infosys Digital  – Application Development Services   – Application Management Services  – Application Modernization Services  – Independent Validation Solutions  – Data and Analytics   – Engineering Services  – Cloud and Infrastructure Services  – Infosys Center for Emerging Technology Solutions  • Products  – Finacle®  – EdgeVerve • Platforms   – Panaya • Skava • Infosys BPO Client base Our client-centric approach continues to bring us high levels  of client satisfaction.
We derived 97.3% of our consolidated  revenues from repeat business this fiscal.
We received the  highest satisfaction score from our customer survey for the  year as compared to any score that we had received in the  past 12 years.
We, along with our subsidiaries, added 321  new clients, including a substantial number of large global  corporations.
Our total client base at the end of the year  stood at 1,162.
The number of 100 million dollar + clients  increased from 14 last year to 19 during the year.
The client  segmentation, based on the last 12 months’ revenue for the  current and previous years, on a consolidated basis is as  follows : Clients 2017 2016 1 million dollar + 598 558 5 million dollar + 282 268 10 million dollar + 189 177 25 million dollar + 91 88 50 million dollar + 56 52 75 million dollar + 31 31 100 million dollar + 19 14 200 million dollar + 6 6 300 million dollar + 1 1 Infrastructure We added 2.2 million sq.
ft. of physical infrastructure space  during the year.
The total available space as on March 31,  2017 stands at 44.5 million sq.
ft.
The number of marketing  offices as on March 31, 2017 is 84, compared to 85 in the  previous year.
Infosys Innovation Fund We have a multi-pronged strategy in identifying, investing in  and promoting next-generation technologies.
We believe we  will achieve this on the basis of organic investments in R&D,  as well as by making significant investments in innovations  developed externally , especially by startups.
Our investment  and acquisition strategy will be key to ensuring that we  remain competitive and at the forefront of innovation.
The Infosys Innovation Fund identifies early-stage  startups developing innovative, next-generation solutions  and technologies in the areas of AI, machine learning  and automation, Big Data and analytics, physical-digital  convergence, infrastructure and cloud, and education  and learning.
The Fund partners with startups by providing early-stage  capital and by helping bring their innovations to market,  attaining scale, providing mentorship, product validation  and customer introductions.
The portfolio consists of 13  companies.
Out of the total outlay , US $45 million has been  invested as of March 31, 2017 and we have an uncalled  capital commitment of US $18 million.
Subsidiaries and associates We, along with our subsidiaries, provide consulting,  technology , outsourcing and next-generation services.
At  the beginning of the year, we had 16 direct subsidiaries, 30  step-down subsidiaries and one associate.
As on March 31,  2017, we have 17 direct subsidiaries, 26 step-down  subsidiaries and one associate.
During the year, the Board of Directors reviewed the affairs  of the subsidiaries.
In accordance with Section 129(3) of the  Companies Act, 2013, we have prepared the consolidated  financial statements of the Company , which form part of this  Annual Report.
Further, a statement containing the salient  features of the financial statement of our subsidiaries in the  prescribed format AOC-1 is appended as Annexure 1 to the  Board’s Report.
The statement also provides the details of  performance and financial position of each of the subsidiaries.
In accordance with Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013,  the audited financial statements, including the consolidated  financial statements and related information of the Company  and audited accounts of each of its subsidiaries, are available  on our website, www.infosys.com.
These documents will also  be available for inspection till the date of the AGM during  business hours at our registered office in Bengaluru, India.
Quality While sustaining existing external benchmarks and  certifications, our Quality practice at Infosys has added  new certifications and further enhanced our programs and  initiatives to renew our commitment to the culture of quality ,  client value, innovation and productivity improvement.
22 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 We  continue to follow international quality standard  certifications such as ISO 9001, ISO 22301, ISO 20000, ISO  27001, AS EN 9100, ISO 13485, OHSAS 18001 and ISO  14001.
We have migrated to ISO 9001:2015 in the last year  and became one of the early adopters of this new version.
We have received an independent auditors’ assurance report  on compliance to ISAE 3402 / SSAE16 and a certification  of compliance on PCIDSS V 3.0 for Infosys BPO Limited.
Our focus towards upholding the maturity on CMMi Level 5  continued through independent internal assessments and we  have added Infosys public services to the CMMi scope.
Our Quality department handles large change management  initiatives to drive quality and productivity improvements  across the Company , using various techniques such as Six  Sigma, Lean methodology , and engineering levers like Reuse,  Automation and Tools.
Branding The Infosys brand is a key intangible asset of the Company .
It positions Infosys as the next-generation services company  that helps enterprises renew themselves while also creating  new avenues to generate value.
Brand Infosys is nurtured  around the premise that software, in a very fundamental way ,  is reshaping the world around us.
Because of this, there is  a duality that every business faces – on the one hand, the  need to renew existing systems, to improve their effectiveness  with new technologies and innovation, and on the other, the  need to deliver new kinds of services and new solutions in  new ways using next-generation technologies.
Infosys helps  its clients achieve this dual agenda in a culture of learning  and innovation at the grassroots level by implementing Zero  Distance – our approach to operating at the intersection of  desirability , feasibility and viability .
Our marketing reach extends globally through advertisements,  public relations and digital marketing initiatives.
We  participate in premier business and industry events  around the world.
We also organize signature events and  roundtables across geographies.
‘Confluence’, our flagship  client event, is consistently well-attended and rated highly  by our clients and industry partners.
Awards and recognition In fiscal 2017, we won multiple awards and recognition, both  international and national.
The significant awards include : Business and management • Best Company in India, at FinanceAsia’s 20th anniversary  platinum awards • National Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance,  16th National Awards of the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India  • Golden Peacock Award, 16th London Global Convention  on Corporate Governance and Sustainability Banking (for Finacle®) • Market Leader among digital platforms, Ovum Decision  Matrix : Selecting a Digital Banking Platform, 2017–18 report  by Ovum Research • Leader and Star Performer, Everest Group’s Global Banking  AO Service Provider PEAK Matrix™ Assessment, 2016 ERP services • Seven awards at the 2016 Oracle Excellence Awards • Leader in Gartner Magic Quadrant for SAP ® Application  Services, North America • Leader, IDC MarketScape : Worldwide Oracle  Implementation Services 2016 Vendor Assessment Technology innovation • Five marketing and innovation awards following the  launch of a successful strategic technology partnership with  Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) • Leader in the Winner’s Circle – Excellent at Innovation and  Execution, HfS’s Research Blueprint : Design Thinking in  the As-A-service Economy Sustainability  • Smartest Building award for the software development  blocks (SDB) at the Pune campus, Network 18 and  Honeywell Smart Building Awards • Global Sustainability Leadership Award for sustainable  carbon management practice For the complete list of awards and recognition, refer to  https://www.infosys.com/about/awards.
3.
Human resources management The Human Resources (HR) department at Infosys is driven  by the mission : • To help Infoscions realize their potential – to develop, grow  and achieve their purpose • To build the right culture and capabilities to enable us to  delight our customers • To make Infosys the best place to work for passionate,  innovative people who want to make a difference HR management at Infosys goes beyond the set boundaries  of compensation, performance reviews and development.
We look at the employee’s entire work life cycle, to ensure  timely interventions that help build a long-lasting and fruitful  career.
With this in mind, we initiated several positive changes  in our HR practice this year.
The vision for HR is articulated  through five strategic tracks :  • Driving entrepreneurial energy  • Facilitating organization effectiveness  • Building our talent engine  • Sharpening our leadership edge  • Providing a world-class employee experience  We have set up a scalable recruitment and human resources  management process.
Over the last year, on a standalone  basis, we received 12,93,877 applications from prospective  employees, interviewed 1,05,674 applicants, and extended  offers of employment to 51,004 applicants.
The Infosys  Group added 6,320 (net) and 44,235 (gross) employees this  year, taking the total strength to 2,00,364 from 1,94,044 at  the end of the previous year.
On a standalone basis, the annualized attrition rate for fiscal  2017 stands at 15.0%, as compared to 13.6% for fiscal 2016.
Board’s report | 23  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The following is an overview of some of the major programs  undertaken during fiscal 2017 : • Pulse is our renewed approach to reviewing employee  engagement, with the key change being moving from an  annual format to a more continuous and customized survey  format for feedback.
We also ensure clear ownership and  real-time analytics dashboards to take swift action, based  on the feedback received.
• We identified influencer groups within the organization,  whose networks could be leveraged to spread ideas of  innovation and collaboration.
We worked on refreshing  this list to include more people and keep it dynamic.
• We continued to work on simplifying internal processes  through a collaborative effort between various teams to  ensure that employees are able to be at their productive  best.
Rewards and recognition in terms of the annual awards  for excellence, quarterly promotions, and unit awards  continued.
We also maintained our focus on performance  differentiation to ensure that our high-performing  employees are driven towards higher purpose and goals.
• The Stock Incentive Rewards Program for employees  was launched this year, bringing back a much-cherished  program after over a decade.
Through this program, select  high-performing employees were awarded company stocks  based on their potential.
In addition to the above, we have mechanisms in place  to foster a positive workplace environment, free from  harassment of any nature.
We have institutionalized the  Anti-Sexual Harassment Initiative (ASHI) framework,  through which we address complaints of sexual harassment  at the workplace.
Our global policy assures discretion and  guarantees non-retaliation to complainants.
We follow a  gender-neutral approach in handling complaints of sexual  harassment and we are compliant with the law of the land  wherever we operate.
We have also constituted an internal  committee in all locations across India to consider and  address sexual harassment complaints in accordance with  the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,  Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The details of the issues raised and resolved regarding sexual  harassment at the workplace are available in the Business  Responsibility Report which is part of this Annual Report.
Education, training and assessment Learning and education are at the foundation of Infosys.
Competency development continues to be a key area of  strategic focus for us.
During fiscal 2017, the total training  provided for employees was over 2.04 million person days.
Many of our employees also took external certifications,  creating a large pool of certified people.
We are working with external Massive Open Online Course  (MOOC) providers to make the best content, along with  flexible learning modalities, available to our employees,  to enhance learning effectiveness and reach.
We provide  opportunities for fresh hires to learn using MOOCs while  waiting to join Infosys.
We are also using MOOCs to enable  existing employees on niche technologies and skills.
To enhance the innovation quotient of the workforce, we  conducted the Design Thinking program which trains  individuals in an empathetic, customer-centric mode of  problem-finding and problem-solving.
The total number  of participants benefiting from Design Thinking training  crossed 1,35,000 as of March 31, 2017.
The Design Thinking  training has been imparted to client teams, leadership teams,  employees and fresh recruits.
Campus Connect, our industry-academia partnership program,  made progress through the launch of electives to help  engineering colleges run new programs within their curricula.
In fiscal 2017, we engaged with 1,056 faculty members who  in turn trained 44,546 students.
With this, the total number of  beneficiaries covered has reached 14,167 faculty members and  4,16,185 students from 301 engineering institutions.
Infosys Leadership Institute The vision of the Infosys Leadership Institute (ILI) is to  be recognized as a world-class leadership development  organization that develops a deep leadership bench for  Infosys.
The primary purpose of ILI is to develop and  prepare senior leaders of the organization for current  and future executive leadership roles.
ILI employs a wide  range of developmental approaches including experiential  programs, classroom training, coaching, ‘Leaders  Teach’,  and experience-sharing sessions.
Senior leaders from across  Infosys and its subsidiaries are beneficiaries of ILI’s programs.
We are partnering with Stanford Graduate School of Business  to curate the Infosys Global Leadership Program for our  existing and future leaders at Infosys.
The Global Leadership  Program, developed and offered by Stanford, is expected to  cover over 100 Infosys leaders organized into cohorts.
Each  cohort is divided into small teams and are assigned key  strategic projects that provide exposure to broader business  management challenges, and to the senior leadership of the  Company .
The five-day program features sessions taught by  Stanford faculty covering topics such as corporate strategy  and leadership and team management, as well as critical skills  such as negotiation and storytelling, and action learning via  project work.
Cohort 1 graduated in 2016 in our Mysuru  campus, and Cohort 2 in April 2017 at our Bengaluru campus.
Particulars of employees The ratio of the remuneration of each whole-time director and  key managerial personnel (KMP) to the median of employees’  remuneration as per Section 197(12) of the Companies Act,  2013, read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment  and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014  forms part of the Board’s report (Annexure 3).
Refer to tables  3(b) and 3(c) in Annexure 3.
Additionally , the following details form part of Annexure 3 to  the Board’s report : • To ensure better comparability and clarity , the Company  has voluntarily provided details of compensation (including  value of stock incentives granted) for fiscals 2017 and fiscal  2016 (Refer to table 3(a)) • Remuneration to independent directors (Refer to table 3(d))  • Statement containing the names of top 10 employees in  terms of remuneration drawn (Refer to table 3(e)) 24 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 • Details of employees posted in India throughout the fiscal  and in receipt of a remuneration of ` 1.02 crore or more  per annum (Refer to table 3(e)) • Details of employees posted in India for part of the year  and in receipt of ` 8.5 lakh or more a month (Refer to  table 3(e)).
The details of employees posted outside India and in receipt  of a remuneration of ` 1.02 crore or more per annum or  ` 8.5 lakh or more a month can be made available on request.
Employee stock options / Restricted stock units The Company , under the 2015 Stock Incentive Compensation  Plan (‘the 2015 Plan’), approved by the shareholders vide  postal ballot concluded on March 31, 2016, grants share-based  benefits to eligible employees with a view to attracting and  retaining the best talent, encouraging employees to align  individual performance with Company objectives, and  promoting increased participation by them in the growth of  the Company .
The total number of equity shares and ADRs to be allotted  pursuant to the exercise of the stock incentives under  the 2015 Plan to the employees of the Company and its  subsidiaries shall not cumulatively exceed 2,40,38,883  equity shares (approximately 1% of the issued capital).
The details of the 2015 Plan, including terms of reference,  and the requirement specified under Regulation 14 of the  SEBI (Share-based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 is  available on the Company’s website, at https://www.infosys.
com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/disclosures- pursuant-SEBI-regulations.pdf.
The details of the employee stock options / RSU plan form  part of the Notes to accounts of the financial statements in  this Annual Report.
The details of stock incentives granted during the year ended March 31, 2017 (1) are as follows : Approval date Grantees Date of grant Stock incentives approved by the Board /  nomination and remuneration committee RSUs Stock options July 15, 2016 Dr. Vishal Sikka August 1, 2016 1,20,700 – 7,898 eligible mid-level  managers (5) 18,57,820 – October 14, 2016 Mohit Joshi November 1, 2016 52,350 1,12,750 Rajesh K. Murthy 45,000 96,900 Ravi Kumar S. 52,350 1,12,750 Sandeep Dadlani 52,350 1,12,750 M. D. Ranganath 30,650 48,400 A. G. S. Manikantha 1,000 – Krishnamurthy Shankar 12,050 19,000 Gopi Krishnan  Radhakrishnan (4) 1,500 – 425 eligible high-performing  executives (5) 9,04,775 9,43,810 January 13, 2017 3 eligible employees (5) February 1, 2017 18,550 – April 13, 2017 (1) Dr. Vishal Sikka May 2, 2017 amounting to  (2) US $1.9 million and  (3) US $2 million  amounting to  (2) US $0.96 million U.
B. Pravin Rao 27,250 43,000 3 eligible employees (5) 37,100 73,600 Notes : The RSUs and stock options would vest over a period of four years and shall be exercisable within the period as approved by the Board /  nomination and remuneration committee from time to time.
The exercise price of RSUs will be equal to the par value of the shares and the  exercise price of the stock options would be the market price as on the date of grant or the price as determined under the applicable law in  respective jurisdictions.
(1) Includes stock incentives granted between the end of the financial year and date of the report  (2) Pertains to performance-based grants for fiscal 2017  (3) Pertains to time-based grants for fiscal 2018  (4) In November 2016, 1,500 RSUs were granted to Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan who was appointed as KMP w.e.f.
January 1, 2017  (5) Approved count Grants exercised during the year  : During fiscal 2017, Dr. Vishal Sikka exercised 34,062 RSUs and held 3,08,143 RSUs  outstanding as on March 31, 2017.
Board’s report | 25  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 4.
Corporate governance Our corporate governance philosophy Corporate governance is about maximizing shareholder  value legally , ethically and sustainably .
At Infosys, the goal  of corporate governance is to ensure fairness for every  stakeholder.
We believe sound corporate governance is critical  to enhancing and retaining investor trust.
We always seek to  ensure that our performance is driven by integrity .
Our Board  exercises its fiduciary responsibilities in the widest sense of  the term.
Our disclosures seek to attain the best practices  in international corporate governance.
We also endeavor to  enhance long-term shareholder value and respect minority  rights in all our business decisions.
Our Corporate governance report for fiscal 2017 forms part of  this Annual Report.
Board diversity The Company recognizes and embraces the importance of a  diverse board in its success.
We believe that a truly diverse  board will leverage differences in thought, perspective,  knowledge, skill, regional and industry experience, cultural  and geographical background, age, ethnicity , race and  gender, which will help us retain our competitive advantage.
The Board has adopted the Board Diversity Policy which  sets out the approach to diversity of the Board of Directors.
The Board Diversity Policy is available on our website, at   https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/ documents/board-diversity-policy .pdf.
Additional details on Board diversity is available in  the Corporate governance report that forms part of this  Annual Report.
Number of meetings of the Board The Board met eight times during the financial year.
The meeting details are provided in the Corporate governance  report that forms part of this Annual Report.
The maximum  interval between any two meetings did not exceed 120 days,  as prescribed in the Companies Act, 2013.
Policy on directors’ appointment and  remuneration The current policy is to have an appropriate mix of executive  and independent directors to maintain the independence  of the Board, and separate its functions of governance  and management.
As of March  31, 2017, the Board had  10 members, two of whom were executive or whole-time  directors, and eight were independent directors.
The policy of the Company on directors’ appointment  and remuneration, including the criteria for determining  qualifications, positive attributes, independence of a director  and other matters, as required under sub-section (3) of  Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, is available on our  website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate- governance/documents/nomination-remuneration-policy .pdf.
There has been no change in the policy since last fiscal.
We affirm that the remuneration paid to the directors is as  per the terms laid out in the Nomination and Remuneration  Policy of the Company .
Declaration by independent directors The Company has received necessary declaration from each  independent director under Section 149(7) of the Companies  Act, 2013, that he / she meets the criteria of independence  laid down in Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations.
Board evaluation  The evaluation of all the directors and the Board as a whole  was conducted based on the criteria and framework adopted  by the Board.
The evaluation process has been explained in  the Corporate governance report.
The outcome of the Board  evaluation for fiscal 2017 was discussed by the nomination  and remuneration committee and the Board at the meeting  held on April 13, 2017.
Familiarization program for independent directors All new independent directors inducted into the Board  attend an orientation program.
The details of the training  and familiarization program are provided in the Corporate  governance report.
Further, at the time of the appointment of  an independent director, the Company issues a formal letter  of appointment outlining his / her role, function, duties and  responsibilities.
The format of the letter of appointment is  available on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/ corporate-governance/Documents/appointment-independent- director.pdf.
Directors and key managerial personnel Chairmen of the Board R. Seshasayee is the non-executive Chairman of the  Board and Ravi Venkatesan, Independent Director, was  appointed Co-Chairman of the Board at the meeting held on  April 13, 2017.
Inductions The following appointments were made till the date of the  report : • Appointment of Ravi Venkatesan, Independent Director,  as the Co-Chairman of the Board effective April 13, 2017.
• Appointment of D. N. Prahlad as an independent director  of the Board effective October 14, 2016.
• Appointment of Mohit Joshi, Sandeep Dadlani, Rajesh  K. Murthy , Ravi Kumar S., David D. Kennedy and  Krishnamurthy Shankar as key managerial personnel  (KMP), as defined under Ind AS 24, Related Party  Disclosures, effective October 13, 2016.
• Appointment of Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan as Acting  General Counsel and as KMP , as defined under Ind AS 24,  Related Party Disclosures, effective January 1, 2017.
Dr. Vishal Sikka, U.
B. Pravin Rao, M. D. Ranganath and  A. G. S. Manikantha were appointed as KMP , as defined under  Section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013, in earlier years.
Reappointments As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  U. B.
Pravin Rao retires by rotation at the ensuing AGM and  being eligible, seeks reappointment.
The Board recommends  his reappointment.
26 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Rules, the shares in respect of which dividend has not been  paid or claimed by the shareholders for seven consecutive  years or more shall also be transferred to the demat account  created by the IEPF Authority .
Accordingly , the Company has  transferred the unclaimed and unpaid dividends.
Further,  the corresponding shares will be transferred as per the  requirements of the IEPF rules, details of which are provided  on our website, at www.infosys.com/IEPF.
Directors’ responsibility statement The financial statements are prepared in accordance with  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) under the historical  cost convention on accrual basis except for certain financial  instruments, which are measured at fair values, the provisions  of the Act (to the extent notified) and guidelines issued by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).
The Ind AS  are prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act,  2013 (‘the Act’), read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016.
The  Company has adopted all the Ind AS standards and the  adoption was carried out in accordance with applicable  transition guidance.
Accounting policies have been  consistently applied except where a newly issued accounting  standard is initially adopted or a revision to an existing  accounting standard requires a change in the accounting  policy hitherto in use.
The directors confirm that : • In preparation of the annual accounts for the financial  year ended March 31, 2017, the applicable accounting  standards have been followed.
• They have selected such accounting policies and applied  them consistently and made judgments and estimates that  are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair  view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the  financial year and of the profit and loss of the Company  for that period.
• They have taken proper and sufficient care towards the  maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance  with the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of  the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and  other irregularities.
• They have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern  basis.
• They have laid down internal financial controls, which are  adequate and are operating effectively .
• They have devised proper systems to ensure compliance  with the provisions of all applicable laws and such systems  are adequate and operating effectively .
5.
Audit reports and auditors Audit reports  • The Auditors’ Report for fiscal 2017 does not contain any  qualification, reservation or adverse remark.
The Auditors’  Report is enclosed with the financial statements in this  Annual Report.
Retirements and resignations David D. Kennedy ceased to be the General Counsel and  Chief Compliance Officer effective December 31, 2016.
Committees of the Board As on March  31, 2017, the Board had six committees :  the audit committee, the nomination and remuneration  committee, the corporate social responsibility committee, the  stakeholders relationship committee, the risk and strategy  committee, and the finance and investment committee.
The Board constituted a new committee, the committee of  directors, effective April 13, 2017.
All committees, except the  corporate social responsibility committee, consist entirely of  independent directors.
A detailed note on the composition  of the Board and its committees is provided in the Corporate  governance report section of this Annual Report.
Adoption of new Articles of Association The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notified most of the  sections of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) which replace  the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.
The MCA also  notified the rules pertaining to the further notified sections.
In order to bring the Articles of Association (AOA) of the  Company in line with the provisions of the Act, the Company  recommended that the members adopt a comprehensive  new set of the Articles of Association of the Company  (‘new  articles’), in substitution of, and to the exclusion  of, the AOA.
The resolution to adopt the new articles was  passed by requisite majority by the members of the Company  through a postal ballot which concluded on March 31, 2017.
The new articles are available on the website of the Company ,  at https://www.infosys.com/investors/shareholder-services/ pages/index.aspx#memorandum.
Internal financial control and its adequacy The Board has adopted policies and procedures for ensuring  the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including  adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding  of its assets, the prevention and detection of fraud, error  reporting mechanisms, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial disclosures.
Significant and material orders There are no significant and material orders passed by the  regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern  status and Company’s operations in future.
Extract of annual return In accordance with Section 134(3)(a) of the Companies Act,  2013, an extract of the annual return in the prescribed format  is appended as Annexure 6 to the Board’s report.
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Companies Act,  2013, read with the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit,  Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘the Rules’), all unpaid  or unclaimed dividends are required to be transferred by the  Company to the IEPF established by the Central Government,  after the completion of seven years.
Further, according to the  Board’s report | 27  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 • The Secretarial Auditors’ Report for fiscal 2017 does not  contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark.
The Secretarial Auditors’ Report is enclosed as Annexure 5  to the Board’s report in this Annual Report.
• As required by the Listing Regulations, the auditors’ certificate  on corporate governance is enclosed as Annexure 4 to the  Board’s report.
The auditors’ certificate for fiscal 2017 does  not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark.
• In addition to getting certified by the auditors, we have  also voluntarily engaged a Practicing Company Secretary  to audit us on corporate governance and issue a report.
The report does not contain any qualification, reservation  or adverse remarks.
Auditors Statutory auditors Under Section 139 of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 and  the Rules made thereunder, it is mandatory to rotate the  statutory auditors on completion of the maximum term  permitted under the said section.
The audit committee of the  Company has proposed, and on January 13, 2017, the Board of  Directors of the Company has recommended the appointment  of Deloitte Haskins & Sells, LLP , Chartered Accountants (Firm  registration number 117366 W/W 100018) (‘Deloitte’) as the  statutory auditors of the Company .
Deloitte will hold office  for a period of five consecutive years from the conclusion of  the 36th Annual General Meeting of the Company scheduled  to be held on June 24, 2017, till the conclusion of the 41st  Annual General Meeting to be held in the year 2022, subject  to the approval of the shareholders of the Company .
The first  year of audit will be of the financial statements for the year  ending March 31, 2018, which will include the audit of the  quarterly financial statements for the year.
To align with the above, the Board of Directors of the  Company also approved the appointment of Deloitte as  the independent registered public accounting firm of the  Company .
This  appointment is effective the year ending  March  31, 2018.
As the independent registered public  accounting firm, Deloitte will audit the annual financial  statements of the Company to be included in the Company’s  Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities  and Exchange Commission (SEC).
KPMG will continue as  the Company’s independent registered public accounting  firm through the completion of the audit for the year ending  March 31, 2017 and for the purpose of filing such audited  financial statements in the Form 20-F for the year ending  March 31, 2017.
Secretarial auditor As required under Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013  and Rules thereunder, the Board has appointed Parameshwar  G. Hegde of Hegde & Hegde, Practicing Company Secretaries,  as secretarial auditor of the Company for fiscal 2018.
6.
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Infosys has been an early adopter of CSR initiatives.
The  Company works primarily through its CSR trust,  the Infosys Foundation, towards supporting projects  in eradication of hunger and malnutrition, promoting  education, art and culture, healthcare, destitute care and  rehabilitation, environmental sustainability , disaster relief  and rural development projects.
Details of the CSR policy  are available on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/ investors/corporate-governance/Documents/corporate- social-responsibility-policy .pdf.
The annual report on our  CSR activities is appended as Annexure 7 to the Board’s report.
Infosys Foundation Infosys Foundation was established in 1996 for social welfare  activities.
Fiscal 2017 marked the 20th anniversary of the  Foundation’s journey of transforming the lives of communities  in need across India.
Since its inception, the Foundation,  through its grant-making and partnerships with individuals,  government bodies and competent non-governmental bodies,  has fostered a sustainable culture of development in the  areas of healthcare, promotion of education and eradication  of hunger, rural development, art and culture, and destitute  care across the remotest regions of India.
For more details  on the Foundation’s activities, visit https://www.infosys.com/ infosys-foundation.
Infosys Foundation USA In fiscal 2017, Infosys Foundation USA advanced its mission  to increase access to Computer Science (CS) and Maker  education, with an emphasis on under-represented students.
The Foundation has impacted 2,539 teachers, 1,34,529  students, and 2,490 schools across the 50 U.S. states, through  initiatives such as : • CS Teacher Support • CS Student Support • Maker Initiatives For more details, visit http://www.infosys.org/infosys- foundation-usa/.
Infosys Science Foundation The Infosys Science Foundation (ISF) was set up by Infosys  and some members of its management in 2009 to encourage  the pursuit and practice of the sciences and research.
The  Infosys Prize, governed by the ISF , recognizes some of the  finest research connected to India.
The prize winners are  awarded a purse of ` 65 lakh (tax-free in India) and a citation  by a jury of global renown across six fields.
The winners  of the Infosys Prize 2016 were Prof. V .
Kumaran (Professor,  Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of  Science, Bengaluru) in Engineering and Computer Science,  Prof. Sunil Amrith (Mehra Family Professor of South Asian  Studies, Professor of History , Harvard University , U.S.) in  Humanities, Prof.  Gagandeep Kang (Executive Director  of Translational Health Science and Technology Institute,  Faridabad) in Life Sciences, Prof.  Akshay Venkatesh  (Professor, Department of Mathematics, Stanford University ,  U.S.) in Mathematical Sciences, Dr. Anil Bhardwaj (Director,  Space Physics Laboratory , Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre,  Thiruvananthapuram) in Physical Sciences, and Prof. Kaivan  Munshi (Frank Ramsey Professor of Economics, University of  Cambridge, U.K.) in Social Sciences.
For more details, visit www.infosys-science-foundation.com.
28 | Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Sustainability initiatives Our sustainability charter is driven by our core values and  ethics.
Our sustainability actions encompass economic, social  and environmental dimensions.
Through Campus Connect,  we share some of our best practices with engineering colleges,  thus aligning the needs of institutions, faculty and students  with those of the IT industry .
SPARK and Rural Reach  programs focus on raising aspirations and building awareness  about computers and the power of IT among students in rural  India.
For more information about our industry-academia  partnerships, visit our website, https://www.infosys.com/ sustainability.
We have been persistent in our efforts to ensure reuse,  recycling and responsible disposal of waste to minimize the  amount of waste going to landfills.
In our efforts to achieve  our goal of sourcing 100% of our electricity requirements from  renewables, we have continued to invest in solar energy across  our campuses.
In fiscal 2016, we launched a solar farm at our  Hyderabad campus.
The energy generated in the farm has  helped us in meeting most of our energy requirement through  renewables.
Details of our environmental sustainability  actions are available in Annexure 8 to the Board’s report.
Conservation of energy, research and  development, technology absorption, foreign  exchange earnings and outgo The particulars, as prescribed under sub-section (3)(m)  of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with  the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, are enclosed as  Annexure 8 to the Board’s report.
Business Responsibility Report (BRR) The Listing Regulations mandate the inclusion of the BRR as  part of the Annual Report for top 100 listed entities based  on market capitalization.
In compliance with the Listing  Regulations, we have integrated BRR disclosures into our  Annual Report.
We also publish the Sustainability Report annually .
Our report  follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 framework.
This is a comprehensive report that covers all aspects of our  sustainability activities.
The report is audited by an external  auditor, DNV GL.
For more details, visit https://www.infosys.
com/sustainability/.Green initiatives Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2016-17 and the  Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting are sent to all  members whose email addresses are registered with the  Company / depository participant(s).
For members who have  not registered their email addresses, physical copies are sent  in the permitted mode.
Acknowledgments We thank our customers, vendors, investors, bankers,  employee volunteers and trustees of Infosys Foundation,  Infosys Foundation USA and Infosys Science Foundation for  their continued support during the year.
We place on record  our appreciation of the contribution made by our employees  at all levels.
Our consistent growth was made possible by their  hard work, solidarity , cooperation and support.
We thank the governments of various countries where we  have our operations.
We also thank the Government of  India, particularly the Ministry of Labour and Employment,  the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of Electronics  and Information Technology , the Ministry of Commerce  and Industry , the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, the Customs and Excise Departments,  the Income Tax Department, the Reserve Bank of India, the  State Governments, the Software Technology Parks (STPs) /  Special Economic Zones (SEZs) – Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar,  Chandigarh, Chennai, Gurugram, Hubballi, Hyderabad,  Indore, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Nagpur, Noida, Pune,  Mumbai, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram – and other  government agencies for their support, and look forward to  their continued support in the future.
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors Bengaluru  April 13, 2017 R. Seshasayee Chairman  Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director Annexures to the Board’s report | 29  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexures to the Board’s report Annexure 1 – Statement containing the salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries / associate companies / joint ventures [Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 – AOC-1] List of subsidiaries in ` crore, except % of shareholding and exchange rate Name of the subsidiary Financial period  ended  Exchange rate Share  capital Reserves and  surplus Total  assets Total liabilities  (excluding share  capital and reserves  and surplus) Investments (1) T urnover (1) Profit /  (Loss) before  taxation  (1) Provision  for taxation  (1) Profit /  (Loss) after  taxation  % of  shareholding Infosys BPO Limited Mar 31, 2017 INR  34  3,961 4,443  448  626  2,940  750  198  552 99.98 EdgeVerve Systems Limited Mar 31, 2017 INR 1,312 (14) (3,027)  727  2,442  29  2,351  359  114  245 100 Infosys Public Services, Inc. Mar 31, 2017 1 USD = ` 64.85  98  289  492  105  –  1,354  225  99  126 100 Infosys Technologies (China)  Co. Limited Dec 31, 2016 1 RMB = ` 9.78  235  (109)  459  333  –  1,079  (61)  –  (61) 100 Infosys Consulting AG  (2)   (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants AG) Dec 31, 2016 1 CHF = ` 66.67  1  61  283  221  –  663  3  4  (1) 100 Infy Consulting Company Limited (2)   (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants Ltd.) Dec 31, 2016 1 GBP = ` 83.46  –  41  221  180  –  599  12  4  8 100 Infosys Consulting GmbH (2)   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH) Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  1  (14)  199  212  –  551  (43)  2  (45) 100 Infosys Poland Sp.
z o.o.
(4)   (formerly Infosys BPO Poland, Sp.
z.o.o)  Mar 31, 2017 1 PLN = ` 16.45  4  435  543  104  55  491  103  1  102 99.98 Infosys McCamish Systems LLC (4) Mar 31, 2017 1 USD = ` 64.85  175  (48)  296  169  –  467  29  (46)  75 99.98 Kallidus Inc. (10) Dec 31, 2016 1 USD = ` 67.93  15  139  257  103  –  379  168  67  101 100 Infosys Technologies S. de R. L.  de C. V .
Dec 31, 2016 1 MXN = ` 3.28  65  43  157  49  –  269  43  14  29 100 Panaya Ltd. (7) Dec 31, 2016 1 USD = ` 67.93  256  (511)  225  480  –  245  (124)  12  (136) 100 Infosys Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda.
Dec 31, 2016 1 BRL = ` 20.89  146  (40)  183  77  –  206  29  20  9 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Inc.  (2) Dec 31, 2016 1 USD = ` 67.93  1  27  39  11  –  202  24  7  17 100 Noah Consulting LLC (11) Dec 31, 2016 1 USD = ` 67.93  80  (94)  82  96  –  188  (116)  –  (116) 100 Infosys Management Consulting   Pty .
Limited (2)   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pty.
Limited) Dec 31, 2016 1 AUD = ` 49.05  –  (19)  16  35  –  148  –  1  (1) 100 Lodestone Management Consultants   Co., Ltd. (2) Dec 31, 2016 1 RMB = ` 9.78  43  (85)  64  106  –  143  (44)  2  (46) 100 Infosys Consulting Ltda.
(3)   (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants Ltda.)
Dec 31, 2016 1 BRL = ` 20.89  137  (126)  102  91  –  143  (23)  2  (25) 99.99 30 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Name of the subsidiary Financial period  ended  Exchange rate Share  capital Reserves and  surplus Total  assets Total liabilities  (excluding share  capital and reserves  and surplus) Investments (1) T urnover (1) Profit /  (Loss) before  taxation  (1) Provision  for taxation  (1) Profit /  (Loss) after  taxation  % of  shareholding Infy Consulting B.V .
(2)   (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants B.V .)
Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  1  24  51  26  –  141  25  6  19 100 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB Dec 31, 2016 1 SEK = ` 7.48  2  1  53  50  –  115  (12)  –  (12) 100 Portland Group Pty .
Limited (4) Mar 31, 2017 1 AUD = ` 49.58  18  88  131  25  –  114  9  3  6 99.98 Infosys Consulting Sp.
Z o.o.
(2)   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants sp.
z o.o.)
Dec 31, 2016 1 PLN = ` 16.20  2  (1)  35  34  –  101  1  –  1 100 Panaya Inc. (12) Dec 31, 2016 1 USD = ` 67.93  –  325  427  102  –  101  3  (1)  4 100 Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd.  (15)   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pte Ltd.) Dec 31, 2016 1 SGD = ` 47.01  52  (53)  13  14  –  77  (13)  1  (14) 100 Infosys (Czech Republic) Limited s.r.o  (4)  (formerly Infosys BPO s.r .o) Mar 31, 2017 1 CZK = ` 2.55  3  55  71  13  14  64  15  3  12 99.98 Skava Systems Pvt.
Ltd. (13) Mar 31, 2017 INR  –  23  37  14  18  56  10  2  8 100 Infosys Consulting SAS  (2)   (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants SAS) Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  23  (31)  16  24  –  45  3  1  2 100 Infosys Consulting (Belgium) NV (3)  (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants (Belgium) S.A.) Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  3  (26)  24  47  –  42  (2)  1  (3)  99.90  Infosys Technologies (Shanghai)  Company Limited Dec 31, 2016 1 RMB = ` 9.78  821  (4)   1,076  259  –  24  (9)  –  (9) 100 Panaya GmbH (7) Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  –  (3)  38  41  –  24  1  –  1 100 S.C. Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(2)   (formerly SC Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
Dec 31, 2016 1 RON = ` 15.79  1  4  8  3  –  23  1  1  – 100 Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(2)   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
Dec 31, 2016 1 ARS = ` 4.27  7  (6)  13  12  –  21  2  3  (1) 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Portugal, Unipessoal, Lda  (2) Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  5  (9)  3  7  –  14  –  1  (1) 100 Infosys Consulting s.r.o.
(2)   (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants s.r .o.)
Dec 31, 2016 1 CZK = ` 2.65  –  4  5  1  –  8  1  1  – 100 Panaya Japan Co. Ltd. (7) Dec 31, 2016 1 JPY = ` 0.5811  –  (2)  11  13  –  6  1  –  1 100 Noah Information Management  Consulting Inc. (8) Dec 31, 2016 1 CAD = ` 50.39  –  (15)  3  18  –  3  (4)  –  (4) 100 Infosys Consulting Holding AG   (formerly Lodestone Holding AG)  Dec 31, 2016 1 CHF = ` 66.67  166  129  452  157  –  –  (3)  1  (4) 100 Annexures to the Board’s report | 31  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the subsidiary Financial period  ended  Exchange rate Share  capital Reserves and  surplus Total  assets Total liabilities  (excluding share  capital and reserves  and surplus) Investments (1) T urnover (1) Profit /  (Loss) before  taxation  (1) Provision  for taxation  (1) Profit /  (Loss) after  taxation  % of  shareholding Lodestone Management Consultants  GmbH (2) Dec 31, 2016 1 EUR = ` 71.66  1  (3)  1  3  –  –  –  –  – 100 Infosys Nova Holdings LLC Dec 31, 2016 1 USD = ` 67.93  93  9  102  –  102  –  –  –  – 100 Infosys BPO Americas LLC (4)(5) Mar 31, 2017 1 USD = ` 64.85  7  (3)  5  1  –  –  (3)  –  (3) 99.98 Infosys Technologies (Australia)   Pty .
Limited (6) Mar 31, 2017 1 AUD = ` 49.58  4  32  37  1  –  –  1  1  – 100 Infosys Americas Inc. Mar 31, 2017 1 USD = ` 64.85  1  –  1  –  –  –  –  –  – 100 List of associates in ` crore Name of the entity Last audited Balance  Sheet date No.
of shares held by the  companies in associate at  the year end Amount of investment in  associate Reason why the associate  is not consolidated Net worth attributable to  shareholding as per latest  Balance Sheet  Profit / (Loss) for the year Considered in  consolidation Not considered in  consolidation DWA Nova LLC (9) – – 102 NA 35 (6) – (1) Converted at monthly average exchange rates (2) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) (3) Majority-owned and controlled subsidiary of Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone  Holding AG) (4) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys BPO Limited (5) Incorporated effective November 20, 2015 (6) Under liquidation (7) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Panaya Inc. (8) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Noah Consulting LLC (9) Associate of Infosys Nova Holdings LLC.
As of December 31, 2016, Infosys Nova Holdings LLC holds 16% of equity interest in DWA Nova LLC and exercises significant influence.
(10) Kallidus Inc., acquired on June 02, 2015 (11) Noah Consulting LLC, acquired on November 16, 2015 (12) Panaya Inc., acquired on March 05, 2015 (13) Skava Systems Pvt.
Ltd., acquired on June 02, 2015 (14) EdgeVerve adopted Ind AS on April 1, 2016, with a transition date of April 1, 2015.
Accordingly , on transition, profit on transfer of business between entities under common control, which was earlier recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss under IGAAP are adjusted to reserves.
(15) During fiscal 2017, the holding company of Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd.  changed from Lodestone Holding AG to Infosys Limited.
Notes : 1.
Investments exclude investments in subsidiaries.
2.
Proposed dividend from any of the subsidiaries is nil.
3.
Infosys Canada Public Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Public Services, Inc., has been  incorporated effective December 19, 2014, and has not yet commenced operations.
4.
Lodestone Augmentis AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Consulting AG (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants AG) has been liquidated effective October 5, 2016.
5.
Lodestone GmbH (formerly Hafner Bauer & Ödman GmbH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of  Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) has been liquidated effective  December 21,  2016.
6.
Panaya Pty Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Panaya Inc., has been liquidated effective  November 16,  2016. for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer  and Whole-time Director BengaluruApril 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary 32 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 2 – Particulars of contracts / arrangements made with related parties [Pursuant to Clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 – AOC-2] This Form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties  referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, including certain arm’s length transactions under  third proviso thereto.
As per Section 188 of the Companies Act 2013, whenever a company avails or renders any service directly or through agents  amounting to 10% or more of the turnover of the company or ` 50 crore, whichever is lower, prior approval of the shareholders  is required.
However, shareholders’ approval for such transactions need not be sought if the transactions are between the  holding company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries whose accounts are consolidated with the holding company and placed  for shareholders’ approval.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis There were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended March 31, 2017, which were not  at arm’s length basis.
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis The details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis for the year ended March 31, 2017 are  as follows : Name of related party Nature of  relationship Duration of contract Salient terms (1) Amount   (in ` crore) Nature of contract Investment in equity instruments   Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company  Limited Subsidiary Not applicable Not applicable 180 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB Subsidiary Not applicable Not applicable 76 Noah Consulting LLC Subsidiary Not applicable Not applicable 71 Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited Subsidiary Not applicable Not applicable 67 394 Purchase of services Infy Consulting Company Limited Subsidiary Nov 1, 2012 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines697 Infosys BPO Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2012 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines391 Noah Consulting LLC Subsidiary Jan 1, 2016 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines135 Infosys Management Consulting Pty .
Limited Subsidiary Jan 1, 2013 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines125 Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2011 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines120 Kallidus Inc. Subsidiary Jul 1, 2015 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines75 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB Subsidiary Apr 23, 2009 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines72 Panaya Ltd. Subsidiary Apr 1, 2015 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines50 Infosys Public Services, Inc. Subsidiary Apr 1, 2014 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines22 Infosys Technologies S.de R.L.
de C.V .
Subsidiary Apr 1, 2011 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines22 1,709 Purchase of shared services including facilities  and personnel Infosys BPO Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2012 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 19 Panaya Ltd. Subsidiary Jan 1, 2016 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines2 21 Annexures to the Board’s report | 33  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of related party Nature of  relationship Duration of contract Salient terms (1) Amount   (in ` crore) Sale of services Infosys Public Services, Inc. Subsidiary Apr 1, 2013 – ongoing  Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 893 EdgeVerve Systems Limited Subsidiary Jul 1, 2014 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 303 Infy Consulting Company Limited Subsidiary Nov 1, 2012 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 75 Infosys BPO Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2012 – ongoing  Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 58 Infosys Technologies S.de R.L.
de C.V .
Subsidiary Apr 1, 2013 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines31 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB Subsidiary Apr 1, 2015 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines17 Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2013 – ongoing  Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 15 Kallidus Inc. Subsidiary Jul 1, 2015 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines 6 1,398 Sale of shared services including facilities and  personnel Infosys BPO Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2012 – ongoing  Based on transfer  pricing guidelines46 EdgeVerve Systems Limited  Subsidiary Jul 1, 2014 – ongoing  Based on transfer  pricing guidelines40 Panaya Ltd. Subsidiary Apr 1, 2015 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines32 Infy Consulting Company Limited Subsidiary Apr 1, 2016 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines3 Infosys Public Services, Inc. Subsidiary Apr 1, 2014 – ongoing Based on transfer  pricing guidelines1 122 (1) Appropriate approvals have been taken for related party transactions.
Advances paid have been adjusted against billings, wherever applicable.
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors Bengaluru  April 13, 2017   R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director 34 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Annexure 3 – Particulars of employees We are a leading provider of consulting, technology , outsourcing and next-generation services.
We enable clients in more than 45 countries to outperform their competition  and stay ahead of the innovation curve.
The remuneration and perquisites provided to our employees, including that of the Management, are on par with industry benchmarks.
The nomination and remuneration committee continuously reviews the compensation of our CEO, COO and other KMP to align both the short-term and long-term business objectives of the Company and to link compensation with the achievement of goals.
The details of remuneration to KMP including CEO and COO in the tables, 3(b) and 3(c) are in compliance with Chapter XIII, Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
In accordance with the requirements, tables, 3(b) and 3(c) do not include value of the stock incentives at the time of grant but include the perquisite value at the time of their exercise.
Considering that the Company has changed the compensation philosophy this year, restructured the compensation of KMP and introduced stock incentives as a significant part of compensation for senior management to align with shareholders’ interest, the compensation in tables 3(b) and 3(c) for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 are not comparable.
Hence, to ensure better comparability and clarity , the Company has voluntarily provided details of compensation (including value of stock incentives granted) for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 in the table 3(a) below.
3(a) Compensation relating to fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 for whole-time directors and other KMP as on March 31, 2017 is as follows : Name of the KMP Currency Fiscal Base / fixed pay Bonus and  incentives Time- based stock  incentives  granted (4) Performance- based stock  incentives  granted (4) Retirals Total  compensation Total  compensation  in ` crore (1) Dr. Vishal Sikka USD 2017  1,000,000  822,289  2,000,000  2,885,482  42,171  6,749,942  45.11  2016  900,000  4,326,000  2,000,000  –  79,558  7,305,558  48.41  U.
B. Pravin Rao INR 2017  4,00,04,201  3,62,35,701 –  4,00,00,000  17,71,486  11,80,11,388  11.80  2016  3,44,37,966  4,53,76,002  –  –  15,96,855  8,14,10,823  8.14  M. D. Ranganath INR 2017  2,84,56,920  1,80,44,121  –  4,50,00,000  9,85,406  9,24,86,447  9.25  2016  3,47,57,619  2,63,58,370  –  –  34,03,807  6,45,19,796  6.45  A. G. S. Manikantha (2) INR 2017  18,97,942  22,52,574  –  9,84,568  2,42,980  53,78,064  0.54  2016  14,46,718  20,54,301  –  –  1,86,604  36,87,623  0.37  Ravi Kumar S. USD 2017  594,719  433,268  –  1,175,000  24,785  2,227,772  14.87  2016  570,680  640,168  –  –  39,758  1,250,606  8.27  Mohit Joshi GBP 2017  418,860  289,402  –  960,998  89,211  1,758,471  14.62  2016  351,195  473,093  –  –  112,661  936,949  9.02  Sandeep Dadlani USD 2017  607,441  435,699  –  1,175,000  24,731  2,242,871  14.97  2016  592,502  649,861  –  –  27,307  1,269,670  8.40  Rajesh K. Murthy EUR 2017  444,006  338,022  –  915,342  263,210  1,960,580  14.25  2016  409,617  467,258  –  –  289,470  1,166,345  8.55  Krishnamurthy Shankar (3) INR 2017  2,02,00,440  1,55,39,523  –  1,76,63,980  15,29,268  5,49,33,211  5.49  2016  87,42,665  1,74,24,518  –  –  6,61,860  2,68,29,043  2.68  Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan INR 2017  66,73,404  43,64,517  –  14,76,852  5,78,598  1,30,93,371  1.31  2016  64,74,882  51,76,113  –  –  5,64,642  1,22,15,637  1.22  (1) Converted at average exchange rates for the respective periods (2) For the period June 22, 2015 to March 31, 2016 for fiscal 2016 (3) For the period October 26, 2015 to March 31, 2016 for fiscal 2016 and includes joining bonus (4) The time and performance-based stock incentives will vest over a period of four years Annexures to the Board’s report | 35  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Information as per Rule 5(1) of Chapter XIII, Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 3(b) Remuneration to whole-time directors Name of the director Director  Identification Number (DIN) Title Remuneration in  fiscal 2017   (in ` crore)  # Remuneration in  fiscal 2016   (in ` crore) # % increase of  remuneration in fiscal  2017 as compared to  fiscal 2016 # Ratio of   remuneration to MRE   excluding WTDs # Ratio of  remuneration to MRE   including WTDs # Dr. Vishal Sikka (4)(5)(6) 06897177 CEO & MD (1) 16.01 (2)(3) 48.73 (67.15)  283.07  283.07  U.
B. Pravin Rao (7) 06782450 COO & WTD 7.80 9.28 (15.95)  137.91  137.91  Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis  # Includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives granted during the period is not included.
(1) Includes US $0.82 million (approximately ` 5.33 crore) as variable pay for fiscal 2017, as approved by the nomination and remuneration committee on April 13, 2017.
Additionally , includes ` 3.69 crore on account  of exercise of 34,062 RSUs during fiscal 2017.
(2) Includes payment of variable pay amounting to US $2.1 million (approximately ` 14 crore) for fiscal 2015 to the CEO, as decided by the nomination and remuneration committee in its meeting held on June 22,  2015, in line with the compensation plan approved by the shareholders.
(3) Includes provision for variable pay amounting to US $4.33 million (approximately ` 29 crore) for fiscal 2016 to the CEO.
The shareholders, in the EGM dated July 30, 2014, had approved a variable pay of  US $4.18 million (approximately ` 28 crore) at a target level and also authorized the Board to alter and vary the terms of remuneration.
Accordingly , the Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination  and remuneration committee, approved on April 15, 2016, US $4.33 million (approximately ` 29 crore) as variable pay for fiscal 2016.
(4) For fiscal 2017, 1,20,700 time-based RSUs amounting to US $2 million (approximately ` 13.42 crore) have been granted on August 1, 2016.
These RSUs were issued in equity shares represented by ADSs.
(5) Based on fiscal 2017 performance evaluation, the Board, on the recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017, performance-based equity and stock options for fiscal 2017 comprising 1,32,483 RSUs amounting to US $1.9 million (approximately  ` 12.91 crore) and 3,30,525 ESOPs amounting to US $0.96 million (approximately ` 6.46 crore).
These RSUs and ESOPs will  be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(6) The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017 the annual time-based vesting grant for fiscal 2018 comprising of 1,37,741 RSUs amounting  to US $2 million (approximately ` 12.97 crore).
These RSUs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(7) On March 31, 2017, the shareholders vide a postal ballot approved a revision in the salary of U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO and Whole-time Director, w.e.f.
November 1, 2016.
Based on fiscal 2016 performance, the nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting held on October 14, 2016, recommended a grant of 27,250 RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs, amounting to  ` 4 crore to U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO, under the  2015 Plan and the same was approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot on March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
36 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-173(c) Remuneration of other key managerial personnel (KMP) Name of the KMP Title Remuneration  in fiscal 2017  (in ` crore) # Remuneration  in fiscal 2016  (in ` crore) # % increase of  remuneration in fiscal  2017 as compared to  fiscal 2016 #  Ratio of  remuneration to  MRE excluding  WTDs #  Ratio of  remuneration to  MRE including  WTDs #  No.
of RSUs  granted in fiscal  2017 (2) No.
of stock  options granted  in fiscal 2017 (2) M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer 4.75  6.45 (26.36)  83.98  83.98  30,650  48,400  A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary 0.44 (3) 0.37 (1) (8.33)  7.78  7.78  1,000 –  Ravi Kumar S. (7) Deputy Chief Operating Officer  7.03  8.27 (14.99)  124.30  124.30  52,350  1,12,750  Mohit Joshi (7) President  6.79  9.02 (24.72) 120.05 120.05  52,350  1,12,750  Sandeep Dadlani (7) President  7.13  8.40 (15.12)  126.06  126.06  52,350  1,12,750  Rajesh K. Murthy (7) President  7.56 8.55 (11.58)  133.67  133.67  45,000  96,900  Krishnamurthy  Shankar (7) Executive Vice President  3.73 (5) 2.68 (1) (25.40) 65.95 65.95  12,050  19,000  Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan  (8) Vice President  1.16  1.22 (4.92) 20.51 20.51  1,500 –  David D. Kennedy (7) General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer (6) 7.75  7.57 NA NA NA – –  Rajiv Bansal Chief Financial Officer – (4) 23.02 NA NA NA NA NA Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis   For the purpose of comparison, remuneration for both fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 are given for the full year, except where specifically stated otherwise.
# Includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives granted during the period is not included.
(1) Based on annualized salary for fiscal 2016  (2) The grants have been made with an effective November 1, 2016.
These RSUs and stock options would vest over a period of four years.
(3) For the period June 22, 2015 to March 31, 2016, for fiscal 2016  (4) For the period April 1, 2015 to October 12, 2015, for fiscal 2016.
Includes ` 17.4 crore payable under severance agreement to Rajiv Bansal who ceased to be the CFO w.e.f.
October 12, 2015.
(5) For the period, October 26, 2015 to March 31, 2016, for fiscal 2016 and includes joining bonus  (6) Includes ` 6 crore payable under severance agreement to David D. Kennedy , who ceased to be the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company w.e.f.
December 31, 2016.
(7) These executives were named as key managerial personnel as defined under Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures, w.e.f.
October 13, 2016.
(8) Appointed as Acting General Counsel w.e.f.
January 1, 2017 The Median Remuneration of Employees (MRE) excluding whole-time directors (WTDs) was ` 5,65,585 and ` 5,20,946 in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 respectively .
The increase  in MRE (excluding WTDs) in fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, is 8.6%.
The MRE including WTDs was ` 5,65,586 and ` 5,20,964 in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 respectively .
The increase in MRE (including WTDs) in fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal  2016, is 8.6%.
Annexures to the Board’s report | 37  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 3(d) Remuneration to independent directors Name of the director Director  Identification Number (DIN) Remuneration in fiscal 2017   (in ` crore) Remuneration in fiscal 2016   (in ` crore) Number of stock options /  RSUs granted in fiscal 2017 % increase of remuneration in  fiscal 2017 over fiscal 2016  (6)  K. V .
Kamath (1) 00043501 – 0.39 – NA R. Seshasayee (2) 00047985 1.95 1.84 – 5.98 Ravi Venkatesan 00621398 1.04 1.04 – – Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman 00092981 1.37 1.33 – 3.01 Prof. John W .
Etchemendy 07029756 1.10 1.05 – 4.76 Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw 00347229 0.89 0.87 – 2.30 Roopa Kudva 00001766 1.00 0.99 – 1.01 Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha (3) 05229262 1.22 0.20 – 29.79 D. N. Prahlad (4) 00504146 0.36 – – NA Carol M. Browner (5) 06858688 – 0.68 – NA Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis (1) For the period April 1, 2015 to June 5, 2015, for fiscal 2016 (4) For the period October 14, 2016 to March 31, 2017, for fiscal 2017 (2) Appointed as Chairman effective June 5, 2015 (5) For the period April 1, 2015 to November 23, 2015, for fiscal 2016 (3) For the period January 14, 2016 to March 31, 2016, for fiscal 2016 (6) Based on annualized commission 3(e) Information as per Rule 5(2) of Chapter XIII, the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Top 10 employees in terms of remuneration drawn during the year Employee name Designation Educational qualification Experience (in years) Remuneration in fiscal  2017 (in `)  # Previous employment and designation Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director B.S., Ph.D.   on CS 21 16,01,03,044 SAP SE, Member of the   Executive Board of SAP SE  U.
B. Pravin Rao Director and Chief Operating Officer BE 32 7,80,11,388 IISc, Trainee David D. Kennedy (1) General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer B.Sc, JD 28 7,74,69,835 JDA Software, Inc.,   Chief Legal Officer Rajesh K. Murthy President and Segment Head – Energy , Utilities,  Communications & Services BE 25 7,56,39,411 Viswakarma Institute   of Technology Scott Sorokin Head, Global Services – Digital Experience B.Sc 31 7,37,82,889 Razorfish Global,   Chief Strategy Officer Sandeep Dadlani President and Segment Head – Retail, CPG & Logistics BE, MMS 19 7,13,32,949 Citibank, Product Manager Ravi Kumar S. President and Deputy Chief Operating Officer BE, PGD 23 7,03,27,381 Sapient Corporation, Director Mohit Joshi President and Segment Head – Financial Services BA, MBA 20 6,79,04,286 ABN AMRO Bank, Manager Abdul Razack Global Head – Infosys Platforms BE, MS 20 5,26,91,536 SAP , Senior Vice President  M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer BE, PGDM, M.Tech 28 4,74,86,446 Surya Software Systems   Private Limited, Director Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis for better comparability with the KMP remuneration disclosures included in other sections of this Annual Report.
For employees based overseas, the average exchange rates have been used for conversion to INR.
# Includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives granted during the period is not included.
(1) Includes ` 6 crore payable under the severance agreement.
David D. Kennedy ceased to be the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company w.e.f.
December 31, 2016.
38 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Employees drawing a remuneration of ` 1.02 crore or above per annum and posted in India Employee name Designation Educational  qualification Age Experience  (in years) Date of joining Gross  remuneration  paid (`) Previous employment and  designation Balakrishna D. R. SVP and Service Offering Head – ECS and ADM BE 45 23 Feb 7, 1994  1,24,59,440 HCL-HP , Customer Engineer –  Trainee  Binod Rangadore  Hampapur EVP & Global Head – Talent & Technology Operations, REC BE 54 31 Jul 1, 2013  4,26,58,721 Infosys Limited, SVP – Corporate  Relations  Charles Henry Hawkes SVP and Head – FAC B.Sc, PGCBM 57 32 Nov 15, 1996  1,30,98,149 Trans Oceanic Travel, Manager Deepak Padaki EVP and Group Head – Corporate Strategy and Chief Risk Officer, CORPSTGY  BE 46 25 Aug 10, 1992  1,62,13,789 – Dheeshjith V .
G. SVP and Chief Information Officer, IS B.Sc, ME 53 30 Sep 14, 1987  2,64,94,835 – Dinesh R. SVP and Head – Global Services, EAS BE 48 27 Oct 1, 1990  2,32,00,611 – Gopikrishnan Konnanath SVP and Service Offering Head, EAS BE 46 23 Nov 7, 1994  1,16,76,050 BPL Systems & Projects Limited,  Trainee Engineer Indranil Mukherjee VP & Service Offering Head – Oracle, EAS AMIETE 46 23 Dec 4, 1995  1,19,71,986 Chipsoft Technologies, Customer  Support Engineer Ishwar C. Halalli VP and Delivery Head, CIS BE, M.Tech 54 31 Jan 19, 1996  1,38,61,668 AT&T SSTL, Manager – Technical Jayesh Sanghrajka EVP and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, FIN B.Com, CA, ICWA 43 19 Dec 24, 2012  1,91,68,322 Mu Sigma, VP–Finance Jitendra Sangharajka D. VP and Senior Delivery Manager, IS BE, DFM 49 28 Sep 1, 1999  1,06,65,036 L&T Limited, Executive-IS Kavita Manoj Kulkarni VP and Head – Human Resource Development – units, HRD LLB, B.Com, MPM 48 26 Sep 1, 2008  1,07,11,800 WNS, SVP – HR Koushik R. N. EVP & Group Head – Procurement & Global Immigration, PURC B.Sc 48 27 May 2, 1991  1,37,46,189 Frazer Techno Circuits Limited,  Marketing Executive Manohar Madgula Atreya VP and Delivery Head, CIS B.Tech, PGPM 45 23 Apr 7, 2011  1,18,15,805 Armstrong Capital, Director Muthuvel Gajapathi VP & Delivery Head – Business Intelligence, DNA B.Sc, MCA 48 26 Aug 27, 1992  1,44,52,322 PSI Bull (I) Limited, Systems  Executive Nabarun Roy SVP and Group Head – Quality , QLTY B.Tech 45 23 Aug 29, 1994  1,16,11,700 – Narsimha Rao Mannepalli EVP and Head Global Services, IVSU BE, PGDBM 49 27 Jan 29, 2001  1,86,10,278 Ramco Systems, Project Director –  e-Commerce Solutions Raghupathi N. Cavale SVP and Head – Strategic Business Practice, IND  BE, MS 55 32 Dec 13, 1999  1,51,89,492 PricewaterhouseCoopers Limited,  Principal Consultant Rajeev Ranjan SVP and Service Offering Head, ADM  B.Tech, MBA 44 21 Aug 16, 1999  1,10,69,532 Nexgen Information Solutions,  Associate Consultant Rajesh Kharidehal VP and Unit Financial Controller, FIN B.Com, CA 46 18 Oct 24, 2013  1,29,45,298 IBM India Private Limited, Head  Finance Annexures to the Board’s report | 39  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Employee name Designation Educational  qualification Age Experience  (in years) Date of joining Gross  remuneration  paid (`) Previous employment and  designation Ramadas Kamath U. EVP and Head – Administration, Facilities, Infrastructure and Security and Sustainability , FAC BBM, FCA 56 32 Jul 1, 1994  3,78,49,996 Manipal Printers and Publishers  Limited, Accountant Renganathan V .
R. VP and Delivery Head, IND BE 47 27 Jun 18, 1990  1,45,58,028 – Richard Lobo EVP and Head HR – Infosys Limited, HRD BE, PGD 45 22 Dec 11, 2000  1,29,07,776 Godrej & Boyce MFG Company ,  Assistant Manager Sai Kumar Shamanna VP and Head – Human Resource Development – Units, HRD BE, MBA 47 25 Aug 21, 2000  1,03,20,275 Denso Haryana Private Limited,  Manager – Planning and  Procurement Sajit Vijayakumar VP & Delivery Head – ORACLE, EAS B.Com, ACA, AICWA 45 21 Jan 17, 2000  1,07,61,521 ICICI Securities / ICICI Infotech,  AVP – Financial Control Sandeep Mahindroo VP and Financial Controller and Head – Investor Relations, FIN B.Com (H), CA 40 17 Jul 17, 2000  1,14,85,898 Raymond Ltd., Management  Trainee – Corp Finance Satish H. C. EVP and Head Global Services, DNA BE 45 23 May 2, 1994  1,67,75,697 – Shaji Mathew SVP and Service Offering Head – Health, Insurance & Life Sciences, ADM B.Tech 46 25 Jun 22, 1992  1,69,44,802 Mukand Limited, Bombay Shamita Chatterjee SVP and Group Head – Compensation and Benefits and HR Compliance, HRD B.A.
(H), MBA 47 23 Dec 1, 2011  1,26,95,341 Mercer Consulting Limited,  Market Business Leader – South  Asia Shishank Gupta VP and Delivery Head, IVS BE 41 20 Jan 6, 1997  1,03,05,979 – Srikantan Moorthy EVP and Head – Global Services, ADM BE 54 32 Dec 7, 2000  3,19,54,192 Inventa Corporation, General  Manager Sudip Singh SVP and Head – Global Services, ENG B.Tech, PGD 44 21 Aug 23, 2011  1,37,62,933 Infosys BPO, Group Engagement  Manager Sunil Kumar Dhareshwar SVP and Global Head – Taxation and Corporate Accounting, FIN B.Com, CA 41 21 Sep 10, 2013  1,64,53,725 News Corporation (ASIA) Limited,  Head Of Tax – Asia Suryaprakash Viswanath  Kareenahalli SVP and Service Offering Head – Retail, CPG & Logistics, ADM BE, PGD 51 28 Oct 15, 2007  1,11,45,025 Wipro Technologies Limited,  General Manager Thothathri Visvanathan VP and Delivery Head, ADM BE, PGCCA 54 31 Jul 6, 2000  1,56,44,657 CSAI, Senior Consultant Vibhuti Kumar Dubey VP and Service Offering Head, EAS BE, PGD 52 28 Apr 1, 2002  1,13,63,058 HCL Group, Business  Development Manager Visveswara Gupta K. VP and Delivery Head, DX BE 48 25 Apr 4, 1992  1,18,79,424 – Notes : The above table is based on payouts made during the year.
Remuneration includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives  granted during the period is not included.
The above table does not include the details of remuneration drawn by the top 10 employees as their details are provided elsewhere in this report.
40 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Employed for part of the year with an average salary above ` 8.5 lakh per month posted in India Employee Name Designation Educational  qualification Age Experience (in years) Date of joining Date of leaving Gross  remuneration  paid (`) Previous employment and designation Anup Uppadhayay EVP and Head – Strategic Sales Programs, CORP BE, MBA, PGD 46 24 Jun 1, 2016 Aug 31, 2016 32,67,802 Infosys BPO Limited, CEO Deepak Bhalla SVP and Global Head –   Business Finance and Operations Planning, FIN B.Com, ACA 43 21 Jul 19, 2016 – 1,15,18,891 Infosys BPO, Chief Financial Officer Gautam Shekar AVP and Client Partner, SOURCE MS, MBA 43 21 Sep 16, 2002 May 20, 2016 14,98,307 Booz Allen & Hamilton, Associate Prakash Jayaram AVP and Associate Partner – Business Consulting, IND BE, M.Sc 47 24 Oct 1, 2011 May 30, 2016 25,89,557 IC India, Senior Principal – Business Consulting Pramod Prakash Panda SVP and Head – Education, Training and Assessment, CORPTECH B.Tech 43 21 Feb 9, 2004 Mar 24, 2017 1,13,53,423 Accenture Services Private Limited, Associate Manager Prasad Balakrishna  Honnavalli AVP and Senior Program   Manager, CIS BE, MBA 51 27 Aug 20, 2007 Apr 30, 2016 13,17,886 Sword Global India Private Limited, Technical Director Ramakrishnan M. VP and Head – Business   Excellence, QLTY B.Sc, CAIIB 60 39 Sep 4, 1996 Aug 22, 2016 61,79,664 Canara Bank, Officer Ramesh Babu S. AVP and Senior Lead Principal – Education, Training and   Assessment, CORPTECH BE, M.Tech, Ph.D. 48 21 Jul 23, 1997 May 31, 2016 19,68,206 TCS Limited, Trainee Samson Michael David SVP and Head –   Global Services, CIS BE 48 27 Apr 21, 2015 Jul 29, 2016 84,12,561 EdgeVerve Systems Limited, Chief Operating Officer Sangita Singh EVP and Segment Head, FSHIL B.Tech 47 15 Oct 19, 2016 – 1,31,72,789 Wipro, Chief Executive Sridhara N. R. VP and Head – Audit and Assessments, QLTY B.Sc, M.Sc 60 33 Jan 1, 1984 Jul 21, 2016 34,89,524 BSNL, Technician Suman Sasmal VP and Service Offering Head – Health, Insurance & Life Sciences, ADM BE, PGDBM 53 30 Dec 12, 2001 Aug 2, 2016 40,60,365 RS Software India Limited, VP Vasudeva M. Nayak SVP and Group Head – Global Mobility and Assurance, GI BBM, PGDM 59 37 Aug 24, 2011 Aug 31, 2016 53,23,564 Wipro Technologies Limited, VP Vishal Salvi SVP and Chief Information Security Officer, ISG BE, MBA 45 24 Aug 9, 2016 – 78,22,214 PWC, Partner Cyber security Notes : The above table is based on payouts made during the year.
Remuneration includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives granted during the period is not included.
Annexures to the Board’s report | 41  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Legend Designations at Infosys AVP Associate Vice President EVP Executive Vice President SVP Senior Vice President VP Vice President Units at Infosys ADM Application Development and Maintenance CIS Cloud and Infrastructure Services CORP Corporate CORPSTGY Corporate Strategy CORPTECH Corporate Technology DNA Data and Analytics DX Digital Experience EAS Enterprise Application Package Services ECS Energy & utilities, Communications and Services Units at InfosysENGEngineering Services FAC Facilities FIN Finance FSHIL Financial Services Healthcare, Insurance and Life sciences GI Global Immigration HRD Human Resource Department IND India Business Unit IS Information Systems ISG Information Security Group IVS Independent Validation Solutions PURC Purchase QLTY Quality REC Recruitment SOURCE Energy , Utilities, Communications, Services and Resources TAFF Talent Fulfilment 42 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 4 – Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance To The Members of Infosys Limited We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Infosys Limited (‘the Company’) for the  year ended 31 March 2017, as per Regulations 17-27, clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of  Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management.
Our examination was limited  to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate  Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company .
We conducted our examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised  2016) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
The Guidance Note requires that we comply with the ethical  requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
We have complied with the  relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits  and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has  complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2)  of Regulation 46 and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, as applicable.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor as to the efficiency or  effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company .
Restrictions on use This Certificate is issued solely for the purpose of complying with the aforesaid Regulations and may not be suitable for any  other purpose.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm's registration number : 101248W/W-100022  Bangalore May 08, 2017 Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 Annexures to the Board’s report | 43  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 5 – Secretarial audit report for the financial year ended March 31, 2017 [Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act 2013 and Rule No.
9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)  Rules, 2014] To, The Members, Infosys Limited, Electronics City , Hosur Road Bengaluru 560100 Karnataka, India I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate  practices by INFOSYS LIMITED (hereinafter called ‘the Company’).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided  me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained  by the Company and also the information provided by the Company , its officers, agents and authorized representatives during  the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the  financial year ended on March 31, 2017, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company  has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting  made hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for  the financial year ended on March 31, 2017 and made available to me, according to the provisions of : i.
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made thereunder ii.
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA ’) and the rules made thereunder iii.
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and bye-laws framed thereunder iv.
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct  Investment and Overseas Direct Investment  v. The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992  (‘SEBI Act’) : a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 vi.
Other laws applicable specifically to the Company namely : a) Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules made thereunder b) Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the rules made thereunder c) Software Technology Parks of India rules and regulations, 2004  d) Indian Copyright Act, 1957 e) The Patents Act, 1970 f) The Trade Marks Act, 1999 I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India.
I report that, during the year under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Acts, Rules, Regulations and  Guidelines mentioned above.
I further report that, there were no events / actions in pursuance of : a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009  b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, and d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 requiring compliance thereof by the Company during the Audit period.
44 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 I further report that, the compliance by the Company of applicable financial laws like direct and indirect tax laws and  maintenance of financial records and books of accounts has not been reviewed in this Audit since the same have been subject  to review by statutory financial audit and other designated professionals.
I further report that, the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors,  Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place  during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least  seven days in advance to all Directors, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on  the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings duly recorded and signed by the Chairman, the decisions of the Board were unanimous  and no dissenting views have been recorded.
I further report that, based on the review of the compliance reports and the certificates of Company Secretary / Chief Executive  Officer taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Company , in my opinion there are adequate systems and processes in  the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable  laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I report further that, during the audit period there were no specific events / actions having a major bearing on the Company’s  affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc.
Bengaluru April 13, 2017 FCS :1325 / C.P .No : 640 P .
G. Hegde Hegde & Hegde Company Secretaries Annexures to the Board’s report | 45  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 6 – Extract of annual return Form No.
MGT-9 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] Registration and other details Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the company L 8 5 1 1 0 K A 1 9 8 1 P L C 0 1 3 1 1 5 Registration date July 02, 1981 Name of the company Infosys Limited Category / sub-category of the company Company limited by shares Public non-government company Address of the registered office and contact details Electronics City , Hosur Road, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India Tel : 91 80 2852 0261 Fax : 91 80 2852 0362 Email : investors@infosys.com website : www.infosys.com Listed company (Yes / No) Yes Name, address and contact details of Registrar and  transfer agent Karvy Computershare Private Limited Unit : Infosys Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Contact person Shobha Anand Assistant General Manager Tel : 91 40 67161559 Email : shobha.anand@karvy .com Principal business activities of the Company Name and description of main products / services NIC code of   the product / service % to total turnover   of the Company Computer programming, consultancy and related  activities 620 100 46 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars of holding, subsidiary and associate companies Name of the parties Country CIN / GLN /  Registration No.
Holding /  Subsidiary /  Associate % holding  as at  March 31,  2017 Infosys BPO Limited India U72200KA2002PLC030310 Subsidiary 99.98 EdgeVerve Systems Limited India U72200KA2014PLC073660 Subsidiary 100 Infosys Public Services, Inc. U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited China  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting AG   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants AG) Switzerland  Subsidiary 100 Infy Consulting Company Limited   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Ltd.) U.K.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting GmbH   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH) Germany  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Americas Inc. U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Poland Sp.
z.o.o Poland  Subsidiary 99.98 Infosys McCamish Systems LLC U.S.  Subsidiary 99.98 Kallidus Inc. U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Technologies S. de R. L. de C.V .
Mexico  Subsidiary 100 Panaya Ltd. Israel  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda.
Brazil  Subsidiary 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Inc. U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Noah Consulting LLC U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Management Consulting Pty .
Limited  (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pty.
Limited) Australia  Subsidiary 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Co., Ltd China  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting Ltda.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Ltda.)
Brazil  Subsidiary 99.99 Infy Consulting B.V .
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants B.V .)
The Netherlands  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB Sweden  Subsidiary 100 Portland Group Pty .
Limited Australia  Subsidiary 99.98 Infosys Consulting Sp.
z o.o.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Sp.
z o.o.)
Poland  Subsidiary 100 Panaya Inc. U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd.   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pte Ltd) Singapore  Subsidiary 100 Infosys (Czech Republic) Limited s.r.o Czech Republic  Subsidiary 99.98 Skava Systems Pvt.
Ltd. India U72200TZ2003PTC010618 Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting SAS   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants SAS) France  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting (Belgium) NV   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants (Belgium) S.A.) Belgium  Subsidiary 99.90 Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited China  Subsidiary 100 Panaya GmbH Germany  Subsidiary 100 S.C. Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(formerly SC Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
Romania  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
Argentina  Subsidiary 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Portugal,  Unipessoal, Lda Portugal  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting s.r.o.
Czech Republic  Subsidiary 100 Panaya Japan Co. Ltd. Japan  Subsidiary 100 Noah Information Management Consulting Inc. Canada  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Consulting Holding AG   (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) Switzerland  Subsidiary 100 Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH Austria  Subsidiary 100 Infosys Nova Holdings LLC U.S.  Subsidiary 100 Infosys BPO Americas LLC U.S.  Subsidiary 99.98 Infosys Technologies (Australia) Pty .
Limited Australia  Subsidiary 100 DWA Nova LLC U.S.
Associate 16 Notes : 1.
All the above parties are as per Section 2(87) except DWA Nova LLC, which is as per Section 2(6).
2.
Panaya Pty .
Ltd. has been liquidated effective November 16, 2016.
3.
Lodestone Augmentis AG has been liquidated effective October 5, 2016.
4.
Lodestone GmBH has been liquidated effective December 21, 2016.
5.
Infosys Canada Public Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Public Services, Inc., has been incorporated effective December 19,  2014 and is yet to commence operations.
Annexures to the Board’s report | 47  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Shareholding pattern (Equity share capital break-up as a percentage of total equity) (i) Category-wise shareholding Category  code Category of shareholder No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year No.
of shares held at the end of the year % change  during  the year Demat Physical Total % of total shares Demat Physical Total % of total shares  (I) (II) (III) (IV) (V) (VI) (VII) (VIII) (IX) (X) (XI) (A) Promoter and promoter group (1) Indian (a) Individual / HUF 29,28,06,199 – 29,28,06,199 12.75 29,28,06,199 – 29,28,06,199 12.75 – (b) Central government – – – – – – – – – (c) State government(s) – – – – – – – – – (d) Bodies corporate – – – – – – – – – (e) Banks / Financial institutions – – – – – – – – – (f) Any other – – – – – – – – – Subtotal A(1) 29,28,06,199 29,28,06,199 12.75 29,28,06,199 – 29,28,06,199 12.75 – (2) Foreign – – – – – – – – – Subtotal A(2) – – – – – – – – – Total shareholding of promoters A=A(1)+A(2) 29,28,06,199 – 29,28,06,199 12.75 29,28,06,199 – 29,28,06,199 12.75 – (B) Public shareholding (1) Institutions(a)Mutual funds 15,23,60,913 – 15,23,60,913 6.63 19,12,67,683 – 19,12,67,683 8.33 1.70 (b) Banks / Financial institutions 10,88,363 – 10,88,363 0.05 39,81,083 – 39,81,083 0.17 0.12 (c) Central government – – – – – – – (d) State government(s) – – – – – – – (e) Venture capital funds – – – – – – – (f) Insurance companies 24,74,20,991 – 24,74,20,991 10.77 27,10,45,069 – 27,10,45,069 11.80 1.03 (g) Foreign institutional investors /  Foreign portfolio investors 92,42,31,962 12,800 92,42,44,762 40.24 87,99,00,889 12,800 87,99,13,689 38.31 (1.93) (h) Foreign venture capital funds – – – – – – – – – (i) Any other (i) Alternative Investment Fund – – – – 2,58,871 – 2,58,871 0.01 0.01 Subtotal B(1) 1,32,51,02,229 12,800 1,32,51,15,029 57.69 1,34,64,53,595 12,800 1,34,64,66,395 58.62 0.93 (2) Non-institutions (a) Bodies corporate / overseas corporate  bodies  1,76,11,843 51,200 1,76,63,043 0.77 1,42,12,304 51,200 1,42,63,504 0.62 (0.15) (b) Individuals (i) Individuals holding nominal share  capital up to ` 1 lakh  11,17,72,259 7,37,345 11,25,09,604 4.90 11,75,33,027 6,99,182 11,82,32,209 5.15 0.25  (ii) Individuals holding nominal share  capital in excess of `  1 lakh  10,62,34,240 40,22,896 11,02,57,136 4.80 10,56,41,694 35,11,696 10,91,53,390 4.75 (0.05) 48 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Category  code Category of shareholder No.
of shares held at the beginning of the year No.
of shares held at the end of the year % change  during  the year Demat Physical Total % of total shares Demat Physical Total % of total shares  (I) (II) (III) (IV) (V) (VI) (VII) (VIII) (IX) (X) (XI) (c) Any other (i) Foreign bodies – DR  2,15,185 – 2,15,185 0.01 1,15,185 – 1,15,185 0.00 (0.01) (ii) Non-banking financial companies  66,287 – 66,287 – 61,761 – 61,761 – – (iii) NRI  3,49,73,404 6,410 3,49,79,814 1.52 1,17,04,654 6,410 1,17,11,064 0.51 (1.01) (iv) Trusts (1)  1,80,14,430 – 1,80,14,430 0.78 2,08,17,020 – 2,08,17,020 0.91 0.13  Subtotal B(2)  28,88,87,648 48,17,851 29,37,05,499 12.78 27,00,85,645 42,68,488 27,43,54,133 11.94 (0.84) Total public shareholding total B=B(1)+B(2) 1,61,39,89,877 48,30,651 1,61,88,20,528 70.47 1,61,65,39,240 42,81,288 1,62,08,20,528 70.56 0.09  Total (A+B) 1,90,67,96,076 48,30,651 1,91,16,26,727 83.22 1,90,93,45,439 42,81,288 1,91,36,26,727 83.31 0.09  (C) Shares held by custodians for ADRs 38,53,17,937 38,53,17,937 16.78 38,33,17,937 – 38,33,17,937 16.69 (0.09) Grand total (A+B+C) 2,29,21,14,013 48,30,651 2,29,69,44,664 100.00 2,29,26,63,376 42,81,288 2,29,69,44,664 100.00 –  (1) Includes 1,12,23,576 shares as of March 31, 2016 and 1,11,89,514 shares as of March 31, 2017, held by Infosys Employee Benefit Trust as per SEBI (Share-Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and 1,00,000  shares each as of March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017, held by Infosys Limited Employees’ Welfare Trust for welfare activities of employees.
This is a non-promoter, non-public shareholding.
(ii) Shareholding of promoters Name of the shareholder Shareholding at the beginning of the year Shareholding at the end of the year % change in  shareholding  during the year No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company % of shares pledged /  encumbered to total  shares No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company % of shares pledged /  encumbered to total  shares Sudha Gopalakrishnan 4,91,78,500 2.14 – 4,91,78,500 2.14 – – Rohan Murty 3,17,99,128 1.38 – 3,17,99,128 1.38 – – S. Gopalakrishnan 2,16,26,904 0.94 – 2,16,26,904 0.94 – – Nandan M. Nilekani 2,13,83,480 0.93 – 2,13,83,480 0.93 – – Akshata Murty 2,04,25,648 0.89 – 2,04,25,648 0.89 – – Asha Dinesh 2,01,89,928 0.88 – 2,01,89,928 0.88 – – Sudha N. Murty 1,80,58,640 0.79 – 1,80,58,640 0.79 – – Rohini Nilekani 1,80,04,696 0.78 – 1,80,04,696 0.78 – – Dinesh Krishnaswamy 1,69,86,148 0.74 – 1,69,86,148 0.74 – – Shreyas Shibulal 1,46,79,855 0.64 – 1,46,79,855 0.64 – – Shruti Shibulal 1,36,87,696 0.60 – 1,36,87,696 0.60 – – S. D. Shibulal 88,28,844 0.38 – 88,28,844 0.38 – – N. R. Narayana Murthy 87,18,688 0.38 – 87,18,688 0.38 – – Nihar Nilekani 66,63,240 0.29 – 66,63,240 0.29 – – Janhavi Nilekani 66,63,164 0.29 – 66,63,164 0.29 – – Kumari Shibulal 54,94,176 0.24 – 54,94,176 0.24 – – Divya Dinesh 40,00,000 0.17 – 40,00,000 0.17 – – Deeksha Dinesh 40,00,000 0.17 – 40,00,000 0.17 – – Meghana 24,17,464 0.11 – 24,17,464 0.11 – – Annexures to the Board’s report | 49  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 (iii) Change in promoters’ shareholding Name of the shareholder Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative shareholding during the year No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company There was no change in promoter’s shareholding in fiscal 2017.
The shareholding of promoters is same as mentioned above  in the shareholding pattern.
(iv) Shareholding pattern of top 10 shareholders (Other than directors, promoters and holders of ADRs) Name of the shareholder Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative shareholding during the year  No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company  No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company Life Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 13,22,74,300 5.76    Purchase(s) during the year 3,29,03,521 1.43 16,51,77,821 7.19  Sale(s) during the year (37,41,698) (0.16) 16,14,36,123 7.03  At the end of the year   16,14,36,123 7.03  Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund At the beginning of the year 4,64,11,362 2.02    Purchase(s) during the year 1,03,14,546 0.45 5,67,25,908 2.47  Sale(s) during the year (24,32,100) (0.11) 5,42,93,808 2.36  At the end of the year   5,42,93,808 2.36  Government of Singapore At the beginning of the year 5,51,04,357 2.40    Purchase(s) during the year 77,66,023 0.34 6,28,70,380 2.74  Sale(s) during the year (1,01,80,754) (0.45) 5,26,89,626 2.29  At the end of the year   5,26,89,626 2.29  Abu Dhabi Investment Authority At the beginning of the year 5,46,82,320 2.38    Purchase(s) during the year 78,58,687 0.34 6,25,41,007 2.72  Sale(s) during the year (2,16,07,352) (0.94) 4,09,33,655 1.78  At the end of the year   4,09,33,655 1.78  HDFC Trustee Company Ltd At the beginning of the year 3,29,07,798 1.43    Purchase(s) during the year 1,44,40,533 0.63 4,73,48,331 2.06  Sale(s) during the year (90,89,843) (0.39) 3,82,58,488 1.67  At the end of the year   3,82,58,488 1.67  ICICI Prudential Fund At the beginning of the year 1,40,95,847 0.61    Purchase(s) during the year 3,97,46,451 1.73 5,38,42,298 2.34  Sale(s) during the year (2,05,80,105) (0.89) 3,32,62,193 1.45  At the end of the year   3,32,62,193 1.45  ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd At the beginning of the year 2,97,85,427 1.30    Purchase(s) during the year 3,99,74,525 1.74 6,97,59,952 3.04  Sale(s) during the year (3,89,21,390) (1.70) 3,08,38,562 1.34  At the end of the year   3,08,38,562 1.34  Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, A Series of Vanguard International Equity Index Fund At the beginning of the year 2,90,66,065 1.27    Purchase(s) during the year 32,04,284 0.14 3,22,70,349 1.41  Sale(s) during the year (22,14,077) (0.10) 3,00,56,272 1.31  At the end of the year   3,00,56,272 1.31  SBI Mutual Fund  At the beginning of the year 1,66,05,199 0.72    Purchase(s) during the year 1,38,26,893 0.60 3,04,32,092 1.32  Sale(s) during the year (43,17,469) (0.18) 2,61,14,623 1.14  At the end of the year   2,61,14,623 1.14  50 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the shareholder Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative shareholding during the year  No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company  No.
of shares % of total shares  of the Company Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund At the beginning of the year 1,91,09,886 0.83    Purchase(s) during the year 36,97,386 0.16 2,28,07,272 0.99  Sale(s) during the year (15,747) 0.00 2,27,91,525 0.99  At the end of the year   2,27,91,525 0.99  Ishares India Index Mauritius Company At the beginning of the year 2,16,23,716 0.94    Purchase(s) during the year 36,65,203 0.16 2,52,88,919 1.10  Sale(s) during the year (30,47,998) (0.13) 2,22,40,921 0.97  At the end of the year   2,22,40,921 0.97  Stichting Depositary APG Emerging Markets Equity At the beginning of the year 2,28,12,976 0.99 – –  Purchase(s) during the year 15,78,680 0.07 2,43,91,656 1.06  Sale(s) during the year (86,18,258) (0.37) 1,57,73,398 0.69  At the end of the year   1,57,73,398 0.69  Note : The date-wise increase / decrease in shareholding of the top 10 shareholders is available on our website, https://www.infosys.com/investors/ reports-filings/Documents/date-wise-increase-decrease-shareholders2017.pdf.
(v)  Shareholding of directors and key managerial personnel (KMP) Name of the director / KMP Shareholding at the beginning of the year Cumulative shareholding during the year No.
of shares % of total shares of  the Company No.
of shares % of total  shares of  the Company U.
B. Pravin Rao – COO and Whole-time Director At the beginning of the year 5,55,520 0.02 At the end of the year 5,55,520 0.02 Dr. Vishal Sikka – CEO and MD At the beginning of the year 10,824 – Allotment on Jun 22, 2016 12,406  23,230   Allotment on Aug 26, 2016 18,236  41,466   Allotment on Jan 13, 2017 3,420  44,886   At the end of the year 44,886 – R. Seshasayee – Chairman of the Board At the beginning of the year 248 – At the end of the year 248 – Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw – Director At the beginning of the year 800 – At the end of the year 800 – D. N. Prahlad – Director At the beginning of the year 11,51,720 – At the end of the year   11,51,720 0.05 M. D. Ranganath – KMP  At the beginning of the year 9,256 – At the end of the year 9,256 – A. G. S. Manikantha – KMP At the beginning of the year 80 – At the end of the year 80 – The following directors did not hold any shares during fiscal 2017 : • Ravi Venkatesan – Co-Chairman of the Board • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy – Director • Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman – Director • Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha – Director • Roopa Kudva – Director Annexures to the Board’s report | 51  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The following executives were named as key managerial personnel as defined under Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures, and  did not hold any shares during fiscal 2017 : • Ravi Kumar S. • Rajesh K. Murthy • Sandeep Dadlani • Krishnamurthy Shankar  • Mohit Joshi • David D. Kennedy (1) • Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan (2) (1) Ceased to be the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer w.e.f.
December 31, 2016 (2) Appointed as Acting General Counsel with effect from January 1, 2017 Indebtedness  The Company has not availed any loan during the year and is a debt-free Company .
Remuneration of directors and key managerial personnel Remuneration of Managing Director (MD), whole-time directors (WTD) and / or manager  in ` crore Particulars of remuneration Name of MD / WTD / Manager Total  amountDr.
Vishal Sikka U.
B. Pravin Rao Gross salary     Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the Income-tax  Act, 1961 (1) 12.04 7.62 19.66 Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 – – – Profits in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961 – – – Stock option (2)(3)(4)(5) 3.69 (6) – 3.69 Sweat equity – – – Commission as % of profit – – – Others (7) 0.28 0.18 0.46 Total (A) 16.01 7.80 23.81 Ceiling as per the Act 2,118 Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis  (1) Includes US $0.82 million (approximately ` 5.33 crore) as variable pay for the year ended March 31, 2017 as approved by the nomination and  remuneration committee on April 13, 2017.
(2) Remuneration includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the  Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives granted during the period is not included.
During fiscal 2017, the CEO exercised  34,062 RSUs.
(3) For fiscal 2017, 1,20,700 time-based RSUs amounting to US $2 million (approximately ` 13.42 crore) have been granted on August 1, 2016.
These  RSUs were issued in equity shares represented by ADSs.
(4) Based on fiscal 2017 performance evaluation, the Board, on the recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee, approved  on April 13, 2017, performance-based equity and stock options for fiscal 2017 comprising of 1,32,483 RSUs amounting to US $1.9 million  (approximately ` 12.91 crore) and 3,30,525 ESOPs amounting to US $0.96 million (approximately ` 6.46 crore).
These RSUs and ESOPs will be  granted effective May  2, 2017.
(5) The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee approved on April 13, 2017 the annual time-based  vesting grants for fiscal 2018 comprising of 1,37,741 RSUs amounting to US $2 million (approximately ` 12.97 crore).
These RSUs will be granted  w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(6) Based on fiscal 2016 performance, the nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting held on October 14, 2016, recommended a grant  of 27,250 RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs, amounting to ` 4 crore to U.
B. Pravin Rao, Chief Operating Officer (COO), under the 2015 Plan and the same  was approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot on March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(7) Includes retirals 52 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Remuneration to other directors in ` crore Particulars of remuneration Name of director Total  amountR.
Seshasayee  Ravi Venkatesan Prof. Jeffrey  S. Lehman  Prof. John W .
Etchemendy  Roopa Kudva Kiran  Mazumdar-Shaw  Dr. Punita  Kumar-Sinha  D. N. Prahlad  (1) Independent directors          Fee for attending Board / committee  meetings  – – – – – – – – – Commission 1.95 1.04 1.37 1.10 1.00 0.89 1.22 0.36 8.93 Others, please specify  – – – – – – – – – Total (1) 1.95 1.04 1.37 1.10 1.00 0.89 1.22 0.36 8.93 Other non-executive directors  – – – – – – – – – Fee for attending Board / committee  meetings  – – – – – – – – – Commission  – – – – – – – – – Others, please specify  – – – – – – – – – Total (2)  – – – – – – – – – Total (B)=(1+2) 1.95 1.04 1.37 1.10 1.00 0.89 1.22 0.36 8.93 Total managerial remuneration 1.95 1.04 1.37 1.10 1.00 0.89 1.22 0.36 8.93 Overall ceiling as per the Act 193 Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis  (1) For the period, October 14, 2016 to March 31, 2017 Annexures to the Board’s report | 53  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Remuneration to key managerial personnel other than MD / Manager / WTD in ` crore Particulars of remuneration Key managerial personnel Others  (1)(2)(3)  Total Company Secretary CFO Gross salary Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 0.42 4.65 31.95 37.02 Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 – – – – Profits in lieu of salary under Section 17(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 – – – – Stock option (4)(5)  –  –  – – Sweat equity – – – – Commission as % of profit – – – Others (4) 0.02 0.10 9.20 9.32 Total 0.44 4.75 41.15 46.34 Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis   In accordance with the definition of perquisites under the Income-tax Act 1961, the remuneration includes the value of stock incentives only on those shares that have been exercised during the period.
(1) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has additionally identified its Presidents (Mohit Joshi, Sandeep Dadlani, Rajesh K. Murthy , Ravi Kumar S.), Group Head – Human Resources (Krishnamurthy  Shankar), General Counsel (David D. Kennedy) and Acting General Counsel (Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan) as the key managerial personnel, as defined under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Hence, the remuneration  for these KMP for fiscal 2017 has been collectively disclosed under others.
The remuneration included in the above table is for the complete fiscal 2017.
For details of remuneration on an individual basis, refer  to Annexure 3 of the Board’s report included in this Annual Report.
(2) David D. Kennedy ceased to be the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company w.e.f.
December 31, 2016.
Remuneration includes ` 6 crore payable under severance agreement.
(3) Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan was appointed as Acting General Counsel w.e.f.
January 1, 2017.
(4)  Includes retirals and severance  (5) On November 1, 2016, 2,47,250 RSUs and 5,02,550 stock options were granted under the 2015 Plan, to key managerial personnel, excluding CEO and COO, based on the fiscal 2016 performance.
These RSUs  and stock options will vest over a period of four years.
54 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 7 – Annual report on CSR activities [Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013] Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a large part of our  overall sustainability policy , encompassing social, economic  and environmental actions.
Along with philanthropy , we help  build institutions, and use technology to safeguard natural  resources against climate change risks.
Infosys Foundation (‘the Foundation’), our CSR trust, was  established in 1996 with a vision to boosting our CSR  initiatives.
This was long before the Companies Act, 2013  mandated that a company should function through a registered  trust or society for any CSR activities to be undertaken by it.
The Foundation publishes a report of its yearly activities,  which along with other details of the Foundation’s activities,  is available on https://www.infosys.com/infosys-foundation.
CSR committee The CSR committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing  the execution of the Company’s CSR policy .
The CSR  committee comprises two independent directors and the CEO  and MD.
The members of the CSR committee are : • R. Seshasayee, Chairperson • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • Dr. Vishal Sikka  Our objectives Our broad objectives, as stated in our CSR policy , include : • Making a positive impact on society through economic  development and reduction of our resource footprint.
• Taking responsibility for the actions of the Company while  also encouraging a positive impact through supporting  causes concerning the environment, communities and our  stakeholders.
For more details on our CSR policy , visit https://www.infosys.
com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/corporate- social-responsibility-policy .pdf.
Focus areas The Foundation’s focus areas are : • Healthcare • Destitute care • Eradication of hunger  and promotion of  education • Rural development,  rehabilitation and disaster  relief • Art and culture • Environmental sustainability Financial details Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made  under it prescribe that every company having a net worth of  ` 500 crore or more, or turnover of ` 1,000 crore or more,  or a net profit of ` 5 crore or more during any financial year  shall ensure that it spends, in every financial year, at least 2%  of the average net profits made during the three immediately  preceding financial years, in pursuance of its CSR Policy .
The provisions pertaining to CSR as prescribed under the  Companies Act, 2013 are applicable to Infosys Limited.
The financial details as sought by the Companies Act, 2013 for fiscal 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Amount Average net profit of the Company for last three financial years 14,371  Prescribed CSR expenditure (2% of the average net profit as computed above) Total amount to be spent for the financial year 287.42  Amount spent 289.44  Amount unspent – The Infosys Foundation primarily works with non-governmental organizations as the nodal agency for implementing projects.
The major projects and heads under which the outlay amount was spent in fiscal 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Theme-based CSR project / activity / beneficiary Location of the  project / program Amount  outlay  (budget) Amount  spent on  the projects  or programs  in fiscal  2017 Cumulative  expenditure up  to the reporting  period (i) Expenditure on projects / programs through the Foundation Eradicating hunger, poverty and sanitation programs Akshaya Patra Foundation Bengaluru  4.00  4.00  4.00  Measures for the benefit of armed forces and their dependents Relief to martyrs’ families Andhra Pradesh,  Haryana, Karnataka,  Kerala, Maharashtra,  Odisha, Punjab,  Rajasthan, Tamil  Nadu, Telangana 19.46  19.46  19.46  Annexures to the Board’s report | 55  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Theme-based CSR project / activity / beneficiary Location of the  project / program Amount  outlay  (budget) Amount  spent on  the projects  or programs  in fiscal  2017 Cumulative  expenditure up  to the reporting  period Zila Sainik Welfare Office Chandigarh  5.00  5.00  5.00  Rehabilitation and Welfare Section, Integrated  Headquarters of Ministry of DefenceDelhi  5.00  5.00  5.00  Promoting education, enhancing vocational skills International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT),  BengaluruBengaluru  12.51  12.51  12.51  Bhagavatula Charitable Trust Visakhapatnam  6.66  6.66  6.66  National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) Bengaluru  5.00  5.00  5.00  The Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research  (IISER) Pashan  5.00  5.00  5.00  Harish-Chandra Research Institute Allahabad  5.00  5.00  5.00  IIIT, Dharwad Dharwad  3.17  3.17  3.17  Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) Bengaluru  3.00  3.00  3.00  Ramakrishna Mission Narottam Nagar  2.50  2.50  2.50  Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi Delhi  2.50  2.50  2.50  Central Institute of Plastic Engineering & Technology ,  Bhubaneshwar Bhubaneshwar  2.38  2.38  2.38  The International Centre for Theoretical Sciences – TIFR Bengaluru  2.30  2.30  2.30  Student Tracking System Udupi, Vijayapura  2.00  2.00  2.00  Banaras Hindu University Varanasi  2.00  2.00  2.00  AMBA Bengaluru  1.30  1.30  1.30  Ramakrishna Mission, Delhi Delhi  1.25  1.25  1.25  The Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation Delhi  1.10  1.10  1.10  Promoting healthcare including preventive healthcare Karnataka Chinmaya Seva Trust Bengaluru  6.50  6.50  6.50  Sri Ramakrishna Sevashrama Pavagada  6.02  6.02  6.02  Regional Cancer Centre Thiruvananthapuram  5.25  5.25  5.25  Trivandrum Medical College corridor Thiruvananthapuram  5.21  5.21  5.21  Indian Red Cross Society Chandigarh  5.02  5.02  5.02  Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology Bengaluru  3.13  3.13  3.13  Vittala International Institute of Ophthalmology Bengaluru  2.51  2.51  2.51  Centre for Infectious Disease Research (CIDR) Bengaluru  1.61  1.61  1.61  Sankara Eye Hospital Bengaluru  1.54  1.54  1.54  Hyderabad Eye Institute Bhubaneshwar  1.00  1.00  1.00  Rashtrotthana Blood Bank Bengaluru  1.00  1.00  1.00  Protection of national heritage, promotion of art & culture Sahapedia Delhi  2.00  2.00  2.00  Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum Pune  1.00  1.00  1.00  Rehabilitation of homeless and orphans Chittaprakasha Charitable Trust Bengaluru  5.00  5.00  5.00  Rural development Swachh Bharat projects Hubballi,  Hyderabad,  Bhubaneshwar,  Mysuru 9.46  9.46  9.46  Swami Vivekananda Integrated Rural Health Centre Pavagada  5.00  5.00  5.00  Ramakrishna Sarada Mission Dirang  4.55  4.55  4.55  Diagnostic laboratories Kolar  4.37  4.37  4.37  Road construction Mudipu  12.38  4.11  4.11  Shivganga Samagra GramVikas Parishad Jhabua  3.99  3.99  3.99  Drought relief work Dharwad, Gadag  3.57  3.57  3.57  Bannerghatta Biological Park Bengaluru  1.05  1.05  1.05  Kalyan Ashram Guwahati  1.00  1.00  1.00  56 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Theme-based CSR project / activity / beneficiary Location of the  project / program Amount  outlay  (budget) Amount  spent on  the projects  or programs  in fiscal  2017 Cumulative  expenditure up  to the reporting  period Others Various locations  19.29  19.29  19.29  (ii) Expenditure on projects / programs by Infosys Environmental sustainability and ecological balance Energy projects (1) Pune, Hyderabad,  T umakuru  151.11  74.25  74.25  Biomass Cook Stove Project Maharashtra,  Odisha, Rajasthan  22.15  9.66  12.12  Promoting education, enhancing vocational skills Infosys Science Foundation Bengaluru  10.00  10.00  10.00  (iii) Overhead Admin expenses Bengaluru  1.22  1.22  1.22  Total  387.06  289.44  291.90 Notes : A few of the projects undertaken in the table above are multi-year projects.
(1) Spent towards construction / acquisition of assets Our CSR responsibilities We hereby affirm that the CSR Policy , as approved by the Board, has been implemented and the CSR committee monitors the  implementation of the projects and activities in compliance with our CSR objectives.
Bengaluru  April 13, 2017 R. Seshasayee Chairperson, CSR Committee   Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director Annexures to the Board’s report | 57  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 8 – Conservation of energy, research and development, technology absorption, foreign  exchange earnings and outgo [Particulars pursuant to the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014] Conservation of resources  Our persistent and focused efforts through smart building  automation, highly-efficient designs, deep green retrofits and  renewable energy have helped us conserve resources, while  efficient waste management has minimized waste to landfills.
Renewable energy : During the year, we augmented the capacity  of solar installations.
Currently , we have a total installed capacity  of around 15 MW across our campuses, including on-the-roof  and ground-mount solar installations.
We also achieved around  3% reduction in per capita electricity consumption.
Green buildings : With LEED new construction, GRIHA and  existing building certifications, we now have 11.1 million sq. ft.
of highest rated green buildings across campuses.
In fiscal  2017, three of our buildings : Pune – Software Development  Building (SDB) 11, Mysuru – SDB 7 and Thiruvananthapuram  – SDB 3, were awarded the LEED India Platinum rating.
We now have 17 LEED Platinum-rated buildings and four  GRIHA 5-star-rated buildings.
Hyderabad Gachibowli and  Pune Phase 2 campuses earned LEED Platinum certification  for existing buildings, Pune becoming the largest corporate  campus in the world to achieve the distinction.
Retrofits : The deep green retrofits in air conditioning, UPS  systems, lighting and other systems have helped us reduce 31  MW in connected load in the last six years.
This initiative helps  us investigate and address new opportunities like indoor air  quality and thermal comfort in our infrastructure.
Carbon neutrality  : We follow a three-pronged strategy to  meet our carbon neutrality goal : (a) Reduction in energy  consumption using efficiency measures, (b) Installation /  procurement of renewable energy and (c) Investment in carbon  offsets for the footprint beyond our operations.
Combining  this with our commitment to social development, we have  invested in community-based carbon offset projects such as  efficient cook stoves, biogas plants, afforestation, and rural  electrification using cleaner energy .
In fiscal 2017, we had six  carbon offset projects, including a household biogas project,  four high-efficiency biomass cook stove projects and one rural  electrification project.
Together, they are expected to generate  about 80% of our carbon offset requirement in fiscal 2018.
During this fiscal, Infosys joined the Carbon Pricing Leadership  Coalition.
We have started three new carbon offset projects  (one household biogas and two biomass cook stove projects)  which are expected to generate nearly 30% of our carbon offset  requirement in fiscal 2018.
Water management : During the year, we achieved a per capita  reduction in fresh water by over 8% using efficient fixtures,  wastewater treatment technologies, reuse of treated wastewater,  rainwater harvesting and smart meters that help us monitor our  consumption in real time to eliminate water wastage.
Waste management : We strive to reuse, recycle and responsibly  dispose of waste.
Our nine biogas plants and seven composting  plants have a cumulative capacity to treat 3.27 million kg of  waste per annum.
With this effort, we can potentially replace  6,820 commercial LPG cylinders (19 kg capacity) in the  food courts and produce 300 tons of organic compost per  annum.
To treat sewage sludge from wastewater treatment  plants, we collaborated with Leibniz University , Germany  and implemented a first-of-its-kind, fully-automated and  solar-heat-assisted greenhouse dryer in India with a cumulative  treating capacity of 1.2 million kg of sludge annually .
Mysuru  and Bengaluru were the first campuses to have such plants  – of 3.5 TPD and 1 TPD respectively .
This technology is  labor-independent and derives more than 90% of its drying  energy requirement from the sun.
Biodiversity : We strive to conserve and promote biodiversity  at all our owned facilities.
We planted over 63,000 saplings  this year.
Health, safety and environment  We have integrated climate change actions into our Company  strategy .
Our Health, Safety and Environmental Management  System (HSEMS), called Ozone, seeks to provide a safe and  healthy workplace to our employees, visitors and contract  workers and achieve high standards of environmental protection.
It also strives to keep interested parties well-informed, trained  and committed to our HSE process.
Technology absorption  As part of our ‘Renew and New’ strategy , InfosysIT undertook  a program – ‘Windmill of InfosysIT’ – encompassing revenue  enablement, innovation, and cost optimization as strategic  pillars, to empower 2,00,000+ Infoscions around the world.
We aspire to provide ‘consumer-grade application experience  with industry-grade security’ to Infoscions.
We undertook 30  significant initiatives across key focus areas – user experience,  automation, and ahead-of-the-curve (innovation) to manage  the growing demands of a progressive organization.
Key initiatives  Our portfolio of application workloads on public cloud includes  the Infosys corporate website.
Akaash, our private cloud for  Dev / Test is a self-service-based integrated technology platform  with automated provisioning and management capabilities that  builds, deploys and manages virtual workloads in a hybrid  environment for our project managers.
We have built the  Infosys Private Production Cloud to host 50+ client workloads  across global locations with scalable POD-based Rack Scale  architecture and software-defined automation.
Our Real-time  Analytics Dashboard analyzes process and system effectiveness  for critical transactions and helps forecast key performance  measures.
Our next-generation Client Relationship Management solution  provides our frontline sales with a simplified process along  with better mobility , collaboration and real-time analytics.
IT infrastructure : Energy-efficiency  Our energy-efficiency strategy for our IT infrastructure spans :  Data centers and server rooms  : We have standardized and  incorporated eco-friendly designs to our data center and server  rooms to reduce power consumption.
58 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Our two new state-of-the art data centers at Pune and  Bengaluru run on high efficiency (around 1.2-1.3 PUE) using  latest technologies like rack-level cooling.
T wo of our existing  data centers at Pune and Hyderabad have been redesigned from  legacy architecture to an energy-efficient design by adopting  hot and cold aisles and caging for rows of racks.
Server power management : Our automated power management  tool continuously monitors the workload on each virtual  machine (VM) on premises and on public cloud, and manages  the shutdown based on threshold.
This has yielded power  savings of around 25% per VM.
Desktop application virtualization : We have developed a  solution leveraging bubble computing or soft-grid computing  that ensures better operational efficiencies, platform  independence and productivity improvement.
Virtualization and consolidation : We have expanded our  internal private cloud capacity with Akaash, which now has a  capacity of around 10,000 VMs.
We have continued to expand  our network-attached storage (NAS)-based virtualization this  year.
Virtualization increased by 12% from last year.
Paperless office drive : Several measures were taken, including  awareness campaigns, mailers and linking paper consumption  data to the user’s carbon footprint record.
Research and development (R&D) expenditure On a standalone basis, the total R&D expenditure, for fiscals  2017 and 2016 is as follows :  in ` crore Standalone 2017 2016 Revenue expenditure 351 384 Capital expenditure – 31 Total 351 415 R&D expenditure / revenue (%) 0.6 0.8 Future plan of action  We will continue to collaborate with leading national and  international universities, product vendors and technology  startup companies.
We are creating an ecosystem to co-create  business solutions on client-specific business themes.
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo We have established a substantial direct marketing network  around the world, including North America, Europe and Asia  Pacific.
These offices are staffed with sales and marketing  specialists who sell our services to large international clients.
Activity in foreign currency – standalone in ` crore 2017 2016 Earnings 57,734 52,866 Expenditure 29,088 26,529 Net foreign exchange earnings (NFE) 28,646 26,337 NFE / earnings (%) 49.6% 49.8% for and on behalf of the Board of Directors Bengaluru  April 13, 2017 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Annexures to the Board’s report | 59  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Annexure 9 – Infosys Limited Policy for Dividend Distribution As adopted by the Board of Directors on April 13, 2017 This policy applies to the distribution of dividend by Infosys Limited (‘the Company’) in accordance with the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  (‘SEBI Regulations’).
Definitions The terms referred to in the policy will have the same meaning as defined under the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and  the SEBI Regulations.
Background SEBI has, through its notification dated July 8, 2016, released the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, incorporating Regulation 43 A – Dividend Distribution  Policy requiring the top 500 listed entities based on market capitalization (calculated as on March 31 of every financial year)  to formulate a dividend distribution policy which shall be disclosed in their annual reports and on their websites.
This policy sets out the parameters and circumstances that will be taken into account by the Board of Directors of the Company  in determining the distribution of dividend to its shareholders and / or retaining profits earned by the Company .
The Board of  Directors may , in extraordinary circumstances, deviate from the parameters listed in this policy .
a.
The circumstances under which the shareholders may or may not expect dividend The Company shall comply with the relevant statutory requirements that are applicable to the Company in declaring  dividend or retained earnings.
Generally , the Board shall determine the dividend for a particular period after taking into  consideration the financial performance of the Company , the advice of the executive management, and other parameters  described in this policy .
b.
The financial / internal parameters that shall be considered while declaring dividend The Board of Directors shall consider the following financial parameters while declaring dividend or recommending  dividend to shareholders : • Capital allocation plans including : − Expected cash requirements of the Company towards working capital, capital expenditure in technology and  infrastructure, etc.
− Investments required towards execution of the Company’s strategy − Funds required for any acquisitions that the Board of Directors may approve ; and − Any share buyback plans • Minimum cash required for contingencies or unforeseen events • Funds required to service any outstanding loans • Liquidity and return ratios • Any other significant developments that require cash investments c. External factors that shall be considered for declaration of dividend The Board of Directors shall consider the following external parameters while declaring dividend or recommending  dividend to shareholders : • Any significant changes in macroeconomic environment affecting India or the geographies in which the Company  operates, or the business of the Company or its clients • Any political, tax and regulatory changes in the geographies in which the Company operates • Any significant change in the business or technological environment resulting in the Company making significant  investments to effect the necessary changes to its business model • Any changes in the competitive environment requiring significant investment d. Policy as to how the retained earnings shall be utilized The consolidated profits earned by the Company can either be retained in the business and used for various purposes as  outlined in clause (b) above or it can be distributed to the shareholders.
e. Provisions in regard to various classes of shares The provisions contained in this policy shall apply to all classes of shares of the Company .
It may be noted that currently ,  the Company has only one class of shares, namely , equity shares.
Review This policy will be reviewed and amended as and when required by the Board.
Limitation and amendment In the event of any conflict between the Act or the SEBI Regulations or any other statutory enactments (‘the Regulations’) and  the provisions of this policy , the Regulations shall prevail over this policy .
Any subsequent amendment / modification in the  Regulations, in this regard, shall automatically apply to this policy .
60 | Annexures to the Board’s report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Annexure 10 – Corporate policies We seek to promote and follow the highest level of ethical standards in all our business transactions guided by our value system.
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 mandated the formulation of certain policies for all listed companies.
All our corporate governance policies are available on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Pages/policies.aspx/.
The policies are reviewed periodically by the Board and updated based on need and new compliance requirements.
During the year, the Board revised and adopted some of its policies.
Key policies that have been adopted are as follows : Name of the policy Brief description Web link Summary of key changes Whistleblower Policy (Policy on vigil  mechanism) The Company has adopted a whistleblower mechanism for directors and employees to report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud, or violation of the Company’s code of conduct and ethics.
The policy was revised and adopted on  January 13, 2017.  https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/whistleblower-policy .pdf The Whistleblower Policy was revised to incorporate details of a third-party whistleblower hotline system comprising a facility to make a report through a phone call and / or online reporting.
This will support multiple languages, guarantees anonymity and offers privacy compliance across multiple jurisdictions.
Code of Conduct and  Ethics The Company has adopted the Code of Conduct and Ethics which forms the foundation of its ethics and compliance program.
The policy was revised and  adopted on January 13, 2017. https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/CodeofConduct.pdf The Code of Conduct and Ethics was amended to incorporate global best practices and make this into an interactive resource that is easier for employees to understand while also tying in the elements of the code to our corporate culture.
Dividend Distribution  Policy The Company adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy  on April 13, 2017. https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/dividend-distribution.pdf The policy was adopted to set out the parameters and circumstances that will be taken into account by the Board in determining the distribution of dividend to its shareholders and / or retaining profits earned by the Company .
Insider Trading Policy The policy provides the framework in dealing with securities of the Company .
The policy was revised and  adopted on January 13, 2017. https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/insider-trading-policy .pdf The Insider Trading Policy was revised to restrict any unfair usage by insiders and its formats updated for disclosure by employees, directors, designated persons and connected persons.
Corporate Policy Statement on Investor  Relations The policy is aimed at providing clear guidelines and procedures for disclosing material information outside the Company in order to provide accurate and timely communications to our shareholders and the financial markets.
The policy was revised and adopted on  January 13, 2017. https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/corporate-policy-statement-investor-relations.pdf The Corporate Policy Statement on Investor Relations was revised to streamline timely disclosures and communication.
Annexures to the Board’s report | 61  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the policy Brief description Web link Summary of key changes Policy for Determining  Materiality for  Disclosures This policy applies to disclosures of material events affecting Infosys and its subsidiaries.
This policy is in addition to the Corporate Policy Statement on Investor Relations, which deals with the dissemination of unpublished, price-sensitive information.
The policy was revised and adopted on January 13, 2017.https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/policy-determining-materiality-disclosures.pdf The Policy for Determining Materiality for Disclosures was revised to streamline timely disclosures and communication.
Recoupment Policy The policy deals with the provisions if the Company restates its financial statements.
It allows the Company to recover any incentive-based compensation received by an executive officer that is in excess of what would have been payable based on the restated and corrected  financial statements.
https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/recoupment-policy .pdf There has been no change to the policy during fiscal 2017.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy This policy formulates the criteria for determining qualifications, competencies, positive attributes and independence for the appointment of a director (executive / non-executive) and also the criteria for determining the remuneration of the directors, key  managerial personnel and other employees.
https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/nomination-remuneration-policy .pdf There has been no change to the policy during fiscal 2017.
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy The policy outlines the Company’s strategy to bring about a positive impact on society through programs relating to hunger, poverty , education, healthcare, environment and lowering its resource footprint.
https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/corporate-social-responsibility-policy .pdf There has been no change to the policy during fiscal 2017.
Policy on Material  Subsidiaries The policy is used to determine the material subsidiaries and material non-listed Indian subsidiaries of the Company and to provide the governance  framework for them.
https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/material-subsidiaries-policy .pdf There has been no change to the policy during fiscal 2017.
Related Party Transaction  Policy The policy regulates all transactions between the  Company and its related parties.
https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/related-party-transaction-policy .pdf There has been no change to the policy during fiscal 2017.
Document Retention and  Archival Policy The policy deals with the retention and archival of corporate records of Infosys Limited and all its  subsidiaries.
https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/document-retention-archival-policy .pdf There has been no change to the policy during fiscal 2017.
62 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Management’s discussion and analysis Overview Infosys is a leading provider of consulting, technology ,  outsourcing and next-generation services.
We enable  our clients renew and simplify their existing technology  landscapes, and partner with them in designing and  implementing new technology-based solutions to their most  complex problems in a dynamic business environment.
Our comprehensive end-to-end business solutions include : • Consulting services • Business application services – Enterprise system  implementation and services, digital solutions and services,  data analytics and business process management • Technology services – Application development,  modernization and management, cloud infrastructure and  security , engineering services, enterprise mobility , Internet  of Things (IoT) and software testing • Outsourcing services – Application outsourcing, business  process outsourcing including customer service, finance and  accounting, human resources, sourcing and procurement  process outsourcing • Products and platform solutions include the Edge suite of  products, Skava, Panaya and Finacle®, an industry-leading  universal banking solution.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India and has its registered office in Bengaluru,  Karnataka.
The Company has its primary listings on BSE  Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited  in India.
The Company’s American Depositary Shares  (ADSs), representing equity shares, are also listed on the  New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext London and  Euronext Paris.
We believe we have some of the best talent in the technology  services industry , and we are committed to be among the  industry’s leading employers.
We have organized our sales and marketing departments  into teams that focus on specific geographies and industries,  enabling us to customize our service offerings to our  clients’ needs better.
Our primary geographic markets are  North America, Europe, India and Rest of the World which  generated 61.9%, 22.5%, 3.2% and 12.4%, respectively ,  of our consolidated revenues in the financial year ended  March  31, 2017.
We serve clients in financial services;  manufacturing; energy and utilities, communications and  services; retail, consumer packaged goods and logistics; life  sciences, healthcare and insurance and hi-tech.
These financial statements are prepared in accordance with  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) under the historical cost  convention on the accrual basis except for certain financial  instruments which are measured at fair values, the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) (to the extent notified)  and guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (SEBI).
The Ind AS are prescribed under Section  133 of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016.
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) vide its notification  in the Official Gazette dated February 16, 2015 notified the  Ind AS applicable to certain classes of companies.
Ind AS has  replaced the existing Indian GAAP prescribed under Section  133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 7 of the  Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
For Infosys Group, Ind  AS is applicable from April 1, 2016, with a transition date of  April 1, 2015 and IGAAP as the previous GAAP .
The following  are the areas which had an impact on account of transition  to Ind AS : • Business combinations, including recording of intangibles  and deferred taxes and accounting for common control  transactions • Fair valuation of certain financial instruments • Employee costs pertaining to defined benefit obligations • Discounting of certain long-term liabilities • Share-based payments The reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the  transition from IGAAP to Ind AS have been provided  in Note  2.2 in notes to accounts in the standalone and  consolidated financial statements.
I.
Industry structure and developments Software and computing technology is transforming businesses  in every industry around the world in a very profound and  fundamental way .
The continued reduction in the unit cost  of hardware, the explosion of network bandwidth, advanced  software technologies and technology-enabled services are  fueling the rapid digitization of business processes and  information.
Traditional business models are being disrupted  in every industry with digital and software-based business  models.
This disruption is characterized by highly desirable  user experiences, an extreme scale-of-cost performance  that has become available in computing infrastructure  and disintermediation of the supply chain.
Leveraging  technologies and models of the digital era to both extend  the value of existing investments and, in parallel, transform  and future-proof their businesses is increasingly becoming  a top priority for business leaders.
This duality – to renew  existing core businesses and innovate new businesses – is  the essence of what companies are faced with as strategic  imperatives today .
The renewal of our core business translates to harnessing  the efficiency of distributed cloud computing, enabling  legacy systems for mobile and sensor access, extracting  value out of digitized data, keeping systems relevant and  optimizing the costs of building and running technology  systems.
As businesses look to new areas and new economies,  new and intelligent systems are required to be built with  next-generation technologies and with exponentially superior  cost-benefit performance.
The fast pace of technology change and the need for  technology professionals, who are highly skilled in both the  renewal and new technology areas, are driving businesses to  rely on third parties to realize their IT transformation.
Several  technology solutions and service providers have emerged over  Management’s discussion and analysis | 63  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 the years, offering different models for clients to consume  their solution and service offerings : • Technology consulting companies – who take on niche and  time-bound projects for their clients • Global IT outsourcing companies – who leverage global  talent pool to systematically optimize the IT operations of  clients • Business process management firms – who leverage  global talent pool to manage the outsourced core business  processes of their clients • Software firms – who provide licensed software that enable  the automation of business processes • Specialty platform and Software-as-a-Service companies –  who provide utility-based models for clients to consume  software features • Data analytics companies – who specialize in designing,  analyzing and reporting insights from the vast amount of  data that corporations are collecting about their customers,  operations and markets • Internal IT departments of the companies themselves –  usually cost centers for the corporation Global Delivery Model Our Global Delivery Model provides scale, quality , expertise  and cost and time-to-market advantages to our client  projects.
We divide projects into components that we execute  simultaneously at client sites and at our global development  centers.
We optimize our cost structure by maintaining the  flexibility to execute project components where it is most  cost-effective.
We execute project components around the  clock and across time zones, to reduce project delivery times.
II Financial condition Sources of funds 1.
Equity share capital We have one class of shares – equity shares of par value  ` 5 each.
Our authorized share capital is ` 1,200  crore,  divided into 240 crore equity shares of ` 5 each.
The issued,  subscribed and paid-up capital stood at ` 1,148 crore as at  March 31, 2017, which is the same as at March 31, 2016.
The Company had allotted 1,14,84,72,332 fully paid-up  shares of face value ` 5 each during the quarter ended  June 30, 2015, pursuant to a bonus issue approved by the  shareholders through a postal ballot.
For the bonus issue,  a bonus share of one equity share for every equity share  held, and a stock dividend of one ADS for every ADS held,  respectively , has been allotted.
Consequently , the ratio of  equity shares underlying the ADSs held by an American  Depositary Receipt holder remains unchanged.
Options  granted under stock incentive plans have been adjusted for  bonus shares, wherever applicable.
Stock incentive plan On March  31, 2016, pursuant to the approval by the  shareholders through a postal ballot, the Board has been  authorized to introduce, offer, issue and allot share-based  incentives to eligible employees of the Company and its  subsidiaries under the 2015 Stock Incentive Compensation  Plan (the 2015 Plan).
The maximum number of shares  under the 2015 Plan shall not exceed 2,40,38,883 equity  shares (approximately 1% of the issued capital).
Out of this,  1,70,38,883 equity shares will be issued as RSUs at par value  and 70,00,000 equity shares will be issued as stock options at  market price on the date of the grant.
These instruments will  vest over a period of four years and the Company expects to  grant the instruments under the 2015 Plan over the period  of four to seven years.
The 2015 Plan includes shares held by controlled trusts  amounting to 1,12,89,514 and 1,13,23,576 shares, as of  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively , out of  which 1,00,000 equity shares have been earmarked for  welfare activities of the employees.
Stock incentive grants to CEO Pursuant to the approval from the shareholders through a  postal ballot on March 31, 2016, Dr. Vishal Sikka, Chief  Executive Officer and Managing Director, is eligible to receive  under the 2015 Plan, an annual grant of RSUs of fair value  US $2 million which vest over time, subject to continued  service, and an annual grant of performance-based equity and  stock options of US $5 million subject to the achievement of  performance targets set by the Board or its committee, which  vest over time.
Time-based RSUs of fair value of US $2 million  (approximately ` 13.42 crore) for fiscal 2017 was granted on  August 1, 2016 amounting to 1,20,700 RSUs in equity shares  represented by ADSs.
The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination  and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017,  performance-based equity and stock options for the fiscal  2017 comprising 1,32,483 RSUs amounting to US  $1.9  million (approximately ` 12.91 crore) and 3,30,525 ESOPs  amounting to US $0.96 million (approximately ` 6.46 crore).
The performance-based RSU and stock options for fiscal 2017  and time-based RSUs for fiscal 2018 will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
Though the performance-based equity options  for fiscal 2017 and time-based RSUs for the remaining  employment term have not been granted as of March 31,  2017, in accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment,  the Company has recorded employee stock compensation  expenses of ` 28 crore and ` 7 crore during the years ended  March 31, 2017 and March 2016, respectively , towards CEO  compensation.
Stock incentive grants to COO The nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting  held on October 14, 2016, recommended, based on 2016  performance, a grant of 27,250 RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs to  U.
B. Pravin Rao, Chief Operating Officer (COO), under the  2015 Plan and the same was approved by the shareholders  through a postal ballot on March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and  ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
These RSUs and  stock options would vest over a period of four years and  shall be exercisable within the period as approved by the  committee.
The exercise price of the RSUs will be equal to  the par value of the shares and the exercise price of the stock  options would be the market price as on the date of grant, as  approved by the shareholders.
Though these equity options  and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017, in accordance  with Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment, the Company has  recorded employee stock-based compensation expense for  the same during the year ended March 31, 2017.
64 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Stock incentive grants to KMP (other than CEO  and COO) On November 1, 2016, 2,45,750 RSUs and 5,02,550 stock  options were granted under the 2015 Plan, to key managerial  personnel (KMP), other than CEO and COO (including  Company Secretary), based on fiscal 2016 performance and  the same were outstanding as of March 31, 2017.
Additionally ,  on November  1, 2016, 1,500 RSUs were granted to the  Acting General Counsel and the same were outstanding as  of March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and stock options will vest  over a period of four years and shall be exercisable within the  period as approved by the committee.
The exercise price of  the RSUs will be equal to the par value of the shares and the  exercise price of the stock options would be the market price  as on the date of grant.
We recorded stock compensation expenses of ` 36 crore  towards CEO, COO and other KMP in the current year, as  compared to ` 7 crore in the previous year.
Grant to other employees During fiscal 2017, the Company granted 25,06,740 RSUs,  7,03,300 ESOPs and 1,12,210 incentive units (cash settled)  to certain eligible employees at mid and senior levels under  the 2015 Plan.
Out of the same, 24,05,980 RSUs, 6,95,100  ESOPs and 1,06,845 incentive units were outstanding (net  of forfeitures) as of March  31, 2017.
These instruments  will vest over a period of four years and are subject to  continued service.
The committee approved a grant of 37,100 RSUs and 73,600  ESOPs to a few eligible and identified employees of the  Company and its subsidiaries w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
During the years ended March  31, 2017 and March  31,  2016, the Company recorded an aggregate employee  stock compensation expense of ` 107 crore and ` 7 crore,  respectively , in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
This  comprises expense pertaining to CEO, COO, other KMP and  employees.
The details of the ESOP and RSU plans form part of the Notes  to the financial statements in this Annual Report.
2.
Other equity A.
Reserves and surplus Securities premium reserve The increase in security premium reserve is on account of the  exercise of stock options.
On a standalone basis, the balance  as at March  31, 2017 and March  31, 2016 amounted to  ` 2,208 crore and ` 2,204 crore, respectively .
On a consolidated  basis, the balance was ` 2,216 crore and ` 2,213 crore as at  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
Retained earnings On a standalone basis, the balance retained earnings as at  March  31, 2017 was ` 49,957  crore after providing final  dividend of ` 3,273 crore for fiscal 2016 and an interim  dividend of ` 2,527 crore for fiscal 2017 and dividend tax  of ` 1,180 crore thereon.
The balance in retained earnings  as at March 31, 2016 was ` 44,698 crore after providing  final dividend of ` 3,388 crore for fiscal 2015 and an interim  dividend of ` 2,297 crore for fiscal 2016 and dividend tax  of ` 1,158 crore thereon.
The total amount appropriated to  dividend including dividend tax was ` 6,980 crore for fiscal  2017, as compared to ` 6,843 crore for the previous year.
On a consolidated basis, the balance retained in the surplus  as at March 31, 2017 was ` 52,882 crore, as compared to  ` 47,063 crore in the previous year.
Capital reserve On a standalone and consolidated basis, the balance as at  March 31, 2017 amounted to ` 54 crore, which is the same  as the previous year.
General reserve During the year, an amount of ` 1,579 crore was transferred  to the general reserve from retained earnings on account of  dividend appropriation (previous year ` 1,217 crore).
On a standalone basis, the balance in general reserve as at  March 31, 2017 amounted to ` 11,087 crore (previous year  ` 9,508 crore).
On a consolidated basis, the balance as at  March 31, 2017 amounted to ` 12,135 crore (previous year  ` 10,553 crore).
Share options outstanding account The share options outstanding account amounted to  ` 120 crore as at March 31, 2017, as compared to ` 9 crore  as at March 31, 2016.
The movement is mainly on account  of expense related to share-based payment to employees of  the Group.
Business transfer adjustment reserve Business transfer adjustment reserve is created on account  of transition to Ind AS wherein profit on transfer of business  between entities under common control is taken to reserve.
On a standalone basis, the balance as at March 31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016 is ` 3,448 crore.
B.
Other comprehensive income Equity instruments through other comprehensive income On a standalone and consolidated basis, as of March 31,  2017, there was an accumulated loss of ` 5 crore in the equity  instruments through other comprehensive income.
This was  on account of fair valuation of investments for which the  Company has made an irrevocable election to present the  subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive  income.
As at March 31, 2016, the balance was nil.
Cash flow hedge reserve The Company designates certain foreign exchange forward  and options contracts as cash flow hedges to mitigate the  risk of foreign exchange exposure on highly probable forecast  cash transactions.
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging  instrument, the effective portion of changes in the fair value  of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income  and accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve, and is  transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss upon the  occurrence of the related forecasted transaction.
On a standalone and consolidated basis, the balance as  at March 31, 2017 amounted to ` 39 crore, net of tax, as  compared to nil in the previous year.
Management’s discussion and analysis | 65  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Exchange differences on translating the financial statements  of a foreign operation On a consolidated basis, the balance as at March 31, 2017  amounted to ` 458 crore (previous year ` 715 crore).
Other items of other comprehensive income Other items of other comprehensive income consist mainly  of remeasurement gains / losses on our defined benefit plans  and fair value changes on investments, net of taxes.
On a standalone basis, there was an actuarial loss, net of taxes,  of ` 42 crore during the current year, as compared to ` 2 crore  during the previous year.
On a consolidated basis, there was  an actuarial loss, net of taxes, of ` 45 crore during the current  year, as compared to ` 12 crore during the previous year.
During the current year, an unrealized loss of ` 10 crore, net  of taxes, was recorded on account of fair valuation of certain  investments, on a standalone and consolidated basis.
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company On a standalone basis, the total equity attributable to equity  holders of the Company increased to ` 68,017 crore as at  March 31, 2017 from ` 61,082 crore as at March 31, 2016.
On a consolidated basis, the total equity attributable to equity  holders of the Company increased to ` 68,982 crore as at  March 31, 2017 from ` 61,744 crore as at March 31, 2016.
The book value per share increased to ` 300 as at March 31,  2017 compared to ` 269 as at March  31, 2016, on a  consolidated basis.
Application of funds 3.
Property, plant and equipment Additions to gross block – standalone During the year, we capitalized ` 1,817 crore to our gross  block, comprising ` 654  crore in computer equipment,  ` 6 crore on vehicles and the balance of ` 1,157 crore on  infrastructure.
Our infrastructure investments comprised  ` 144  crore to acquire 13.3 acres of land in Chennai,  Gurugram, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, ` 310  crore on  buildings, ` 344 crore on plant and machinery , ` 122 crore  on office equipment and ` 237 crore on furniture and fixtures.
During the previous year, we capitalized ` 2,163 crore to our  gross block, comprising ` 945 crore in computer equipment,  ` 5 crore on vehicles and the balance of ` 1,213 crore on  infrastructure.
Our infrastructure investments comprised  ` 58  crore to acquire 10.8 acres of land in Bengaluru,  ` 440 crore on buildings, ` 319 crore on plant and machinery ,  ` 155 crore on office equipment and ` 241 crore on furniture  and fixtures.
Additions to gross block – consolidated During the year, we capitalized ` 2,799 crore to our gross  block, comprising ` 800  crore in computer equipment,  ` 8 crore on vehicles and the balance of ` 1,991 crore on  infrastructure.
Our infrastructure investments comprised  ` 144  crore to acquire 13.3 acres of land in Chennai,  Gurugram, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, ` 981  crore on  buildings, ` 349 crore on plant and equipment, ` 138 crore  on office equipment and ` 379 crore on furniture and fixtures.
During the previous year, we capitalized ` 2,379  crore  to our gross block (including ` 4  crore on account of  acquisition during the year), comprising ` 1,105 crore in  computer equipment, ` 6 crore on vehicles and the balance  of ` 1,268  crore on infrastructure.
Our infrastructure  investments comprised ` 58 crore to acquire 10.8 acres of  land in Bengaluru, ` 444 crore on buildings, ` 333 crore on  plant and equipment, ` 167 crore on office equipment and  ` 266 crore on furniture and fixtures.
Deductions to gross block – standalone During the year, we deducted ` 316 crore from the gross block  on the disposal of various assets as against ` 281 crore in the  previous year.
Deductions to gross block – consolidated During the year, we disposed of various assets with a gross  block of ` 490 crore as against ` 423 crore in the previous year.
Capital expenditure commitments On a standalone basis, we have a capital expenditure  commitment of ` 1,094  crore as at March  31, 2017, as  compared to ` 1,295  crore as at March  31, 2016.
On a  consolidated basis, we have a capital expenditure commitment  of ` 1,149  crore as at March  31, 2017, as compared to  ` 1,486 crore as at March 31, 2016.
4.
Goodwill and other intangible assets On a consolidated basis, carrying value of goodwill as on  March 31, 2017 is ` 3,652 crore.
There are no changes to the  goodwill during the year except for reduction of ` 112 crore  on account of translation.
During the previous year, carrying  value of goodwill was ` 3,764 crore, which included additions  to goodwill amounting to ` 452 crore on account of Kallidus  acquisition and ` 30 crore on account of Noah acquisition and  increase of ` 191 crore on account of translation.
On a consolidated basis, carrying value of intangible assets  as on March 31, 2017 is ` 776 crore whereas on March 31,  2016, it was ` 985 crore.
These primarily consist of intangible  assets acquired through business combinations, stated at cost  less accumulated amortization.
On account of transition to Ind AS, intangible assets and  deferred tax assets / liabilities in relation to business  combinations, which were included within goodwill under  IGAAP , have been recognized separately under Ind AS.
5.
Financial assets  A.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries During the year, we have invested additionally in our  subsidiaries, for the purpose of operations and expansion.
Subsidiary In foreign currency In ` crore Infosys China USD 10 million 67  Infosys Sweden SEK 96 million 76  Infosys Shanghai USD 27 million 180  Infosys Consulting   Pte Ltd. (1) SGD 2 million 10  66 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Subsidiary In foreign currency In ` crore Noah Consulting LLC USD 11 million 71  (1) During the year, the holding company of Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd.  changed from Lodestone Holding AG to Infosys Limited.
Investment in equity instruments of subsidiaries are carried at  cost as per Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements.
Refer to Annexure 1 to the Board’s report for the statement  pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 for  the summary of the financial performance of our subsidiaries.
The audited financial statements and related information of  subsidiaries will be available on our website, www.infosys.com.
Other investments We have an innovation fund with an outlay of US $500 million  to support the creation of a global ecosystem of strategic  partners.
Out of the total outlay , US $45 million has been  invested as of March  31, 2017 and we have an uncalled  capital commitment of US $18 million.
As per Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, all financial assets  and liabilities are recognized at fair value on initial recognition,  except for trade receivables which are initially measured at  transaction price.
Financial assets are subsequently measured  at amortized cost, fair value through profit or loss or fair value  through other comprehensive income as the case may be.
The details of the investments as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Category of investment Standalone Consolidated Subsequent measurement as per Ind AS 109 2017 2016 2017 2016 Preference securities and equity  instruments 132 93 159 93 Fair value through other comprehensive  income Convertible promissory note and  others 3 – 45 22 Fair value through profit or loss Government bonds and tax-free bonds 1,833 1,535 1,907 1,606 Amortized cost Fixed maturity plan securities 508 – 558 – Fair value through profit or loss Non-convertible debentures 3,677 – 3,975 – Fair value through other comprehensive income Liquid mutual fund units 1,755 – 1,803 68 Fair value through profit or loss Certificates of deposit 7,635 – 7,905 – Fair value through other comprehensive income Redeemable, non-convertible  debentures (1) 2,129 2,549 – – Amortized cost Notes : For additional disclosures on financial assets and liabilities including fair value hierarchy and financial risk management, refer to Note 2.11 of  the Standalone Financial Statements and Note 2.12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(1) These are investments in EdgeVerve Systems Limited.
During fiscal 2017, EdgeVerve repaid debentures of ` 420 crore.
Our investments comprise mutual fund units (including  investment in fixed maturity plan securities) and quoted  debt securities (including investment in tax-free bonds and  non-convertible debentures) and certificates of deposit.
Certificates of deposit represent marketable securities of banks  and eligible financial institutions for a specified time period  with high credit-rated by domestic credit rating agencies.
Investments made in non-convertible debentures represent  debt instruments issued by government-aided institutions.
B.
Trade receivables and unbilled revenues On a standalone basis, trade receivables amounted to ` 10,960  crore and ` 9,798 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016, respectively , and unbilled revenues amounted to  ` 3,200 crore and ` 2,673 crore as of March 31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a consolidated basis, trade receivables amounted to  ` 12,322 crore and ` 11,330 crore as of March  31, 2017  and March 31, 2016, respectively , and unbilled revenues  amounted to ` 3,648 crore and ` 3,029 crore as of March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
Trade receivables and unbilled revenue are typically unsecured  and are derived from revenue earned from customers primarily  located in the United States.
Days Sales Outstanding was 68  days, compared to 66 days in the previous year.
On account of adoption of Ind AS 109, the Group uses  Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model to assess the impairment  loss or gain.
The Group uses a provision matrix to compute  the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables and  unbilled revenues.
The provision matrix takes into account  available external and internal credit risk factors, such as  credit default swap quotes, credit ratings from international  credit rating agencies and the Group’s historical experience  for customers.
The adoption of ECL model did not have a  material impact on the financial statements.
The movement in expected credit loss during the year is as  follows : in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance 249 322 289 366 Impairment loss  recognized /  (reversed)135 (48) 132 (52) Amount written off (1) (31) (1) (33) Translation  difference (4) 6 (9) 8 Closing balance 379 249 411 289 Management’s discussion and analysis | 67  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 C. Cash and cash equivalents The bank balances in India include both rupee accounts and  foreign currency accounts.
The bank balances in overseas  accounts are maintained to meet the expenditure of the  overseas operations and regulatory requirements.
Deposits with financial institutions represent surplus money  deployed in the form of deposits.
On a standalone basis, balance in current and deposit accounts  stood at ` 12,222 crore as at March 31, 2017, as compared to  ` 24,276 crore as at March 31, 2016.
Deposits with financial  institutions stood at ` 6,931 crore as at March 31, 2017, as  compared to ` 4,900 crore as at March 31, 2016.
On a consolidated basis, balance in current and deposit accounts  stood at ` 14,889 crore as at March 31, 2017, as compared to  ` 27,420 crore as at March 31, 2016.
Deposits with financial  institutions stood at ` 7,736 crore as at March 31, 2017, as  compared to ` 5,277 crore as at March 31, 2016.
D. Loans The details of loans are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current Loans to employees 5 5 29 25 Current Loans to subsidiaries69 91 – – Loans to employees 241 264 272 303 Total 315 360 301 328 We provide personal loans and salary advances to employees,  who are not executive officers or directors.
Of the total  loans and advances of ` 301 crore given to employees on a  consolidated basis, ` 272 crore is recoverable in 12 months  and ` 29 crore is recoverable in 12-24 months from March 31,  2017.
The annual rate of interest for these loans vary from  0% to 10%.
Loans to subsidiaries as at March  31, 2017 comprise  ` 69 crore given to Infosys China.
As at March 31, 2016, it  included ` 24 crore given to Infosys Sweden and ` 67 crore  to Infosys China.
E. Other financial assets The details of other financial assets are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current Security deposits 81 73 86 78 Rental deposits 135 119 175 146 Restricted deposits – – 48 62 Current Security deposits 2 1 10 7 Rental deposits 2 2 9 13 Restricted deposits 1,309 1,154 1,416 1,238 Unbilled revenues 3,200 2,673 3,648 3,029 Interest accrued but  not due 514 696 576 762 Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Foreign currency  forward and options  contracts 268 109 284 116 Others 108 166 37 25 Total 5,619 4,993 6,289 5,476 Restricted deposits represent amounts deposited with  financial institutions to settle employee-related obligations  as and when they arise during the normal course of business.
Rental deposits are for buildings taken on lease by us for our  development centers and marketing offices across the world.
Unbilled revenues comprise costs and earnings in excess of  billings.
Interest accrued but not due represents interest on amount  deposited in banks.
The interest accrued has reduced on  account of softening of interest rates in India and proceeds of  fixed deposits invested in other instruments which are carried  at fair value.
The carrying value of such instruments includes  interest accrued on the same.
5.
Other assets in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current Capital advances 562 333 600 933 Prepaid gratuity 56 2 79 4 Deferred contract  cost 283 333 284 333 Prepaid expenses 95 87 96 87 Current Payment to vendors  for supply of goods 87 58 131 110 Withholding taxes  and others 1,665 1,650 1,886 1,799 Prepaid expenses 387 209 441 201 Deferred contract  cost 74 48 78 48 Total 3,209 2,720 3,595 3,515 Capital advances represent the amount paid in advance on  capital expenditure.
Withholding and other tax receivables represent transaction  taxes paid in various domestic and overseas jurisdictions  which are recoverable.
Deferred contract costs are upfront costs incurred for the  contract and amortized over the term of the contract.
6.
Deferred tax assets / liabilities in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets,  net 346 405 540 536 Deferred tax  liabilities, net – – 207 252 68 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Deferred tax assets primarily comprise deferred taxes on  property , plant and equipment, compensated absences,  trade receivables, accrued compensation to employees and  post-sales client support.
Deferred tax liability primarily  comprises branch profit taxes and deferred tax on  intangible assets.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset  wherever the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off  current income tax assets against current tax liabilities, and  where the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate  to the taxes levied by the same taxation authority .
7.
Income tax assets / liabilities in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income tax assets  (net) 5,454 5,020 5,716 5,230 Income tax liabilities  (net) 3,762 3,304 3,885 3,410 The income tax assets represent domestic and overseas  corporate tax.
Current income tax liability represents  estimated income tax liabilities, both in India and overseas,  net of advance tax and tax deducted at source.
8.
Financial liabilities The details of trade payables and other financial liabilities  are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current Accrued  compensation to  employees – – 30 33 Rental deposits – 27 – – Payable for  acquisition  of business –  Contingent  consideration40 35 40 36 Current Trade payables 269 623 367 386 Unpaid dividends 17 5 17 5 Accrued  compensation to  employees 1,404 1,764 1,881 2,265 Accrued expenses 2,013 1,707 2,585 2,189 Retention monies 153 58 220 80 Payable for  acquisition  of business –  Contingent  consideration45 80 45 81 Client deposits 25 16 32 28 Capital creditors 36 66 48 81  Compensated  absences 1,142 1,130 1359 1,341 Other payables 219 304 15 60 Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Foreign currency  forward and options  contracts 2 2 2 5 Payable by  controlled trusts – – 145 167 Total 5,365 5,817 6,786 6,757 Liabilities for accrued compensation to employees include the  provision for bonus, incentives and retention bonus payable  to the staff.
Payable for acquisition of business represents contingent  consideration payable to the sellers of Kallidus depending  on the achievement of certain financial targets by Kallidus  over a period of three years ending December  31, 2017.
The current and non-current portions have been disclosed  accordingly .
During the year ended March  31, 2017, a  contingent consideration of  ` 40 crore was paid to the sellers  of Kallidus on the achievement of certain financial targets for  the year ended December 31, 2015.
Accrued expenses represent amounts accrued for other  operational expenses.
Retention monies represent monies  withheld on contractor payments, pending final acceptance  of their work.
Compensated absences are towards our liability for leave  encashment.
Unpaid dividends represent dividends paid, but not claimed  by shareholders, and are represented by a bank balance of an  equivalent amount.
9.
Other liabilities in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current Deferred income –  government grant  on land use rights – – 41 46 Deferred income 42 – 42 – Current  Unearned revenue 1,320 1,025 1,777 1,332 Withholding taxes  and others 1,027 1,068 1,226 1,296 Deferred income –  government grant  on land use rights– – 1 1 Accrued gratuity – – 1 – Deferred rent 2 – 2 – Total 2,391 2,093 3,090 2,675 Unearned revenue primarily comprises advance client billings  for which related costs and earnings were not yet incurred.
Withholding and other taxes payable represent local taxes  payable in various countries in which we operate, and the  same will be paid in due course.
10.
Provisions On a standalone basis, provision for post-sales client support,  warranties and others amounted to ` 350 crore as at March 31,  Management’s discussion and analysis | 69  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2017, as compared to ` 436 crore as at March 31, 2016.
On a  consolidated basis, provision for post-sales client support,  warranties and others amounted to ` 405 crore as at March 31,  2017, as compared to ` 512 crore as at March 31, 2016.
The provision for post-sales client support, warranties and  others is towards likely expenses for providing post-sales  client support on fixed-price contracts.
III Results of our operations The function-wise classification of the standalone Statement  of Profit and Loss is as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31,  2017 % 2016 % Revenue from  operations 59,289 100.0 53,983 100.0 Cost of sales 37,057 62.5 33,409 61.9 Gross profit 22,232 37.5 20,574 38.1 Operating expenses      Selling and  marketing expenses 2,728 4.6 2,695 5.0 General and  administration  expenses3,628 6.1 3,285 6.1 Total operating  expenses6,356 10.7 5,980 11.1 Operating profit 15,876 26.8 14,594 27.0 Other income, net 3,062 5.1 3,006 5.6 Profit before tax 18,938 31.9 17,600 32.6 Tax expense 5,120 8.6 4,907 9.1 Profit for the year 13,818 23.3 12,693 23.5 The function-wise classification of the Consolidated Statement  of Profit and Loss is as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 % 2016 % Revenue from  operations68,484 100.0 62,441 100.0 Cost of sales 43,253 63.2 39,098 62.6 Gross profit 25,231 36.8 23,343 37.4 Operating expenses      Selling and  marketing expenses3,591 5.2 3,431 5.5 General and  administration  expenses4,739 6.9 4,292 6.9 Total operating  expenses8,330 12.2 7,723 12.4 Operating profit 16,901 24.7 15,620 25.0 Other income, net 3,080 4.4 3,123 5.0 Profit before non- controlling interests  / share in net loss of  associate19,981 29.1 18,743 30.0 Share in net loss of  associate and others(30) 0.0 (3) 0.0 Profit before tax 19,951 29.1 18,740 30.0 Tax expense 5,598 8.1 5,251 8.4 Profit after tax 14,353 21.0 13,489 21.6 Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 % 2016 % Non-controlling  interests – – – – Profit for the year 14,353 21.0 13,489 21.6 1.
Revenue Of the total revenues for the year ended March 31, 2017, on a  standalone basis, approximately 97.0% were export revenues  whereas 3.0% were domestic revenues, as compared to 97.6%  being export revenues and 2.4% domestic revenues during  the previous year.
Of the total revenues for the year ended March 31, 2017,  on a consolidated basis, approximately 96.8% were export  revenues whereas 3.2% were domestic revenues, as compared  to 97.4% being export revenues and 2.6% domestic revenues  during the previous year.
Our revenues are generated primarily on fixed-price or  fixed-timeframe or time-and-material basis.
Revenues  from software services on fixed-price and fixed-timeframe  contracts are recognized as per the percentage-of-completion  method.
On time-and-material contracts, revenue is  recognized as the related services that are rendered.
Revenue  from the sale of user licenses for software applications is  recognized on transfer of the title in the user license, except  in multiple arrangement contracts, which require significant  implementation services, where revenue is recognized as per  the percentage-of-completion method.
Our revenues are segmented into onsite and offshore revenues.
Onsite revenues are for those services which are performed at  client locations or at our development centers outside India,  while offshore revenues are for services which are performed  at our global development centers in India.
The segmentation of our revenues by location is as follows : in % Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Onsite 54.2 52.7 53.7 53.2 Offshore 45.8 47.3 46.3 46.8 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The proportion of work performed at our facilities and at client  sites varies from period to period.
The services performed  onsite typically generate higher revenues per capita, but  at lower gross margins in percentage as compared to the  services performed at our own facilities in India.
Therefore,  any increase in the onsite effort impacts our margins.
The  details of the billable hours expended for onsite and offshore  are as follows : in % Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Onsite 27.2 26.6 25.2 24.7 Offshore 72.8 73.4 74.8 75.3 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 70 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The break-up of revenues from software services and products is as follows : in ` crore Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Software services 59,257 53,334 66,383 60,528 Software products 32 649 2,101 1,913 Total revenue from operations 59,289 53,983 68,484 62,441 Refer to the Segmental profitability section in this Report for more details on the analysis of segment revenues.
2.
Expenditure Cost of sales – standalone in ` crore Particulars 2017 % 2016 % Growth % Revenues 59,289 100.0 53,983 100  9.8 Cost of sales       Salaries and bonus 27,818 46.9 25,131 46.5 10.7 Technical sub-contractors 4,809 8.1 4,416 8.2 8.9 Travel expenses 1,234 2.1 1,207 2.2 2.2 Cost of software packages 728 1.2 651 1.2 11.8 Third-party items bought for service   delivery to clients 506 0.9 386 0.7 31.1 Communication expenses 139 0.2 97 0.2 43.3 Rent 147 0.3 92 0.2 59.8 Post-sales customer support and warranties 84 0.1 18 – 366.7 Depreciation and amortization expenses 1,331 2.3 1,115 2.1 19.4 Deferred consideration – – 149 0.3 (100.0) Repairs and maintenance 261 0.4 147 0.3 77.6 Total cost of sales 37,057 62.5 33,409 61.9 10.9 Cost of sales – consolidated in ` crore Particulars 2017 % 2016 % Growth % Revenues 68,484 100.0 62,441 100.0 9.7 Cost of sales       Salaries and bonus 33,471 48.9 30,405 48.7 10.1 Technical sub-contractors 3,833 5.6 3,530 5.7 8.6 Travel expenses 1,649 2.4 1,637 2.6 0.7 Cost of software packages 793 1.2 726 1.1 9.2 Third-party items bought for service   delivery to clients 802 1.2 534 0.9 50.2 Consultancy and professional charges 28 0.1 24 0.1 16.7 Communication expenses 260 0.4 179 0.3 45.3 Rent 307 0.4 242 0.4 26.9 Post-sales customer support and warranties 80 0.1 8 – 900 Depreciation and amortization expenses 1,703 2.5 1,459 2.3 16.7 Deferred consideration – – 149 0.2 (100.0) Repairs and maintenance 305 0.4 187 0.3 63.1 Others 22 0.0 18 0.0 22.2 Total cost of sales 43,253 63.2 39,098 62.6 10.6 On a standalone basis, cost of sales was 62.5% of revenues,  compared to 61.9% during the previous year.
On a  consolidated basis, cost of sales was 63.2% of revenues,  compared to 62.6% during the previous year.
The increase in  cost of sales from fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2017 was primarily due  to increase in third-party items bought for service delivery to  clients, communication expenses, repairs and maintenance  partially offset by deferred consideration pertaining to  acquisitions.
The cost of efforts, comprising employee cost  and cost of technical sub-contractors has increased as a  percentage of revenue from 54.7% in fiscal 2016 to 55.0%  in fiscal 2017 on a standalone basis and from 54.4% in  fiscal 2016 to 54.5% in fiscal 2017 on a consolidated basis.
During the current year, the impact of increase in onsite mix  and compensation review was partially offset by the benefit  on account of higher utilization, currency fluctuation and  reduction in variable payout.
Management’s discussion and analysis | 71  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 basis, the rent represents approximately 0.4% of revenues for  each of the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016.
On a standalone basis, the provision for post-sales customer  support and warranties saw a charge of ` 84 crore for the year  ended March 31, 2017, against a charge of ` 18 crore for the  year ended March  31, 2016.
On a consolidated basis, the  provision for post-sales customer support and warranties saw  a charge of ` 80 crore for the year ended March 31, 2017,  against a charge of ` 8 crore for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Deferred consideration represents compensation payable to  selling shareholders of Lodestone on the third anniversary  of the acquisition date.
The liability towards deferred  consideration was settled during the previous year.
On a standalone basis, we provided ` 1,331  crore and  ` 1,115  crore towards depreciation and amortization,  representing 2.3% and 2.1% of total revenues, for the years  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a consolidated basis, we provided ` 1,703  crore and  ` 1,459  crore towards depreciation and amortization,  representing 2.5% and 2.3% of total revenues, for the years  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a standalone and consolidated basis, repairs and  maintenance represent approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of  revenues for the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016, respectively .
Gross profit On a standalone basis, the gross profit during the year was  ` 22,232 crore, representing 37.5% of revenues, compared  to ` 20,574 crore, representing 38.1% of revenues in the  previous year.
On a consolidated basis, the gross profit during the year was  ` 25,231 crore, representing 36.8% of revenues, compared  to ` 23,343 crore, representing 37.4% of revenues in the  previous year.
The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue  for the current year as compared to the previous year was  attributable to an increase in cost of sales as a percentage of  revenue during the same period as explained above.
Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses primarily comprise  employee costs.
On a standalone basis, we incurred selling  and marketing expenses at 4.6% of our total revenues in  the year ended March 31, 2017, compared to 5.0% of our  total revenues in the year ended March 31, 2016.
Selling  and marketing expenses primarily comprise employee cost,  travelling costs and branding and marketing costs.
All other  expenses, excluding employee costs, amounted to 1.1% of  revenues during the year which is same as previous year.
On a consolidated basis, we incurred selling and marketing  expenses at 5.2% of our total revenues in the year ended  March 31, 2017, as compared to 5.5% in the year ended  March 31, 2016.
All other expenses, excluding employee  costs, amounted to 1.3% of revenues for the year, which  was the same as the previous year.
Decrease in selling and  marketing cost as a percentage of revenue is mainly on account  of employee benefit cost not increasing in line with revenue.
The increase in salaries and bonus is primarily due to  increased compensation in the last 12 months, promotions  and an increase in the number of employees as well as higher  onsite mix offset by higher utilization (including trainees).
The utilization rates of billable IT service professionals for  the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as  follows : in % Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Including trainees 77.8 75.0 77.6 75.0 Excluding trainees 82.1 80.8 81.7 80.6 Note : IT services represent services excluding business process  management services and products and platforms business.
On a standalone basis, the cost of technical sub-contractors  included ` 1,795 crore towards the purchase of services from  subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2017, as against  ` 1,761 crore in the previous year.
The details of such related  party transactions are available in the Notes to the Standalone  financial statements section of the Annual Report.
We continue  to engage the services of these consultants on a need basis.
On a standalone basis, the travel expenses representing  the cost of travel included in cost of sales constituted  approximately 2.1% and 2.2% of total revenue for the years  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a consolidated basis, travel expenses for cost of sales  constituted approximately 2.4% and 2.6% of total revenue  for the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively .
Cost of software packages primarily represents the cost of  software packages and tools procured for our internal use.
These packages and tools enhance the quality of our services.
On a standalone basis, the cost of software packages was  1.2% of the revenues for each of the years ending March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016.
On a consolidated basis, the cost  of software packages was 1.2% and 1.1% of the revenues  for the years ending March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively .
Third-party items bought for service delivery to clients  include software and hardware items.
The increase in  third-party items bought for service delivery to clients has  been due to increase in third-party costs in customer services  such as infrastructure services.
On a consolidated basis, consultancy and professional charges  approximated to 0.1% of revenues during the year, which was  the same as the previous year.
A major part of our revenues is generated from software  development centers in India.
We use high-end communication  tools to establish real-time connections with our clients.
On  a standalone basis, the communication expenses represent  approximately 0.2% of revenues for each of the years ended  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016.
On a consolidated  basis, the communication expenses represent approximately  0.4% and 0.3% of revenues for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a standalone basis, the rent represents approximately 0.3%  and 0.2% of revenues for each of the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a consolidated  72 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 General and administration expenses On a standalone basis, our general and administration  expenses amounted to 6.1% of our total revenues each in the  current and previous years.
All other expenses, excluding  employee costs, were 4.4% of revenues during the year, as  compared to 4.3% in the previous year.
On a consolidated basis, our general and administration  expenses amounted to 6.9% of our total revenues each in the  current and previous years.
All other expenses, excluding  employee costs, were 4.8% of revenues during the year, as  compared to 4.7% during the previous year.
The general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of  revenue, have remained constant for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016.
However, increase in repairs and  maintenance, operating lease payments, and impairment  losses recognized on financial assets, were partially offset by a  decrease in consultancy and professional charges, and traveling  cost.
The increase in impairment losses on financial assets is  due to specific provisions made for certain customers.
The  increase in repairs and maintenance cost was primarily on  account of higher cost incurred on maintenance of physical  and technology infrastructure.
The increase in operating lease  payments was on account of additional space taken on lease.
The employee benefit cost as a percentage of revenue has  remained largely constant in the current and previous years.
3.
Operating profits During the year, on a standalone basis, we earned an operating  profit of ` 15,876 crore, representing 26.8% of total revenues,  compared to ` 14,594  crore, representing 27.0% of total  revenues, during the previous year.
During the year, on a consolidated basis, we earned an  operating profit of ` 16,901 crore, representing 24.7% of total  revenues, compared to ` 15,620 crore, representing 25.0% of  total revenues, during the previous year.
The decrease in operating profit as a percentage of revenue  for the current year as compared to the previous year was  attributable to a decrease in gross profit as a percentage of  revenue during the same period partially offset by a decrease  in selling and marketing expenses 4.
Other income, net We use foreign exchange forward and options contracts to  hedge our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates.
On a standalone basis, for the year ended March 31, 2017,  foreign exchange loss as a result of transaction and translation  of assets and liabilities was ` 324 crore, while for the year  ended March 31, 2016, there was a gain of ` 141 crore, and  foreign exchange gains from forward / options contracts were  ` 551 crore and ` 26 crore for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a consolidated basis, for the year ended March 31, 2017,  foreign exchange loss as a result of transaction and translation  of assets and liabilities was ` 359 crore, while for the year  ended March 31, 2016, there was a gain of ` 140 crore, and  foreign exchange gains from forward / options contracts were  ` 591 crore and ` 29 crore for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016, respectively .
The interest income for fiscal 2017 has declined as compared  to fiscal 2016 despite higher investible base primarily due to  the softening of interest rates in India.
The composition of currency-wise revenues for the years  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 was as follows : in % Currency Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 U.S. Dollar (USD) 71.9 73.0 69.6 69.9 U.K.
Pound Sterling  (GBP) 6.1 6.9 5.8 6.6 Euro (EUR) 9.0 8.4 9.6 9.3 Australian Dollar  (AUD) 7.7 7.2 7.3 6.9 Others 5.3 4.5 7.7 7.3 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 5.
Sensitivity to rupee movement On a standalone basis, for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016, every percentage point depreciation /   appreciation in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee  and US dollar, had an impact on the Company’s incremental  operating margins by approximately 0.52% each.
On a  consolidated basis, it had an impact of 0.50% in the current  and previous years.
6.
Share in profit / loss of associate and others Share in net loss of associate and others for the current year  includes share in loss of associate under equity method of  ` 12 crore and an impairment loss of ` 18 crore on investment  in DWA Nova LLC.
The share in net loss of associate for the  previous year was ` 3 crore.
7.
Provision for tax We have provided for our tax liability both in India and  overseas.
The applicable Indian corporate statutory tax rate  for both the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016  is 34.61%.
Export profits of the SEZ units for the year were  entitled to tax benefits under the Special Economic Zone  (SEZ) scheme of the Government of India.
The Company  had also claimed tax benefit under the Software Technology  Park (STP) scheme, for export profits earned by certain STP  units up to the year ended March 31, 2011.
We have our operations both under the STP and SEZ schemes.
The profits attributable to operations under the STP scheme  were exempted from income tax for a consecutive period of  10 years from the financial year in which the unit started  producing computer software, or March 31, 2011, whichever  was earlier.
However, the income tax incentives provided by  the Government of India for STP units have expired, and the  income from all of our STP units are now taxable.
SEZ units,  which began providing services on or after April 1, 2005, are  eligible for a deduction of 100% of profits or gains derived  from the export of services for the first five years from the  financial year in which the unit has commenced the provision  of services and 50% of such profits or gains for further five  years.
Up to 50% of such profits or gains for further five years  thereafter is subject to the creation of a Special Economic  Zone Re-investment Reserve out of the profit of the eligible  Management’s discussion and analysis | 73  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 SEZ units and utilization of such reserve by the Company  for acquiring new plant and machinery for the purpose of its  business as per the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
On a standalone basis, the effective tax rate (based on profit  before tax) decreased to 27.0% in fiscal 2017, as compared  to 27.9% in fiscal 2016.
The decrease in effective net tax rate  was mainly due to the increase in benefits from SEZ units as  a percentage of profit before income taxes, decrease in effect  of non-deductible expenses partially offset by decrease in net  tax reversals.
On a consolidated basis, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017  and fiscal 2016 was 28.0%.
Effective tax rate is generally  influenced by various factors including non-deductible  expenses, exempt non-operating income, overseas taxes,  benefits from SEZ units and other tax deductions.
There was  no change in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 as compared  to fiscal 2016, as the benefit of higher non-taxable income  (income from SEZ units) was offset by reduction in tax  reversals, net of provisions.
During the current year, the tax reversals, net comprise  reversal of provisions of ` 354 crore made in earlier periods  which is partially offset by an additional tax provision of  ` 202 crore pertaining to prior periods.
The reversal of the  provision is primarily due to completion of audits in certain  jurisdictions.
The additional provision pertaining to prior  periods is primarily due to audits and assessments in certain  jurisdictions.
For the previous year, the tax reversals comprise a reversal  of provisions of ` 332 crore made in earlier periods which is  partially offset by an additional tax provision of ` 23 crore  pertaining to prior periods.
The reversal of the provision is  primarily due to completion of audits in certain jurisdictions.
Refer to Note 2.24 (Contingent liabilities and commitments)  in consolidated and standalone financial statements in the  Annual Report for disclosures on claims against the Company  not acknowledged as debts.
8.
Net profit after tax  On a standalone basis, our net profit increased by 8.9%  to ` 13,818 crore for the year ended March 31, 2017 from  ` 12,693 crore in the previous year.
This represents 23.3%  and 23.5% of total revenue for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
On a consolidated basis, our net profit increased by 6.4%  to ` 14,353 crore for the year ended March 31, 2017 from  ` 13,489 crore in the previous year.
This represents 21.0%  and 21.6% of total revenue for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
The decrease in net profit as a percentage of revenues for the  current year as compared to the previous year was primarily  attributable to a decrease in operating profit as a percentage  of revenue and decrease in other income.
9.
Earnings per share (EPS)  The details of change in EPS on standalone and consolidated basis are as follows : Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 (`) 2016 (`) % increase 2017 (`) 2016 (`) % increase Basic 60.16 55.26 8.9 62.80 59.02 6.4 Diluted 60.15 55.26 8.8 62.77 59.02 6.4 Weighted average equity shares used in computing earnings per equity share are as follows : Particulars Standalone Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 Basic 2,29,69,44,664 2,29,69,44,664 2,28,56,39,447 2,28,56,16,160 Diluted 2,29,71,59,670 2,29,69,44,664 2,28,63,96,745  2,28,57,18,894 10.
Segmental profitability The Group’s operations predominantly relate to providing  end-to-end business solutions to enable clients to enhance  business performance.
Based on the ‘management approach’  as defined in Ind AS 108, the Chief Operating Decision Maker  (CODM) evaluates the Group’s performance and allocates  resources based on an analysis of various performance  indicators by business segments and geographic segments.
Accordingly , information has been presented along both  business segments and geographic segments.
Business  segments of the Group are primarily enterprises in Financial  Services (FS), Manufacturing (MFG), Retail, Consumer  packaged goods and Logistics (RCL), Energy & utilities,  Communication and Services (ECS), Hi-tech (Hi-Tech), Life  Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (HILIFE) and all other  segments.
Geographic segmentation is based on business  sourced from that geographic region and delivered from  both onsite and offshore locations.
North America comprises  the United States of America, Canada and Mexico, Europe  includes continental Europe (both the east and the west),  Ireland and the United Kingdom, and the Rest of the World  comprising all other places except those mentioned above  and India.
74 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Business segments – standalone in ` crore Particulars FS (1) MFG (2) ECS (3) RCL (4) HILIFE (5) Hi-Tech All other  segments Total Segmental revenues        2017 15,735 6,086 13,999 10,280 7,065 4,901 1,223 59,289 2016 14,846 5,434 12,124 9,411 6,392 4,736 1,040 53,983 Growth % 6.0 12.0 15.5 9.2 10.5 3.5 17.5 9.8 Segmental operating income          2017 4,291 1,770 4,355 3,159 2,089 1,354 199 17,217 2016 4,185 1,436 3,829 2,817 1,844 1,373 239 15,723 Growth % 2.5 23.3 13.7 12.2 13.3 (1.4) (16.9) 9.5 Segmental operating income (%)          2017 27.3 29.1 31.1 30.7 29.6 27.6 16.2 29.0 2016 28.2 26.4 31.6 29.9 28.9 29.0 22.9 29.1 (1) Financial Services (4) Retail, Consumer packaged goods and Logistics (2) Manufacturing (5) Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (3) Energy & utilities, Communications and Services Geographical segments – standalone in ` crore Particulars North America Europe India Rest of the World Total Segmental revenues 2017 38,578 13,019 1,798 5,894 59,289 2016 35,638 11,775 1,274 5,296 53,983 Growth % 8.2 10.6 41.2 11.3 9.8 Segmental operating income 2017 10,762 3,832 667 1,956 17,217 2016 10,093 3,436 451 1,743 15,723 Growth % 6.6 11.5 47.9 12.2 9.5 Segmental operating income (%)  2017 27.9 29.4 37.1 33.2 29.0 2016 28.3 29.2 35.4 32.9 29.1 Business segments – consolidated in ` crore Particulars FS (1) MFG (2) ECS (3) RCL (4) HILIFE (5) Hi-Tech All other  segments Total Segmental revenues        2017 18,555 7,507 15,430 11,225 8,437 5,122 2,208 68,484 2016 17,024 6,948 13,547 10,226 8,090 4,891 1,715 62,441 Growth % 9.0 8.1 13.9 9.8 4.3 4.7 28.8 9.7 Segmental operating income          2017 5,209 1,848 4,431 3,249 2,308 1,277 292 18,614 2016 4,839 1,560 4,029 2,840 2,265 1,301 259 17,093 Growth % 7.6 18.4 10.0 14.4 1.9 (1.8) 12.4 8.9 Segmental operating income (%)          2017 28.1 24.6 28.7 28.9 27.4 24.9 13.2 27.2 2016 28.4 22.5 29.7 27.8 28.0 26.6 15.1 27.4 (1) Financial Services (4) Retail, Consumer packaged goods and Logistics (2) Manufacturing (5) Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (3) Energy & utilities, Communications and Services Geographical segments – consolidated in ` crore Particulars North America Europe India Rest of the World Total Segmental revenues 2017 42,408 15,392 2,180 8,504 68,484 2016 39,139 14,373 1,623 7,306 62,441 Growth % 8.4 7.1 34.3 16.4 9.7 Management’s discussion and analysis | 75  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Our Board, in its meeting on April 13, 2017, recommended  a final dividend of ` 14.75 per equity share.
The  recommendation is subject to the approval of shareholders at  our Annual General Meeting to be held on June 24, 2017, and  if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately  ` 4,061 crore (excluding dividend paid on treasury shares),  inclusive of corporate dividend tax.
12.
Related party transactions These have been discussed in detail in the Notes to the  Standalone financial statements in this Annual Report.
13.
Events occurring after the Balance Sheet date There were no significant events that occurred after the  Balance Sheet date.
Refer to ‘Material changes and commitments affecting  financial position between the end of the financial year and  date of the report’ in Board’s report for details of grants made  to CEO and COO subsequent to Balance Sheet date.
IV Opportunities and threats Our strengths We believe our strengths give us the competitive advantage  to position ourselves as a leading global technology solutions  and services company to solve the strategic challenges of  business.
Consulting and domain expertise : Our specific industry ,  domain, process, and technology expertise allows us to  enable clients to transform their businesses with innovative  strategies and solutions.
Our expertise and methodologies  incorporate Design Thinking that helps our clients enhance  their performance, gain process and IT efficiencies, increase  agility and flexibility , reduce costs, and achieve measurable  business value.
Breadth of offerings : Our suite of comprehensive end-to-end  business solutions includes business and technology  consulting, enterprise solutions, systems integration, custom  application development, application maintenance and  production support, infrastructure management, independent  testing and validation, cloud ecosystem integration, product  engineering and life-cycle solutions, business process  management, software products, and business platforms and  solutions.
Intellectual property in platforms, products : Our products,  platforms and solutions are geared to sense, influence, fulfil,  and serve the needs of digital consumers as well as leverage  the potential of their business ecosystem.
Overall segment profitability has marginally declined  primarily on account of decline in realization, compensation  increase for employees, cross currency volatility , increase in  onsite mix, increase in impairment loss on receivables from  certain customers, partially offset by increase in utilization,  lower variable payout and rupee depreciation against the  US dollar.
11.
Liquidity Our growth has been financed largely through cash  generated from operations.
On a standalone basis, the net  cash generated from our operations was ` 10,478  crore  and ` 9,578 crore for the years ended March 31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016, respectively .
Net cash used in investing  activities was ` 13,494 crore for the year ended March 31,  2017, while it was ` 1,207 crore for the year ended March 31,  2016.
Net cash used in financing activities was ` 6,968 crore  and ` 6,908 crore for the years ended March 31, 2016 and  March 31, 2017, respectively .
On a consolidated basis, the net cash generated from our  operations was ` 11,531 crore and ` 10,028 crore for the years  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
Net cash used in investing activities was ` 14,542 crore for  the year ended March 31, 2017, while it was ` 901 crore for  the year ended March 31, 2016.
Net cash used in financing  activities was ` 6,939 crore and ` 6,813 crore for the years  ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
Capital allocation policy  The Board, in its meeting on April 13, 2017, reviewed and  approved a revised Capital Allocation Policy of the Company  after taking into consideration the strategic and operational  cash requirements of the Company in the medium term.
The key aspects of the Capital Allocation Policy are : • The Company’s current policy is to pay dividends of up  to 50% of post-tax profits of the financial year.
Effective  fiscal 2018, the Company expects to pay out up to 70%  of the free cash flow of the corresponding financial year in  such manner (including by way of dividend and / or share  buyback) as may be decided by the Board from time to time,  subject to applicable laws and requisite approvals, if any .
Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating  activities less capital expenditure as per the Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows prepared under IFRS.
Dividend  payout includes dividend distribution tax.
• In addition to the above, the Board has identified an  amount of up to ` 13,000 crore (US $2 billion) to be paid  out to shareholders during fiscal 2018, in such manner  (including by way of dividend and / or share buyback), to  be decided by the Board, subject to applicable laws and  requisite approvals, if any .
Particulars North America Europe India Rest of the World Total Segmental operating income 2017 10,991 4,150 736 2,737 18,614 2016 10,265 3,897 574 2,357 17,093 Growth % 7.1 6.5 28.4 16.1 8.9 Segmental operating income (%)  2017 25.9 27.0 33.8 32.2 27.2 2016 26.2 27.1 35.3 32.3 27.4 76 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Experience and expertise in large-scale outsourcing : We  have developed processes and frameworks for large-scale  outsourcing of technology projects that minimize financial  and business risk to our clients.
Our Global Delivery Model  divides projects into components that can be executed  simultaneously at client sites and at our development centers  in India and around the world.
We optimize our cost structure  by maintaining the flexibility to execute project components  where it is most cost-effective.
This is further strengthened  with automation, intelligence and collaboration technologies.
Deep client relationships and brand : We have long-standing  relationships with large corporations and other organizations.
Our track record in delivering high-quality solutions across  the entire software life cycle and our strong domain expertise  helps us to solidify these relationships and gain increased  business from our existing clients.
This history of client  retention allows us to showcase and strengthen our brand.
Quality and process execution : Our sophisticated processes,  standards and quality frameworks allow us to continuously  optimize service delivery of various engagements on key  performance indicators like business value, productivity ,  quality and cycle-time.
High-quality talent : We have a strong ecosystem for employee  attraction, career development, engagement and retention  through a trusted partnership with our stakeholders.
Competence development of our workforce has always been  our key strategic focus area.
We have a culture of performance  and innovation in an open and collaborative environment.
Our strategy Our strategic objective is to build a sustainable organization  that remains relevant to the agenda of our clients, while  generating profitable growth for our investors.
In order to  do this, we will apply the priorities of ‘renew’ and ‘new’ to  our own business and cascade it to everything we do.
These  translate to the following strategic focus areas : Build expansive, lasting relationships with our clients by  delivering differentiated market offerings : Our strategy is to  engage with clients on their large transformative programs,  both in traditional IT areas as well as for their new digital  business initiatives.
We expand existing client relationships  by providing them a broad set of end-to-end service offerings  and increase the size, nature and number of projects we do  with them.
We invest in building our own and acquiring proprietary  software platforms targeted at addressing the strategic  imperatives of our clients in various industries.
The  combination of our intellectual property and the services  surrounding it generates unique value propositions for  our clients.
Through our Zero Distance program, we help our clients  innovate and derive more value.
Zero Distance is the process  of everyday innovation at Infosys whereby all employees  are expected to innovate in their individual capacities and  through their individual jobs.
Zero Distance has a three-fold  emphasis : to reduce the gap between us and the code we  write, the gap between us and our clients and the gap between  us and the ultimate end user.
We also invest in targeted business development and  marketing to acquire new clients, and increase our presence  in new geographies and market segments.
We position our  brand as differentiated, global and respected.
Deliver solutions and services leveraging highly cost-effective  models : Our strategy is to leverage software-based automation  and our Global Delivery Model to deliver solutions and  services to our clients in the most cost-effective manner,  while at the same time optimizing our cost structure to  remain competitive.
We are embracing artificial intelligence-based automation  techniques and software automation platforms to boost  productivity of our projects.
We are leveraging software  process engineering and collaboration technologies to  improve process productivity .
Our Global Delivery Model provides scale, quality , expertise  and cost and time-to-market advantages to our client projects.
The model enables us to perform work at the location where  the best talent is available and where it makes most economic  sense with the least amount of risk.
Over the last 30 years,  we have developed our distributed execution capabilities  to deliver high-quality and scalable services.
This scalable  infrastructure complements our ability to deliver project  components that are executed round the clock and across  time zones enabling us to reduce project delivery times.
Enhance our operational processes for agility : We  periodically assess the effectiveness of our organization  structure and processes to optimize them for alignment with  our strategic objectives and agility .
We continually evaluate  critical cross-functional processes and benchmark them with  best-in-class practices to optimize costs and enable swift and  effective response to our clients.
We constantly monitor and  optimize various operational parameters, such as the cost and  utilization of resources, distribution of employees around the  world, the cost of operating our campuses and whether we  are optimally realizing the efficiencies of scale.
Attract and retain a global, diverse, motivated and  high-performing employee base : Our employees are our  biggest assets.
To meet the evolving needs of our clients,  our priority is to attract and engage the best talent in the  right locations with the right skills.
We offer our employees  challenging work assignments, benchmarked compensation  and a collaborative, productive work environment.
Our  performance management system is objective and rewards  performance.
We invest substantially in employee engagement  to motivate employees and encourage social communication  and collaboration.
Teaching and learning are central to the Infosys culture.
Our  investments in our Global Education Center and in creating  various learning opportunities for our employees help them  stay abreast of new developments in software technologies,  spur innovation and build a lifelong career at Infosys.
We are guided by our value system which motivates our  attitudes and actions.
Our core values are Client Value,  Leadership by Example, Integrity and Transparency , Fairness  and Excellence (C-LIFE).
Management’s discussion and analysis | 77  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Pursue strategic alliances and acquisitions : We leverage  alliances that complement our core competencies.
We partner  with leading technology software and hardware providers  in creating, deploying, integrating and operating business  solutions for our clients.
We have also expanded the scope  of our collaborations to encompass universities and research  organizations.
We will deploy our capital in making selective business  acquisitions that augment our expertise, complement our  presence in certain market segments and accelerate the  execution of our strategies.
We have an innovation fund with an outlay of US $500 million  to tap into innovation networks of early-stage companies  and universities to gain access to new thinking and business  models.
Out of the total outlay , US $45 million has been  invested as of March  31, 2017 and we have an uncalled  capital commitment of US $18 million.
Our competition We experience intense competition in traditional services and  see a rapidly-changing marketplace with new competitors  arising in new technologies who are focused on agility ,  flexibility and innovation.
We typically compete with other technology service providers  in response to requests for proposals.
Clients often cite our  industry expertise, comprehensive end-to-end solutions,  ability to scale, superior quality and process execution, Global  Delivery Model, experienced management team, talented  professionals and track record as reasons for awarding us  contracts.
In future, we expect intensified competition.
In particular, we  expect increased competition from firms that strengthen their  offshore presence in India or other low-cost locations, firms  that offer technology-based solutions to business problems  and from firms incumbent in market segments that we have  recently entered.
We believe that the principal competitive factors in our  business are : • The ability to keep pace with ever-changing technology and  how they apply to customer requirements • The ability to increase the scale and breadth of service  offerings to provide one-stop solutions for customer needs • The ability to articulate and demonstrate long-term value  to existing and potential customers • The ability to attract and retain high-quality management,  technology professionals, and sales personnel • The ability to effectively integrate global execution  capabilities to deliver high-quality , seamless, scalable,  cost-effective services • A strong and well-recognized brand • A proven track record of performance excellence and  customer satisfaction • The financial strength to be able to invest in personnel  and infrastructure to support the evolving demands of  customers • High ethical and corporate governance standards to ensure  honest and professional business practices and protect the  reputation of the Company and its customers.
V Outlook, risks and concerns This section lists forward-looking statements that involve  risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ  materially from those anticipated in these statements as a  result of certain factors.
Our outlook, risks and concerns are  as follows : • Our revenues and expenses are difficult to predict and can  vary significantly from period to period, which could cause  our share price to decline.
• We may not be able to sustain our levels of profitability  due to multiple reasons,  including but not limited to,  higher cost of doing business in certain key markets such  as the U.S. on account of increased investments in onsite  development centers • The economic environment, pricing pressures, and  decreased employee utilization rates could negatively  impact our revenues and operating results.
• Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily  located in the United States and the European Union,  as well as on clients concentrated in certain industries.
An economic slowdown or other factors that affect the  economic health of the United States, the European Union  or those industries, or any other impact on the growth of  such industries, may affect our business.
• Currency fluctuations and declining interest rates may  affect the results of our operations.
• Our success depends largely upon our highly-skilled  technology professionals and our ability to hire, attract,  motivate, retain and train these personnel.
• Wage pressures in India and the hiring of employees  outside India may prevent us from sustaining some of our  competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margins.
• Any inability to manage our growth could disrupt our  business, reduce our profitability and adversely impact our  ability to implement our growth strategy .
• We may not be able to provide end-to-end business solutions  for our clients, which could lead to clients discontinuing  their work with us, which in turn could harm our business.
• Intense competition in the market for technology services  could affect our pricing, which could reduce our share of  business from clients and decrease our revenues.
• A large part of our revenues is dependant on our top  clients and the loss of any one of our major clients could  significantly impact our business.
• Our success depends in large part upon our management  team and key personnel, and our ability to attract and  retain them.
• Our failure to complete fixed-price and fixed-timeframe  contracts, or transaction-based pricing contracts, within  budget and on time, may negatively affect our profitability .
• Our client contracts can typically be terminated without  cause and with little or no notice or penalty , which could  negatively impact our revenues and profitability .
• Our engagements with customers are typically singular  in nature and do not necessarily provide for subsequent  engagements.
• Our client contracts are often conditioned upon our  performance, which, if unsatisfactory , could result in lower  revenues than previously anticipated.
78 | Management’s discussion and analysis Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 • Some of our long-term client contracts contain  benchmarking provisions which, if triggered, could result in  lower future revenues and profitability under the contract.
• Our work with governmental agencies may expose us to  additional risks.
• Our business will suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop  new services and enhance existing services to keep pace  with rapid changes in technology and in the industries on  which we focus.
• Disruption in services due to failure in communication  network, system failures, virus attacks or breach of cyber  security , could negatively impact our operations and ability  to provide our services and solutions, which could result  in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenues.
• We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by  the disclosure of confidential information, system failures,  errors or unsatisfactory performance of services.
• We may be the subject of litigation, which if adversely  determined, could harm our business and operating results.
• Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us  against all potential losses to which we may be subject, and  this may have a material adverse effect on our business.
• We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities  and physical infrastructure, and our profitability could be  reduced if our business does not grow proportionately .
• We may be unable to recoup investment costs incurred in  developing our software products and platforms.
• We may engage in acquisitions, strategic investments,  strategic partnerships or alliances or other ventures that  may or may not be successful.
• Goodwill that we carry on our Balance Sheet could give rise  to significant impairment charges in the future.
• The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of  earthquakes, floods, tsunamis, storms and other natural  and man-made disasters.
• The safety of our employees, assets and infrastructure may  be affected by untoward incidents beyond our control,  impacting business continuity or reputation.
• Negative media coverage and public scrutiny may divert  the time and attention of our Board and Management and  adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs.
• Actions of activist shareholders may adversely affect our  ability to execute our strategic priorities, and could impact  the trading value of our securities.
• An increase in anti-outsourcing sentiments in certain  countries in which we operate, including the United  States, the United Kingdom and Australia, may lead to  the enactment of restrictive legislations that could limit  companies in those countries from outsourcing work to us,  or could inhibit our ability to staff client projects in a timely  manner thereby impacting our revenue and profitability .
• Given that a large number of our employees in the United  States, Europe and other jurisdictions are working on visas,  any restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to  compete for and provide services to clients in these  jurisdictions, which could hamper our growth or cause our  revenues to decline and impact profitability .
• New and changing corporate governance and public  disclosure requirements add uncertainty to our compliance  policies and increase our costs of compliance.
• The intellectual property laws of India are limited and do  not give sufficient protection to software and the related  intellectual property rights to the same extent as those in  the United States.
We may be unsuccessful in protecting  our intellectual property rights.
We may also be subject  to third-party claims of intellectual property infringement.
• Increased regulation in the industries in which our clients  operate could harm our business, results of operations and  financial condition.
• Our net income would decrease if the Government of India  reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it  provides to us or when our tax holidays expire, reduce or  terminate.
• In the event that the Government of India or the government  of another country changes its tax policies in a manner that  is adverse to us, our tax expense may materially increase,  reducing our profitability .
• We operate in jurisdictions that impose transfer-pricing  and other tax-related regulations on us, and any failure  to comply could materially and adversely affect our  profitability .
• Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our  business, results of operations and financial condition.
• Changes in the policies of the Government of India  or political instability may adversely affect economic  conditions in India generally , which could impact our  business and prospects.
• Our international expansion plans subject us to risks  inherent in doing business internationally .
• Our ability to acquire companies organized outside India  depends on the approval of the Reserve Bank of India  and / or the Government of India, and failure to obtain  this approval could negatively impact our business.
• Indian laws limit our ability to raise capital outside India  and may limit the ability of others to acquire us, which  could prevent us from operating our business or entering  into a transaction that is in the best interests of our  shareholders.
• Historically , our ADSs have traded at a significant premium  to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares.
Currently , they do not do so and they may not continue to  do so in the future.
• Sales of our equity shares may adversely affect the prices of  our equity shares and ADSs.
• The price of our ADSs and the US dollar value of any  dividends we declare may be negatively affected by  fluctuations in the US dollar to Indian rupee exchange rate.
• Indian law imposes certain restrictions that limit a  holder’s ability to transfer the equity shares obtained upon  conversion of ADSs and repatriate the proceeds of such  transfer, which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium  or discount to the market price of our equity shares.
Management’s discussion and analysis | 79  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 • An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise  pre-emptive rights for additional shares, and may thereby  suffer the dilution of such investor’s equity interest in us.
• ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise  voting rights.
• ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to participate  in a buyback of shares offered by us.
• It may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to enforce any  judgment obtained in the United States against us or our  affiliates.
• Holders of ADSs are subject to the Securities and Exchange  Board of India’s Takeover Code with respect to their  acquisitions of ADSs or the underlying equity shares.
This  may impose requirements on such holders with respect  to disclosure and offers to purchase additional ADSs or  equity shares.
• If the Government of India modifies dividend distribution  tax rates or introduces new forms of taxes on the  distribution of profits, or changes the basis of application  of these taxes, the same could materially affect the returns  to our shareholders.
VI Internal control systems and their  adequacy The CEO and CFO certification provided in the CEO and  CFO Certification section of the Annual Report discusses the  adequacy of our internal control systems and procedures.
VII Material developments in human  resources / industrial relations, including  number of people employed Our culture and reputation as a leader in consulting,  technology , outsourcing and next-generation services enable  us to attract and retain some of the best talent.
Human capital Our employees are our most important assets.
We believe  that the quality and level of service that our professionals  deliver are among the highest in the global technology  services industry .
We are committed to remaining among the  industry’s leading employers.
As at March  31, 2017, the Group employed 2,00,364  employees, of which 1,88,665 were professionals involved  in service delivery to the clients, including trainees.
During  fiscal 2017, we added 6,320 new hires, net of attrition.
The  key aspects of our HR practice include recruitment, training  and development, and compensation.
Recruitment We have built our global talent pool by recruiting new  students from premier universities, colleges and institutes in  India, and through the need-based hiring of project leaders  and middle management across the globe.
We recruit students  who have consistently shown high levels of achievement from  campuses in India.
We also recruit students from campuses in  the U.S., the U.K., Australia and China.
We rely on a rigorous  selection process involving aptitude tests and interviews  to identify the best applicants.
This selection process is  continually assessed and refined based on the performance  tracking of past recruits.
During fiscal 2017, we received 12,93,877 employment  applications, interviewed 1,05,674 applicants and extended  offers of employment to 51,004 applicants.
These statistics do  not include our subsidiaries.
The Group has recruited 6,320  new hires, net of attrition, during fiscal 2017.
Training and development The competency development of our employees continues  to be a key area of strategic focus for us.
We launched new  programs for our employees in keeping with the changes  in the use of technology in education.
We enhanced our  technology-led training efforts in multiple areas.
As part of our Foundation Program, we enhanced some of  the existing courses and introduced new courses on Infosys  Learning Platform (ILP).
ILP was launched in the previous  year, and we started reaping benefits in the form of enhanced  learning among our fresh hires.
Our continuous education programs emphasize enhancing  the relevance and effectiveness of learning.
This year we have  enhanced hands-on based assessments, and many courses  have been launched on ILP to our existing employees, which  resulted in enhanced reach of our enablement programs  across the organization.
We also enhanced Digital T utor which  enables sharing of experiential knowledge in video format.
All these changes were incorporated to create a unique  experience for learners at Infosys.
Compensation Our technology professionals receive competitive salaries  and benefits.
We have also adopted a variable compensation  program which links compensation to the Company and  individual performance.
In order to attract, retain and motivate  talented and critical employees and to encourage employees  to align individual performance with the Company objectives  and reward employee performance with ownership, the  Company granted share-based benefits to high-performing  executives and mid-level managers.
80 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Corporate governance report Our corporate governance philosophy Our corporate governance is a reflection of our value system encompassing our culture, policies, and relationships with our  stakeholders.
Integrity and transparency are key to our corporate governance practices to ensure that we gain and retain the  trust of our stakeholders at all times.
Corporate governance framework Our corporate governance framework is guided by our core values – C-LIFE – and is based on the following principles : Infosys Corporate Governance Framework Our value system – C-LIFE Fairness and ExcellenceClient valueL eadership by example Integrity and transparency Foundational principles Communicate, externally and  truthfully, about how the  Company is run internally Stakeholder relationship Have a simple and transparent  corporate structure driven solely  by business needs Corporate structure Satisfy both the  spirit of the law and  the letter of the law In spirit and letter Management is the trustee  of the shareholders’ capital  and not the owner Management as a trustee Ensure transparency  and maintain a high  level of disclosure Transparency Our corporate governance framework ensures that we make  timely disclosures and share accurate information regarding  our financials and performance, as well as disclosures related  to the leadership and governance of Infosys (‘the Company’).
We believe that an active, well-informed and independent  board is necessary to ensure the highest standards of  corporate governance.
At Infosys, the Board of Directors  (‘the Board’) is at the core of our corporate governance  practice.
The Board oversees the Management’s functions and  protects the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
As on  March 31, 2017, the Board comprised 10 members, of which  eight members are independent directors.
An independent  director is nominated as the chairperson of each of the Board  committees, namely audit, nomination and remuneration,  stakeholders relationship, risk and strategy , finance and  investment, and corporate social responsibility committees.
On April  13, 2017, the Board constituted an additional  committee of the Board, named committee of directors, which  is also headed by an independent director.
Compliance with global guidelines and standards We comply with global best practices in corporate governance.
Starting with the landmark Cadbury Report in the U.K.  in 1992, the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 2002,  and Consumer Protection Act, we have been following and  complying with the best practices of corporate governance  over the years.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has notified  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations’) on September 2,  2015.
The Listing Regulations have incorporated the principles  for corporate governance in line with the Organisation for  Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) principles  and provide broad principles for periodic disclosures by  listed entities in line with the International Organization of  Securities Commissions (IOSCO) principles.
We substantially comply with the Euroshareholders Corporate  Governance Guidelines, 2000 and the recommendations of  the Conference Board Commission on Public Trusts and  Private Enterprises in the U.S. We also adhere to the United  Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the OECD principles.
Corporate governance guidelines The Board has defined a set of corporate governance best  practices and guidelines to help fulfill our corporate  responsibility towards our stakeholders.
These guidelines  ensure that the Board will have the necessary authority and  processes to review and evaluate our operations as and when  required.
Further, these guidelines allow the Board to make  decisions that are independent of the Management.
The Board  may change these guidelines regularly to achieve our stated  objectives.
The guidelines can be accessed from our website,  at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/ Documents/corporate-governance-guidelines.pdf.
Corporate governance report | 81  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 A.
Board composition Size and composition of the Board We believe that our Board needs to have an appropriate mix of executive and independent directors to maintain its independence,  and separate its functions of governance and management.
Listing regulations mandate that for a company with a non-executive  chairman, at least one-third of the Board should be independent directors.
As on March 31, 2017, our Board comprised 10  members, two of whom were executive or whole-time directors, while the remaining eight members were independent directors,  constituting 80% of the Board’s strength – more than the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
Three out of 10 Board members or 30% of the Board are women.
Six of our Board members (60%) are Indians, while four  (40%) are foreign nationals.
The Board periodically evaluates the need for change in its composition and size.
70% 30% 80% 20% 60% 40% Indian Foreign nationals Women Men Independent directors Executive and whole-time directors The average tenure of members on our Board is 3.9 years as of March 31, 2017.
The average tenure of executive directors  (whole-time directors) is 3.0 years and that of independent directors is 4.1 years.
The average tenure of Board members in years as on March 31, 2017 was as follows : Independent directors Average tenure of the Board Executive directors 4.1 3.9 3.0 Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman R. Seshasayee Ravi Venkatesan Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw U.
B. Pravin Rao Dr. Vishal Sikka Prof. John W. Etchemendy Roopa Kudva Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha D. N. Prahlad 11.0 6.2 6.0 3.2 3.2 2.8 2.3 2.2 1.2 0.5 Apr 14, 2006 Jan 13, 2011 Apr 15, 2011 Jan 10, 2014 Jan 10, 2014 Jun 14, 2014 Dec 04, 2014 Feb 04, 2015 Jan 14, 2016 Oct 14, 2016 Tenure (in years) as on Mar 31, 2017 Original date of  appointmentName Chairmen of the Board R. Seshasayee, an independent director, is the Chairman of  the Board.
Ravi Venkatesan, an independent director, is the  Co-Chairman of the Board, with effect from April 13, 2017.
Responsibilities of the Chairmen, and the Chief  Executive Officer and Managing Director The Company has appointed R. Seshasayee as the  non-executive Chairman of the Board (‘the Chairman’), Ravi  Venkatesan, Independent Director, as the Co-Chairman of the  Board, and Dr. Vishal Sikka as the Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director (CEO & MD).
The responsibilities and authority of these officials are as  follows : The Chairman and Co-Chairman (‘Chairmen’) are the leaders  of the Board.
As Chairmen, they are responsible for fostering  and promoting the integrity of the Board while nurturing  a culture where the Board works harmoniously for the  long-term benefit of the Company and all its stakeholders.
The Chairmen are primarily responsible for ensuring that the  Board provides effective governance to the Company .
In doing  so, the Chairman will preside over meetings of the Board and  of the shareholders of the Company .
The Chairmen will take a lead role in managing the Board  and facilitate effective communication among directors.
82 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 They are responsible for matters pertaining to governance,  including the organization, composition and effectiveness  of the Board and its committees, and the performance  of individual directors in fulfilling their responsibilities.
The Chairmen will provide independent leadership to the  Board, identify guidelines for the conduct and performance  of directors, and oversee the management of the Board’s  administrative activities, such as meetings, schedules, agenda,  communication and documentation.
The Chairmen will actively work with the nomination and  remuneration committee to plan the composition of the Board  and Board committees, induct directors to the Board, plan  for director succession, participate in the Board effectiveness  evaluation process and meet with individual directors to  provide constructive feedback and advice.
The CEO & MD is responsible for corporate strategy , brand  equity , planning, external contacts and all matters related  to the management of the Company .
He is also responsible  for achieving annual and long-term business targets  and acquisitions.
Role of the Board of Directors The primary role of the Board is that of trusteeship to  protect and enhance shareholder value through strategic  direction to the Company .
As trustees, the Board has  fiduciary responsibility to ensure that the Company has  clear goals aligned to shareholder value and its growth.
The  Board exercises its duties with care, skill and diligence and  exercises independent judgment.
It sets strategic goals and  seeks accountability for their fulfillment.
It also directs and  exercises appropriate control to ensure that the Company is  managed in a manner that fulfills stakeholders’ aspirations  and societal expectations.
Definition of independent directors The Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations define  an ‘independent director’ as a person who is not a promoter  or employee or one of the key managerial personnel (KMP) of  the Company or its subsidiaries.
The laws also state that the  person should not have a material pecuniary relationship or  transactions with the Company or its subsidiaries, apart from  receiving remuneration as an independent director.
We abide  by these definitions of independent director in addition to the  definitions of an independent director as laid down in the  New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listed company manual,  Sarbanes-Oxley Act and U.S. securities laws by virtue of our  listing on the NYSE in the U.S. Board membership criteria The nomination and remuneration committee works with  the entire Board to determine the appropriate characteristics,  skills and experience required for the Board as a whole and  for individual members.
Members are expected to possess  the required qualifications, integrity , expertise and experience  for the position.
They should also possess deep expertise and  insights in sectors / areas relevant to the Company , and ability  to contribute to the Company’s growth.
The age limit for a managing director / executive director is  60 years, while the age limit for an independent director is  70 years.
A director’s term may be extended at the discretion  of the committee beyond the age of 60 or 70 years with  shareholders’ approval by passing a special resolution, based  on the explanatory statement annexed to the Notice for  such motion indicating the justification for the extension of  appointment beyond 60 or 70 years as the case may be.
Selection of new directors The Board is responsible for the selection of new directors.
The Board delegates the screening and selection process to  the nomination and remuneration committee, which consists  exclusively of independent directors.
The committee, based  on defined criteria, makes recommendations to the Board on  the induction of new directors.
Training of Board members All new non-executive directors inducted to the Board are  introduced to our Company culture through orientation  sessions.
Current executive directors and senior management  provide an overview of our operations, and familiarize the new  non-executive directors on matters related to our values and  commitments.
They are also introduced to our organization  structure, our services, Group structure and subsidiaries,  constitution, Board procedures, matters reserved for the  Board, and our major risks and risk management strategy .
The  details of the training program are available on our website  at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance.
The Board’s policy is to have separate meetings regularly with  independent directors to update them on all business-related  issues and new initiatives.
At such meetings, the executive  directors and other members of the senior management share  points of view and leadership thoughts on relevant issues.
We also facilitate the continual educational requirements of  our directors.
Each director is entitled to a training fee of  US $5,000 per year.
Support is provided for independent  directors if they choose to attend educational programs in  the areas of Board / corporate governance.
Independent directors of the Board are familiarized through  three kinds of engagements :  Deep dives and immersion sessions : Deep dives and  immersion sessions are conducted by senior executives on  their respective business units.
The business unit can be an  industry vertical or a service offering unit.
Key aspects that  are covered in these sessions include : • Industry / market and technology trends • Competition  • The Company’s performance • Strategic bets and their progress • Future outlook Strategy retreat : As part of our annual strategy planning  process, we organize a strategy retreat with the Board of  Directors to deliberate on various topics related to strategic  alternatives, progress of ongoing strategic initiatives, risks to  strategy execution and the need for new strategic programs  required to achieve the Company’s long-term objectives.
Cross-functional teams develop each strategic theme, and  each team is mentored by one or more Board members.
This  serves the dual purpose of providing a platform for Board  members to bring their expertise to the projects, while also  providing an opportunity for them to understand detailed  Corporate governance report | 83  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 aspects of execution and challenges relating to the specific  theme.
During this fiscal, the key themes discussed included  service automation, software-enabled service offerings,  design-led consulting, enablement of client-facing teams, cost  optimization and capital allocation.
STRAP : Our annual strategy and planning event, STRAP ,  brings together the top leadership of the Company and the  Board to discuss, debate and decide key aspects of strategy  execution, especially as it relates to the next fiscal.
This  year, the event was held in the first week of March at the  Company’s leadership institute in Mysuru, India.
Over two  days, leadership teams presented their plans, debated the  feasibility of actions and objectives, and set up operational  goals for the next fiscal.
During the event, members of the  Board of Directors had the opportunity to interact with  multiple levels of leadership, both formally and informally ,  through networking sessions.
The above are specific mechanisms through which members  of the Board are familiarized with the Company culture  and operations.
Apart from these, there could be additional  meetings or sessions on demand on specific topics.
All  directors attend the familiarization programs as these are  scheduled to coincide with the Board meeting calendar to  give them an opportunity to attend.
The details of the training programs attended by independent directors during fiscal 2017 are as follows : in hours Name of the director Deep dives and immersion sessions Strategy  retreat and  STRAP Total Market trends  – Consulting  Digital  experience Leadership  mentoring  session Market trends  – APAC, China R. Seshasayee 2 2 1.5 2 24 31.5 Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman 2 2 – 2 15 21.0 Prof. John W .
Etchemendy 2 2 – 2 15 21.0 Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw 2 2 – 2 24 30.0 D. N. Prahlad 2 2 – 2 24 30.0 Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha 2 2 – 2 24 30.0 Ravi Venkatesan 2 2 1.5 2 24 31.5 Roopa Kudva 2 2 1.5 2 24 31.5 Total hours 226.5 Membership term The Board constantly evaluates the contribution of members  and periodically shares updates with the shareholders about  reappointments consistent with applicable statutes.
The  current law in India mandates the retirement of two-third  of the non-independent directors (who are liable to retire  by rotation) every year, and qualifies the retiring members  for reappointment.
Executive directors are appointed by the  shareholders for a maximum period of five years, but are  eligible for reappointment upon completion of their term.
An independent director shall hold office for a term of up  to five consecutive years on the Board of the Company and  will be eligible for reappointment on the passing of a special  resolution by the shareholders.
Board member evaluation One of the key functions of the Board is to monitor and review  the Board evaluation framework.
The Board works with the  nomination and remuneration committee to lay down the  evaluation criteria for the performance of the Chairman, the  Board, Board committees, and executive / non-executive /  independent directors through a peer evaluation, excluding  the director being evaluated.
Independent directors have three key roles – governance,  control and guidance.
Some of the performance indicators,  based on which the independent directors, are evaluated  include : • The ability to contribute to and monitor our corporate  governance practices • The ability to contribute by introducing international best  practices to address business challenges and risks • Active participation in long-term strategic planning • Commitment to the fulfillment of a director’s obligations  and fiduciary responsibilities; these include participation  in Board and committee meetings.
To improve the effectiveness of the Board and its committees,  as well as that of each individual director, a formal and rigorous  Board review is internally undertaken on an annual basis.
For fiscal 2017, the Board review process was for the first  time externally facilitated and conducted by Egon Zehnder (a  leadership advisory firm on board matters).
The process took  the form of questionnaires followed by structured interviews  with independent and executive directors.
A group of senior  members of the executive team were also interviewed by the  representatives of Egon Zehnder.
Succession planning The nomination and remuneration committee works with  the Board on the leadership succession plan, and prepares  contingency plans for succession in case of any exigencies.
Board and executive leadership compensation  policy In order to adapt to the changing business context and  the highly competitive environment that we operate in,  our executive compensation philosophy has evolved to  reward long-term sustainable performance.
Our Executive  Compensation Policy moves away from a predominantly  84 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 cash-based compensation structure to a Total Rewards  structure where a significant portion of the rewards is in the  form of stock incentives.
The details of executive leadership  compensation is available at https://www.infosys.com/ investors/reports-filings/Documents/statement-executives- compensation2017.pdf.
The nomination and remuneration committee determines  and recommends to the Board the compensation payable  to directors.
All Board-level compensation is approved by  the shareholders and disclosed separately in the financial  statements.
Remuneration for the executive directors  comprises a fixed component and a variable component.
The  committee makes a periodic appraisal of the performance  of the executive directors based on a detailed performance  matrix.
The annual compensation of the executive directors is  approved by the committee and placed before the shareholders  at the shareholders’ meeting / postal ballot.
The executive directors of the Company are entitled to an  annual / half-yearly variable pay , which is subject to the  achievement of certain fiscal milestones by the Company , as  determined by the Board.
The Board may reserve the authority  to set such milestones on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis.
The compensation payable to the independent directors  is limited to a fixed amount per year as determined and  approved by the Board, the sum of which does not exceed 1%  of net profits for the year, calculated as per the provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013.
The Board reviews the performance  of independent directors on an annual basis.
Remuneration to directors in fiscal 2017 in ` crore Name of the director Fixed salary Bonus /  incentives Perquisites on account  of stock options (1) Commission Total Base salary Retiral  benefits Total fixed  salary Whole-time directors Dr. Vishal Sikka (3)(4)(5) 6.71 0.28 6.99 (2) 5.33 (1) 3.69 – 16.01 U.
B. Pravin Rao (6) 4.00 0.18 4.18 3.62 – – 7.80 Independent directors R. Seshasayee – – – – – 1.95 1.95 Ravi Venkatesan – – – – – 1.04 1.04 Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman – – – – – 1.37 1.37 Prof. John W .
Etchemendy – – – – – 1.10 1.10 Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw – – – – – 0.89 0.89 Roopa Kudva – – – – – 1.00 1.00 Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha – – – – – 1.22 1.22 D. N. Prahlad (7) – – – – – 0.36 0.36 Notes : The details in the above table are on accrual basis.
For details on the number of equity shares held by the directors, refer to Annexure 6 to the Board’s report  (1) Remuneration includes only the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the period, determined in accordance with the provisions of the  Income-tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly , the value of stock incentives granted during the period is not included.
During fiscal 2017, the CEO exercised  34,062 restricted stock units (RSUs).
(2) Includes US $0.82 million (approximately ` 5.33 crore) as variable pay for fiscal 2017, as approved by the nomination and remuneration committee  on April 13, 2017.
(3) For fiscal 2017, 1,20,700 time-based RSUs amounting to US $2 million (approximately ` 13.42 crore) have been granted on August 1, 2016.
These  RSUs were issued in equity shares represented by ADSs.
(4) The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017, performance-based equity  and stock options for fiscal 2017, comprising 1,32,483 RSUs amounting to US $1.9 million (approximately ` 12.91 crore) and 3,30,525 ESOPs  amounting to US $0.96 million (approximately ` 6.46 crore).
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(5) The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017 the annual time-based  vesting grant for fiscal 2018, comprising 1,37,741 RSUs amounting to US $2 million (approximately ` 12.97 crore).
These RSUs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(6) On March 31, 2017, the shareholders vide a postal ballot approved a revision in the salary of U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO and Whole-time Director, w.e.f.
November 1, 2016.
Based on the fiscal 2016 performance, the nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting held on October 14, 2016,  recommended a grant of 27,250 RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs, amounting to ` 4 crore to U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO, under the 2015 Plan and the same was  approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot on March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
(7) For the period October 14, 2016 to March 31, 2017 Employment agreements with Executive directors  Dr.  Vishal Sikka, Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director The shareholders had approved the remuneration to  Dr. Vishal Sikka vide a postal ballot concluded on March 31,  2016.
Based on the shareholders’ approval, the Company had  entered into an executive employment agreement effective  April 1, 2016.
The executive agreement can be accessed at   https://www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings/ Documents/CEO-executive-employment-agreement2017.pdf The key details of the agreement are as follows :  • Base pay : An annual base salary of US $1,000,000, to be  paid in accordance with the Company’s normal practices  and subject to withholding taxes • Variable pay : Annual performance-based variable pay at a  target level of US $3,000,000 less applicable tax and subject  Corporate governance report | 85  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 to the Company’s achievement of fiscal performance targets  set by the Board, as described in the postal ballot • Stock compensation : Eligible to receive an annual grant of  (i) US $2,000,000 of fair value in RSUs which will vest over  time (‘time-based RSUs’), subject to continued service and  (ii) US $5,000,000 in performance-based equity and stock  options, upon the achievement of certain performance  targets as described in the postal ballot • Employee benefits and paid vacation  : As applicable to  other whole-time directors of the Company • Minimum and maximum remuneration : Should  Dr. Sikka fail to achieve minimum performance targets,  his remuneration as proposed will fall to US $3,000,000  annually , consisting of US $1,000,000 of base salary  and US $2,000,000 of time-based RSUs.
If Dr.  Sikka’s  performance targets are exceeded, the performance-based  payments for variable components of his compensation  (variable pay and performance equity) will be capped  at 150% of the target compensation for such variable  components.
The Company and Dr. Sikka are to provide each other with  90 days’ notice of termination as applicable.
Dr. Sikka may be  entitled to severance benefits depending on the circumstances  of his termination of employment.
a.
In case of termination for other than Cause, Death,  Disability or resignation for Good Reason, he shall receive :  – Continuing payments of severance pay at a rate equal  to his base pay rate, as then in effect, for a period of  twenty-four (24) months and 24 times the liquidated  payout paid in equal installments in accordance with  the Company’s payroll practices over a period of 24  months.
The severance will be paid, less applicable  withholdings, in installments over the severance period  with the first payment to commence on the 61st day  following his termination of employment (and include  any severance payments that otherwise would have been  paid within 60 days following termination date), with  any remaining payments paid in accordance with the  Company’s normal payroll practices for the remainder  of the severance period following termination of  employment.
– If he elects continuation coverage pursuant to the  Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of  1985, as amended (‘COBRA ’), within the time period  prescribed pursuant to COBRA for Executive and  Executive’s eligible dependents, then the Company  will reimburse him for the COBRA premiums for such  coverage (at the coverage levels in effect immediately  prior to his termination) until the earlier of (A) a period  of 18 months from date of termination or (B) the date  upon which he and / or his eligible dependents are  no longer eligible for COBRA continuation coverage.
The reimbursements will be made by the Company  to him consistent with the Company’s normal  expense reimbursement policy .
Notwithstanding  the first sentence, if the Company determines, in its  sole discretion, that it cannot provide the foregoing  benefit without potentially violating, or being subject  to an excise tax under applicable law, the Company  will, in lieu thereof, provide him a taxable monthly  payment, payable on the last day of a given month  (except as provided by the following sentence), in an  amount equal to the monthly COBRA premium that he  would be required to pay to continue the group health  coverage for himself and / or his eligible dependents in  effect on the termination of employment date (which  amount will be based on the premium for the first  month of COBRA coverage), which payments will be  made regardless of whether he and / or his eligible  dependents elect COBRA continuation coverage and  will commence on the month following Executive’s  termination of employment and will end on the earlier  of (a) the date he becomes eligible for similar health  and dental benefits pursuant to a benefit plan of a  subsequent employer, or (b) the date the Company has  paid an amount equal to 18 payments.
Any such taxable  monthly payments that otherwise would have been paid  to him within the 60 days following his termination  date instead will be paid on the 61st day following  his termination of employment, with any remaining  payments paid as provided in the prior sentence.
For  the avoidance of doubt, the taxable payments, in lieu of  COBRA reimbursements, may be used for any purpose,  including, but not limited to continuation coverage  under COBRA, and will be subject to all applicable tax  withholdings.
– Accelerated vesting of each of his then-outstanding  equity grants (including RSUs and options).
Provided  however, if the equity grant has a performance  requirement at the time of termination other than  continued service, acceleration will be at 100% of  the target number of shares subject to the grant.
Any  accelerated RSU grants will be settled on the 61st  day following his termination of employment and  any accelerated option grants must be exercised in  accordance with the terms of the agreement evidencing  the grant.
b.
In case of termination for Cause or resignation without Good  Reason, then (i) all vesting will terminate immediately with  respect to his outstanding RSUs, options or other equity  awards and all awards will terminate in accordance with  the terms thereof, (ii) all payments of compensation by the  Company to him will terminate immediately (except as to  amounts already earned), and (iii) he will only be eligible  for severance benefits in accordance with the Company’s  established policies, if any , as then in effect.
c. In the event of termination of his employment with the  Company , the above-mentioned provisions are intended  to be and are exclusive and in lieu of any other rights or  remedies to which he or the Company may otherwise be  entitled, whether at law, tort or contract, in equity , or as  per the Agreement.
He will be entitled to no severance  or other benefits upon termination of employment with  respect to acceleration of award vesting or severance pay  other than those benefits expressly set forth.
The details of severance pay and the conditions under which it  is payable is described in detail in the executive employment  agreement.
86 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 U.
B. Pravin Rao, Chief Operating Officer and Whole-time  Director The shareholders had approved the remuneration to  U. B.
Pravin Rao vide a postal ballot concluded on March 31,  2017.
Based on the shareholders’ approval, the Company had  entered in to the executive employment agreement effective  November 1, 2016.
The executive employment agreement  can be accessed at https://www.infosys.com/investors/ reports-filings/Documents/COO-executive-employment- agreement2017.pdf.
The key details of the agreement are as follows.
• Fixed salary  : Annual fixed salary of ` 4,62,50,000  (comprising primarily basic salary , house rent allowance,  medical allowance, leave travel allowances, superannuation  allowance, statutory bonus, ex-gratia, personal allowance  and others) to be paid periodically in accordance with the  Company’s normal payroll practices and subject to tax  withholding.
• Variable pay : Annual variable compensation of  ` 3,87,50,000 at 100% payout (capped at maximum of  120%) on the achievement of annual targets set by the  Board or by the committee less applicable tax withholdings  to be paid, and payable at such intervals as may be decided  by the Board or the committee from time to time.
• Performance-based stock compensation : Based on fiscal  2016 performance, stock compensation of ` 4,00,00,000  by way of 27,250 RSUs and 43,000 stock options (based  on Black-Scholes valuation) under the 2015 Stock Incentive  Compensation Plan.
The RSUs and stock options would vest  over a period of four years and shall be exercisable within  the period as approved by the committee.
The exercise  price of the RSUs will be equal to the par value of the  shares and the exercise price of the stock options would be  market price as on the date of grant under the 2015 Stock  Incentive Compensation Plan.
Stock compensation for  periods beyond fiscal 2016 will be granted on achievement  of performance conditions, decided by the Board or the  committee each year.
Such stock compensation shall not  exceed ` 5,00,00,000 per annum.
• Employee benefits : During the term of his employment,  U.
B.  Pravin Rao will be entitled to participate in the  employee benefit plans of the Company , including  personal accident insurance, club membership fees, use  of Company-provided chauffeur and security services,  contribution to retirement benefits such as provident fund,  superannuation fund, gratuity , etc.
In addition, U. B.
Pravin  Rao will be entitled to receive severance compensation  amounting to nine months’ fixed salary should his  employment be terminated without cause.
• Vacation : U. B.
Pravin Rao will be entitled to paid vacation in  accordance with the Company’s vacation policy applicable  to its whole-time directors.
• Expenses : The Company will reimburse U. B.
Pravin Rao  for, or pay for, actual and reasonable travel, entertainment,  security , or other expenses incurred by him pursuant to or  in connection with the performance of his duties.
• Minimum remuneration : Further and notwithstanding  anything herein, should the Company incur a loss or have  inadequate profits in any financial year closing on and after  March 31, 2017, during the tenure of U. B.
Pravin Rao as a  Whole-time Director of the Company , the Company shall  pay to U. B.
Pravin Rao an aggregate remuneration not  exceeding the limits specified under Section II of Part II  of Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013 (including any  statutory modifications or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the  time being in force), or any other applicable for the time  being in force.
The Company agreed with Pravin Rao, in case of termination  without Cause by the Company , Pravin Rao shall receive  accrued obligations, severance benefits and severance  compensation, as defined in the employment contract.
Accrued obligations is the sum of unpaid benefits as of the date  of termination, comprising accrued salary , accrued benefits  and accrued expenses.
Severance benefits consist of bonus  and options.
For bonus, it includes payment of bonus earned  for the prevailing bonus cycle till the date of termination  and for options, it includes any outstanding equity awards as  governed by the terms of the plan, agreements evidencing the  awards and the plans under which the awards were granted.
Severance compensation is a lump sum cash amount (less all  applicable withholdings) equal to nine months of his fixed  salary then in effect, subject to the execution of a waiver  and release agreement in a form acceptable to the Company  that shall be received on the 60th day following the date of  termination.
In case of termination for Cause – he shall be entitled to  accrued obligations, and the Company shall have no  obligation to provide any of the severance benefits or  severance compensation.
The details of severance pay and the conditions under which it  is payable is described in detail in the executive employment  agreement.
Indemnification agreements We have also entered into agreements to indemnify our  directors and officers for claims brought under U.S. laws to  the fullest extent permitted by Indian law.
These agreements,  among other things, indemnify our directors and officers for  certain expenses, judgments, fines and settlement amounts  incurred by any such person in any action or proceeding,  including any action by or in the right of Infosys Limited,  arising out of such persons’ services as our director or officer.
Non-executive / independent directors’  remuneration Shareholders, at the 34th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held  on June 22, 2015, approved a sum not exceeding 1% of the net  profits of the Company per annum calculated in accordance  with the provisions of Section 198 of the Act, to be paid and  distributed among some or all of the directors of the Company  (other than the Managing Director and whole-time directors)  in a manner decided by the Board.
This payment will be made  with respect to the profits of the Company for each year.
Corporate governance report | 87  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The composition of the Board, and directorships held, as on March 31, 2017 are as follows : Name of the director Designation Age India-listed  companies (1) All companies  around the  world (2) Committee  memberships (3) Chairperson  of committees  (3) Whole-time directors        Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer  and Managing Director 49 – 2  – –  U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer  and Whole-time Director55 – 3 1 – Independent directors        R. Seshasayee Chairman of the Board 68 2 6 2 – Ravi Venkatesan (4) Co-Chairman and  Independent Director54 1 2 2 – Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Independent Director 60 – 3 1 1 Prof. John W .
Etchemendy Independent Director 64 – 1 1 – Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw Independent Director 64 4 16 – – D. N. Prahlad Independent Director 61 – 7 1 1 Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha Independent Director 54 5 11 4 2 Roopa Kudva Independent Director 53 – 3 – 1 Notes : There are no inter-se relationships between our Board members.
(1) Excluding directorship in Infosys Limited and its subsidiaries  (2) Directorship in companies around the world (listed, unlisted and private limited companies), including Infosys Limited and its subsidiaries  (3) As required by Regulation 26 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the disclosure includes membership /  chairpersonship of the audit committee and stakeholders relationship committee in Indian public companies (listed and unlisted).
(4) Appointed as Co-Chairman of the Board effective April 13, 2017 B.
Board meetings Scheduling and selection of agenda items for  Board meetings The dates of Board meetings for the next fiscal are decided  in advance and published in the Annual Report as part of  Shareholder information.
The non-executive Chairman of  the Board and the Company Secretary draft the agenda for  each meeting, along with explanatory notes, in consultation  with the CEO & MD, and distribute these in advance to the  directors.
Every Board member can suggest the inclusion of  additional items in the agenda.
The Board meets at least once  a quarter to review the quarterly results and other items on  the agenda, and also on the occasion of the AGM.
Additional  meetings are held when necessary .
Independent directors are  expected to attend at least four Board meetings in a year.
However, with the Board being represented by independent  directors from various parts of the world, it may not be  possible for each one of them to be physically present at all  the meetings.
Hence, we use video / teleconferencing facilities  We have paid ` 8.93 crore to our independent directors for  the year ended March 31, 2017.
The aggregate amount was  arrived at using the following criteria : Particulars in ` crore in US $ Fixed Board fee 0.49 75,000 Board attendance fee (1) 0.16 25,000 Non-executive chairman fee 0.97 150,000 Chairperson – audit committee 0.19 30,000 Members – audit committee 0.13 20,000 Chairperson – other committees 0.13 20,000 Members – other committees 0.06 10,000 Travel fee (per meeting) (2) 0.06 10,000 Incidental fees (per meeting) (3) 0.01 1,000 Notes : 1 US $ = ` 64.85 as on March 31, 2017  (1) The Company normally has five regular Board meetings in a year.
Independent directors are expected to attend the four quarterly  Board meetings and the AGM.
(2) For directors based overseas, the travel fee shown is per Board  meeting.
This is based on the fact that additional travel time of two  days will have to be accommodated for independent directors to  attend Board meetings in India.
(3) For directors based overseas, incidental fees shown is per Board  meeting.
This fee is paid to non-executive directors for expenses  incurred during their travel to attend Board meetings in India.
The Board believes that the above compensation structure  is commensurate with global best practices in terms of  remunerating non-executive / independent directors of a  company of similar size, and adequately compensates for  the time and contribution made by our non-executive /  independent directors.
Memberships in other boards An executive director may , with the prior consent of the  Chairman of the Board, serve on the Board of two other  business entities, provided that such business entities are  not in direct competition with our operations.
Executive  directors are also allowed to serve on the boards of corporate  or government bodies whose interests are germane to the  future of the IT and software business or the key economic  institutions of the nation, or whose prime objective is to  benefit society .
Independent directors are not expected to  serve on the boards of competing companies.
There are no  other limitations except those imposed by law and good  corporate governance practices.
88 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 to enable their participation.
Committees of the Board usually  meet the day before the formal Board meeting, or whenever  the need arises for transacting business.
The Board members  are expected to rigorously prepare for, attend and participate  in all Board and applicable committee meetings.
Each  member is expected to ensure that their other current and  planned future commitments do not materially interfere with  their responsibilities with us.
Eight Board meetings were held  during the year ended March 31, 2017.
These were held on  April 15, 2016; June 18, 2016; July 15, 2016; October 14,  2016; December 5, 2016; January 13, 2017; February 23,  2017; and March 9, 2017.
Attendance of directors during fiscal 2017 Attended through audio conference (not counted for quorum and for calculating % of attendance) NA NA NA NA AGM held  on June 18, 2016 (1) Appointed as director effective October 14, 2016 Availability of information to Board members The Board has unrestricted access to all Company-related  information, including that of our employees.
At Board  meetings, managers and representatives who can provide  additional insights into the items being discussed are invited.
Information is provided to the Board members on a continuous  basis for their review, inputs and approval periodically .
Strategic and operating plans are presented to the Board in  addition to the quarterly and annual financial statements.
Specific cases of acquisitions, important managerial decisions,  material positive / negative developments and statutory  matters are presented to the committees of the Board and  later, with the recommendation of the committees, to the  Board for its approval.
As a process, information to directors  is submitted along with the agenda well in advance of Board  meetings.
Inputs and feedback of Board members are taken  and considered while preparing the agenda and documents  for the Board meeting.
Deep dive and immersion sessions are  conducted by senior executives in their respective business  units.
At these meetings, directors can provide their inputs  and suggestions on various strategic and operational matters.
Meeting of independent directors Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules  thereunder mandate that the independent directors of the  Company hold at least one meeting in a year, without the  attendance of non-independent directors and members of  the Management.
Even before the Companies Act, 2013 came into effect,  our Board’s policy mandated quarterly meetings attended  exclusively by the independent directors.
At such meetings,  the independent directors discuss, among other matters, the  performance of the Company and risks faced by it, the flow  of information to the Board, competition, strategy , leadership  strengths and weaknesses, governance, compliance, Board  movements, human resource matters and performance of the  executive members of the Board, including the Chairman.
Materially significant related party transactions There have been no materially significant related party  transactions, monetary transactions or relationships between  the Company and its directors, the Management, subsidiaries  or relatives, except for those disclosed in the Board’s report.
Detailed information on materially significant related party  transactions is enclosed as Annexure 2 to the Board’s report.
C. Board committees Currently , the Board has seven committees : audit committee,  corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee, nomination  and remuneration committee, risk and strategy committee,  stakeholders relationship committee, finance and investment  committee and committee of directors.
The committee of  directors was constituted effective April  13, 2017, with  R. Seshasayee as the Chairperson and Ravi Venkatesan and  D. N. Prahlad as members.
All committees except the CSR  committee consist entirely of independent directors.
Corporate governance report | 89  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Board and committee composition as on March 31, 2017 Name BoardA udit committee Corporate social responsibility committee Nomination and remuneration committee Risk and strategy committee Stakeholders relationship committee Finance and investment committee R. Seshasayee Dr. Vishal Sikka  U.
B. Pravin Rao  Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman  Prof. John W. Etchemendy  Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw  D. N. Prahlad  Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha Ravi Venkatesan  Roopa Kudva MemberChairperson The Board, in consultation with the nomination and  remuneration committee, is responsible for assigning and  fixing terms of service for committee members.
It delegates  these powers to the nomination and remuneration committee.
The non-executive chairman of the Board, in consultation  with the Company Secretary and the committee chairperson,  determines the frequency and duration of the committee  meetings.
Normally , all the committees meet four times a year.
The recommendations of the committees are submitted to the  entire Board for approval.
During the year, all recommendations  of the committees were approved by the Board.
The quorum for meetings is higher of two members or  one-third of the total number of members of the committee.
1.
Audit committee Our audit committee comprised four independent directors  as on March 31, 2017 : • Roopa Kudva, Chairperson and Financial Expert • Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman • Ravi Venkatesan • R. Seshasayee There has been no change in the composition of the committee  during the year.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary  to the audit committee.
The primary objective of the audit committee is to monitor  and provide an effective supervision of the Management’s  financial reporting process, to ensure accurate and timely  disclosures, with the highest levels of transparency , integrity  and quality of financial reporting.
The committee oversees  the work carried out in the financial reporting process by  the Management, the internal auditors and the independent  auditors, and notes the processes and safeguards employed by  each of them.
The audit committee has the ultimate authority  and responsibility to select, evaluate and, where appropriate,  replace the independent auditors in accordance with the law.
All possible measures are taken by the committee to ensure  the objectivity and independence of the independent auditors.
In India, we are listed on the BSE Limited (BSE) and the  National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
We are also  listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext  Paris, and the Euronext London stock exchanges.
In India,  Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations and in the U.S., the Blue  Ribbon Committee set up by the U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC) mandate that listed companies adopt an  appropriate audit committee charter.
This recommendation  has also been adopted by the NYSE.
The audit committee  charter containing exhaustive terms of reference is available  on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/ corporate-governance/Documents/audit-committee-charter.
pdf.
The Board accepted all recommendations made by the  audit committee during the year.
Audit committee attendance The audit committee held four meetings during the year ended March 31, 2017.
These were held on April 14, 2016, July 14,  2016, October 13, 2016 and January 12, 2017.
The committee also held several meetings throughout the year over telephone  calls for timely resolution of issues.
The attendance details of the audit committee meetings are as follows : 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 100 100 100 100 Roopa Kudva Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Ravi Venkatesan R. Seshasayee Audit committee meeting 12 34 Held during tenure Attended % of attendanceName of the director Committee meeting number Attended through VC Leave of absence 90 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Audit committee report for the year ended March 31,  2017 The audit committee is guided by the charter adopted by  the Board that is available on the Company’s website, at  https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/ Documents/audit-committee-charter.pdf.
The charter is  reviewed annually and was last amended on July 15, 2016  to keep it relevant to the current composition and functions  of the committee.
The audit committee helps the Board monitor the Management’s  financial reporting process, and ensure that the disclosures  are not only accurate and timely , but follow the highest levels  of transparency , integrity and quality of financial reporting.
The committee also oversees the work of the internal and  the independent auditors, and reviews the processes and  safeguards employed by them.
The audit committee has  the ultimate authority and responsibility to select, evaluate  and, where appropriate, replace the independent auditors in  accordance with the law.
It recommends to the Board the  remuneration and terms of appointment of the internal,  secretarial and independent auditors.
All possible measures  are taken by the committee to ensure the objectivity and  independence of the independent auditors.
In addition,  the committee reviews the policies, processes and controls  relating to the valuation of undertakings or assets of the  Company that are carried out as and when required.
The committee is comprised solely of independent directors  and fulfills the requirements of audit committee charter, as  well as Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 18  of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, and NYSE guidelines.
The committee complies  with the SEBI Listing Regulations, NYSE, Euronext London  and Euronext Paris exchange rules relating to its composition,  independence of its members, disclosures relating to non- independent members, financial expertise of members and  the audit committee charter.
To carry out its responsibilities efficiently and transparently ,  the committee relies on the Management’s financial expertise,  and that of the internal and the independent auditors.
The  Management is responsible for the Company’s internal control  over financial reporting and the financial reporting process.
The independent auditors are responsible for performing an  independent audit of the Company’s financial statements in  accordance with the Generally Accepted Auditing Principles,  and for issuing a report based on the audit.
The audit committee met four times and also held several  meetings throughout the year over telephone calls for timely  resolution of issues during fiscal 2017.
The Management shared  the Company’s financial statements, prepared in accordance  with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as specified  under the Companies Act, 2013, read with the relevant  rules thereunder, and International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting  Standards Board, with the committee.
The committee held  discussions with the auditors (whenever necessary , without  any member of the Management being present) regarding  the Company’s audited financial statements, including the  auditors’ judgment about the quality and applicability of  the accounting principles, the reasonableness of significant  judgment and the adequacy of disclosures in the financial  statements.
The committee also discussed with the auditors the matters  required by Statement on Auditing Standards 1301 as  amended, as adopted by the Public Company Accounting  Oversight Board in Rule 3200.
Besides discussing the overall scope and plan for the internal  audit, and requirements of SEC, SEBI and other regulatory  bodies, the committee also reviewed with the independent  auditors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s  legal, regulatory and ethical compliance programs.
As part  of continuous improvements, revisions to the Insider Trading  Policy , Corporate Policy Statement on Investor Relations,  Policy for determining the materiality of disclosures, Code  of Conduct and Ethics and Whistleblower Policy were  recommended to the Board and were duly approved.
The  committee also reviewed the other financial policies of the  Company , including the Treasury Policy , covering instruments  and foreign currency hedges.
With the auditors, the committee, on a periodic basis, reviewed  the process adopted by the Management on impairment of  assets including financial assets, goodwill and intangibles.
The committee granted omnibus approval for the related  party transactions proposed to be entered into by the  Company during fiscal 2017.
On a periodic basis, the  committee reviewed and approved related party transactions.
The committee monitored and reviewed investigations of the  whistleblower complaints received during the year.
During the year, the committee, upon recommendations from  the nomination and remuneration committee, nominated  certain employees of the Company as key managerial  personnel under Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Based on its discussion with the Management and the auditors,  and a review of the representations of the Management and  the report of the auditors, the committee has recommended  the following to the Board : • The audited financial statements prepared in accordance  with Ind AS of Infosys Limited for the year ended March 31,  2017 be accepted by the Board as a true and fair statement  of the financial status of the Company .
• The audited consolidated financial statements prepared  in accordance with Ind AS of Infosys Limited and its  subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2017 be accepted  by the Board as a true and fair statement of the financial  status of the Group.
• The audited consolidated financial statements prepared  in Indian rupee in accordance with IFRS of Infosys  Limited and its subsidiaries for the quarter and year ended  March 31, 2017 be accepted by the Board as a true and fair  statement of the financial status of the Group.
• The audited consolidated financial statements prepared  in US dollar in accordance with IFRS of Infosys Limited  and its subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2017,  upon adoption by this committee, be accepted by the Board  as a true and fair statement of the financial status of the  Group and included in the Company’s Annual Report on  Form 20-F , to be filed with the US Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC).
Corporate governance report | 91  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 • The appointment of Deloitte Haskins & Sells, LLP , Chartered  Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366 W/W 100018)  (‘Deloitte’) as the statutory auditors of the Company , in  accordance with Section 139 of the Indian Companies  Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.
Deloitte will  hold office for a period of five consecutive years from the  conclusion of the 36th AGM of the Company scheduled to  be held in 2017 till the conclusion of the 41st AGM to be  held in 2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders of  the Company .
The first year of audit will be of the financial  statements for the year ending March 31, 2018 which will  include audit of the quarterly financial statements for the  year.
To align with the above, the Board of Directors of the  Company also approved the appointment of Deloitte as  the independent registered public accounting firm of the  Company , effective year ending March 31, 2018.
As the  independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte  will audit the annual financial statements of the Company  to be included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form  20-F filed with the SEC.
KPMG will continue as the  Company’s independent registered public accounting firm  through the completion of the audit for the year ending  March 31, 2017 and for the purpose of filing such audited  financial statements in the Form 20-F for the year ending  March 31, 2017.
• The appointment of Ernst & Young as the internal auditors  of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2018, to  review various operations of the Company .
The committee  has issued a letter in line with Recommendation No.
9 of the  Blue Ribbon Committee on audit committee effectiveness,  to be provided in the financial statements prepared in  accordance with IFRS in the Annual Report on Form 20-F .
• The appointment of Parameshwar G. Hegde of Hegde &  Hegde, Company Secretaries, as secretarial auditor for the  year ending March 31, 2018 to conduct the secretarial  audit as prescribed under Section 204 and other applicable  sections of the Companies Act, 2013.
Relying on its review and the discussions with the Management  and the independent auditors, the committee believes that  the Company’s financial statements are fairly presented  in conformity with Ind AS and IFRS, and that there is no  material discrepancy or weakness in the Company’s internal  control over financial reporting.
In conclusion, the committee is sufficiently satisfied that it  has complied with its responsibilities as outlined in the audit  committee charter.
Sd/- Bengaluru April 12, 2017 Roopa Kudva Chairperson 2.
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee Our CSR committee comprises two independent directors  and the CEO & MD as members as on March 31, 2017 : • R. Seshasayee, Chairperson • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • Dr. Vishal Sikka There has been no change in the composition of the committee  during the year.
While aiming to generate maximum profit for our  shareholders through the year, we also focus on our social  and environmental responsibilities to fulfill the needs and  expectations of the communities around us.
Our CSR is not  limited to philanthropy , but encompasses holistic community  development, institution-building and sustainability-related  initiatives.
The CSR committee was set up to formulate and monitor the  CSR policy of the Company .
The CSR committee adopted a  policy that outlines the Company’s objective of catalyzing  economic development that positively improves the quality  of life for the society , and aims to be a responsible corporate  citizen and create positive impact through its activities on the  environment, communities and stakeholders.
The CSR committee is also responsible for overseeing  the activities / functioning of the Infosys Foundation in  identifying the areas of CSR activities, programs and execution  of initiatives as per pre-defined guidelines.
The Foundation,  in turn, guides the CSR committee in reporting the progress  of deployed initiatives, and making appropriate disclosures  (internal / external) on a periodic basis.
The CSR committee charter and the CSR policy of the  Company are available on our website, at http://www.infosys.
com/investors/corporate-governance/Pages/policies.aspx.
CSR committee attendance The committee held four meetings during the year ended March 31, 2017.
These were held on April 14, 2016, July 15, 2016,  October 13, 2016 and January 12, 2017.
The attendance details of the committee meetings are as follows : 4 4 4 4 4 4 100 100 100 R. Seshasayee Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw Dr. Vishal Sikka CSR committee meeting 1234 Held during tenure Attended % of attendanceName of the director Committee meeting number Attended through VC Leave of absence 92 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 CSR committee report for the year ended March 31, 2017 The CSR report, as required under the Companies Act, 2013  for the year ended March 31, 2017 is attached as Annexure 7   to the Board’s report.
3.
Nomination and remuneration committee Our nomination and remuneration committee comprised five  independent directors as on March 31, 2017 : • Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman, Chairperson • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • D. N. Prahlad  • R. Seshasayee D. N. Prahlad was appointed as a member of the nomination  and remuneration committee effective January 13, 2017.
The purpose of the committee is to screen and review  individuals qualified to serve as executive directors,  non-executive directors and independent directors, consistent  with criteria approved by the Board, and to recommend, for  approval by the Board, nominees for election at the AGM.
It also designs, benchmarks and continuously reviews the  compensation program for the Board and the CEO & MD  against the achievement of measurable performance goals.
The committee also reviews and approves senior executive  compensation to ensure it is competitive in the global markets  in which we operate to attract and retain the best talent.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board on  candidates for (i) nomination for election or re-election by the  shareholders; and (ii) any Board vacancies that are to be filled.
It may act on its own in identifying potential candidates,  inside or outside the Company , or may act upon proposals  submitted by the Chairman of the Board.
The nomination and  remuneration committee annually reviews and approves for  the CEO & MD, the executive directors and executive officers :  (a) the annual base salary; (b) the annual incentive bonus  including the specific performance-based goals and amount;  (c) equity compensation; (d) employment agreements,  severance arrangements, and change in control agreements /  provisions; and (e) any other benefits, compensation or  arrangements.
It reviews and discusses all matters pertaining to candidates  and evaluates the candidates.
The nomination and  remuneration committee coordinates and oversees the annual  self-evaluation of the Board and of individual directors.
It  also reviews the performance of all the executive directors  on a periodic basis or at such intervals as may be necessary  on the basis of the detailed performance parameters set for  each executive director at the beginning of the year.
The  nomination and remuneration committee may also regularly  evaluate the usefulness of such performance parameters, and  make necessary amendments.
The nomination and remuneration committee charter and  policy are available on our website, at https://www.infosys.
com/investors/corporate-governance/Pages/policies.aspx.
Nomination and remuneration committee attendance The committee held six meetings during the year ended March 31, 2017.
These were held on April 14, 2016, July 14, 2016,  October 13, 2016, December 21, 2016, January 13, 2017 and February 23, 2017.
The attendance details of the committee  meetings are as follows : Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Prof. John W. Etchemendy Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw D. N. Prahlad (1) R. Seshasayee Nomination and remuneration committee meeting 1 2 345 6 6 6 6 2 6 5 5 5 1 6 Held during tenure Attended % of attendanceName of the director 83 83 83 50 100 Committee meeting number Attended through VC Leave of absence Attended through audio conference (not counted for quorum and for calculating % of attendance) (1) Appointed as member of the committee w.e.f.
January 13, 2017 Nomination and remuneration committee report for the  year ended March 31, 2017 The committee oversees key processes through which the  Company recruits new members to its Board, and also the  processes through which the Company recruits, motivates  and retains outstanding senior management and oversees the  Company’s overall approach to human resources management.
During the year, the committee nominated D. N. Prahlad as  an independent director to the Board.
D. N. Prahlad is the  founder and former CEO of Surya Software Systems Private  Limited, Bengaluru.
Surya focusses on products for financial  risk management of financial institutions in general and banks  in particular.
He is on the advisory board of the Computer  Science and Automation Department of the Indian Institute of  Science, Bengaluru.
He served as an adjunct faculty member at  the Indian Institute of Information Technology , Bengaluru, in  its formative years.
He serves as an advisory board member of  PathShodh Healthcare, a company that uses nano-technology  for diagnostic measurements related to diabetes.
Prahlad is a B.Sc.
with honours in Mathematics from Bangalore  University and B.E.
(Electrical technology and Electronics)  from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.
Prior to founding Surya, he played a key role in the rapid  growth of Infosys Technologies, being associated with Infosys  Corporate governance report | 93  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 from its formative years.
He brings with him a high level  of experience of working with multiple Fortune 50 clients,  creation of new services, products and strategies.
During the year, the committee proposed that the Board  approve a revision of compensation of U.
B. Pravin Rao  based on his performance in fiscal 2016 and independent  compensation benchmarks.
The revised compensation reflects  the Company’s philosophy of aligning senior management  compensation to shareholders’ interests by increasing the  variable component as a percentage of total compensation.
During the year, no independent directors were liable to retire  by rotation and none will retire at the ensuing AGM.
Following  the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, U. B.
Pravin Rao  will retire at the ensuing AGM.
The committee considered  his performance and recommended that shareholders  approve the necessary resolutions for the reappointment of  U. B.
Pravin Rao.
During the year, the committee recommended to the Board to  include certain employees of the Company as key managerial  personnel.
Stock incentive grants were approved and granted  to approximately 8,300 employees during the year.
During the year, the committee undertook a review of the  succession plans for key leadership positions, and helped to  shape and monitor the development plans of key leadership  personnel.
Substantial focus was placed on improving the  overall diversity of the workforce and enhancing employee  engagement through real-time feedback from employees.
During the year, the committee received reports from the  Company concerning efforts to ensure the safety , security and  overall wellbeing of employees.
During the year, the committee, under the guidance of the  Board, engaged a third-party board evaluation facilitator to  formulate the criteria and framework for the performance  evaluation of every director on the Board, including the  executive and independent directors.
The committee also  identified ongoing training and education programs to ensure  that the non-executive directors are provided with adequate  information regarding the business, the industry , and their  legal responsibilities and duties.
Sd/- Bengaluru April 12, 2017 Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Chairperson 4.
Risk and strategy committee Our risk and strategy committee comprised six independent  directors as on March 31, 2017 : • Ravi Venkatesan, Chairperson • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • D. N. Prahlad • Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha • Roopa Kudva Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha and D. N. Prahlad were appointed as  members of the risk and strategy committee effective April 15,  2016 and March 9, 2017 respectively .
R. Seshasayee ceased to  be a member effective April 15, 2016.
The purpose of the risk and strategy committee is to assist  the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to the  identification, evaluation and mitigation of operational,  strategic and environmental risks.
The risk and strategy  committee has the overall responsibility of monitoring and  approving the risk policies and associated practices of the  Company .
It is also responsible for reviewing and approving  risk disclosure statements in public documents or disclosures.
The risk and strategy committee charter is available on our  website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate- governance/Documents/risk-management-committee- charter.pdf.
Further, the risk and strategy framework of the  Company is part of the Risk Management Report section of the  Annual Report.
Risk and strategy committee attendance The risk and strategy committee held four meetings during the year ended March 31, 2017.
These were held on April 14, 2016,  July 14, 2016, October 13, 2016, and January 12, 2017.
The attendance details of the risk and strategy committee meetings  are as follows : 4 2 4 NA 3 4 1 4 4 4 NA 3 4 1 100 50 100 100 100 100 Ravi Venkatesan Prof. John W. Etchemendy  Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw D. N. Prahlad (1) Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha (2) Roopa Kudva R. Seshasayee (3) Risk and strategy committee meeting 1234 Held during tenure Attended % of attendanceName of the director Committee meeting number Leave of absence (1) Appointed as a member w.e.f.
March 9, 2017 (2) Appointed as a member w.e.f.
April 15, 2016 (3) Ceased to be a member w.e.f.
April 15, 2016 94 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Risk and strategy committee report for the year ended  March 31, 2017 The committee reviewed the Company’s progress on strategy  execution, its risk management practices and activities on a  quarterly basis.
This included a review of strategic programs  for the achievement of short and long-term business  objectives covering growth, profitability , business model,  talent, leadership and operational excellence.
The committee  reviewed the top strategic, operational and compliance risks  associated with achieving these business objectives, and the  actions taken to address these risks.
The committee performed  these reviews using the Company’s strategy and enterprise  risk management framework, the corporate strategy execution  scorecard and trend lines of top risks.
In accordance with the scheduled annual calendar, the  committee reviewed strategy and risk management in the  areas of momentum of new services, automation, acquisition  synergy realizations, cyber-security and network penetration,  critical risk projects, leadership development, talent model,  shareholder activism, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and  immigration regulation risk.
The members of the committee  conducted deep dive exercises in the areas of quality , talent,  cyber-security , subsidiary performance and automation.
Further, the committee reviewed the Company’s enterprise  risk management framework, findings from the risk survey ,  trend lines of top risks in terms of impact, likelihood of  occurrence, potential exposure and progress of mitigation  actions.
The committee shared regular updates with the Board  regarding all aspects of strategy and risk management.
While  acknowledging the competitive and dynamic nature of the  business environment, and based on the information made  available to it, the committee believes that the Infosys risk  framework, along with risk assessment, monitoring, mitigation  and reporting practices, is adequate to effectively manage the  foreseeable material risks.
In conclusion, the committee is  sufficiently satisfied that it has complied with its responsibilities  as outlined in the risk and strategy committee charter.
Sd/- Bengaluru April 12, 2017 Ravi Venkatesan Chairperson 5.
Stakeholders relationship committee The stakeholders relationship committee has the mandate to  review and redress stakeholder grievances.
Our stakeholders relationship committee comprised four  independent directors as on March 31, 2017 : • Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman, Chairperson • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy • D. N. Prahlad • Ravi Venkatesan D. N. Prahlad was appointed as a member of the committee  effective January 13, 2017.
The Board has appointed A. G. S. Manikantha, Company  Secretary , as the Compliance Officer for the Listing Regulations  with effect from December 1, 2015.
Stakeholders relationship committee attendance The stakeholders relationship committee held four meetings during the year ended March 31, 2017.
These were held on  April 14, 2016, July 14, 2016, October 13, 2016 and January 12, 2017.
The attendance details of the stakeholders relationship  committee meetings are as follows : 4 2 NA 4 4 4 NA 4 100 50 100 Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Prof. John W. Etchemendy D. N. Prahlad (1) Ravi Venkatesan Stakeholders relationship committee meeting 1234 Held during tenure Attended % of attendanceName of the director Committee meeting number Leave of absence (1) Appointed as a member w.e.f.
January 13, 2017 Stakeholders relationship committee report for the year  ended March 31, 2017 The committee adopted its charter at its meeting held on  January  12, 2017.
The purpose of the committee is to  assist the Board and the Company in maintaining healthy  relationships with all stakeholders.
The committee oversees  the mechanisms for redressing grievances and complaints  from stakeholders including shareholders, debenture holders,  other security holders, vendors, customers, employees  and others.
Such mechanisms include the whistleblower  mechanism, the Internal Committee, Hearing Employees and  Resolving (HEAR), and the Grievance Redressal Board (GRB).
The committee receives reports from designated personnel  for each of the above mechanisms and reviews the unresolved  issues on a periodical basis.
It has the authority to make  recommendations to resolve any unresolved issues.
The committee reviews complaints related to transfer of shares,  non-receipt of annual report and non-receipt of declared  dividends.
It also approves the issue of duplicate certificates  and new certificates on split / consolidation / renewal etc.,  and approves transfer / transmission, dematerialization and  rematerialization of equity shares in a timely manner.
It  oversees the performance of the registrar and share transfer  agents, and recommends measures for overall improvement in  the quality of investor services.
It also reviews the Company’s  attention to the environmental, health and safety interests of  stakeholders.
Corporate governance report | 95  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The committee has the authority to consult with other  committees of the Board, obtain advice and assistance from  internal or external legal, accounting or other advisors.
The charter of the committee as adopted by the Board  is available on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/ investors/corporate-governance/Documents/stakeholders- relationship-committee.pdf.
The committee expresses satisfaction with the Company’s  performance in dealing with investor grievances and its share  transfer system.
The details of the complaints resolved during the fiscal ended  March 31, 2017 are as follows : Nature of complaints Received Resolved Closing Dividend / Annual Report  related 576 576 Nil It has also been noted that the shareholding in dematerialized  mode as on March  31, 2017 was 99.81% (99.79% as of  March 31, 2016).
Sd/- Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman Chairperson 6.
Finance and investment committee The Board constituted the finance and investment committee  to assist it in overseeing acquisitions and investments made  by the Company and provide oversight on key investment  policies of the Company .
The finance and investment committee comprises independent  members of the Board and has a minimum of three members.
The charter states that the chairperson, in consultation with  other committee members, would set the agenda for, and  preside at, the meetings.
A quorum for the transaction  of business at any meeting of the finance and investment  committee comprises a majority of committee members, and  decision is made by a majority of those present at the meeting.
The charter of the committee is available on our website,  at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/ Documents/finance-investment-committee-charter.pdf.
The finance and investment committee comprised five  independent directors as on March 31, 2017 : • Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha, Chairperson • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • Ravi Venkatesan • Roopa Kudva Dr.  Punita Kumar-Sinha was appointed as a member of  the committee effective April 15, 2016 and was named the  chairperson from January 13, 2017.
Roopa Kudva ceased to  be the chairperson from January 13, 2017 and continued as  a member of the committee.
Finance and investment committee attendance The finance and investment committee held four meetings during the fiscal ended March 31, 2017.
The meetings were held on  April 14, 2016, July 14, 2016, October 13, 2016 and January 12, 2017.
The attendance details of the finance and investment  committee meetings are as follows : 3 3 4 4 4 3 4 4 4 4 100 75 100 100 100 Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha (1) Prof. John W. Etchemendy Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw Ravi Venkatesan Roopa Kudva (2) Finance and investment committee 1234 Held during tenure Attended % of attendanceName of the director Committee meeting number Attended through VC Leave of absence (1) Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f.
April 15, 2016 and Chairperson of the committee effective January 13, 2017.
(2) Ceased to be Chairperson and continued as a member from January 13, 2017.
Finance and investment committee report for the year  ended March 31, 2017 During the year, the committee discussed, reviewed and  approved the overall acquisition and investment strategy of  the Company in terms of business objectives, overall fund  allocation and focus areas for investments and acquisitions.
The committee was updated on the mergers and acquisitions  that were in the pipeline, the evaluation framework for  mergers and acquisitions, post-merger integration, risk  mitigation, strategic benefits and financial returns.
The  committee also considered and approved the proposals for  acquisitions and investments up to a certain threshold as  approved by the Board.
Furthermore, the committee was briefed about the strategic  progress of the Infosys Innovation Fund.
The committee  approved the Infosys Innovation Fund’s agenda of helping  startups by providing early-stage capital, product validation,  customer introductions and joint go-to-market scale.
The  committee reviewed the field engagement status, pipeline  and the current returns of the Innovation Fund.
The treasury  policy was also discussed and approved.
96 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The committee took stock of its overall effectiveness and  updated the Board on the deliberations and decisions made  during the year.
The committee had direct access and open communications  with the senior leaders of the Company .
Sd/- Bengaluru April 12, 2017 Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha Chairperson 7.
Committee of directors The Board constituted a committee of directors to support  and advise the Management in executing the Company’s  strategy .
The committee was constituted effective April 13,  2017.
The committee of directors comprised three independent  directors :  • R. Seshasayee, Chairperson • D. N. Prahlad • Ravi Venkatesan D. Management review and responsibility Formal evaluation of officers The nomination and remuneration committee of the Board  approves the compensation and benefits for all executive  Board members.
A committee headed by our CEO & MD  reviews, evaluates and decides the annual compensation of  senior executives.
Board interaction with clients, employees, institutional  investors, the government and the media The Chairmen, the CEO & MD, the COO, the CFO, the  Presidents, the Deputy CFO, and investors relations team  represent the Company in interactions with investors, the  media and various governments.
In addition, the CEO & MD,  the COO, the CFO and the Presidents manage interactions  with clients and employees.
The other authorized media  spokespersons for business-specific matters include the  Presidents and Heads of HR.
E. Shareholders Disclosures regarding the appointment or  reappointment of directors As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, U.
B. Pravin  Rao will retire at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, seek  reappointment.
The Board, based on its evaluation, has  recommended his reappointment.
The Companies Act, 2013 provides for the appointment of  independent directors.
Sub-section (10) of Section 149 of  the Companies Act, 2013 (effective April 1, 2014) provides  that independent directors shall hold office for a term of up  to five consecutive years on the board of a company , and  shall be eligible for reappointment on the passing of a special  resolution by the shareholders of the Company .
Accordingly ,  all independent directors were appointed by the shareholders  either at the general meeting or through a postal ballot as  required under Section 149(10).
Further, Section 149(11) states that no independent director  shall be eligible to serve on the Board for more than two  consecutive terms of five years.
Section 149(13) states that the  provisions of retirement by rotation, as defined in sub-sections  (6) and (7) of Section 152 of the Act, shall not apply to such  independent directors.
None of the independent directors  will retire at the ensuing AGM.
Communication to the shareholders The quarterly report, along with additional information and  official news releases, are posted on our website, at https:// www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings/.
The reports  contain select financial data extracted from the audited  consolidated financial statements under the IFRS (INR), and  unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements under  the IFRS (USD).
Moreover, the quarterly / annual results and  official news releases are generally published in The Economic  Times, The Times of India, Business Standard, Business Line,  Financial Express and Prajavani (a regional daily published  from Bengaluru).
Quarterly and annual financial statements,  along with segmental information, are also posted on our  website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings/.
Earnings calls with analysts and investors are broadcast live  on our website and their transcripts are also published on  the website.
The proceedings of the AGM are webcast live  for shareholders across the world.
The AGM presentations,  transcripts and video archives are available on our website, at  https://www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings/.
Further, Form 20-F , to be filed with the SEC, also contains  detailed disclosures and is available on our website, at https:// www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings/annual-report/ Pages/index.aspx.
Investor grievance and share transfer We have a Board-level stakeholders relationship committee  to examine and redress complaints by shareholders and  investors.
The status of complaints and share transfers is  reported to the entire Board.
The details of shares transferred  and the nature of complaints are provided in the Shareholder  information section of the Annual Report.
For shares  transferred in physical form, the Company provides adequate  notice to the seller before registering the transfer of shares.
The stakeholders relationship committee will meet as often  as required to approve share transfers.
For matters regarding  shares transferred in physical form, share certificates,  dividends, and change of address, shareholders should  communicate with Karvy Computershare Private Limited, our  registrar and share transfer agent.
Their address is published  in the Shareholder information section of the Annual Report.
Share transactions are simpler and faster in electronic form.
After a confirmation of a sale / purchase transaction from  the broker, shareholders should approach the depository  participant with a request to debit or credit the account for  the transaction.
The depository participant will immediately  arrange to complete the transaction by updating the account.
There is no need for a separate communication to the  Company to register the transfer.
Corporate governance report | 97  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Details of non-compliance No penalty has been imposed by any stock exchange, SEBI or  SEC, nor has there been any instance of non-compliance with  any legal requirements, or on matters relating to the capital  market over the last three years.
Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance As required by Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, the  Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance is enclosed as  Annexure 4 to the Board’s report.
In addition to getting certified by the auditors, we have also  voluntarily engaged a Practicing Company Secretary to audit  us on corporate governance and issue a report.
CEO and CFO certification As required by the Listing Regulations, the CEO and CFO  certification is provided in this Annual Report.
Code of conduct In compliance with Regulation 26(3) of the Listing Regulations  and the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has framed  and adopted a Code of Conduct and Ethics (‘the Code’).
In  January 2017, the Company amended the Code.
The Code is  applicable to the members of the Board, the executive officers  and all employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The  amended Code is available on our website, at https://www.
infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/ CodeofConduct.pdf.
All members of the Board, the executive officers and senior  officers have affirmed compliance to the Code as on March 31,  2017.
A declaration to this effect, signed by the CEO & MD and the  CFO, forms part of the CEO and CFO certification.
Prevention of insider trading The Company has adopted an insider trading policy to  regulate, monitor and report trading by insiders under the  SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
This policy also includes practices and procedures for fair  disclosure of unpublished price-sensitive information,  initial and continual disclosure.
The Company has  automated the declarations and disclosures to identified  designated employees, and the Board reviews the policy on  a need basis.
During the year, the Company amended the  policy .
The amended policy is available on our website, at  https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/ Documents/insider-trading-policy .pdf.
General body meetings / postal ballots The details of the last three Annual and / or Extraordinary General Meetings are as follows : Year ended Date and time Venue Special resolution passed March 31, 2014 June 14, 2014 at 3 p.m. IST Christ University  Auditorium, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru, India Contract to sell, lease, transfer, assign or  otherwise dispose of the whole or part of the  ‘Products, Platforms and Solutions (PPS)’  business and undertaking of the Company to  EdgeVerve Systems Limited July 30, 2014 at 3 p.m. IST (1) Christ University  Auditorium, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru, India None March 31, 2015 June 22, 2015 at 3 p.m. IST Christ University  Auditorium, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru, India Purchase of the healthcare business from  Infosys Public Services, Inc.  March 31, 2016 June 18, 2016 at 3 p.m. IST Christ University  Auditorium, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru, India None (1) Extraordinary General Meeting 98 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Postal ballot During the previous three years, the Company approached the shareholders through postal ballot.
The details of the postal  ballot for the last three years are as follows : Date of Postal Ballot Notice : February 23, 2017 Voting period : March 2, 2017 to March 31, 2017 Date of declaration of result : April 1, 2017 Date of approval : March 31, 2017 Name of the resolution T ype of  resolution No.
of votes  polled Votes cast in favor Votes cast against No.
of votes % No.
of votes % Revision in compensation of   U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO & Whole-time  Director Ordinary 1,37,12,24,745 92,49,13,910 67 44,62,63,134 33 Appointment of D. N. Prahlad as an  independent director Ordinary 1,67,43,63,518 1,58,72,74,761 95 8,70,41,236 05 To adopt new Articles of Association  of the Company in conformity with  the Companies Act, 2013 Special 1,69,34,41,703 1,63,60,28,571 97 5,73,64,390 03 Date of Postal Ballot Notice : February 24, 2016 Voting period : March 2, 2016 to March 31, 2016 Date of declaration of result : April 1, 2016 Date of approval : March 31, 2016 Name of the resolution T ype of  resolution No.
of votes  polled Votes cast in favor Votes cast against No.
of votes % No.
of votes % Approval of the 2015 Stock Incentive  Compensation Plan and grant of stock  incentives to eligible employees of the  Company under the planSpecial 1,65,29,05,091 1,28,68,89,953 78 36,60,15,138 22 Approval of the 2015 Stock Incentive  Compensation Plan and grant of stock  incentives to eligible employees of the  Company’s subsidiaries under the planSpecial 1,68,34,47,465 1,28,51,57,246 76 39,82,90,219 24 Reappointment of Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman,  as an independent directorSpecial 1,67,99,54,463 1,42,84,20,139 85 25,15,34,324 15 Appointment of Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha as  an independent directorOrdinary 1,42,83,80,842 1,31,12,96,516 92 11,70,84,326 8 Reappointment of Dr. Vishal Sikka as   CEO & MD Ordinary 1,43,07,68,573 1,41,25,89,586 99 1,81,78,987 1 Date of Postal Ballot Notice : April 24, 2015 Voting period : May 5, 2015 to June 3, 2015 Date of declaration of result : June 4, 2015 Date of approval : June 4, 2015 Name of the resolution T ype of  resolution No.
of votes  polled Votes cast in favor Votes cast against No.
of votes % No.
of votes % Increase in authorized share capital Ordinary 80,43,28,358 72,40,12,049 90.01 17,59,832 0.22 Alteration of the Capital Clause of the  Memorandum of AssociationSpecial 80,43,04,819 72,39,56,209 90.01 17,65,073 0.22 Approval for the issue of bonus shares Special 80,43,53,942 72,59,81,795 90.26 39,327 – Transfer of business of Finacle to the  Company’s subsidiary , EdgeVerve  Systems LimitedSpecial 80,12,64,425 71,91,16,849 89.75 38,09,305 0.48 Transfer of business of Edge Services  to the Company’s subsidiary ,  EdgeVerve Systems LimitedSpecial 80,43,30,233 72,28,20,643 89.87 31,70,965 0.39 Corporate governance report | 99  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Date of Postal Ballot Notice : January 9, 2015 Voting period : January 28, 2015 to February 27, 2015 Date of declaration of result : March 2, 2015 Date of approval : March 2, 2015 Name of the resolution T ype of  resolution No.
of votes  polled Votes cast in favor Votes cast against No.
of votes % No.
of votes % Appointment of Prof. Jeffrey S.  Lehman as an independent director Ordinary 72,16,14,593 71,86,77,003 99.59 29,37,590 0.41 Appointment of Prof. John W .
Etchemendy as an independent  director Ordinary 72,20,93,712 72,18,28,507 99.96 2,65,205 0.04 Date of Postal Ballot Notice : October 10, 2014 Voting period : October 22, 2014 to November 21, 2014 Date of declaration of result : November 21, 2014 Date of approval : November 21, 2014 Name of the resolution T ype of  resolution No.
of votes  polled Votes cast in favor Votes cast against No.
of votes % No.
of votes % Increase in authorized share capital of  the Company Ordinary 38,18,49,101 38,17,58,291 99.98 90,810 0.02 Alteration of the Capital Clause of the  Memorandum of Association Special 38,20,21,300 38,19,49,174 99.98 72,126 0.02 Alteration of capital clause of Articles  of AssociationSpecial 38,20,04,749 38,18,84,030 99.97 1,20,719 0.03 Approval for issue of bonus shares Special 38,18,69,852 38,17,86,175 99.98 83,677 0.02 Parameshwar G. Hegde of Hegde & Hegde, Company  Secretaries, was appointed as the scrutinizer for carrying out  the postal ballot process in a fair and transparent manner.
Procedure for postal ballot In compliance with Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the related  Rules, the Company provides electronic voting (e-voting)  facility , in addition to physical ballot, to all its members.
For  this purpose, the Company has engaged the services of NSDL.
Postal ballot notices and forms are dispatched, along with  postage-prepaid business reply envelopes to registered  members / beneficiaries.
The same notice is sent by email  to members who have opted for receiving communication  through the electronic mode.
The Company also publishes a  notice in the newspaper declaring the details and requirements  as mandated by the Act and applicable rules.
Voting rights are reckoned on the paid-up value of the shares  registered in the names of the members as on the cut-off date.
Members who want to exercise their votes by physical postal  ballot are requested to return the forms, duly completed and  signed, to the scrutinizer on or before the close of the voting  period.
Those using the e-voting option are requested to vote  before the close of business hours on the last date of e-voting.
The scrutinizer completes his scrutiny and submits his report  to the Chairman, and the consolidated results of the voting are  announced by the Chairman / authorized officer.
The results  are also displayed on the Company website, www.infosys.
com, besides being communicated to the stock exchanges,  depository and registrar and share transfer agent.
The last  date for the receipt of postal ballot forms or e-voting shall be  the date on which the resolution would be deemed to have  been passed, if approved by the requisite majority .
Remote e-voting and ballot voting at the AGM To allow the shareholders to vote on the resolutions proposed  at the AGM, the Company has arranged for a remote e-voting  facility .
The Company has engaged NSDL to provide e-voting  facility to all the members.
Members whose names appear on  the register of members as on June 17, 2017 shall be eligible  to participate in the e-voting.
The facility for voting through ballot will also be made  available at the AGM, and the members who have not already  cast their vote by remote e-voting can exercise their vote at  the AGM.
F. Compliance with the corporate governance  codes We have always believed in maximum fiscal transparency , and  benchmarked our disclosures against a host of national and  international guidelines and regulations.
Some of the notable  ones among them are as follows : SEBI Listing Regulations : The SEBI (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations (‘the Listing  Regulations’) prescribe various corporate governance  recommendations in line with the corporate governance  committee constituted by SEBI under the chairmanship  of N. R. Narayana Murthy , which had issued two sets of  mandatory and non-mandatory recommendations.
These  recommendations were eventually incorporated in Clause 49  of the Listing Agreement, and the revised Clause 49 was made  effective October 1, 2014.
Further, the Listing Regulations  have incorporated these recommendations.
We comply with  the corporate governance requirements under the Listing  Regulations.
100 | Corporate governance report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Compliance with discretionary requirements The Company has also ensured the implementation of  non-mandatory items such as : • Separate posts of Chairman, and CEO & MD, with the  provision for reimbursement of expenses in the performance  of official duties.
The Company has provided a separate  office within the Company premises to non-executive  Chairperson.
• Unmodified audit opinions / reporting • The internal auditor reporting directly to the audit  committee.
• The Listing Regulation mandate the appointment of at least  one independent director of the listed parent company on  the boards of unlisted material subsidiary companies in  India.
Infosys has voluntarily appointed one independent  director in most of its non-material subsidiary companies.
Corporate Governance Voluntary Guidelines, 2009 : The  Corporate Governance Voluntary Guidelines, 2009, of the  Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India  encourage the use of better practices through voluntary  adoption.
These guidelines broadly focus on areas such  as the Board and its responsibilities, functions, roles and  responsibilities of the audit committee, appointment of  auditors, compliance with secretarial standards, and a  mechanism for whistleblower support.
We comply with the  Corporate Governance Voluntary Guidelines.
Naresh Chandra Committee : Following instances of  irregularities involving auditors in the U.S. and India, the  Government of India constituted a high-level committee  under the chairmanship of Naresh Chandra in 2002 to  examine the auditor-company relationship and to regulate the  role of auditors.
Chapters 2, 3 and 4 of the Naresh Chandra  Committee report are relevant to us.
We comply with these  recommendations.
Kumar Mangalam Birla Committee  : SEBI appointed a  committee under the chairmanship of Kumar Mangalam  Birla in 1999 to promote and raise the standards of corporate  governance.
The recommendations of the committee were  adopted in 2000.
We comply with these recommendations.
Euroshareholders Corporate Governance Guidelines 2000 :  The guidelines issued by Euroshareholders, the confederation  of European shareholders associations, are based on the  general principles of corporate governance issued by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  (OECD) in 1999, but are more specific and detailed.
Subject  to the statutory regulations in force in India, we comply with  these recommendations.
Conference Board Commission on Public Trust and Private  Enterprises in the U.S. : We substantially comply with the  findings and recommendations of the commission, which  primarily addressed three key areas – executive compensation,  corporate governance, and audit and accounting issues.
OECD Principles of Corporate Governance : The OECD  principles on corporate governance were first released in  1999 and revised in 2014, and continue to be periodically  reviewed.
We comply with the recommendations of the  OECD.
United Nations Global Compact : The United Nations Global  Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses  that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies  with its 10 principles which cover human rights, labor,  environment and corruption.
We have been a signatory  to the UNGC since 2001 and have consistently adopted  these principles in our corporate governance framework.
The UNGC incorporates a transparency and accountability  policy known as the Communication on Progress (COP).
As a signatory to the UNGC, we report our progress to  UNGC’s COP every year.
UNGC also recommends standard  tools for reporting organizations on the COP such as the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Carbon Disclosure  Project (CDP) frameworks.
We follow the GRI G4 reporting  guidelines for our sustainability reporting and are a signatory  to the CDP .
Risk management report | 101  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Risk management report The risk management report discusses various dimensions of our enterprise risk management.
The risk-related information  outlined in this section may not be exhaustive.
The discussion may contain statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Our business is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the  forward-looking statements.
Readers are advised to refer to the detailed discussion of risk factors and related disclosures in  our regulatory filings, and exercise their own judgment in assessing risks associated with the Company .
A. Overview Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework  encompasses practices relating to the identification, analysis,  evaluation, treatment, mitigation and monitoring of the  strategic, operational, and legal and compliance risks to  achieving our key business objectives.
ERM at Infosys seeks  to minimize the adverse impact of these risks, thus enabling  the Company to leverage market opportunities effectively and  enhance its long-term competitive advantage.
Several risks can impact the achievement of a particular  business objective.
Similarly , a single risk can impact the  achievement of several business objectives.
The focus of  risk management is to assess risks and deploy mitigation  measures.
This is done through periodic review meetings of  the risk and strategy committee of the Board.
Our core values and ethics provide the platform for our risk  management practices.
B.
Key components of the Infosys risk management framework Risk categories Business objectives Financial Markets and offerings Operations Talent Sustainability Risk management processes Migration and monitoring Identification, analysis and evaluation Strategic planning Treatment Reporting and disclosures Strategy               Operational               Legal and Compliance Risk governance structure Project teams and individuals Office of Risk Management Risk council Risk and strategy committee Board of Directors Unit risk managers Risks are inherited Risks are aggregated 1.
Risk governance structure Our risk management framework is implemented at various levels across the enterprise.
The key roles and responsibilities  regarding risk management in the Company are summarized as follows : Level Key roles and responsibilities Board of Directors (Board) • Approving key business objectives to be achieved by the Company .
Ensuring that the  executive management focuses on managing risks to key business objectives • Reviewing the performance of the risk and strategy committee Risk and Strategy Committee  (RSC) • Comprises six independent directors :  – Ravi Venkatesan, Chairperson  – Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw  – Roopa Kudva  – Prof. John W .
Etchemendy  – Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha  – D. N. Prahlad • Corporate governance oversight with regard to the identification, evaluation and  mitigation of strategic, operational, and legal and compliance risks • Monitoring and approving the risk management framework and associated practices of  the Company • Reviewing and approving risk-related disclosures Project teams and individuals • Adhering to risk management policies and procedures • Implementing prescribed risk mitigation actions • Reporting risk events and incidents in a timely manner 102 | Risk management report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Level Key roles and responsibilities Risk council (RC) • Comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer  and Chief Risk Officer • Oversight of risk management practices, including identification, impact assessment,  monitoring, mitigation, and reporting • Reviewing enterprise risks to the achievement of business objectives periodically ,  initiating mitigation actions, identifying owners for mitigation actions, and reviewing  progress of mitigation actions • Formulating and deploying risk management policies and procedures • Providing updates to the RSC and the Board from time-to-time on the enterprise risks  and actions taken Office of Risk Management  (ORM) • Headed by the Chief Risk Officer • Comprises a network of risk managers from business units and specialist groups • Facilitating the execution of risk management practices in the enterprise, in the areas  of risk identification, impact assessment, monitoring, mitigation and reporting • Providing periodic updates to the risk council and quarterly updates to the RSC on  risks to key business objectives and their mitigation • Working closely with business units, business enabling functions and mitigation action  owners in deploying mitigation measures and monitoring their effectiveness • Working closely with internal audit, business continuity management services,  information security , intellectual property and quality audit teams for identifying,  monitoring, and mitigating operational risks Unit risk managers • Ensuring units are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management  practices • Ensuring compliance with risk management policies and procedures laid out by the  Company in their respective business units • Managing risks concomitant with the business decisions relating to their unit, span of  control or area of operations • Ensuring effectiveness of risk mitigation actions in their units • Reporting risk events and incidents relating to their unit in a timely manner 2. Business objectives Our industry and company are in significant transformation,  and this has naturally resulted in heightening of risks related  to strategic choices, strategy execution along with traditional  operational and compliance related risks.
The business  objectives of the Company are articulated as a set of specific  near-term goals, and long-term strategic goals in a corporate  scorecard.
These goals cover the dimensions of consistent  financial performance, market penetration, differentiation  of our solutions, momentum of software-enabled services,  operational excellence, cost optimization initiatives, attracting  and retaining talent, and the long-term sustainability of the  organization.
In addition, progress of initiatives to mitigate  the impact of potential changes to immigration and labor  regulations in the United States and other countries are  captured in the scorecard.
3.
Risk categories Our risk management framework considers the following  broad categories of risks : Strategy Risks arising out of the choices we have made in defining  our strategy and the risks to the successful execution of these  strategies are covered in this category – for example, risks  inherent to our industry and competitiveness are analyzed  and mitigated through strategic choices of target markets,  the Company’s market offerings, business models and talent  base.
Details of the Company’s strategy are described in other  sections of this document.
Potential risks to the long-term  scalability and sustainability of the organization are also  analyzed and mitigated – for example, societal risks relating  to the impact of our strategy on the environment, local  communities, and conservation of essential resources.
We periodically assess risks to the successful execution of  our strategy , such as the effectiveness of strategic programs  that are being executed, the momentum in new initiatives,  the impact of strategy on financial performance, leveraging  of inorganic strategies, effectiveness of organization structure  and processes, retention and development of high-performing  talent and leadership.
Operational  Risks arising out of internal and external factors affecting  policies, procedures, people and systems in our support  functions thereby impacting service delivery , compromises  our core values or not in accordance with generally accepted  business practices or impacting their own service operations  are covered in this category – for example, risks of business  activity disruptions due to natural calamities, terrorist  attacks or war or regional conflicts, or disruptions in  telecommunications, system failures, virus attacks or breach  of cyber security .
Risk management report | 103  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Legal and compliance Risks arising out of threats posed to our financial,  organizational, or reputational standing resulting from  violations or non-conformance with laws, regulations, codes of  conduct or organizational prescribed practices or contractual  compliances are covered in this category – for example, risks  of potential litigations, breach of contractual agreement, non- compliance to regulations, potential risk arising out of major  regulatory / geo-political changes, potential risk arising out  of strategic or business or operational decisions.
4.
Risk management processes Our risk management practices are : Risk identification, analysis, and evaluation Mechanisms for identification of risks include annual risk  surveys across the Company , industry benchmarking, periodic  assessments of the business environment, incident analysis,  findings of internal audits, discussions with the risk council  and the risk and strategy committee and analysis of the  Company’s performance relative to the corporate scorecard  goals.
Risk analysis and evaluation are carried out using  scenario-based assessments to decide the potential impact,  likelihood of occurrence and in some cases, the detectability  of the risk.
Estimated risks are compared with established risk  criteria and thresholds to determine the priority and method  of risk treatment.
Risk treatment Risk treatment is the process of selecting and implementing  measures to alleviate the impact of identified risks.
• Avoid : A decision to nullify the risk by refraining from the  activities that cause it • Share : A decision to share the specific risk with another  entity • Reduce : A decision to reduce the level of risk through  targeted mitigation, if not to completely nullify it • Accept : A decision to allow the risk to remain as is,  irrespective of its severity • Escalate : A decision to escalate the risk to senior management Risk mitigation and monitoring Mitigation plans are finalized, owners are identified and the  progress of mitigation actions are monitored and reviewed.
The risk and strategy committee periodically does a deep dive  into understanding the scope and effectiveness of mitigation  plans and provides feedback to mitigation teams.
Risk-based approach to strategic planning At Infosys, the functions of strategic planning and risk  management are intertwined.
Risks to achieving business  objectives are key inputs to the formulation and development  of strategy and business planning.
Key strategic initiatives are  identified to mitigate specific risks.
This approach is practiced  at various levels of the Company , such as in client account  teams, project teams, support departments, and subsidiaries.
Risk reporting and disclosures Dashboards help track external and internal indicators for  each identified risk and assess its severity .
The trend line  assessment of top risks, analysis of exposure and potential  impact are carried out periodically , presented and discussed  with the risk council and risk and strategy committee.
Key external and internal incidents are reported and reviewed  at appropriate fora, such as the Information Security Council  and meetings of the executive board.
Risks relating to client  project execution and client account-level risks are reported  and discussed at appropriate levels within the Company .
Periodic updates are provided to the Board highlighting key  risks, their impact, and mitigation actions.
Key risk factors  are disclosed in regulatory filings.
C. Risk management highlights for the year During the year, our risk management practices were  primarily focused on the effectiveness of strategic programs  in improving our competitive position and differentiation in  market segments, the momentum of new initiatives to achieve  our long-term business aspirations, our preparedness to  address any incidents that may cause business disruptions to  our physical and technological infrastructure, strengthening  internal controls to detect fraudulent activity , leadership  development, leadership succession planning, and monitoring  possible impact of changes in our regulatory environment.
We carried out the following risk management activities  during the last fiscal : • Assessed and strengthened the enterprise risk management  framework for further standardization of risk identification,  assessment and governance of risks across the organization.
• Assessment of our business momentum relative to  competition and competitive position in key market  segments comprising geographies, industries and service  lines were conducted and actions.
• Regularly assessed progress on the execution of strategic  programs, specifically , progress on the growth of new  software enabled services, impact of automation,  performance of subsidiary businesses, leadership  succession planning and operating cost optimization.
Deep  dive assessments were done in identified areas by members  of the committee.
• Regularly assessed the business environment including  trend line of key external indicators and internal business  indicators such as client concentration, client technology  spend, growth of top clients and revenue bookings from  large outsourcing engagements.
• Reviewed key operational risks and actions based on inputs  from the internal risk register, external assessments, internal  audit findings and incidents.
Reviewed operational risk  areas including client service delivery , information security  (cyber-attacks and threat intelligence), women’s safety ,  physical security , succession planning, capital expenditures  on infrastructure and business continuity management.
• Monitored key developments in the regulatory environment,  especially of the United Kingdom and the United States of  America, relating to immigration laws, minimum wages  and impact to businesses of our clients.
• Monitored the availability of natural resources, such as  water and power, and its impact on our operations.
104 | CEO and CFO certification Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 CEO and CFO certification The Board of Directors Infosys Limited, Bengaluru Dear members of the Board, We, Dr. Vishal Sikka, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, and M. D. Ranganath, Chief Financial Officer of Infosys  Limited, to the best of our knowledge and belief, certify that : 1.
We have reviewed the Balance Sheet, Statement of Profit and Loss, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement  of Cash Flows and a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information of the Company  and the Board’s report.
2.
These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the  statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to  the period covered by this report.
3.
The financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, present in all material respects a true  and fair view of the Company’s affairs, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as  at, and for, the periods presented in this report, and are in compliance with the existing accounting standards and / or  applicable laws and regulations.
4.
There are no transactions entered into by the Company during the year that are fraudulent, illegal or violate the Company’s  Code of Conduct and Ethics, except as disclosed to the Company’s auditors and the Company’s audit committee of the  Board of Directors.
5.
We are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial  reporting for the Company , and we have : a.
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under  our supervision to ensure that material information relating to the Company , including its consolidated subsidiaries, is  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared.
b.
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be  designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the  preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS).
c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure, controls and procedures.
d. Disclosed in this report, changes, if any , in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred  during the Company’s most recent fiscal year that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the  Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
6.
We have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting,  wherever applicable, to the Company’s auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s Board (and persons performing  the equivalent functions) : a.
Any deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls, that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to  record, process, summarize and report financial data, and have confirmed that there have been no material weaknesses  in internal controls over financial reporting including any corrective actions with regard to deficiencies.
b.
Any significant changes in internal controls during the year covered by this report.
c. All significant changes in accounting policies during the year, if any , and the same have been disclosed in the notes to  the financial statements.
d. Any instances of significant fraud of which we are aware, that involve the Management or other employees who have a  significant role in the Company’s internal control system.
7.
We affirm that we have not denied any personnel access to the audit committee of the Company (in respect of matters  involving alleged misconduct) and we have provided protection to whistleblowers from unfair termination and other unfair  or prejudicial employment practices.
8.
We further declare that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of  Conduct and Ethics for the year covered by this report.
Bengaluru  April 13, 2017 Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer Standalone financial statements | 105  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Members of Infosys Limited Report on the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial statements of Infosys Limited (‘the Company’), which comprise  the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the Statement  of Cash Flows and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended and a summary of the significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as ‘standalone Ind AS financial statements’).
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)  with respect to the preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial  position, financial performance including other comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in  accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder.
This responsibility also includes the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the  Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and  application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone Ind AS  financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required  to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards  require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the standalone Ind AS financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the standalone  Ind AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the Auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks  of material misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk  assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the Company’s preparation of the standalone Ind AS  financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting  estimates made by the Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on  the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone  Ind AS financial statements give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view  in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India including the Ind AS, of the financial position of the  Company as at 31 March, 2017, and its financial performance including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the  changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2016 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central Government of India in  terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in the Annexure A, a statement on the matters specified in the paragraph 3  and 4 of the Order.
2.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that : a. we have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b. in our opinion proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from  our examination of those books; Standalone financial statements 106 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 c. the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss, the Statement of Cash Flows and the Statement of Changes in  Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account; d. in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified  under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rule issued thereunder; e. on the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2017 taken on record by the  Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2017 from being appointed as a director in  terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act; f. with respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and the operating  effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in ‘Annexure B’; and g. with respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies  (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations  given to us : i. the Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone Ind AS  financial statements.
Refer to Note 2.24 to the standalone Ind AS financial statements; ii.
the Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any , on long-term contracts including derivative contracts.
Refer to Note 2.16 to the standalone  Ind AS financial statements; iii.
there has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Company; and iv.
the Company has provided requisite disclosures in its standalone Ind AS financial statements as to holdings as well  as dealings in Specified Bank Notes during the period from 8 November, 2016 to 30 December, 2016 and these  are in accordance with the books of accounts maintained by the Company .
Refer to Note 2.27 to the standalone  Ind AS financial statements.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 Bengaluru 13 April, 2017 Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 Annexure A to the Auditors’ Report The Annexure referred to in Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of the Company on the standalone Ind AS financial  statements for the year ended 31 March 2017, we report that : (i) (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation  of fixed assets.
(b) The Company has a regular programme of physical verification of its fixed assets by which fixed assets are verified  in a phased manner over a period of three years.
In accordance with this program, certain fixed assets were verified  during the year and no material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
In our opinion, this periodicity of  physical verification is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the  Company , the title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company .
(ii) The Company is a service company , primarily rendering software services.
Accordingly , it does not hold any physical  inventories.
Thus, paragraph 3(ii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company .
(iii) The Company has granted loans to two bodies corporate covered in the register maintained under Section 189 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’).
(a) In our opinion, the rate of interest and other terms and conditions on which the loans had been granted to the bodies  corporate listed in the register maintained under Section 189 of the Act were not, prima facie, prejudicial to the  interest of the Company .
(b) In the case of the loans granted to the bodies corporate listed in the register maintained under Section 189 of the Act,  the borrowers have been regular in the payment of the principal and interest as stipulated.
Standalone financial statements | 107  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 (c) There are no overdue amounts in respect of the loan granted to a body corporate listed in the register maintained  under Section 189 of the Act.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the  provisions of Sections 185 and 186 of the Act, with respect to the loans and investments made.
(v) The Company has not accepted any deposits from the public.
(vi) The Central Government has not prescribed the maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act, for any  of the services rendered by the Company .
(vii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the  Company , amounts deducted / accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including  provident fund, income tax, sales tax, value added tax, duty of customs, service tax, cess and other material statutory  dues have been regularly deposited during the year by the Company with the appropriate authorities.
As explained  to us, the Company did not have any dues on account of employees’ state insurance and duty of excise.
According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of provident  fund, income tax, sales tax, value added tax, duty of customs, service tax, cess and other material statutory dues were  in arrears as at 31 March 2017 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no dues of duty of customs which have not  been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of any dispute.
However, according to information and  explanations given to us, the following dues of income tax, sales tax, duty of excise, service tax and value added tax  have not been deposited by the Company on account of disputes : Name of the  statute Nature of dues Amount (in `) Period to which the  amount relates Forum where dispute is  pending Service tax Service tax and  penalty (5) 5,75,63,973 July 2004 to October 2005 CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax (5) 2,57,84,864 January 2005 to  March 2009 CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty (5) 23,15,21,178 February 2007 to  March 2009  CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax (5) 4,19,72,658 April 2009 to March 2010 CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax (5) 6,46,54,051 April 2010 to March 2011 CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 11,94,51,864 April 2009 to March 2012 CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 64,93,657 April 2009 to  September 2011 Commissioner  (Appeals) Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 4,87,030 October 2008 to  September 2013  CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 4,75,80,094 April 2012 to March 2013 CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 98,194 October 2011 to  December 2011  Commissioner  (Appeals), Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty 4,21,06,232 October 2014 to  June 2015  CESTAT, Bengaluru Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1)(5) 63,63,914 Assessment year 2007-08 Commissioner  (Appeals) Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 61,03,641 July 2012 to March 2014 Commissioner,  Bengaluru  Service tax Service tax and  penalty 1,35,21,166 April 2013 to  September 2014 (2) Service tax Service tax and  penalty (1) 1,31,07,821 April 2014 to March 2015 Commissioner  (Appeals) APVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax (1)(5) 31,12,450 April 2007 to March 2008 High Court of Andhra  Pradesh MVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax (1)(5) 9,35,455 April 2006 to  December 2007 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) MVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax 4,52,50,506 September 2008 to  October 2011 Specified Officer of SEZ KVAT Act, 2003 Sales tax,  interest and  penalty  (1)(5) 48,10,45,876 April 2005 to March 2009 Supreme Court  108 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of the  statute Nature of dues Amount (in `) Period to which the  amount relates Forum where dispute is  pending MVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax,  interest and  penalty (5) 6,99,250 January 2008 to  March 2008 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) MVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax,  interest (1)(5) 22,01,534 April 2008 to March 2009 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) MVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax,  interest (5) 31,32,547 April 2009 to March 2010 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) KVAT Sales tax,  interest and  penalty (1)(5) 3,57,79,253 Assessment year 2009-10 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) KVAT Sales tax and  penalty (1) 6,32,81,133 Assessment year 2010-11 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) KVAT Sales tax and  penalty (1) 10,25,39,169 Assessment year 2012-13 (3) TNVAT Sales tax and  penalty 63,16,338 Assessment year 2015-16 (4) MVAT Act, 2005 Sales tax,  interest (1)(5) 98,01,056 April 2010 to March 2011 Joint Commissioner  (Appeals) Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty (5) 38,61,48,018 March 2006 to  December 2009 CESTAT, Bengaluru Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty (5) 2,67,46,497 January 2010 to  December 2010 CESTAT, Bengaluru Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty 4,51,32,885 January 2011 to  June 2011 CESTAT, Bengaluru Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty (5) 3,23,44,749 July 2011 to  December 2011 CESTAT, Bengaluru Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty (5) 4,20,03,700 January 2012 to  November 2012 CESTAT, Bengaluru Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty (5) 4,81,39,052 December 2012 to  September 2013 CESTAT, Bengaluru Central Excise  Act, 1944 Excise duty and  penalty 5,64,00,395 October 2013 to  September 2014 CESTAT, Bengaluru Income-tax Act,  1961 Interest 3,81,54,376 Assessment year 2009-10 CIT (Appeals) Income-tax Act,  1961 TDS and interest (1)(5) 26,65,123 Assessment year 2010-11 CIT (Appeals) Income-tax Act,  1961 Interest 2,08,88,269 Assessment year 2011-12 ITAT, Bengaluru Income-tax Act,  1961 Income tax and  interest (1)  13,29,20,96,950 Assessment Year 2012-13 ITAT Income-tax Act,  1961 Income tax and  interest (1) 3,58,99,73,710 Assessment Year 2013-14 CIT (Appeals) (1) Net of amounts paid under protest.
(2) The Company is in the process of filing an appeal before Commissioner (Appeals).
(3) The Company is in the process of filing an appeal before Joint Commissioner (Appeals).
(4) The Company is in the process of filing an appeal before Deputy Commissioner.
(5) A stay order has been obtained against the amount disputed and not been deposited.
(viii) The Company does not have any loans or borrowings from any financial institution, banks, government or debenture  holders during the year.
Accordingly , paragraph 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable.
(ix) The Company did not raise any money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments)  and term loans during the year.
Accordingly , paragraph 3(ix) of the Order is not applicable.
(x) According to the information and explanations given to us, no material fraud by the Company or on the Company  by its officers or employees has been noticed or reported during the course of our audit.
(xi) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the records of the  Company , the Company has paid / provided for managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals  mandated by the provisions of Section 197, read with Schedule V to the Act.
Standalone financial statements | 109  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 (xii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a nidhi company .
Accordingly , paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the records of the  Company , transactions with the related parties are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable  and details of such transactions have been disclosed in the standalone Ind AS financial statements as required by the  applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) According to the information and explanations give to us and based on our examination of the records of the Company ,  the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible  debentures during the year.
(xv) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the records of the  Company , the Company has not entered into non-cash transactions with directors or persons connected with him.
Accordingly , paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable.
(xvi) The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934. for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 Bengaluru 13 April, 2017 Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 Annexure B to the Auditors’ Report Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Infosys Limited (‘the Company’) as of 31 March 2017  in conjunction with our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control  stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (‘ICAI’).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including  adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required  under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our  audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under Section  143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an  audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Those Standards and  the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and if  such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system  over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting  included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material  110 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the standalone Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on  the Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded  as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the management  and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized  acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion  or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to  the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,  or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting  and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31 March 2017, based on the  internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal  control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 Bengaluru 13 April, 2017 Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 Standalone financial statements | 111  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Balance Sheet in ` crore Particulars Note As at March 31, As at April 1,  20152017 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Property , plant and equipment 2.3  8,605  8,248  7,347  Capital work-in-progress  1,247  934  769  Intangible assets 2.4  –  –  –  Financial assets  Investments 2.5  15,334  11,076  6,108  Loans 2.6  5  5  4  Other financial assets 2.7  216  192  110  Deferred tax assets (net) 2.17  346  405  433  Other non-current assets 2.10  996  755  349  Income tax assets (net) 2.17  5,454  5,020  3,941  Total non-current assets  32,203  26,635  19,061  Current assets  Financial assets  Investments 2.5  9,643  2  749  Trade receivables 2.8  10,960  9,798  8,627  Cash and cash equivalents 2.9  19,153  29,176  27,722  Loans 2.6  310  355  225  Other financial assets 2.7  5,403  4,801  4,045  Other current assets 2.10  2,213  1,965  1,384  Total current assets  47,682  46,097  42,752  Total assets  79,885  72,732  61,813  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity  Equity share capital 2.12  1,148  1,148  574  Other equity  66,869  59,934  51,617  Total equity  68,017  61,082  52,191  Liabilities  Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 2.13  40  62  27  Other non-current liabilities 2.15  42  –  –  Deferred tax liabilities (net) 2.17  –  –  –  Total non-current liabilities  82  62  27  Current liabilities Financial liabilities Trade payables 2.14  269  623  124  Other financial liabilities 2.13  5,056  5,132  4,847  Other current liabilities 2.15  2,349  2,093  1,564  Provisions 2.16  350  436  382  Income tax liabilities (net) 2.17  3,762  3,304  2,678  Total current liabilities  11,786  11,588  9,595  Total equity and liabilities  79,885  72,732  61,813  The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number  : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary 112 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Statement of Profit and Loss in ` crore, except equity share and per equity share data Particulars Note Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue from operations 2.18  59,289  53,983  Other income, net 2.19  3,062  3,006  Total income  62,351  56,989  Expenses Employee benefit expenses 2.20  30,944  28,207  Deferred consideration pertaining to acquisition  –  149  Cost of technical sub-contractors  4,809  4,417  Travel expenses  1,638  1,655  Cost of software packages and others 2.20  1,235  1,049  Communication expenses  372  311  Consultancy and professional charges  538  563  Depreciation and amortization expense 2.3 & 2.4  1,331  1,115  Other expenses 2.20  2,546  1,923  Total expenses  43,413  39,389  Profit before tax  18,938  17,600  Tax expense Current tax 2.17  5,068  4,898  Deferred tax 2.17  52  9  Profit for the period  13,818  12,693  Other comprehensive income  Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset  (42)  (2) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income 2.5 & 2.17  (5)  –  (47) (2) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value changes on cash flow hedges, net  39  –  Fair value changes on investments, net 2.5  (10)  –  29 – Total other comprehensive income, net of tax  (18)  (2) Total comprehensive income for the period  13,800  12,691  Earnings per equity share  Equity shares of par value ` 5 each  Basic (`)  60.16  55.26  Diluted (`)  60.15  55.26  Weighted average equity shares used in computing earnings per equity  share Basic 2.23 2,29,69,44,664 2,29,69,44,664  Diluted 2.23 2,29,71,59,670 2,29,69,44,664  The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary Standalone financial statements | 113  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Statement of Changes in Equity in ` crore Particulars Equity  share  capital  OTHER EQUITY Total equity  attributable  to equity  holders of the  Company Reserves and surplus Other comprehensive income Securities  premium  reserve Retained  earnings Capital  reserve General  reserve Share  options  outstanding  account Special  Economic  Zone  Re-investment  Reserve (1) Business  transfer  adjustment  reserve (2) Equity  instruments  through other  comprehensive  income Cash  flow  hedge  reserve Other items  of other  comprehensive  income Balance as of April 1, 2015 574 2,778 40,065  54 8,291 2  – 412  –  – 15 52,191 Changes in equity for the year ended  March 31, 2016 Increase in share capital on account of  bonus issue (Refer to Note 2.12)  574  –  –  –  –  –  – –  –  –  –  574  Transfer to general reserve  –  – (1,217)  –  1,217  –  – –  –  –  –  –  Amounts utilized for bonus issue   (Refer to Note 2.12)  –  (574)  –  –  –  –  – –  –  –  –  (574) Transferred to Special Economic Zone  Re-investment Reserve  –  –  (591)  –  –  –  591 –  –  –  –  –  Transferred from Special Economic Zone  Re-investment Reserve on utilization  –  –  591  –  –  –  (591) –  –  –  –  –  Share-based payment to employees  (Refer to Note 2.12)  –  –  –  –  –  7  – –  –  –  –  7  Remeasurement of the net defined  benefit liability / asset, net of tax effect  (Refer to Notes 2.22 and 2.17 )  –  –  –  –  –  –  – –  –  –  (2)  (2) Dividends   (including corporate dividend tax)  –  –    (6,843)  –  –  –  – –  –  –  –  (6,843) Profit on transfer of business (2)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 3,036  –  –  –  3,036  Profit for the period  –  –  12,693  –  –  –  – –  –  –  –  12,693  Balance as of March 31, 2016  1,148 2,204 44,698  54 9,508  9  –  3,448  –  – 13 61,082 114 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Statement of Changes in Equity (contd.)
in ` crore Particulars Equity  Share  capital  OTHER EQUITY Total equity  attributable  to equity  holders of the  Company Reserves and surplus Other comprehensive income Securities  premium  reserve Retained  earnings Capital  reserve General  reserve Share  Options  Outstanding  Account Special  Economic  Zone  Re-investment  Reserve (1) Business  transfer  adjustment  reserve (2) Equity  Instruments  through other  comprehensive  income Cash  flow  hedge  reserve Other items  of other  comprehensive  income Balance as of April 1, 2016  1,148 2,204 44,698  54 9,508  9  –  3,448  –  –  13 61,082 Changes in equity for the year ended  March 31, 2017 Transfer to general reserve  –  – (1,579)  –  1,579  –  – –  –  –  –  –  Transferred to Special Economic Zone  Re-investment Reserve  –  – (953)  –  –  – 953 –  –  –  –  –  Transferred from Special Economic  Zone Re-investment Reserve on  utilization  –  – 953  –  –  – (953) –  –  –  –  –  Exercise of stock options   (Refer to Note 2.12)  –  3  –  –  –  (3)  – –  –  –  –  –  Income tax benefit arising on exercise  of stock options  –  1  –  –  –  –  – –  –  –  –  1  Share-based payment to employees of  the Group (Refer to Notes 2.12 and 2.25)  –  –  –  –  –  114  – –  –  –  –  114  Remeasurement of the net defined  benefit liability / asset, net of tax effect   (Refer to Notes 2.22 and 2.17 )  –  –  –  –  –  –  – –  –  –  (42)  (42) Fair value changes on cash flow hedge,  net of tax (Refer to Note 2.11)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  39  –  39  Fair valuation of investments, net of tax  effect (Refer to Note 2.5)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (10)  (10) Equity instruments through other  comprehensive income, net of tax effect  (Refer to Note 2.5)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (5)  –  –  (5) Dividends   (including corporate dividend tax)  –  – (6,980)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (6,980) Profit for the period  –  –  13,818  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  13,818  Balance as of March 31, 2017  1,148 2,208 49,957  54 11,087  120  – 3,448 (5)  39  (39) 68,017 Standalone financial statements | 115  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 (1)  The Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve has been created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of Section 10AA(1) (ii) of the Income-tax Act,1961.
The reserve should be utilized  by the Company for acquiring new plant and machinery for the purpose of its business in the terms of the Section 10AA(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
(2) Profit on transfer of business between entities under common control taken to reserve on account of transition to Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS).
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and   Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and Whole-time  Director BengaluruApril 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary 116 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Statement of Cash Flows in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the period  13,818  12,693  Adjustments to reconcile net profit to net cash provided by operating activities Depreciation and amortization  1,331  1,115  Income tax expense  5,120  4,907  Allowance for credit losses on financial assets  135  (48) Deferred consideration pertaining to acquisition  –  149  Interest and dividend income  (2,553)  (2,563) Other adjustments  48  141  Exchange differences on translation of assets and liabilities  39  31  Changes in assets and liabilities Trade receivables and unbilled revenue  (1,825)  (1,373) Loans and other financial assets and other assets  (427)  (1,188) Trade payables  (354)  499  Other financial liabilities, other liabilities and provisions  179  565  Cash generated from operations  15,511  14,928  Income taxes paid  (5,033)  (5,350) NET CASH GENERATED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES  10,478  9,578  Cash flows from investing activities Expenditure on property , plant and equipment net of sale proceeds, including changes in  retention money and capital creditors  (2,292)  (2,308) Deposits with corporations  (155)  (115) Loans to employees  23  (64) Repayment of debentures  420  –  Investment in subsidiaries  (369)  (258) Payment towards contingent consideration pertaining to acquisition  (36)  –  Payment towards acquisition  –  (794) Payment arising out of business transfer  –  (335) Payments to acquire financial assets Preference securities  (43)  (82) Liquid mutual fund and fixed maturity plan securities  (49,648)  (22,797) Tax-free bonds  (312)  (299) Non-convertible debentures  (3,664)  –  Certificates of deposit  (7,555)  –  Government bonds  –  (2) Proceeds on sale of financial assets Liquid mutual fund and fixed maturity plan securities  47,495  23,545  Tax-free bonds  2  –  Interest and dividend received on investments  2,640  2,302  NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES  (13,494)  (1,207) Cash flows from financing activities Loan given to subsidiaries  –  (193) Loan repaid by subsidiaries  –  126  Payment of dividends  (6,968)  (6,841) NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES  (6,968)  (6,908) Effect of exchange differences on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents  (39)  (9) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (9,984)  1,463  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period  29,176  27,722  Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period  19,153  29,176  Supplementary information Restricted cash balance  411  341  The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary Standalone financial statements | 117  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Company overview and significant  accounting policies  1.1 Company overview  Infosys (‘the Company’) is a leading provider of consulting,  technology , outsourcing and next-generation services.
Along  with its subsidiaries, Infosys provides business IT services  (comprising application development and maintenance,  independent validation, infrastructure management,  engineering services comprising product engineering and  life-cycle solutions and business process management);  consulting and systems integration services (comprising  consulting, enterprise solutions, systems integration and  advanced technologies); products, business platforms and  solutions to accelerate intellectual property-led innovation  including Finacle ®, its banking solution; and offerings in the  areas of analytics, cloud, and digital transformation.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated  and domiciled in India and has its registered office in  Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
The Company has its primary  listings on the BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of  India Limited.
The Company’s American Depositary Shares  (ADSs) representing equity shares are also listed on the  New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext London and  Euronext Paris.
The financial statements are approved for issue by the  Company’s Board of Directors on April 13, 2017.
1.2 Basis of preparation of financial statements  These financial statements are prepared in accordance with  Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) under the historical cost  convention on the accrual basis except for certain financial  instruments which are measured at fair values, the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) (to the extent notified)  and guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (SEBI).
The Ind AS are prescribed under Section  133 of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016.
The Company has adopted all the Ind AS standards and  the adoption was carried out in accordance with Ind AS  101, First-Time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards.
The  transition was carried out from Indian Accounting  Principles generally accepted in India as prescribed under  Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies  (Accounts) Rules, 2014 (IGAAP), which was the previous  GAAP .
Reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the  transition have been summarized in Note 2.1.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied except  where a newly-issued accounting standard is initially adopted  or a revision to an existing accounting standard requires a  change in the accounting policy hitherto in use.
As the quarter and year figures are taken from the source and  rounded to the nearest digits, the figures already reported for  all the quarters during the year might not always add up to  the year figures reported in this statement.
1.3 Use of estimates  The preparation of the financial statements in conformity  with Ind AS requires the Management to make estimates,  judgments and assumptions.
These estimates, judgments and  assumptions affect the application of accounting policies and  the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures  of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses  during the period.
The application of accounting policies  that require critical accounting estimates involving complex  and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions in  these financial statements have been disclosed in Note 1.4.
Accounting estimates could change from period to period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Appropriate  changes in estimates are made as the Management becomes  aware of the changes in circumstances surrounding the  estimates.
Changes in estimates are reflected in the financial  statements in the period in which changes are made and,  if material, their effects are disclosed in the notes to the  financial statements.
1.4 Critical accounting estimates  a.
Revenue recognition  The Company uses the percentage-of-completion method  in accounting for its fixed-price contracts.
The use of the  percentage-of-completion method requires the Company to  estimate the efforts or costs expended to date as a proportion  of the total efforts or costs to be expended.
Efforts or costs  expended have been used to measure progress towards  completion as there is a direct relationship between input  and productivity .
Provisions for estimated losses, if any , on  uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which  such losses become probable based on the expected contract  estimates at the reporting date.
b.
Income taxes  The Company’s two major tax jurisdictions are India and  the U.S., though the Company also files tax returns in other  overseas jurisdictions.
Significant judgments are involved  in determining the provision for income taxes, including  amount expected to be paid / recovered for uncertain tax  positions.
Refer to Notes 2.17 and 2.24. c. Property, plant and equipment  Property , plant and equipment represent a significant  proportion of the asset base of the Company .
The charge in  respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining  an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected  residual value at the end of its life.
The useful lives and  residual values of the Company’s assets are determined by the  Management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed  periodically , including at each financial year end.
The lives  are based on historical experience with similar assets as well  as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life,  such as changes in technology .
118 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 1.5 Revenue recognition  The Company derives revenues primarily from software  development and related services and from the licensing of  software products.
Arrangements with customers for software  related services are either on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe or  on a time-and-material basis.
Revenue on time-and-material contracts are recognized as  the related services are performed and revenue from the end  of the last billing to the Balance Sheet date is recognized as  unbilled revenues.
Revenue from fixed-price, fixed-timeframe  contracts, where there is no uncertainty as to measurement  or collectability of consideration, is recognized as per the  percentage-of-completion method.
When there is uncertainty  as to the measurement or ultimate collectability , revenue  recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is resolved.
Efforts or costs expended have been used to measure progress  towards completion as there is a direct relationship between  input and productivity .
Provisions for estimated losses, if  any , on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period  in which such losses become probable based on the current  contract estimates.
Costs and earnings in excess of billings are  classified as unbilled revenue while billings in excess of costs  and earnings are classified as unearned revenue.
Deferred  contract costs are amortized over the term of the contract.
Maintenance revenue is recognized rateably over the term of  the underlying maintenance arrangement.
In arrangements for software development and related  services and maintenance services, the Company has applied  the guidance in Ind AS 18, Revenue, by applying the revenue  recognition criteria for each separately identifiable component  of a single transaction.
The arrangements generally meet the  criteria for considering software development and related  services as separately identifiable components.
For allocating  the consideration, the Company has measured the revenue  in respect of each separable component of a transaction at its  fair value, in accordance with principles given in Ind AS 18.
The price that is regularly charged for an item when sold  separately is the best evidence of its fair value.
In cases where  the Company is unable to establish objective and reliable  evidence of fair value for the software development and  related services, the Company has used a residual method  to allocate the arrangement consideration.
In these cases, the  balance of the consideration, after allocating the fair values of  undelivered components of a transaction, has been allocated  to the delivered components for which specific fair values  do not exist.
License fee revenues are recognized when the general revenue  recognition criteria given in Ind AS 18 are met.
Arrangements  to deliver software products generally have three elements :  license, implementation and Annual Technical Services (ATS).
The Company has applied the principles given in Ind AS 18  to account for revenues from these multiple element  arrangements.
Objective and reliable evidence of fair value  has been established for ATS.
Objective and reliable evidence  of fair value is the price charged when the element is sold  separately .
When other services are provided in conjunction  with the licensing arrangement and objective and reliable  evidence of their fair values have been established, the revenue  from such contracts are allocated to each component of the  contract in a manner, whereby revenue is deferred for the  undelivered services and the residual amounts are recognized  as revenue for delivered elements.
In the absence of objective  and reliable evidence of fair value for implementation, the  entire arrangement fee for license and implementation is  recognized using the percentage-of-completion method  as the implementation is performed.
Revenue from client  training, support and other services arising due to the sale of  software products is recognized as the services are performed.
ATS revenue is recognized rateably over the period in which  the services are rendered.
Advances received for services and products are reported as  client deposits until all conditions for revenue recognition  are met.
The Company accounts for volume discounts and pricing  incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based  on the rateable allocation of the discounts / incentives  amount to each of the underlying revenue transaction that  results in progress by the customer towards earning the  discount / incentive.
Also, when the level of discount varies  with increases in levels of revenue transactions, the Company  recognizes the liability based on its estimate of the customer’s  future purchases.
If it is probable that the criteria for the  discount will not be met, or if the amount thereof cannot be  estimated reliably , then the discount is not recognized until  the payment is probable and the amount can be estimated  reliably .
The Company recognizes changes in the estimated  amount of obligations for discounts in the period in which the  change occurs.
The discounts are passed on to the customer  either as direct payments or as a reduction of payments due  from the customer.
The Company presents revenues net of value-added taxes in  its Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.6 Property, plant and equipment  Property , plant and equipment are stated at cost less  accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any .
Costs  directly attributable to acquisition are capitalized  until the property , plant and equipment are ready for use,  as intended by the Management.
The Company depreciates  property , plant and equipment over their estimated useful  lives using the straight-line method.
The estimated useful  lives of assets are as follows : Building (1) 22-25 years Plant and machinery (1) 5 years Office equipment 5 years Computer equipment (1) 3-5 years Furniture and fixtures (1) 5 years Vehicles (1) 5 years (1) Based on technical evaluation, the Management believes that the  useful lives as given above best represent the period over which the  Management expects to use these assets.
Hence, the useful lives for  these assets is different from the useful lives as prescribed under Part C  of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are  reviewed periodically , including at each financial year end.
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property , plant and  equipment outstanding at each Balance Sheet date is classified  as capital advances under other non-current assets and the  Standalone financial statements | 119  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 cost of assets not put to use before such date are disclosed  under ‘Capital work-in-progress’.
Subsequent expenditures  relating to property , plant and equipment are capitalized only  when it is probable that future economic benefits associated  with these will flow to the Company and the cost of the  item can be measured reliably .
Repairs and maintenance  costs are recognized in net profit in the Statement of Profit  and Loss when incurred.
The cost and related accumulated  depreciation are eliminated from the financial statements  upon sale or retirement of the asset and the resultant gains  or losses are recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the  carrying value or the fair value less cost to sell.
1.7 Intangible assets  Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated  amortization and impairment.
Intangible assets are amortized  over their respective individual estimated useful lives on a  straight-line basis, from the date that they are available for  use.
The estimated useful life of an identifiable intangible  asset is based on a number of factors including the effects  of obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic  factors (such as the stability of the industry , and known  technological advances), and the level of maintenance  expenditures required to obtain the expected future cash  flows from the asset.
Amortization methods and useful lives  are reviewed periodically including at each financial year end.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Software product  development costs are expensed as incurred unless technical  and commercial feasibility of the project is demonstrated,  future economic benefits are probable, the Company has an  intention and ability to complete and use or sell the software  and the costs can be measured reliably .
The costs which  can be capitalized include the cost of material, direct labor,  overhead costs that are directly attributable to preparing the  asset for its intended use.
Research and development costs  and software development costs incurred under contractual  arrangements with customers are accounted as expenses in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.8 Financial instruments  1.8.1 Initial recognition The Company recognizes financial assets and financial  liabilities when it becomes a party to the contractual  provisions of the instrument.
All financial assets and liabilities  are recognized at fair value on initial recognition, except for  trade receivables which are initially measured at transaction  price.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the  acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities  that are not at fair value through profit or loss, are added to  the fair value on initial recognition.
Regular way purchase  and sale of financial assets are accounted for at trade date.
1.8.2 Subsequent measurement a. Non-derivative financial instruments  (i) Financial assets carried at amortized cost A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortized cost if  it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold  the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows, and the  contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and  interest on the principal amount outstanding.
(ii)  Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive  income A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income if it is held within a  business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting  contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and the  contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and  interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Further, in  cases where the Company has made an irrevocable election  based on its business model, for its investments which are  classified as equity instruments, the subsequent changes in  fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above  categories is subsequently fair valued through profit or loss.
(iv) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at amortized cost  using the effective interest method, except for contingent  consideration recognized in a business combination which  is subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss.
For trade and other payables maturing within one year from  the Balance Sheet date, the carrying amounts approximate fair  value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
(v) Investment in subsidiaries Investment in subsidiaries is carried at cost in the separate  financial statements.
b.
Derivative financial instruments The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as  foreign exchange forward and options contracts to mitigate  the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency  exposures.
The counterparty for these contracts is generally  a bank.
(i)  Financial assets or financial liabilities, at fair value  through profit or loss.
This category has derivative financial assets or liabilities  which are not designated as hedges.
Although the Company believes that these derivatives  constitute hedges from an economic perspective, they may  not qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial  Instruments.
Any derivative that is either not designated a  hedge, or is so designated but is ineffective as per Ind AS 109,  is categorized as a financial asset or financial liability , at fair  value through profit or loss.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized initially  at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognized  in net profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss when  incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these derivatives  are measured at fair value through profit or loss and the  resulting exchange gains or losses are included in other  income.
Assets / liabilities in this category are presented as  current assets / current liabilities if they are either held for  trading or are expected to be realized within 12 months after  the Balance Sheet date.
120 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 (ii) Cash flow hedge The Company designates certain foreign exchange forward  and options contracts as cash flow hedges to mitigate the  risk of foreign exchange exposure on highly probable forecast  cash transactions.
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging  instrument, the effective portion of changes in the fair value  of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive  income and accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the  derivative is recognized immediately in the net profit in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
If the hedging instrument no  longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge  accounting is discontinued prospectively .
If the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the  cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognized  in cash flow hedging reserve till the period the hedge was  effective remains in cash flow hedging reserve until the  forecasted transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss  previously recognized in the cash flow hedging reserve is  transferred to the net profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss  upon the occurrence of the related forecasted transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur,  then the amount accumulated in cash flow hedging reserve is  reclassified to net profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
c. Share capital Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity .
Incremental costs  directly attributable to the issuance of new ordinary shares  and share options are recognized as a deduction from equity ,  net of any tax effects.
1.8.3 Derecognition of financial instruments The Company derecognizes a financial asset when the  contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset  expire or it transfers the financial asset and the transfer  qualifies for derecognition under Ind AS 109.
A financial  liability (or a part of a financial liability) is derecognized from  the Company’s Balance Sheet when the obligation specified in  the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
1.9 Fair value of financial instruments In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the  Company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that  are based on market conditions and risks existing at each  reporting date.
The methods used to determine fair value  include discounted cash flow analysis, available quoted  market prices and dealer quotes.
All methods of assessing  fair value result in general approximation of value, and such  value may never actually be realized.
Refer to Note 2.11 in for the disclosure on carrying value and  fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
For financial assets  and liabilities maturing within one year from the Balance  Sheet date and which are not carried at fair value, the carrying  amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of  these instruments.
1.10 Impairment a.
Financial assets  The Company recognizes loss allowances using the expected  credit loss (ECL) model for the financial assets which are  not fair valued through profit or loss.
Loss allowance for  trade receivables with no significant financing component is  measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL.
For all other  financial assets, ECLs are measured at an amount equal  to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant  increase in credit risk from initial recognition in which case  those are measured at lifetime ECL.
The amount of ECLs (or  reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the  reporting date to the amount that is required to be recognized  is recognized as an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss.
b.
Non-financial assets (i) Intangible assets and property , plant and equipment Intangible assets and property , plant and equipment are  evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not  be recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the  recoverable amount (i.e.
the higher of the fair value less cost  to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual  asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that  are largely independent of those from other assets.
In such  cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to  which the asset belongs.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to  be recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss is measured  by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets  exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the asset.
An  impairment loss is reversed in the Statement of Profit and Loss  if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine  the recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of the asset is  increased to its revised recoverable amount, provided that  this amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would  have been determined (net of any accumulated amortization  or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognized for  the asset in prior years.
1.11 Provisions A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the  Company has a present legal or constructive obligation that  is reasonably estimable, and it is probable that an outflow of  economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected  future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market  assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific  to the liability .
a. Post-sales client support The Company provides its clients with a fixed-period  post-sales support for corrections of errors and support on  all its fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts.
Costs associated  with such support services are accrued at the time related  revenues are recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The  Company estimates such costs based on historical  experience and estimates are reviewed on a periodic basis  for any material changes in assumptions and likelihood  of occurrence.
Standalone financial statements | 121  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 b. Onerous contracts Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when the  expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a  contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting  the future obligations under the contract.
The provision is  measured at the present value of the lower of the expected  cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of  continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established,  the Company recognizes any impairment loss on the assets  associated with that contract.
1.12 Foreign currency  Functional currency The functional currency of the Company is the Indian rupee.
These financial statements are presented in Indian rupees  (rounded off to crore; one crore equals 10 million).
Transactions and translations Foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and  liabilities are translated into the relevant functional currency  at exchange rates in effect at the Balance Sheet date.
The gains  or losses resulting from such translations are included in net  profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Non-monetary  assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign  currency and measured at fair value are translated at the  exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value  was determined.
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary  liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured  at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevalent  at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains or losses realized upon settlement of  foreign currency transactions are included in determining  net profit for the period in which the transaction is settled.
Revenue, expense and cash-flow items denominated in  foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional  currencies using the exchange rate in effect on the date of  the transaction.
1.13 Earnings per equity share Basic earnings per equity share are computed by dividing the  net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company  by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding  during the period.
Diluted earnings per equity share are  computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity  holders of the Company by the weighted average number of  equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity  share and also the weighted average number of equity shares  that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive  potential equity shares.
The dilutive potential equity shares  are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the equity shares  been actually issued at fair value (i.e.
the average market value  of the outstanding equity shares).
Dilutive potential equity  shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of the period,  unless issued at a later date.
Dilutive potential equity shares  are determined independently for each period presented.
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive equity  shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods presented for  any share splits and bonus shares issues including for changes  effected prior to the approval of the financial statements by  the Board of Directors.
1.14 Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current and deferred income  tax.
Income tax expense is recognized in net profit in the  Statement of Profit and Loss except to the extent that it  relates to items recognized directly in equity , in which case  it is recognized in other comprehensive income.
Current  income tax for current and prior periods is recognized at  the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax  authorities, using the tax rates and tax laws that have been  enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for all  temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets  and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial  statements.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting  date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable  that the related tax benefit will be realized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using  tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively  enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply  to taxable income in the years in which those temporary  differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
The effect  of changes in tax rates on deferred income tax assets and  liabilities is recognized as income or expense in the period  that includes the enactment or the substantive enactment date.
A deferred income tax asset is recognized to the extent that it  is probable that future taxable profit will be available against  which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can  be utilized.
Deferred income taxes are not provided on the  undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and branches where it  is expected that the earnings of the subsidiary or branch will  not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The Company  offsets current tax assets and current tax liabilities, where  it has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized  amounts and where it intends either to settle on a net basis,  or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously .
Tax benefits of deductions earned on the exercise of employee  share options in excess of compensation charged to income  are credited to share premium.
1.15 Employee benefits 1.15.1 Gratuity The Company provides for gratuity , a defined benefit  retirement plan (‘the Gratuity Plan’) covering eligible  employees.
The Gratuity Plan provides a lump-sum payment  to vested employees at retirement, death, incapacitation or  termination of employment, of an amount based on the  respective employee’s salary and the tenure of employment  with the Company .
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity Plan are determined by  actuarial valuation, performed by an independent actuary ,  at each Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit  method.
The Company fully contributes all ascertained  liabilities to the Infosys Limited Employees’ Gratuity Fund  Trust (‘the Trust’).
Trustees administer contributions made  to the Trusts and contributions are invested in a scheme  with the Life Insurance Corporation of India as permitted  by Indian law.
The Company recognizes the net obligation of a defined  benefit plan in its Balance Sheet as an asset or liability .
122 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Gains and losses through remeasurements of the net defined  benefit liability / (asset) are recognized in other comprehensive  income.
The actual return of the portfolio of plan assets, in  excess of the yields computed by applying the discount rate  used to measure the defined benefit obligation is recognized  in other comprehensive income.
The effect of any plan  amendments are recognized in net profit in the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
1.15.2  Superannuation Certain employees of Infosys are participants in a defined  contribution plan.
The Company has no further obligations  to the plan beyond its monthly contributions which are  periodically contributed to a trust fund, the corpus of which  is invested with the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
1.15.3  Provident fund Eligible employees of Infosys receive benefits from a provident  fund, which is a defined benefit plan.
Both the eligible  employee and the Company make monthly contributions to  the provident fund plan equal to a specified percentage of  the covered employee’s salary .
The Company contributes a  portion to the Infosys Limited Employees’ Provident Fund  Trust.
The trust invests in specific designated instruments as  permitted by Indian law.
The remaining portion is contributed  to the government-administered pension fund.
The rate at  which the annual interest is payable to the beneficiaries by the  trust is being administered by the government.
The Company  has an obligation to make good the shortfall, if any , between  the return from the investments of the trust and the notified  interest rate.
1.15.4  Compensated absences The Company has a policy on compensated absences  which are both accumulating and non-accumulating in  nature.
The expected cost of accumulating compensated  absences is determined by actuarial valuation performed  by an independent actuary at each Balance Sheet date using  projected unit credit method on the additional amount  expected to be paid / availed as a result of the unused  entitlement that has accumulated at the Balance Sheet date.
Expense on non-accumulating compensated absences is  recognized in the period in which the absences occur.
1.16 Share-based compensation  The Company recognizes compensation expense relating  to share-based payments in net profit using fair value  in accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment.
The estimated fair value of awards is charged to income on a  straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each  separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was  in-substance, multiple awards with a corresponding increase  to share options outstanding account.
1.17 Cash flow statement Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby  profit for the period is adjusted for the effects of transactions  of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or  future operating cash receipts or payments and item of  income or expenses associated with investing or financing  cash flows.
The cash flows from operating, investing and  financing activities of the Company are segregated.
1.18  Dividends  The final dividend on shares is recorded as a liability on the  date of approval by the shareholders, and interim dividends  are recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by the  Company’s Board of Directors.
1.19  Other income Other income is comprised primarily of interest income,  dividend income, gain / loss on investments  and exchange  gain / loss on forward and options contracts and on translation  of other assets and liabilities.
Interest income is recognized  using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is  recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
1.20  Leases Leases under which the Company assumes substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance  leases.
When acquired, such assets are capitalized at fair  value or present value of the minimum lease payments at the  inception of the lease, whichever is lower.
Lease payments  under operating leases are recognized as an expense on a  straight-line basis in net profit in the Statement of Profit and  Loss over the lease term.
1.21  Recent accounting pronouncements 1.21.1  Standards issued but not yet effective In March 2017, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendments)  Rules, 2017, notifying amendments to Ind AS 7, Statement  of Cash Flows and Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment.
These  amendments are in accordance with the recent amendments  made by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)  to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 2, Share-Based  Payment, respectively .
The amendments are applicable to the  Company from April 1, 2017.
Amendment to Ind AS 7 The amendment to Ind AS 7 requires the entities to provide  disclosures that enable users of financial statements to  evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities,  including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash  changes, suggesting inclusion of a reconciliation between  the opening and closing balances in the Balance Sheet  for liabilities arising from financing activities, to meet the  disclosure requirement.
The Company has evaluated the disclosure requirements of  the amendment and the effect on the standalone financial  statements is not expected to be material.
Amendment to Ind AS 102 The amendment to Ind AS 102 provides specific guidance  for the measurement of cash-settled awards, modification of  cash-settled awards and awards that include a net settlement  feature in respect of withholding taxes.
It clarifies that the fair value of cash-settled awards is  determined on a basis consistent with that used for  equity-settled awards.
Market-based performance conditions  and non-vesting conditions are reflected in the ‘fair values’,  but non-market performance conditions and service vesting  conditions are reflected in the estimate of the number of  Standalone financial statements | 123  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 awards expected to vest.
Also, the amendment clarifies that  if the terms and conditions of a cash-settled share-based  payment transaction are modified with the result that it  becomes an equity-settled share-based payment transaction,  the transaction is accounted for as such from the date of the  modification.
Further, the amendment requires the award  that include a net settlement feature in respect of withholding  taxes to be treated as equity-settled in its entirety .
The cash  payment to the tax authority is treated as if it was part of an  equity settlement.
The Company is evaluating the requirements of the  amendment and the impact on the financial statements.
2.
Notes to the standalone financial  statements for the year ended March 31,  2017 2.1 First-time adoption of Ind AS  These standalone financial statements of Infosys Limited  for the year ended March 31, 2017 have been prepared in  accordance with Ind AS.
For the purposes of transition to  Ind AS, the Company has followed the guidance prescribed in  Ind AS 101, First-Time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards,  with April 1, 2015 as the transition date and IGAAP as the  previous GAAP .
The transition to Ind AS has resulted in changes in the  presentation of the financial statements, disclosures in the  notes thereto and accounting policies and principles.
The  accounting policies set out in Note 1 have been applied in  preparing the standalone financial statements for the year  ended March 31, 2017 and the comparative information.
An explanation of how the transition from previous GAAP  to Ind  AS has affected the Company’s Balance Sheet and  Statement of Profit and Loss, is set out in Notes 2.2 and 2.2.2.
Exemptions on the first-time adoption of Ind AS availed in  accordance with Ind AS 101 have been set out in Note 2.1.1.
2.1.1  Exemptions availed on first-time adoption of  Ind AS 101 Ind AS 101 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions  from the retrospective application of certain requirements  under Ind AS.
The Company has accordingly applied the  following exemptions.
(a) Share-based payment The Company is allowed to apply Ind AS 102, Share-Based  Payment, to equity instruments that remain unvested as of  transition date.
The Company has elected to avail itself of this  exemption and apply the requirements of Ind AS 102 to all  such grants under the 2015 Plan (formerly ‘the 2011 Plan’).
Accordingly , these options have been measured at fair value  as against intrinsic value previously under IGAAP .
The excess of stock compensation expense measured  using fair value over the cost recognized under IGAAP  using intrinsic value has been adjusted in ‘Share Option  Outstanding Account’, with the corresponding impact taken  to the retained earnings as on the transition date.
(b) Designation of previously recognized financial instruments Under Ind AS 109, at initial recognition of a financial asset, an  entity may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent  changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity  instrument in other comprehensive income.
Ind AS 101  allows such designation of previously recognized financial  assets, as ‘fair value through other comprehensive income’  on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the  date of transition to Ind AS.
Accordingly , the Company has designated its investments  in certain equity instruments at fair value through other  comprehensive income on the basis of the facts and  circumstances that existed at the date of transition to Ind AS.
2.2 Reconciliations The following reconciliations provide the effect of transition  to Ind AS from IGAAP in accordance with Ind AS 101 : 1.
Equity as at April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2016 2.
Net profit for the year ended March 31, 2016 2.2.1  Reconciliation of equity as previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS in ` crore Particulars Note Opening Balance Sheet as at April 1, 2015 Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016 IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS ASSETS        Non-current assets Property , plant and  equipment  7,347  –  7,347  8,248  –  8,248  Capital work-in-progress  769  –  769  934  –  934  Intangible assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  Financial assets    Investments A  6,108  –  6,108  11,111  (35)  11,076  Loans  4  –  4  5  –  5  Other financial assets  110  –  110  192  –  192  Deferred tax assets (net)  433  –  433  405  –  405  Other non-current assets  349  –  349  755  –  755  124 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Note Opening Balance Sheet as at April 1, 2015 Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016 IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS Income tax assets (net)  3,941  –  3,941  5,020  –  5,020  Total non-current assets  19,061  –  19,061  26,670  (35)  26,635  Current assets     Financial assets     Investments A  749  –  749  2  –  2  Trade receivables  8,627  –  8,627  9,798  –  9,798  Cash and cash equivalents  27,722  –  27,722  29,176  –  29,176  Loans  225  –  225  355  –  355  Other financial assets  4,045  –  4,045  4,801  –  4,801  Other current assets  1,384  –  1,384  1,965  –  1,965  Total current assets  42,752  –  42,752  46,097  –  46,097  Total assets  61,813  –  61,813  72,767  (35)  72,732  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES     Equity     Equity share capital  574  –  574  1,148  –  1,148  Other equity E  47,494  4,123  51,617  56,009  3,925  59,934  Total equity  48,068  4,123  52,191  57,157  3,925  61,082  Liabilities     Non-current liabilities     Financial liabilities     Other financial liabilities B  27  –  27  73  (11)  62  Other non-current  liabilities C  3  (3)  –  –  –  –  Deferred tax liabilities  (net)  –  –  –  –  –  –  Total non-current  liabilities  30  (3)  27  73  (11)  62  Current liabilities     Financial liabilities     Trade payables  124  –  124  623  –  623  Other financial liabilities B  4,885  (38)  4,847  5,138  (6)  5,132  Other current liabilities C  1,568  (4)  1,564  2,097  (4)  2,093  Provisions D  4,460  (4,078)  382  4,375  (3,939)  436  Income tax liabilities (net)  2,678  –  2,678  3,304  –  3,304  Total current liabilities  13,715  (4,120)  9,595  15,537  (3,949)  11,588  Total equity and liabilities  61,813  –  61,813  72,767  (35)  72,732  Explanations for reconciliation of Balance Sheet as previously  reported under IGAAP to Ind AS : A.
Investment a)  Tax-free bonds are carried at amortized cost under Ind AS  and IGAAP .
Investment in equity instruments are carried  at fair value through OCI in Ind AS, as compared to being  carried at cost under IGAAP .
b) Investments include discounted value of contingent  consideration payable on acquisition of business under  Ind AS, as compared to undiscounted value of contingent  consideration under IGAAP .
B.
Other financial liabilities Adjustments include the impact of discounting the deferred  and contingent consideration payable for acquisitions  under Ind AS.
C. Other liabilities Adjustments reflect unamortized negative past service cost  arising on modification of the gratuity plan in an earlier  period.
Ind AS 19 requires such gains and losses to be  adjusted to retained earnings.
D. Provisions Adjustments reflect dividend (including corporate dividend  tax), declared and approved post reporting period.
E. Other equity a)  Adjustments to retained earnings and other comprehensive  income have been made in accordance with Ind AS for the  above-mentioned line items.
b) In addition, as per Ind AS 19, actuarial gains and losses are  recognized in other comprehensive income as compared  to being recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss  under IGAAP .
c) Profit on transfer of business between entities under  common control, which were earlier recognized in  Statement of Profit and Loss under IGAAP , are adjusted to  reserves on transition to Ind AS.
Standalone financial statements | 125  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.2.2  Reconciliation Statement of Profit and Loss as previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS in ` crore Particulars Note Year ended March 31 2016 IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS Revenue from operations  53,983  –  53,983  Other income, net G  3,009  (3)  3,006  Total income  56,992  (3)  56,989  Expenses    Employee benefit expenses F  28,206  1  28,207  Deferred consideration pertaining to acquisition G  110  39  149  Cost of technical sub-contractors  4,417  –  4,417  Travel expenses  1,655  –  1,655  Cost of software packages and others  1,049  –  1,049  Communication expenses  311  –  311  Consultancy and professional charges  563  –  563  Depreciation and amortization expenses  1,115  –  1,115  Other expenses G  1,909  14  1,923  Total expenses  39,335  54  39,389  Profit before exceptional items and tax  17,657  (57)  17,600  Profit on transfer of business H  3,036  (3,036)  –  Profit before tax  20,693  (3,093)  17,600  Tax expense    Current tax I  4,898  –  4,898  Deferred tax  9  –  9  Profit for the period  15,786  (3,093)  12,693  Other comprehensive income    Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss    Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset F  –  (2)  (2)   –  (2)  (2) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss  –  –  –  Total other comprehensive income, net of tax  –  (2)  (2) Total comprehensive income, for the period  15,786  (3,095)  12,691  Explanations for reconciliation of Statement of Profit and loss  as previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS : F .
Employee benefit expenses a) As per Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, actuarial gains and  losses are recognized in other comprehensive income and  not reclassified to profit and loss in a subsequent period.
b) Adjustments reflect unamortized negative past service cost  arising on modification of the gratuity plan in an earlier  period.
Ind AS 19 requires such gains and losses to be  adjusted to retained earnings.
G. Deferred and contingent consideration pertaining to  acquisition  Adjustments reflect impact of discounting pertaining to  deferred consideration and contingent consideration payable  for business combinations.
H. Reversal of exceptional item Profit on transfer of business between entities under common  control has been reversed and taken to business transfer  reserve on account of transition to Ind AS.
I.
Current tax The tax component on actuarial gains and losses which are  transferred to other comprehensive income under Ind AS.
2.2.3 Cash flow statement There were no significant reconciliation items between cash  flows prepared under Indian GAAP and those prepared  under Ind AS.
126 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.3 Property, plant and equipment The changes in the carrying value of property , plant and equipment for the year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Land –  Freehold Land –  Leasehold Buildings  (1)(2) Plant and  machinery  (2)(4) Office  equipment  (2) Computer  equipment  (2)  Furniture  and  fixtures (2) Vehicles Total Gross carrying  value as of April 1,  2016 970 638 6,173 1,679 679 3,481 1,070 19 14,709  Additions  123  21  310  344  122  654  237  6  1,817  Deletions  –  –  –  (4)  (32)  (249)  (30)  (1)  (316) Gross carrying  value as of  March 31, 2017 1,093 659 6,483 2,019 769 3,886 1,277 24 16,210  Accumulated  depreciation as of  April 1, 2016 –  (21)  (2,150)  (1,044)  (369)  (2,195)  (671)  (11)  (6,461) Depreciation  –  (5)  (227)  (250)  (111)  (572)  (162)  (4)  (1,331) Accumulated  depreciation on  deletions  –  –  –  4  8  164  10  1  187  Accumulated  depreciation as of  March 31, 2017  –  (26)  (2,377)  (1,290)  (472)  (2,603)  (823)  (14)  (7,605) Carrying value as of  March 31, 2017 1,093 633 4,106 729 297 1,283 454 10 8,605 Carrying value as of  April 1, 2016970 617 4,023 635 310 1,286 399 8 8,248  The changes in the carrying value of property , plant and equipment for the year ended March 31, 2016 are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Land –  Freehold Land –  Leasehold Buildings  (1)(2) Plant and  machinery  (2) Office  equipment  (2) Computer  equipment  (2) (3) Furniture  and  fixtures (2) Vehicles Total Gross carrying  value as of April 1,  2015929 621 5,733 1,361 525 2,812 832 14 12,827  Additions  41  17  440  319  155  945  241  5  2,163  Deletions  –  –  –  (1)  (1)  (276)  (3)  –  (281) Gross carrying  value as of  March 31, 2016 970 638 6,173 1,679 679 3,481 1,070 19 14,709  Accumulated  depreciation as of  April 1, 2015  –  (16)  (1,937)  (838)  (280)  (1,852)  (549)  (8)  (5,480) For the period  –  (5)  (213)  (207)  (90)  (472)  (125)  (3)  (1,115) Deduction /  Adjustments during  the period –  –  –  1  1  129  3  –  134  Accumulated  depreciation as of  March 31, 2016 –  (21)  (2,150)  (1,044)  (369)  (2,195)  (671)  (11)  (6,461) Carrying value as of  March 31, 2016 970 617 4,023 635 310 1,286 399 8 8,248  Carrying value as of  April 1, 2015 929 605 3,796 523 245 960 283 6 7,347  (1) Buildings include ` 250 being the value of five shares of ` 50 each in Mittal Towers Premises Co-operative Society Limited.
(2) Includes certain assets provided on cancellable operating lease to subsidiaries.
(3) During the year ended March 31, 2016, computer equipment having net book value of ` 20 crore was transferred to EdgeVerve (Refer to Note 2.5.3).
(4) Includes ` 25 crore spent on CSR activities for the year ended March 31, 2017.
Standalone financial statements | 127  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Gross carrying value of leasehold land represents amounts  paid under certain lease-cum-sale agreements to acquire land  including agreements where the Company has an option to  purchase or renew the properties on expiry of the lease period.
The aggregate depreciation has been included under  depreciation and amortization expense in the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
Tangible assets provided on operating lease to subsidiaries as  at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Cost Accumulated  depreciation Net book  value Buildings  197  82  115   197  75  122  Plant and machinery  33  19  14   33  14  19  Furniture and fixtures  25  16  9   25  12  13  Computer equipment  3  2  1   3  2  1  Office equipment  18  10  8    18  7  11  The aggregate depreciation charged on the above assets  during the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016  amounted to ` 19 crore each.
The rental income from subsidiaries for the years ended  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 amounted to ` 65 crore  and ` 51 crore, respectively .
2.4 Intangible assets  The changes in the carrying value of acquired intangible  assets for the year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Sub- contracting  rights related Others Total Gross carrying value  as of April 1, 2016 21  9  30  Additions  –  –  –  Deletion  –  –  –  Gross carrying value  as of March 31, 2017 21 9 30  Accumulated  amortization as of  April 1, 2016 (21) (9) (30) Amortization expense  –  –  –  Deletion  –  –  –  Accumulated  amortization as of  March 31, 2017(21) (9) (30) Carrying value as of  March 31, 2017 –  –  –  Carrying value as of  April 1, 2016 – – -– The changes in the carrying value of acquired intangible assets for the year ended March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Intellectual  property  rights-related Sub- contracting  rights-related Others Total Gross carrying value as of April 1, 2015  12  21  9  42  Additions  –  –  –  –  Deletion / Retirement  (12)  –  – (12) Gross carrying value as of March 31, 2016  – 21 9 30  Accumulated amortization as of April 1, 2015 (12) (21) (9) (42) Amortization expense  –  –  –  –  Deletion / Retirement  12  –  – 12  Accumulated amortization as of March 31, 2016  – (21) (9) (30) Carrying value as of March 31, 2016  –  –  –  –  Carrying value as of April 1, 2015  –  –  –  –  Research and development expense recognized in net profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016 is ` 351 crore and ` 384 crore, respectively .
2.5 Investments in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current investments Equity instruments of subsidiaries  7,305  6,901  4,873  Debentures of subsidiary  2,129  2,549  –  Preference securities, equity investments  132  93  1  Others  3  –  –  Tax-free bonds  1,833  1,533  1,234  128 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Fixed maturity plan securities  357  –  –  Non-convertible debentures  3,575  –  –   15,334  11,076  6,108  Current investments Liquid mutual fund units  1,755  –  749  Fixed maturity plan securities  151  –  –  Certificates of deposit  7,635  –  –  Government bonds  –  2  –  Non-convertible debentures  102  –  –   9,643  2  749  Total carrying value  24,977  11,078  6,857  in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31, 2017 2016 Non-current investments Unquoted Investment carried at cost Investments in equity instruments of subsidiaries Infosys BPO Limited  659  659  3,38,22,319 (3,38,22,319) equity shares of ` 10 each, fully paid Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited  236  169  Infosys Technologies (Australia) Pty Limited  66  66  1,01,08,869 (1,01,08,869) equity shares of AUD 0.11 par value, fully paid Infosys Technologies, S. de R.L.
de C.V ., Mexico 65  65  17,49,99,990 (17,49,99,990) equity shares of MXN 1 par value, fully paid up Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB  76  –  1,000 (1,000) equity shares of SEK 100 par value, fully paid Infosys Technologia do Brasil Ltda.
149  149  5,91,24,348 (5,91,24,348) shares of BRL 1.00 par value, fully paid Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited 826  646  Infosys Public Services, Inc.  99  99  3,50,00,000 (3,50,00,000) shares of USD 0.50 par value, fully paid Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG)  1,323  1,323  23,350 (23,350) – Class A shares of CHF 1,000 each and 29,400  (29,400) – Class B Shares of CHF 100 each, fully paid up Infosys Americas Inc.  1  1  10,000 (10,000) shares of USD 10 per share, fully paid up EdgeVerve Systems Limited (Refer to Note 2.5.3)  1,312  1,312  1,31,18,40,000 (1,31,18,40,000) equity shares of ` 10 each, fully paid Panaya Inc.  1,398  1,398  2 (2) shares of USD 0.01 per share, fully paid up Infosys Nova Holdings LLC  94  94  Kallidus Inc. (Refer to Note 2.5.2)  619  619  10,21,35,416 (10,21,35,416) shares  Skava Systems Private Limited (Refer to Note 2.5.2)  59  59  25,000 (25,000) shares of ` 10 per share, fully paid up Noah Consulting LLC (Refer to Note 2.5.1)  313  242  Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pte Ltd)  10  –  1,09,90,000 (Nil) shares of SGD 1.00 par value, fully paid  7,305  6,901  Investment carried at amortized cost Investment in debentures of subsidiary EdgeVerve Systems Limited (Refer to Note 2.5.3)  21,29,00,000 (25,49,00,000) Unsecured redeemable, non-convertible debentures of  ` 100 each fully paid up  2,129  2,549   2,129  2,549   9,434  9,450  Standalone financial statements | 129  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As at March 31, 2017 2016 Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss Others  3  –   3  –  Investment carried at fair value through other comprehensive income (Refer to Note 2.5.5) Preference securities  131  92  Equity instruments  1  1   132  93  Quoted Investments carried at amortized cost Tax-free bonds (Refer to Note 2.5.6)  1,833  1,533   1,833  1,533  Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss Fixed maturity plans (Refer to Note 2.5.7)  357  –   357  –  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income Non-convertible debentures (Refer to Note 2.5.8)  3,575  –   3,575  –  Total non-current investments  15,334  11,076  Current investments  Unquoted Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss (Refer to Note 2.5.7) Liquid mutual fund units  1,755  –  Fixed maturity plan securities  151  –   1,906  –  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income Certificates of deposit (Refer to Note 2.5.8)  7,635  –   7,635  –  Quoted Investments carried at amortized cost Government bonds (Refer to Note 2.5.6)  –  2   –  2  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income (Refer to Note 2.5.8) Non-convertible debentures  102  –   102  –  Total current investments  9,643  2  Total investments  24,977  11,078  Aggregate amount of quoted investments  5,867  1,535  Market value of quoted investments (including interest accrued)  6,327  1,627  Aggregate amount of unquoted investments  19,110  9,543  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments 6  6  Investments carried at cost  7,305  6,901  Investments carried at amortized cost  3,962  4,084  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income  11,444  93  Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss  2,266  –  2.5.1 Investment in Noah Consulting LLC On November 16, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% membership  interest in Noah Consulting, LLC (Noah), a leading provider  of advanced information management consulting services  for the oil and gas industry .
The business acquisition was  conducted by entering into a share purchase agreement  for cash consideration of US $33  million (approximately  ` 216 crore), contingent consideration up to US $5 million  (approximately ` 33 crore on acquisition date) and retention  bonus up to US $32 million (approximately ` 212 crore on  acquisition date).
The payment of contingent consideration  to the sellers of Noah was dependent upon the achievement  of certain financial targets by Noah for the years ended  December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016.
During the year  ended March 31, 2016, based on the assessment of Noah  achieving the targets for the respective periods, the entire  contingent consideration was reversed.
130 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.5.2  Investment in Kallidus Inc. and Skava Systems   Pvt.
Ltd. On June  2, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting  interests in Kallidus Inc. (d.b.a Skava) (Kallidus), a leading  provider of digital experience solutions, including mobile  commerce and in-store shopping experiences to large retail  clients and 100% of the voting interests of Skava Systems  Private Limited, India, an affiliate of Kallidus.
The business  acquisition was conducted by entering into a share purchase  agreement for a cash consideration of US $91  million  (approximately ` 578 crore) and a contingent consideration  of up to US $ 20  million (approximately ` 128  crore on  acquisition date), the payment of which is dependent upon  the achievement of certain financial targets by Kallidus over a  period of three years ending on December 31, 2017.
During  the year ended March 31, 2017, a contingent consideration  of ` 40  crore was paid to the sellers of Kallidus on the  achievement of certain financial targets.
2.5.3 Investment in EdgeVerve Systems Limited On February 14, 2014, a wholly-owned subsidiary EdgeVerve  Systems Limited (‘EdgeVerve’) was incorporated.
EdgeVerve  was created to focus on developing and selling products  and platforms.
The Company has undertaken an enterprise  valuation by an independent valuer and accordingly ,  the business has been transferred for a consideration  of ` 421  crore with effect from July 1, 2014.
Net assets  amounting to ` 9 crore were transferred and accordingly a  gain of ` 412 crore was recorded as an exceptional item under  previous GAAP .
On adoption of Ind AS, the same has been  reversed from retained earnings and transferred to ‘Business  Transfer Adjustment Reserve’, in accordance with Ind AS 103,  which requires common control transactions to be recorded  at book values.
The consideration has been settled through  the issue of fully-paid-up equity shares in EdgeVerve.
On April 24, 2015, the Board of Directors of Infosys authorized  the Company to execute a Business Transfer Agreement and  related documents with EdgeVerve, to transfer the business  of Finacle and Edge Services.
Post the requisite approval  from shareholders through a postal ballot on June 4, 2015,  a Business Transfer Agreement and other related documents  were executed with EdgeVerve to transfer the business with  effect from August 1, 2015.
The Company has undertaken an  enterprise valuation by an independent valuer and accordingly ,  the businesses were transferred for a consideration of  ` 3,222 crore and ` 177 crore for Finacle and Edge Services,  respectively .
Net assets amounting to ` 363 crore, (including  working capital amounting to ` 337 crore) were transferred  and accordingly , a gain of ` 3,036 crore had been recorded  as an exceptional item under previous GAAP .
On adoption  of Ind AS, the same has been recorded in business transfer  adjustment reserve, in accordance with Ind AS 103, which  requires common control transactions to be recorded at  book values.
The consideration was settled through the issue of  85,00,00,000 equity shares amounting to ` 850 crore and  25,49,00,000 non-convertible redeemable debentures  amounting to ` 2,549 crore in EdgeVerve, post the requisite  approval from shareholders on December 11, 2015.
During the  year ended March 31, 2017, EdgeVerve had repaid ` 420 crore  by redeeming proportionate number of debentures.
2.5.4  Investment in Infosys Consulting Holding AG  (Formerly Lodestone Holding AG) On October  22, 2012, Infosys acquired 100% of the  outstanding share capital of Infosys Consulting Holding AG,  a global management consultancy firm headquartered in  Zurich, Switzerland.
The acquisition was executed through a  share purchase agreement for an upfront cash consideration  of ` 1,187  crore and a deferred consideration of up to  ` 608 crore.
The deferred consideration was payable to the selling  shareholders of Lodestone on the third anniversary of the  acquisition date and was contingent upon their continued  employment for a period of three years.
The investment in  Lodestone was recorded at the acquisition cost and the deferred  consideration was being recognized on a proportionate basis  over a period of three years from the date of acquisition.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the liability towards  deferred consideration was settled.
Standalone financial statements | 131  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.5.5 Details of investments The details of investments in preference and equity instruments as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, 2017 2016 Preference Securities Airviz Inc. 2,82,279 (2,82,279) Series A Preferred Stock, fully paid up, par value USD 0.001 each  9  13  ANSR Consulting 52,631 (52,631) Series A Preferred Stock, fully paid up, par value USD 0.001 each  10  9  Whoop Inc. 16,48,352 (16,48,352) Series B Preferred Stock, fully paid up, par value USD 0.0001 each  15  20  CloudEndure Ltd. 25,59,290 (12,79,645) Preferred Series B Shares, fully paid up, par value ILS 0.01 each  37  13  Nivetti Systems Private Limited 2,28,501 (2,28,501) Preferred Stock, fully paid up, par value ` 1 each  10  10  Waterline Data Science, Inc. 39,33,910 (39,33,910) Preferred Series B Shares, fully paid up, par value USD 0.00001 each  24  27  Trifacta Inc. 11,80,358 (Nil) Preferred Stock  26  –  Equity Instrument OnMobile Systems Inc., USA 21,54,100 (21,54,100) common stock at USD 0.4348 each, fully paid up, par value USD  0.001 each  –  –  Merasport Technologies Private Limited  2,420 (2,420) equity shares at ` 8,052 each, fully paid up, par value ` 10 each  –  –  Global Innovation and Technology Alliance  15,000 (15,000) equity shares at ` 1,000 each, fully paid up, par value ` 1,000 each  1  1  Others Stellaris Venture Partners India I  3  –    135  93  2.5.6  Details of investments in tax-free bonds and government bonds The balances held in tax-free bonds as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Face value ` As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  7.04% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  Bonds 03MAR2026 10,00,000 470  50  –  –  7.16% Power Finance Corporation Ltd. Bonds  17JUL202510,00,000 1,000  107  –  –  7.18% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  Bonds 19FEB20231,000 20,00,000  201 20,00,000  201  7.28% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  21DEC20301,000 4,22,800  42 4,22,800  42  7.28% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  18SEP203010,00,000 3,300  343 2,000  200  7.34% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  Bonds 19FEB20281,000 21,00,000  211 21,00,000  211  7.35% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  11JAN20311,000 5,71,396  57 5,71,396  57  7.93% Rural Electrification Corporation Limited  Bonds 27MAR20221,000 2,00,000  21 2,00,000  21  8.10% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  Bonds 23FEB20271,000 5,00,000  53 5,00,000  53  8.26% India Infrastructure Finance Company  Limited Bonds 23AUG202810,00,000 1,000  100 1,000  100  8.30% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  25JAN20271,000 5,00,000  53 5,00,000  53  132 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Face value ` As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  8.35% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  22NOV2023 10,00,000 1,500  150 1,500  150  8.46% India Infrastructure Finance Company  Limited Bonds 30AUG2028 10,00,000 2,000  200 2,000  200  8.46% Power Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  30AUG202810,00,000 1,500  150 1,500  150  8.48% India Infrastructure Finance Company  Limited Bonds 05SEP2028 10,00,000 450  45 450  45  8.54% Power Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  16NOV2028 1,000 5,00,000  50 5,00,000  50   68,05,416 1,833 68,02,646 1,533 The balances held in government bonds as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Face value PHP   As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  Treasury Notes PHY6972FW G18 MAT Date 22  Feb 2017  100  –  –  1,50,000  2    –  – 1,50,000 2 2.5.7  Details of investments in liquid mutual fund  units and fixed maturity plan securities The balances held in liquid mutual fund as at March 31, 2017  are as follows : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, 2017  Units Amount  Birla Sun Life Cash Plus Growth  Direct Plan   1,33,97,873  350  ICICI Prudential Liquid Direct  Plan Growth   1,03,88,743  250  IDFC Cash Fund Growth   (Direct Plan)  12,65,679  250  Kotak Low Duration Fund Direct  Growth (Ultra Short-Term) 15,02,564  305  L&T Liquid Fund Direct Plan  Growth  6,72,806  150  Reliance Liquid Fund – Treasury  Plan – Direct Growth Plan –  Growth Option8,82,465  350  SBI Premier Liquid Fund Direct  Plan Growth 3,91,909  100  2,85,02,039 1,755 The balances held in fixed maturity plan securities as at  March 31, 2017 are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, 2017  Units Amount  Birla Sun Life Fixed Term  Plan-series OD 1145 Days – GR  – direct 5,00,00,000  51  Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan –  series OE 1153 days – GR direct 2,50,00,000  25  HDFC FMP 1155D Feb  2017-Direct Growth Series 37  2,80,00,000  28  Particulars As at March 31, 2017  Units Amount  HDFC FMP 1169D Feb 2017  -Direct-Quarterly Dividend  -Series 37 4,50,00,000  45  ICICI FMP Series 80-1194 D  Plan F Div 4,00,00,000  40  ICICI Prudential Fixed maturity  Plan Series 80-1187 Days Plan  G direct Plan 4,20,00,000  42  ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity  Plan series 80-1253 Days Plan J  Direct Plan 3,00,00,000  30  IDFC Fixed Term Plan Series  129 direct Plan-Growth 1147  Days 1,00,00,000  10  IDFC Fixed Term Plan Series  131 direct Plan-Growth 1139  Days 1,50,00,000  15  Kotak FMP Series 199 Direct –  Growth  3,50,00,000  36  Reliance Fixed Horizon  Fund-XXXII Series 8-Dividend  Plan 3,50,00,000  35  Reliance Yearly Interval Fund  Series-1-Direct Plan-Growth  Plan   10,69,06,898  151  46,19,06,898  508  Standalone financial statements | 133  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.5.8  Details of investments in non-convertible debentures and certificates of deposit The balances held in non-convertible debenture as at March 31, 2017 are as follows :  in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31, 2017 Face value `  Units Amount  7.48% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 18NOV2019  1,00,00,000  50  52  7.58% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 28FEB2020  10,00,000  1,000  100  7.58% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 11JUN2020  10,00,000  500  51  7.59% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 14OCT2021  10,00,000  3,000  309  7.75% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 27AUG2021  10,00,000  1,250  129  7.79% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 19JUN2020  10,00,000  500  52  7.80% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 11NOV2019  1,00,00,000  150  155  7.81% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 27APR2020  10,00,000  2,000  208  7.95% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 23SEP2019  1,00,00,000  50  53  8.02% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 18FEB2020  10,00,000  500  51  8.26% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 12AUG2019  1,00,00,000  100  106  8.34% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 06MAR2019  1,00,00,000  200  217  8.37% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 03OCT2019  10,00,000  2,000  218  8.37% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 10MAY2021  10,00,000  500  55  8.43% IDFC Bank Limited 30JAN2018  10,00,000  1,000  102  8.46% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 11MAR2019  1,00,00,000  50  54  8.47% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 21JAN2020  10,00,000  500  52  8.50% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 31AUG2020  1,00,00,000  50  54  8.54% IDFC Bank Limited 30MAY2018  10,00,000  1,500  182  8.59% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 14JUN2019  1,00,00,000  50  51  8.60% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 29JUL2020  10,00,000  1,400  152  8.61% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 11DEC2019  10,00,000  1,000  104  8.66% IDFC Bank Limited 25JUN2018  10,00,000  1,520  184  8.72% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 15APR2019  1,00,00,000  75  77  8.75% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 13JAN2020  5,00,000  5,000  260  8.75% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 14JAN2020  10,00,000  1,070  112  8.75% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 21DEC2020  10,00,000  1,000  104  8.97% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 29OCT2019  10,00,000  500  53  9.45% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 21AUG2019  10,00,000  3,000  327  9.65% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 19JAN2019  10,00,000  500  53    30,015  3,677  The balances held in certificates of deposit as at March 31,  2017 are as follows :  in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31, 2017 Face value `  Units Amount  Andhra Bank  1,00,000  35,000  344  Axis Bank  1,00,000 2,93,600  2,800  Corporation Bank  1,00,000  33,500  327  DBS Bank  1,00,000  5,000  49  ICICI Bank Limited  1,00,000  42,500  413  IDFC Bank  1,00,000 1,35,000  1,281  IndusInd Bank  1,00,000 1,06,400  1,011  Kotak Bank  1,00,000  74,000  704  Vijaya Bank  1,00,000  14,000  137  Yes Bank  1,00,000  60,000  569   7,99,000  7,635  2.6 Loans  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Unsecured, considered  good Other loans Loans to employees  5  5  4   5  5  4  Unsecured, considered  doubtful Loans to employees  17  13  10   22  18  14  Less : Allowance for  doubtful loans to  employees 17 13 10  5  5  4  134 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Current Unsecured, considered  good Loans to subsidiaries  (Refer to Note 2.25) 69 91 24 Other loans Loans to employees 241 264 201  310  355  225  Total loans 315 360 229 2.7 Other financial assets in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Security deposits (1)  81 73 65 Rental deposits (1)(4)  135 119 45  216  192  110  Current Security deposits (1)  2  1  1  Rental deposits (1)  2  2  6  Restricted deposits (1)  1,309  1,154  1,039  Unbilled revenues (1)(5)  3,200  2,673  2,423  Interest accrued but not  due (1)  514  696  433  Foreign currency forward  and options contracts (2)(3)  268  109  94  Others (1)(6)  108  166  49   5,403  4,801  4,045  Total  5,619  4,993  4,155  (1) Financial assets carried at  amortized cost 5,351  4,884  4,061  (2) Financial assets carried at  fair value through other  comprehensive income 52  –  –  (3) Financial assets carried at  fair value through profit or  loss 216  109  94  (4) Includes dues from  subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  –  21  21  (5) Includes dues from  subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  47  20  6  (6) Includes dues from  subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  18  24  43  Restricted deposits represent deposits with financial  institutions to settle employee-related obligations as and  when they arise during the normal course of business.
2.8 Trade receivables (1) in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Current Unsecured  Considered good (2)  10,960  9,798  8,627  Considered doubtful  289  249  322   11,249  10,047  8,949  Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Less : Allowances for  credit losses  289  249  322   10,960  9,798  8,627  (1) Includes dues from  companies where directors  are interested 1  1  6  (2) Includes dues from  subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  235  244  309 2.9 Cash and cash equivalents  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Balances with banks In current and deposit  accounts  12,222  24,276  23,722  Cash on hand  –  –  –  Others Deposits with financial  institution  6,931  4,900  4,000   19,153  29,176  27,722  Balances with banks  in unpaid dividend  accounts 17  5  3  Deposit with more than  12 months maturity 6,765  237  182  Balances with banks held  as margin money deposits  against guarantees 394  336  185  Cash and cash equivalents as of March  31, 2017,  March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 include restricted cash  and bank balances of ` 411 crore, ` 341 crore and ` 188 crore,  respectively .
The restrictions are primarily on account of bank  balances held as margin money deposits against guarantees  and balances held in unpaid dividends bank accounts.
The deposits maintained by the Company with banks and  financial institutions comprise time deposits, which can be  withdrawn by the Company at any point without prior notice  or penalty on the principal.
The details of balances as on Balance Sheet dates with banks  are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 In current accounts ANZ Bank, Taiwan  3  13  Bank of America, USA  769  563  BNP Paribas Bank, Norway  7  –  Citibank N.A., Australia  8  24  Citibank N.A., India  2  1  Citibank N.A., Dubai  1  1  Citibank N.A., EEFC (U.S. Dollar  account)  1  –  Citibank N.A., Hungary  3  –  Citibank N.A., Japan  12  15  Standalone financial statements | 135  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 Citibank N.A., New Zealand  6  2  Citibank N.A., South Africa  9  4  Citibank N.A., South Korea  1  –  Deutsche Bank, Philippines  4  11  Deutsche Bank, India  9  4  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (Euro account)  11  17  Deutsche Bank, EEFC (United  Kingdom Pound Sterling account)  8  8  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (Australian Dollar account)  38  2  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (U.S. Dollar account)  73  95  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (Swiss Franc account)  2  2  Deutsche Bank, Belgium  10  59  Deutsche Bank, France  8  10  Deutsche Bank, Germany  48  17  Deutsche Bank, Netherlands  2  4  Deutsche Bank, Russia   (U.S. Dollar account)  1  1  Deutsche Bank, Russia  3  2  Deutsche Bank, Singapore  6  4  Deutsche Bank, Switzerland  5  1  Deutsche Bank, Switzerland   (U.S. Dollar Account)  1  –  Deutsche Bank, United Kingdom  25  170  Deutsche Bank, Malaysia  7  9  HSBC Bank, Hong Kong  1  1  ICICI Bank, India  40  57  ICICI Bank, EEFC   (U.S. Dollar account)  3  10  Nordbanken, Sweden  22  5  Punjab National Bank, India  6  4  Royal Bank of Canada, Canada  5  24  State Bank of India  6  7   1,166  1,147  In deposit accounts Andhra Bank  –  848  Axis Bank  945  1,170  Barclays Bank  825  –  Canara Bank  –  1,861  Central Bank of India  –  1,518  Corporation Bank  –  1,185  HDFC Bank  349  2,500  HSBC Bank  500  –  ICICI Bank  4,351  3,755  IDBI Bank  1,750  1,750  IndusInd Bank  191  250  Indian Overseas Bank  –  1,000  Jammu & Kashmir Bank  –  25  Kotak Mahindra Bank  500  492  Oriental Bank of Commerce  –  1,967  South Indian Bank  200  –  Standard Chartered Bank  500  –  State Bank of India  –  2,310  Syndicate Bank  49  1,250  Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 Union Bank of India  –  7  Vijaya Bank  –  200  Yes Bank  485  700   10,645  22,788  In unpaid dividend accounts Axis Bank, unpaid dividend account  2  2  HDFC Bank, unpaid dividend  account  2  1  ICICI Bank, unpaid dividend  account  13  2   17  5  In margin money deposits against  guarantees Canara Bank  177  132  ICICI Bank  217  147  State Bank of India  –  57   394  336  Deposits with financial institution HDFC Limited 6,231  4,900  LIC Housing Finance Ltd  700  –   6,931  4,900  Total cash and cash equivalents as  per Balance Sheet  19,153  29,176  2.10 Other assets  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Capital advances 562  333  316  Advances other than  capital advance Prepaid gratuity   (Refer to Note 2.22) 56  2  26  Others Prepaid expenses 95  87  7  Deferred contract cost 283  333  –   996  755  349  Current Advances other than  capital advance Payment to vendors for  supply of goods 87  58  60  Others Prepaid expenses (1)  387  209  71  Deferred contract cost  74  48  –  Withholding taxes and  others  1,665  1,650  1,253   2,213  1,965  1,384  Total other assets  3,209  2,720  1,733  (1) Includes dues from  subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25) 56 43 – Deferred contract costs are upfront costs incurred for the  contract and are amortized over the term of the contract.
Withholding taxes and others primarily consist of input  tax credits.
136 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.11 Financial instruments Financial instruments by category The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Amortized  cost   Financial assets /  liabilities at fair value  through profit or loss Financial assets /  liabilities at fair value  through OCI Total  carrying  value   Total fair  value   Designated  upon  initial  recognition Mandatory Equity  instruments  designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Assets  Cash and cash equivalents (Refer to Note 2.9)  19,153  –  –  –  –  19,153  19,153  Investments (Refer to Note 2.5) Equity , preference securities and others  –  –  3  132  –  135  135  Tax-free bonds and government bonds  1,833  –  –  –  –  1,833 (1) 2,142  Liquid mutual fund units  –  –  1,755  –  –  1,755  1,755  Redeemable, non-convertible debentures (2)  2,129  –  –  –  –  2,129  2,129  Fixed maturity plan securities  –  –  508  –  –  508  508  Certificates of deposit  –  –  –  –  7,635  7,635  7,635  Non-convertible debentures  –  –  –  –  3,677  3,677  3,677  Trade receivables (Refer to Note 2.8)  10,960  –  –  –  –  10,960  10,960  Loans (Refer to Note 2.6)  315  –  –  –  –  315  315  Other financial assets (Refer to Note 2.7)  5,351  –  216  –  52  5,619  5,619  Total  39,741  –  2,482  132  11,364  53,719  Liabilities  Trade payables (Refer to Note 2.14)  269  –  –  –  –  269  269  Other financial liabilities (Refer to Note 2.13)  3,867  –  87  –  –  3,954  3,954  Total  4,136  –  87  –  –  4,223   (1) On account of fair value changes including interest accrued (2) The carrying value of debentures approximates fair value as the instruments are at prevailing market rates.
The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of March 31, 2016 were as follows :  in ` crore Particulars   Amortized  cost   Financial assets /  liabilities at fair value  through profit or loss Financial assets /  liabilities at fair value  through OCI Total  carrying  value   Total fair  value   Designated  upon  initial  recognition Mandatory Equity  instruments  designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Assets  Cash and cash equivalents (Refer to Note 2.9)  29,176  –  –  –  –  29,176  29,176  Investments (Refer to Note 2.5) Equity and preference securities  –  –  –  93  –  93  93  Tax-free bonds and government bonds  1,535  –  –  –  –  1,535  (1) 1,627  Redeemable, non-convertible debentures (2)  2,549  –  –  –  –  2,549  2,549  Trade receivables (Refer to Note 2.8)  9,798  –  –  –  –  9,798  9,798  Loans (Refer to Note 2.6)  360  –  –  –  –  360  360  Other financial assets (Refer to Note 2.7)  4,884  –  109  –  –  4,993  4,993  Total  48,302  –  109  93  –  48,504  Liabilities  Trade payables (Refer to Note 2.14)  623  –  –  –  –  623  623  Other financial liabilities (Refer to Note 2.13)  3,947  –  117  –  –  4,064  4,064  Total  4,570  –  117  –  –  4,687   (1) On account of fair value changes including interest accrued (2) The carrying value of debentures approximates fair value as the instruments are at prevailing market rates.
Standalone financial statements | 137  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of April 1, 2015 were as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Amortized  cost   Financial assets /  liabilities at fair value  through profit or loss Financial assets / liabilities at fair value  through OCI Total  carrying  value   Total fair  value  Designated  upon  initial  recognition Mandatory Equity  instruments  designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Assets  Cash and cash equivalents (Refer to Note 2.9)  27,722  –  –  –  –  27,722  27,722  Investments (Refer to Note 2.5) Equity and preference securities  –  –  –  1  –  1  1  Bonds and government bonds  1,234  –  –  –  –  1,234  (1) 1,269  Liquid mutual fund units  –  –  749  –  –  749  749  Trade receivables (Refer to Note 2.8)  8,627  –  –  –  –  8,627  8,627  Loans (Refer to Note 2.6)  229  –  –  –  –  229  229  Other financial assets (Refer to Note 2.7)  4,061  –  94  –  –  4,155  4,155  Total  41,873  –  843  1  –  42,717  Liabilities  Trade payables (Refer to Note 2.14)  124  –  –  –  –  124  124  Other financial liabilities (Refer to Note 2.13)  3,967  –  –  –  –  3,967  3,967  Total  4,091  –  –  –  –  4,091   (1) On account of fair value changes including interest accrued Fair value hierarchy Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability , either directly  (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of March 31, 2017 is as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As of  March 31,  2017  Fair value measurement at end of the  reporting period / year using  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Investments in liquid mutual fund units (Refer to Note 2.5)  1,755  1,755  –  –  Investments in tax-free bonds (Refer to Note 2.5)  2,142  206  1,936  –  Investments in equity instruments (Refer to Note 2.5)  1  –  –  1  Investments in preference securities (Refer to Note 2.5)  131  –  –  131  Investments in fixed maturity plan securities (Refer to Note 2.5)  508  –  508  –  Investments in certificates of deposit (Refer to Note 2.5)  7,635  –  7,635  –  Investments in non-convertible debentures (Refer to Note 2.5)  3,677  3,160  517  –  Others (Refer to Note 2.5)  3  –  –  3  Derivative financial instruments – gain on outstanding foreign  currency forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.7)  268  –  268  –  Liabilities Derivative financial instruments – loss on outstanding foreign  currency forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.13)  2  –  2  –  Liability towards contingent consideration (Refer to Note 2.13) (1)  85  –  –  85  (1) Discounted US $14 million (approximately ` 91 crore) at 14.2% During the year ended March 31, 2017, tax-free bonds of ` 115 crore were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 of fair value  hierarchy , since these were valued based on market observable inputs.
138 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2016 was as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of  March 31,  2016 Fair value measurement at end of the  reporting period / year using  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Investments in tax-free bonds (Refer to Note 2.5)  1,625  298  1,327  –  Investments in government bonds (Refer to Note 2.5)  2  2  –  –  Investments in equity instruments (Refer to Note 2.5)  1  –  –  1  Investments in preference securities (Refer to Note 2.5)  92  –  –  92  Derivative financial instruments – gain on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.7)  109  –  109  –  Liabilities Derivative financial instruments – loss on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.13)  2  –  2  –  Liability towards contingent consideration (Refer to Note 2.13) (1)  115  –  –  115  (1) Discounted US $20 million (approximately ` 132 crore) at 13.7% The fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2015 was as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As of April 1,  2015   Fair value measurement at end of the  reporting period / year using  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Investments in liquid mutual fund units (Refer to Note 2.5)  749  749  –  –  Investments in tax-free bonds (Refer to Note 2.5)  1,269 533 736  –  Investments in equity instruments (Refer to Note 2.5)  1  –  –  1  Derivative financial instruments – gain on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.7)  94  –  94  –  Liabilities Derivative financial instruments – loss on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.13)  –  –  –  –  A one percentage point change in the unobservable inputs  used in fair valuation of Level 3 assets and liabilities does not  have a significant impact in its value.
The movement in contingent consideration as of March 31,  2017 from March 31, 2016 is on account of settlement of  contingent consideration of ` 40 crore and change in discount  rates and passage of time.
The movement in Level 3 investments from fiscal 2016 to  fiscal 2017 is on account of purchase of additional investments  during the year and change in fair value.
The fair value of liquid mutual funds is based on quoted  price.
The fair value of tax-free bonds and government bonds  is based on quoted prices and market observable inputs.
The fair value of non-convertible debentures is based on  quoted prices and market observable inputs.
The fair value  of fixed maturity plan securities and certificates of deposit  is based on market observable inputs.
Derivative financial  instruments are valued based on quoted prices for similar  assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are  directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace.
The amount invested and fair value of unquoted equity and  preference securities of March 31, 2017 is ` 134 crore and  ` 132 crore, respectively .
The fair value is determined using  Level 3 inputs like Discounted cash flows, Market multiple  method, Option pricing model, etc.
Financial risk management  Financial risk factors : The Company’s activities expose it to a  variety of financial risks : market risk, credit risk and liquidity  risk.
The Company’s focus is to foresee the unpredictability  of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse  effects on its financial performance.
The primary market risk  to the Company is foreign exchange risk.
The Company uses  derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign exchange  related risk exposures.
The Company’s exposure to credit  risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristic of  each customer and the concentration of risk from the top  few customers.
Market risk  The Company operates internationally and a major  portion of the business is transacted in several currencies.
Consequently , the Company is exposed to foreign exchange  risk through its sales and services in the United States and  elsewhere, and purchases from overseas suppliers in various  foreign currencies.
The Company holds derivative financial  instruments such as foreign exchange forward and options  contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates  on foreign currency exposures.
The exchange rate between  the rupee and foreign currencies has changed substantially  in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future.
Consequently , the results of the Company’s operations are  adversely affected as the rupee appreciates / depreciates  against these currencies.
Standalone financial statements | 139  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The foreign currency risks from financial instruments as of March 31, 2017 were as follows :  in ` crore Particulars USD Euro GBP AUD Other  currencies  Total  Cash and cash equivalents  849  79  33  45  97  1,103  Trade receivables  7,611  1,005  793  533  361  10,303  Other financial assets   (including loans)  2,686  436  365  148  136  3,771  Trade payables  (145)  (5)  (11)  (12)  (22)  (195) Other financial liabilities  (1,847)  (227)  (169)  (186)  (137)  (2,566) Net assets / (liabilities)  9,154  1,288  1,011  528  435  12,416  The foreign currency risk from financial instruments as of March 31, 2016 were as follows :  in ` crore Particulars USD Euro GBP AUD Other  currencies  Total  Cash and cash equivalents  670  107  178  26  93  1,074  Trade receivables  6,875  973  664  539  296  9,347  Other financial assets   (including loans)  2,005  370  210  108  125  2,818  Trade payables (199) (42) (133) (32) (39) (445) Other financial liabilities (2,241) (232) (139) (200) (146) (2958) Net assets / (liabilities)  7,110  1,176  780  441  329  9,836  For each of the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016, every percentage point depreciation / appreciation in  the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and US dollar,  has affected the Company’s incremental operating margins by  approximately 0.52%.
Sensitivity analysis is computed based on the changes in the  income and expenses in foreign currency upon conversion  into functional currency , due to exchange rate fluctuations  between the previous reporting period and the current  reporting period.
Derivative financial instruments  The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as  foreign currency forward and options contracts to mitigate  the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency  exposures.
The counterparty for these contracts is generally  a bank or a financial institution.
These derivative financial  instruments are valued based on quoted prices for similar  assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are  directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace.
The details of the outstanding foreign exchange forward and  options contracts are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As of March 31,  2017 As of March 31,  2016 In  million In `  crore In  million In `  crore Derivatives  designated as cash  flow hedges Forward contracts In Euro  95  658  –  –  In GBP  40  324  –  –  In AUD  130  644  –  –  Particulars As of March 31,  2017 As of March 31,  2016 In  million In `  crore In  million In `  crore Options contracts In Euro  40  277  –  –  Other derivatives Forward contracts In USD  480  3,113 467  3,094  In Euro  106  735 84 633 In GBP  70  566 60 573 In AUD  30  149 50 255 In CHF  10  65  25  173  In SGD  5  23  –  –  In SEK  50  36  –  –  Options contracts In USD  195  1,265  125  828  In Euro  25  173  –  –  In GBP  30  243  –  –  In CAD 13 65 – – Total forwards and  options 8,336 5,556 140 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The foreign exchange forward and options contracts mature  within 12 months.
The table below analyzes the derivative  financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based  on the remaining period as of the Balance Sheet date : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31, 2017 2016 Not later than one month  2,215  1,468  Later than one month and not later  than three months  4,103  3,260  Later than three months and not  later than one year 2,018  828   8,336  5,556  During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has  designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts as cash  flow hedges to mitigate the risk of foreign exchange exposure  on highly probable forecast cash transactions.
The related  hedge transactions for balance in cash flow hedging reserve  are expected to occur and reclassified to revenue in the  Statement of Profit and Loss within three months.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge  relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness  assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists  between the hedged item and hedging instrument, including  whether the hedging instrument is expected to offset changes  in cash flows of hedged items.
If the hedge ratio for risk management purposes is no  longer optimal but the risk management objective remains  unchanged and the hedge continues to qualify for hedge  accounting, the hedge relationship will be rebalanced by  adjusting either the volume of the hedging instrument or  the volume of the hedged item so that the hedge ratio aligns  with the ratio used for risk management purposes.
Any hedge  ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for in profit or loss  at the time of the hedge relationship rebalancing.
The reconciliation of cash flow hedge reserve for the year  ended March 31, 2017 is as follows : in ` crore  Year ended  March 31,  2017 Balance at the beginning of the period  –  Gain / (Loss) recognized in other  comprehensive income during the period 121  Amount reclassified to revenue during the  period  (69) Tax impact on above  (13) Balance at the end of the period  39   The Company offsets a financial asset and a financial liability  when it currently has a legally enforceable right to set off  the recognized amounts and the Company intends either to  settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the  liability simultaneously .
The quantitative information about offsetting of derivative  financial assets and derivative financial liabilities is as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Derivative  financial  asset Derivative  financial  liability Derivative  financial  asset Derivative  financial  liability Gross amount  of recognized  financial  asset / liability 269  (3)  117  (10) Amount set off  (1)  1  (8)  8  Net amount  presented in  Balance Sheet 268  (2)  109  (2) Credit risk  Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation by  the counterparty resulting in a financial loss.
The maximum  exposure to the credit risk at the reporting date is primarily  from trade receivables amounting to ` 10,960  crore and  ` 9,798 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively and unbilled revenue amounting to ` 3,200 crore  and ` 2,673 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively .
Trade receivables and unbilled revenue are  typically unsecured and are derived from revenue earned  from customers primarily located in the United States.
Credit risk has always been managed by the Group through  credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously  monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the  Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business.
On account of the adoption of Ind AS 109, the Group uses  ECL model to assess the impairment loss or gain.
The Group  uses a provision matrix to compute the ECL allowance for  trade receivables and unbilled revenues.
The provision matrix  takes into account available external and internal credit risk  factors such as credit default swap quotes, credit ratings from  international credit rating agencies and the Group’s historical  experience for customers.
The details of percentage of revenues generated from top  customer and top five customers are as follows : in % Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue from top customer 3.9 4.2 Revenue from top five customers 14.1 15.7 Credit risk exposure The allowance for lifetime ECL on customer balances for the  year ended March 31, 2017 was ` 135 crore.
The reversal  for lifetime ECL on customer balances for the year ended  March 31, 2016 was ` 48 crore.
in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Balance at the beginning  249 322  Impairment loss recognized /  reversed  135  (48) Amounts written off  (1)  (31) Translation differences  (4)  6 Balance at the end  379  249  Standalone financial statements | 141  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited as we  generally invest in deposits with banks and financial  institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international  and domestic credit rating agencies.
Investments primarily  include investment in liquid mutual fund units, quoted bonds  issued by government and quasi-government organizations,  non-convertible debentures issued by government-aided  institutions and certificates of deposit which are marketable  securities of banks and eligible financial institutions for  a specified time period with high credit rating given by  domestic credit rating agencies.
Liquidity risk The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are cash  and cash equivalents and the cash flow that is generated  from operations.
The Company has no outstanding bank  borrowings.
The Company believes that the working capital  is sufficient to meet its current requirements.
As of March 31, 2017, the Company had a working capital  of ` 35,896  crore including cash and cash equivalents of  ` 19,153  crore and current investments of ` 9,643  crore.
As of March 31, 2016, the Company had a working capital  of ` 34,509  crore including cash and cash equivalents of  ` 29,176 crore and current investments of ` 2 crore.
As of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, the outstanding  compensated absences were ` 1,142 crore and ` 1,130 crore,  respectively , which have been substantially funded.
Accordingly , no liquidity risk is perceived.
The details of the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as of March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total  Trade payables  269  –  –  –  269  Other financial liabilities (excluding liability  towards acquisition) (Refer to Note 2.13) 3,867  –  –  –  3,867  Liability towards acquisitions on an undiscounted  basis (including contingent consideration)  45  46  –  –  91  The details of the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as of March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total  Trade payables  623  –  –  –  623  Other liabilities (excluding liability towards  acquisition) (Refer to Note 2.13) 3,922  27  –  –  3,949  Liability towards acquisitions on an undiscounted  basis (including contingent consideration)  86  46  –  –  132  2.12 Equity Equity share capital in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  2015 2017  2016  Authorized Equity shares, ` 5 par  value 2,40,00,00,000  (2,40,00,00,000 (2))   equity shares  1,200  1,200  600  Issued, subscribed and   paid up Equity shares, ` 5 par  value (1) 2,29,69,44,664  (2,29,69,44,664 (2)) equity  shares, fully paid up  1,148  1,148  574   1,148  1,148  574  (1) Refer to Note 2.23 for details of basic and diluted shares.
(2) Represents number of shares as of March 31, 2016 The authorized equity shares were 1,20,00,00,000 and the  issued, subscribed and paid-up shares were 1,14,84,72,332  as of April 1, 2015.
Forfeited shares amounted to ` 1,500  (` 1,500).
The Company has only one class of shares referred to  as equity shares having a par value of ` 5.
Each holder of  equity shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The equity  shares represented by ADSs carry similar rights to voting and  dividends as the other equity shares.
Each ADS represents one  underlying equity share.
The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject  to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual  General Meeting.
The remittance of dividends outside India  is governed by Indian law on foreign exchange and is subject  to applicable distribution taxes.
In the period of five years immediately preceding March 31,  2017 : • The Company has allotted 1,14,84,72,332 and  57,42,36,166 fully paid-up shares of face value ` 5 each  during the quarter ended June 30, 2015 and December 31,  2014, pursuant to bonus issue approved by the shareholders  through a postal ballot.
For both the bonus issues, a bonus  share of one equity share for every equity share held, and a  stock dividend of one ADS for every ADS held, respectively ,  has been allotted.
Consequently , the ratio of equity shares  underlying the ADSs held by an American Depositary  Receipt (ADR) holder remains unchanged.
Options granted  under the restricted stock unit plan have been adjusted for  bonus shares.
142 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The Board has increased the dividend payout ratio from up  to 40% to up to 50% of post-tax consolidated profits effective  fiscal 2015.
The Board, in its meeting on April 15, 2016, recommended a  final dividend of ` 14.25 per equity share and the same was  approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting  held on June 18, 2016.
This resulted in a cash outflow of  ` 3,939 crore including corporate dividend tax.
(Refer to Note  2.2.1 for impact on transition to Ind AS) The Board, in its meeting on October 14, 2016, declared an  interim dividend of ` 11 per equity share, which resulted  in a cash outflow of ` 3,041 crore, inclusive of corporate  dividend tax.
The amount of per share dividend recognized as distributions  to equity shareholders for the year ended March  31,  2015 includes final dividend of ` 29.50 per equity share  (not adjusted for the June 17, 2015 bonus issue) and an  interim dividend of ` 10 per equity share.
The Board, in its meeting on April 13, 2017, has recommended  a final dividend of ` 14.75 per equity share for the financial  year ended March 31, 2017.
The proposal is subject to the  approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to  be held on June 24, 2017 and, if approved, would result  in a cash outflow of approximately ` 4,078 crore including  corporate dividend tax.
In the event of liquidation of the Company , the holders of  equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining  assets of the Company in proportion to the number of equity  shares held by the shareholders, after distribution of all  preferential amounts.
The details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore, except as stated otherwise Name of the shareholder As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 No.
of shares % held No.
of shares % held Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas   (Depository of ADRs – legal ownership) 38,33,17,937 16.69 38,53,17,937 16.78 Life Insurance Corporation of India 16,14,36,123 7.03 13,22,74,300  5.76  The reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding and the amount of share capital as at March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016 is as follows : in ` crore, except as stated otherwise Particulars As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 No.
of shares Amount No.
of shares Amount At the beginning of the period  2,29,69,44,664  1,148  1,14,84,72,332  574  Add : Bonus shares issued (including bonus on treasury shares)  –  –  1,14,84,72,332  574  At the end of the period  2,29,69,44,664  1,148  2,29,69,44,664  1,148  Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP)  2015 Stock Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2015 Plan) :  SEBI issued the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Share-based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (‘SEBI  Regulations’) which replaced the SEBI ESOP Guidelines,  1999.
The 2011 Plan (as explained below) was required  to be amended and restated in accordance with the SEBI  Regulations.
Consequently , to effect this change and to further  introduce stock options / ADRs and other stock incentives, the  Company put forth the 2015 Stock Incentive Compensation  Plan (‘the 2015 Plan’) for approval to the shareholders of  the Company .
Pursuant to the approval by the shareholders through a postal  ballot which ended on March 31, 2016, the Board of Directors  has been authorized to introduce, offer, issue and allot  share-based incentives to eligible employees of the Company  and its subsidiaries under the 2015 Plan.
The  maximum  number of shares under the 2015 Plan shall not exceed  2,40,38,883 equity shares (this includes 1,12,23,576 equity  shares which were held by the trust towards the 2011 Plan  as at March 31, 2016).
1,70,38,883 equity shares will be  issued as RSUs at par value and 70,00,000 equity shares will  be issued as stock options at market price.
These instruments  will vest over a period of four years and the Company expects  to grant the instruments under the 2015 Plan over a period  of four to seven years.
On August 1, 2016, the Company granted 17,83,615 RSUs  (including equity shares and equity shares represented by  ADSs) at par value, to employees up to mid-management  (excluding grants made to Dr. Vishal Sikka).
Further, the  Company granted 73,020 incentive units (cash-settled) to  eligible employees.
These instruments will vest equally over  a period of four years and are subject to continued service.
On November  1, 2016, the Company granted 9,70,375  RSUs (including equity shares and equity shares represented  by ADSs) at par value, 12,05,850 employee stock options  (ESOPs) (including equity shares and equity shares  represented by ADSs) to be exercised at market price at the  time of grant, to certain employees at the senior management  level.
Further, the Company granted 20,640 incentive units  (cash-settled) to certain employees at the senior management  level.
These instruments will vest equally over a period of four  years and are subject to continued service.
On February 1, 2017, the Company granted 18,550 incentive  units (cash-settled) to certain employees at the senior  management level.
These instruments will vest equally over  a period of four years and are subject to continued service.
Standalone financial statements | 143  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 As of March 31, 2017, 1,12,89,514 shares are held by the  trust under the 2015 Plan, out of which 1,00,000 shares have  been earmarked for welfare activities for employees.
As of  March 31, 2017, 1,06,845 incentive units were outstanding  (net of forfeitures) and the carrying value of the cash liability  is ` 3 crore.
Pursuant to the approval from the shareholders through a  postal ballot on March 31, 2016, Dr. Vishal Sikka (CEO &  MD) is eligible to receive under the 2015 Plan, an annual  grant of RSUs of fair value US $2 million which will vest  over time, subject to continued service, and an annual  grant of performance-based equity and stock options of  US $5 million subject to achievement of performance targets  set by the Board or its committee, which will vest over time.
US $2 million of fair value in RSUs for fiscal 2017 was granted  on August 1, 2016 amounting to 1,20,700 RSUs in equity  shares represented by ADSs.
The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination  and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017,  performance-based equity and stock options for fiscal  2017 comprising RSUs amounting to US  $1.9 million and  ESOPs amounting to US $0.96 million.
Further, the Board  also approved the annual time-based vesting grant for fiscal  2018 amounting to RSUs of US $2 million.
These RSUs  and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May  2, 2017.
Though  the performance-based RSUs and stock options for fiscal  2017 and time-based RSUs for the remaining employment  term have not been granted as of March  31, 2017, in  accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment, the  Company has recorded employee stock-based compensation  expense.
The Company has recorded employee stock-based  compensation expense of ` 28 crore and ` 7 crore during the  years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 respectively ,  towards CEO compensation.
The nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting  held on October 14, 2016, recommended a grant of 27,250  RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs to U.
B. Pravin Rao, Chief Operating  Officer (COO), under the 2015 Plan and the same was  approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot on  March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
These RSUs and stock options would vest over a  period of four years and shall be exercisable within the period  as approved by the committee.
The exercise price of the RSUs  will be equal to the par value of the shares and the exercise  price of the stock options would be the market price as on the  date of grant, as approved by the shareholders.
Though these  RSUs and ESOPs have not been granted as of March 31, 2017,  in accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment, the  Company has recorded employee stock-based compensation  expense for the same during the year ended March 31, 2017.
2011 RSU Plan (‘the 2011 Plan’) now called 2015 Stock  Incentive Compensation Plan (‘the 2015 Plan’) : The  Company had a 2011 RSU Plan which provided for the grant  of RSUs to eligible employees of the Company .
The Board of  Directors recommended the establishment of the 2011 Plan  to the shareholders on August 30, 2011 and the shareholders  approved the recommendation of the Board of Directors on  October 17, 2011 through a postal ballot.
The maximum  aggregate number of shares that may be awarded under the  plan was 1,13,34,400 as on the date of approval of the plan  adjusted for bonus shares, and the plan was expected to  continue in effect for a term of 10 years from the date of initial  grant under the plan.
Awards have been granted to Dr. Vishal  Sikka under the 2011 RSU plan as detailed below.
Further, the  Company has earmarked 1,00,000 equity shares for welfare  activities of the employees, approved by the shareholders  vide a postal ballot which ended on March  31, 2016.
The equity shares as of March 31, 2016 held under this plan,  i.e.
1,12,23,576 equity shares (this includes the aggregate  number of equity shares that may be awarded under the 2011  Plan as reduced by 10,824 equity shares already exercised by  Dr. Vishal Sikka and 1,00,000 equity shares which have been  earmarked for welfare activities of the employees) have been  subsumed under the 2015 Plan.
During the year ended March  31, 2015, the Company  made a grant of 1,08,268 RSUs (adjusted for bonus issues)  to Dr. Vishal Sikka, Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director.
The Board in its meeting held on June 22, 2015,  on recommendation of nomination and remuneration  committee, further granted 1,24,061 RSUs to Dr.  Vishal  Sikka.
These RSUs are vesting over a period of four years  from the date of the grant in the proportions specified in the  award agreement.
The RSUs will vest subject to achievement  of certain key performance indicators as set forth in the award  agreement for each applicable year of the vesting tranche and  continued employment through each vesting date.
The award granted to Dr. Vishal Sikka on June 22, 2015 was  modified by the nomination and remuneration committee on  April 14, 2016.
There is no modification or change in the total  number of RSUs granted or the vesting period (which is four  years).
The modifications relate to the criteria of vesting for  each of the years.
Based on the modification, the first tranche  of the RSUs will vest subject to the achievement of certain key  performance indicators for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Subsequent vesting of RSUs for each of the remaining years  would be subject to continued employment.
The activity in the 2015 Plan (formerly ‘the 2011 RSU Plan’)  for equity-settled share-based payment transactions during  the year ended March 31, 2017 is as follows : Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price (`) 2015 Plan : Indian equity  shares (RSU – IES) Outstanding at the  beginning (1)  2,21,505  5  Granted  18,78,025  5  Forfeited and expired  61,540  5  Exercised  34,062  5  Outstanding at the end  20,03,928  5  Exercisable at the end  –  –  2015 Plan : Employee  Stock Options   (ESOPs – IES) Outstanding at the  beginning  –  –  Granted  3,09,650  998  144 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price (`) Forfeited and expired  –  –  Exercised  –  –  Outstanding at the end  3,09,650  998  Exercisable at the end  –  –  (1) Adjusted for bonus issues (Refer to Note 2.12 above) Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price ($) 2015 Plan : American  Depositary Shares   (RSU – ADS) Outstanding at the  beginning  –  –  Granted  9,96,665  0.07  Forfeited and expired  39,220  0.07  Exercised  –  –  Outstanding at the end  9,57,445  0.07  Exercisable at the end  –  –  2015 Plan : Employee  Stock Options   (ESOPs – ADS) Outstanding at the  beginning  –  –  Granted  8,96,200  15.26  Forfeited and expired  8,200  15.26  Exercised  –  –  Outstanding at the end  8,88,000  15.26  Exercisable at the end  –  –  The activity in the 2015 Plan (formerly ‘the 2011 RSU Plan’)  for equity-settled, share-based payment transactions during  the year ended March 31, 2016 was as follows : Particulars Year ended March 31, 2016 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price (`) 2015 Plan : Indian equity  shares (IES) Outstanding at the  beginning (1)  1,08,268  5  Granted  1,24,061  5  Forfeited and expired  –  –  Exercised (1)  10,824  5  Outstanding at the end  2,21,505  5  Exercisable at the end  –  –  (1) adjusted for bonus issues (Refer to Note 2.12 above) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the weighted average  share price of options exercised under the 2015 Plan on the  date of exercise was ` 1,084.
During the year ended March 31,  2016, the weighted average share price of options exercised  under the 2015 Plan on the date of exercise was ` 1,088.
The details of the equity-settled RSUs and ESOPs outstanding  as of March 31, 2017 are as follows : Range of exercise  prices per share  (`) Options outstanding No.
of shares  arising out  of options Weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life Weighted  average  exercise  price (`) 2015 Plan : ADS  and IES 0-5 (RSU)  29,61,373  1.88  5.00  900-1100  (ESOP)  11,97,650  7.09  1,026.50   41,59,023  3.38  299.16  The weighted average remaining contractual life of RSUs  outstanding as of March 31, 2016 under the 2015 Plan was  1.98 years.
The fair value of each equity-settled RSU is estimated on the  date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton model, with the  following assumptions : Particulars For options granted in fiscal 2017 Equity shares ADSs RSU ESOP RSU ESOP Grant date 1-Nov- 16 1-Nov- 16 1-Nov- 16 1-Nov- 16 Weighted average  share price (`) /  ($ – ADS) 989 989 15.26 15.26 Exercise price ( `)  / ($ – ADS) 5.00 998 0.07 15.26 Expected  volatility (%)24-29 27-29 26-29 27-31 Expected life of  the option (years)1-4 3-7 1-4 3-7 Expected  dividends (%)2.37 2.37 2.29 2.29 Risk-free interest  rate (%)6-7 6-7 1-2 1-2 Weighted average  fair value as on  grant date (`) /   ($ – ADS)  929  285 14.35  3.46  Particulars For options granted in Fiscal  2017-  Equity  shares -  RSU Fiscal  2017-  ADS -  RSU Fiscal  2016-  Equity  shares -  RSU Fiscal  2015-  Equity  shares -  RSU Grant date 1-Aug- 16 1-Aug- 16 22-Jun- 15 21-Aug- 14 Weighted average  share price (`) /  ($ – ADS) (1) 1,085 16.57 1,024 3,549 Exercise price  (`) / ($ – ADS) (1) 5.00 0.07 5.00 5.00 Expected  volatility (%)25-29 26-30 28-36 30-37 Standalone financial statements | 145  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars For options granted in Fiscal  2017-  Equity  shares -  RSU Fiscal  2017-  ADS -  RSU Fiscal  2016-  Equity  shares -  RSU Fiscal  2015-  Equity  shares -  RSU Expected life of  the option (years) 1-4 1-4 1-4 1-4 Expected  dividends (%) 2.37 2.29 2.43 1.84 Risk-free interest  rate (%)6-7 0.5-1 7-8 8-9 Weighted average  fair value as on  grant date (`) /   ($ – ADS) (1)  1,019 15.59 948 3,355 (1) Data for fiscal 2015 is not adjusted for bonus issues.
The expected term of the RSU / ESOP is estimated based on  the vesting term and contractual term of the RSU / ESOP ,  as well as expected exercise behavior of the employee who  receives the RSU / ESOP .
Expected volatility during the  expected term of the RSU / ESOP is based on historical  volatility of the observed market prices of the Company’s  publicly traded equity shares during a period equivalent to  the expected term of the RSU / ESOP .
During the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  the Company recorded an employee stock compensation  expense of ` 107 crore and ` 7 crore in the Statement of Profit  and Loss, which includes cash-settled stock compensation  expense of ` 1 crore and nil, respectively .
2.13 Other financial liabilities in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Rental deposits (1)  –  27  27  Payable for acquisition of  business (Refer to Notes  2.5.1 and 2.5.2)  40  35  –   40  62  27  Current Unpaid dividends  17  5  3  Others Accrued compensation  to employees  1,404  1,764  1,719  Accrued expenses (2)  2,013  1,707  1,582  Retention monies  153  58  50  Payable for acquisition  of business (Refer to  Notes 2.5.1 and 2.5.2)  Deferred  consideration  –  –  487  Contingent  consideration  45  80  –  Client deposits  25  16  20  Capital creditors  36  66  37  Compensated absences  1,142  1,130  907  Other payables (3)  219  304  42  Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Foreign currency  forward and options  contracts  2  2  –   5,056  5,132  4,847  Total financial liabilities  5,096  5,194  4,874  Financial liability carried  at amortized cost  3,867  3,947  3,967  Financial liability carried  at fair value through  profit or loss 87  117  –  Liability towards  acquisition of business on  undiscounted basis 91  132  –  (1) Includes dues to subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  –  27  27  (2) Includes dues to subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  3  29  36  (3) Includes dues to subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  14  38  33  2.14 Trade payables in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Trade payables (1)  269  623  124   269  623  124  (1) Includes dues to subsidiaries   (Refer to Note 2.25)  135  145  102  As at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, there are no  outstanding dues to micro and small enterprises.
There are  no interests due or outstanding on the same.
2.15 Other liabilities in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Deferred income  42  –  –   42  –  –  Current Unearned revenue  1,320  1,025 831 Others Withholding taxes and  others  1,027  1,068 733 Deferred rent  2  –  –   2,349  2,093  1,564   2,391  2,093  1,564  2.16 Provisions in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Current Others Post-sales client  support and warranties  and others 350  436 382  350  436  382  146 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Provision for post-sales client support and warranties  and others in ` crore Particulars Year ended  March 31,  2017 Balance at the beginning  436  Provision recognized / (reversed)  86  Provision utilized  (167) Exchange difference  (5) Balance at the end  350  Provision for post-sales client support and warranties and  other provisions are expected to be utilized over a period of  six months to one year.
2.17 Income taxes Income tax expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss  comprises : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Current taxes  5,068  4,898  Deferred taxes  52  9  Income tax expense  5,120  4,907  Current tax expense for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016 includes reversals (net of provisions)  amounting to ` 218  crore and ` 331  crore respectively  pertaining to prior periods.
Entire deferred income tax for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016 relates to origination and reversal  of temporary differences.
During the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  a current tax credit of ` 8 crore and nil, respectively , have  been recorded in other comprehensive income pertaining to  remeasurement of defined benefit plan asset.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, a deferred tax liability  of ` 13 crore has been recorded in other comprehensive income  pertaining to unrealized gains on derivatives designated as  cash flow hedges.
A reconciliation of the income tax provision to the amount  computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the  income before income taxes is summarized as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Profit before income tax  18,938  17,600  Enacted tax rates in India (%) 34.61 34.61 Computed expected tax expense  6,554  6,091  Tax effect due to non-taxable  income for Indian tax purposes  (1,915)  (1,659) Overseas taxes  735  709  Tax reversals, overseas and  domestic  (218)  (330) Effect of exempt non-operating  income  (51)  (69) Effect of non-deductible expenses  16  185  Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Additional deduction on research  and development expense  –  (19) Others  (1)  (1) Income tax expense  5,120 4,907 The applicable Indian statutory tax rate for fiscal 2017 and  fiscal 2016 is 34.61%.
The foreign tax expense is due to income taxes payable  overseas, principally in the United States.
In India, the  Company has benefited from certain tax incentives that the  Government of India has provided to the export of software  for the units registered under the Special Economic Zones  (SEZ) Act, 2005.
SEZ units which began the provision of  services on or after April 1, 2005 are eligible for a deduction  of 100% of profits or gains derived from the export of services  for the first five years from the financial year in which the unit  commenced the provision of services and 50% of such profits  or gains for further five years.
Up to 50% of such profits or  gains is also available for a further five years subject to the  creation of a Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve  out of the profit of the eligible SEZ units and utilization of  such reserve by the Company for acquiring new plant and  machinery for the purpose of its business as per the provisions  of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Infosys is subject to a 15% Branch Profit Tax (BPT) in the  U.S. to the extent its U.S. branch’s net profit during the year  is greater than the increase in the net assets of the U.S. branch  during the year, computed in accordance with the Internal  Revenue Code.
As of March 31, 2017, Infosys’ U.S. branch  net assets amounted to approximately ` 5,995 crore.
As of  March 31, 2017, the Company has provided for branch profit  tax of ` 327 crore for its U.S. branch, as the Company estimates  that these branch profits are expected to be distributed in the  foreseeable future.
The change in provision for branch profit  tax includes the ` 7 crore movement on account of exchange  rate during the year ended March 31, 2017.
Deferred income tax liabilities have not been recognized  on temporary differences amounting to ` 5,309 crore and  ` 4,195 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively , associated with investments in subsidiaries and  branches as it is probable that the temporary differences will  not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The details of income tax assets and income tax liabilities as  of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 are  as follows : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Income tax assets  5,454  5,020  3,941  Current income tax  liabilities  3,762  3,304  2,678  Net current income tax  assets / (liability) at the  end 1,692  1,716  1,263 Standalone financial statements | 147  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The gross movement in the current income tax asset / (liability)  for the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 is  as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net current income tax asset /  (liability) at the beginning  1,716  1,263  Income tax paid  5,033  5,350  Current income tax expense   (Refer to Note 2.17)  (5,068)  (4,898) Income tax on other  comprehensive income  8  –  Tax benefit on the exercise of  share-based payments 1  –  Translation difference  2  1  Net current income tax asset /  (liability) at the end 1,692  1,716  The tax effects of significant temporary differences that  resulted in deferred income tax assets and liabilities are  as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Deferred income tax  assets Property , plant and  equipment 107 146 210 Computer software  40 50 51 Accrued compensation  to employees 35 46 29 Trade receivables  123 79 100 Compensated absences  336 359 280 Post-sales client  support  93 76 72 Others  32 21 7 Total deferred income  tax assets766 777 749 Deferred income tax  liabilities Branch profit tax  327 334 316 Others  93 38  –  Total deferred income  tax liabilities420 372 316 Deferred income tax  assets after set off346 405 433 Deferred income tax  liabilities after set off –  –  –  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset  wherever the Company has a legally enforceable right to set  off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and where  the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to  income taxes levied by the same taxation authority .
In assessing the realizability of deferred income tax assets,  the Management considers whether some portion or all of the  deferred income tax assets will not be realized.
The ultimate  realization of deferred income tax assets is dependent upon  the generation of future taxable income during the periods  in which the temporary differences become deductible.
The Management considers the scheduled reversals of deferred  income tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and  tax planning strategies in making this assessment.
Based on  the level of historical taxable income and projections for  future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred  income tax assets are deductible, the Management believes  that the Group will realize the benefits of those deductible  differences.
The amount of the deferred income tax assets  considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near  term if estimates of future taxable income during the carry  forward period are reduced.
The gross movement in the deferred income tax account for  the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, is  as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net deferred income tax asset at  the beginning  405 433 Translation differences  6  (19) Credits / (charge) relating to  temporary differences   (Refer to Note 2.17)  (52)  (9) Temporary differences on other  comprehensive income  (13)  –  Net deferred income tax asset at  the end  346  405 The charge relating to temporary differences during the  year ended March  31, 2017 is primarily on account of  property , plant and equipment, accrued compensation and  compensated absences partially offset by trade receivable.
The credits relating to temporary differences during the year  ended March 31, 2016 are primarily on account of accrued  compensation to employees and compensated absences  partially offset by reversal of credits pertaining to property ,  plant and equipment and trade receivables.
2.18  Revenue from operations in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue from software services  59,257  53,334  Revenue from software products  32  649   59,289  53,983  2.19  Other income in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Interest received on financial assets  carried at amortized cost Tax-free bonds, government  bonds and debentures 320 168 Deposits with banks and others  2,028  2,338  Interest received on financial  assets fair valued through other  comprehensive income 148 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Non-convertible debentures and  certificates of deposit  182  –  Dividend received on investments  carried at fair value through profit  or loss Mutual fund units  23  57  Gain / (loss) on investments  carried at fair value through profit  or loss  111  –  Exchange gains / (losses) on  foreign currency forward and  options contracts  551  26  Exchange gains / (losses) on  translation of other assets and  liabilities  (324)  141  Miscellaneous income, net  171  276   3,062  3,006  2.20 Expenses in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31 2017 2016 Employee benefit expenses Salaries including bonus  30,111  27,551  Contribution to provident and  other funds  640  548  Share-based payments to  employees (Refer to Note 2.12)  107  7  Staff welfare  86  101   30,944  28,207  Cost of software packages and  others For own use  729  663  Third-party items bought for  service delivery to clients  506  386   1,235  1,049  Other expenses Power and fuel  180  179  Brand and marketing  276  229  Operating lease payments  284  175  Rates and taxes  118  99  Repairs and maintenance  1,073  873  Consumables  31  28  Insurance  45  48  Provision for post-sales client  support and warranties  84  18  Commission to non-whole-time  directors  9  8  Impairment loss recognized /  (reversed) on financial assets  140  (45) Auditors’ remuneration Statutory audit fees  2  2  Other services  –  –  Reimbursement of expenses  –  –  Contributions towards corporate  social responsibility  215  202  Others  89  107   2,546  1,923  2.21 Leases The lease rentals charged during the period are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31,  2017 2016 Lease rentals  284  175  The obligations on long-term, non-cancellable operating  leases payable as per the rentals stated in the respective  agreements are as follows : in ` crore Future minimum lease  payable As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Not later than 1 year  275  170  101  Later than 1 year and not  later than 5 years  809  417  284  Later than 5 years  631  315  158  The operating lease arrangements, are renewable on a periodic  basis and for most of the leases, extend up to a maximum of  10 years from their respective dates of inception and relates  to rented premises.
Some of these lease agreements have price  escalation clauses.
2.22 Employee benefits a. Gratuity The following tables set out the funded status of the gratuity  plans and the amounts recognized in the Company’s financial  statements as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, 2017 2016 Change in benefit obligations    Benefit obligations at the beginning  826 755  Service cost  111 106  Interest expense  61 55  Curtailment gain  (3)  –  Transfer of obligation  (1) (34) Remeasurements – Actuarial (gains)  / losses  61 10  Benefits paid  (76) (66) Benefit obligations at the end  979 826  Change in plan assets  Fair value of plan assets at the  beginning  828 781  Interest income  69  59  Transfer of assets  – (43) Remeasurements – Return on plan  assets excluding amounts included  in interest income 11 7  Contributions  203  90  Benefits paid  (76) (66) Fair value of plan assets at the end  1,035 828  Funded status  56 2  Standalone financial statements | 149  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The amount for the years ended March  31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016 recognized in the Statement of Profit and  Loss under employee benefit expenses is as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Service cost  111  106  Net interest on the net defined  benefit liability / asset (8)  (4) Curtailment gain  (3)  –  Net gratuity cost 100 102  The amount for the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016 recognized in the statement of other comprehensive  income is as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31 2017 2016 Remeasurements of the net defined  benefit liability / (asset)   Actuarial (gains) / losses  61  10  (Return) / loss on plan assets  excluding amounts included in  the net interest on the net defined  benefit liability / (asset) (11)  (7)  50 3  in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31 2017 2016 (Gain) / loss from change in  demographic assumptions –  –  (Gain) / loss from change in  financial assumptions 49  –   49 –  The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit  obligations as at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1,  2015 are as follows :  in % Particulars As of March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Discount rate 6.9 7.8 7.8 Weighted average rate of  increase in compensation  levels8.0 8.0 8.0 The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net  periodic benefit cost for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016 are as follows : Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Discount rate (%) 7.8 7.8 Weighted average rate of increase  in compensation levels (%)8.0 8.0 Weighted average duration of  defined benefit obligation (years)6.1 6.4 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in  accordance with the published statistics by the Life Insurance  Corporation of India.
The Company assesses these assumptions with its projected  long-term plans of growth and prevalent industry standards.
The discount rate is based on the government securities yield.
As of March  31, 2017, every percentage point increase / decrease in discount rate will affect our gratuity benefit  obligation by approximately ` 57 crore.
As of March  31, 2017, every percentage point increase /  decrease in weighted average rate of increase in compensation  levels will affect our gratuity benefit obligation by  approximately ` 49 crore.
Sensitivity to significant actuarial assumptions is computed  by varying one actuarial assumption used for the valuation  of the defined benefit obligation by one percentage, keeping  all other actuarial assumptions constant.
Gratuity is applicable only to employees drawing salaries  in Indian rupees and there are no other significant  foreign-defined benefit gratuity plans.
The Company contributes all ascertained liabilities towards  gratuity to the Infosys Limited Employees’ Gratuity Fund  Trust.
Trustees administer contributions made to the trust.
As of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, the plan assets  have been primarily invested in insurer-managed funds.
Actual return on assets for the years ended March 31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016 was ` 80 crore and ` 66 crore, respectively .
The Company expects to contribute ` 85 crore to the gratuity  trusts during fiscal 2018.
The maturity profile of defined benefit obligation is as follows : in ` crore Within 1 year  133  1-2 year  141  2-3 year  149  3-4 year  163  4-5 year  174  5-10 years  863  b. Superannuation The Company contributed ` 151 crore and ` 227 crore to  the Superannuation Trust during the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively and the same has  been recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss under  the head employee benefit expense.
c. Provident fund  Infosys has an obligation to fund any shortfall on the yield  of the trust’s investments over the administered interest rates  on an annual basis.
These administered rates are determined  annually predominantly considering the social rather than  economic factors and in most cases, the actual return earned  by the Company has been higher in the past years.
The actuary  has provided a valuation for provident fund liabilities on the  basis of guidance issued by the Actuarial Society of India  and based on the assumptions provided below, there is no  shortfall as at March  31, 2017 and March  31, 2016 and  April 1, 2015, respectively .
150 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The details of fund and plan asset positions are as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Plan assets at period end,  at fair value  4,459 3,808  2,912  Present value of benefit  obligation at period end  4,459 3,808  2,912  Asset recognized in  Balance Sheet  –  –  –  The plan assets have been primarily invested in government  securities.
Assumptions used in determining the present value obligation  of the interest rate guarantee under the Deterministic  Approach : Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Government of India (GOI)  bond yield (%)6.90 7.80 7.80 Remaining term to maturity  of portfolio (years)6 7 7 Expected guaranteed interest  rate First year (%) 8.60 8.75 8.75 Thereafter (%) 8.60 8.60 8.60 The Company contributed ` 378  crore and ` 345  crore  during the years ended March  31, 2017 and March  31,  2016, respectively , and the same has been recognized in  the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head employee  benefit expense.
The provident fund plans are applicable only to employees  drawing salaries in Indian rupees and there are no other  significant foreign-defined benefit plans.
Employee benefits cost include : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31 2017 2016 Salaries and bonus (1)  30,315  27,534  Defined contribution plans  151  227  Defined benefit plans  478  446   30,944  28,207  (1) Includes stock compensation expense of ` 107 crore for the year ended  March 31, 2017 (` 7 crore for the year ended March 31, 2016), refer to  Note 2.12.
2.23  Reconciliation of basic and diluted shares  used in computing earnings per share The following is a reconciliation of the equity shares used  in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per  equity share : Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Basic earnings per equity  share – weighted average  number of equity shares  outstanding   2,29,69,44,664    2,29,69,44,664  Effect of dilutive  common equivalent  shares – share options  outstanding 2,15,006  –  Diluted earnings per  equity share – weighted  average number of  equity shares and  common equivalent  shares outstanding 2,29,71,59,670 2,29,69,44,664 For the year ended March  31, 2017, 77,942 options to  purchase equity shares had an anti-dilutive effect.
For the year  ended March 31, 2016, no outstanding option to purchase  equity shares had an anti-dilutive effect.
2.24  Contingent liabilities and commitments  (to the extent not provided for) in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Contingent liabilities   Claims against  the Company , not  acknowledged as debts (2) [Net of amount  paid to statutory  authorities ` 4,694 crore  (` 4,386 crore)]  1,902  188  167  Commitments  Estimated amount of  contracts remaining to  be executed on capital  contracts and not  provided for (net of  advances and deposits)  1,094  1,295  1,272  Other commitments (1)  37  –  –  (1) Uncalled capital pertaining to investments (2) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts as on  March 31, 2017 include demand from the Indian income tax authorities  for payment of tax of ` 6,122 crore (` 4,135 crore), including interest of  ` 1,885 crore (` 1,224 crore) upon completion of their tax assessment for  fiscals 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Demands were  paid to statutory tax authorities in full except for fiscals 2009, 2011,  2012 and 2013.
Demand for fiscals 2007, 2008 and 2009 includes disallowance of a  portion of the deduction claimed by the Company under Section 10A  of the Income-tax Act as determined by the ratio of export turnover to  total turnover.
The disallowance arose from certain expenses incurred in  Standalone financial statements | 151  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.25 Related party transactions in % Name of subsidiaries Country Holding as at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Infosys BPO Limited (Infosys BPO) India 99.98 99.98 99.98 Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited (Infosys China) China 100 100 100 Infosys Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V .
(Infosys Mexico) Mexico 100 100 100 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB.
(Infosys Sweden) Sweden 100 100 100 Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited (Infosys  Shanghai) China 100 100 100 Infosys Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda.
(Infosys Brasil) Brazil 100 100 100 Infosys Public Services, Inc. USA (Infosys Public Services) U.S. 100 100 100 Infosys Americas Inc., (Infosys Americas) U.S. 100 100 100 Infosys (Czech Republic) Limited s.r.o.
(formerly Infosys BPO s. r .
o) (1) Czech Republic 99.98 99.98 99.98 Infosys Poland Sp z.o.o ( formerly Infosys BPO (Poland) Sp z.o.o) (1) Poland 99.98 99.98 99.98 Infosys BPO S.de R.L.
de.C.V .
(1)(17) Mexico  –  –  –  Infosys McCamish Systems LLC (1) U.S. 99.98 99.98 99.98 Portland Group Pty Ltd (1) Australia 99.98 99.98 99.98 Portland Procurement Services Pty Ltd (5) Australia  –  –  –  Infosys BPO Americas LLC.
(1)(16) U.S. 99.98  –  –  Infosys Technologies (Australia) Pty .
Limited (Infosys  Australia) (2) Australia 100 100 100 EdgeVerve Systems Limited (EdgeVerve) (7) India 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting Holding AG (Infosys Lodestone)   (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) Switzerland 100 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Inc. (3) U.S. 100 100 100 Infosys Management Consulting Pty Limited   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pty Limited) (3) Australia 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting AG   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants AG) (3) Switzerland 100 100 100 Lodestone Augmentis AG (6)(18) Switzerland  – 100 100 Lodestone GmbH ( formerly Hafner Bauer & Ödman GmbH) (3)(20) Switzerland  – 100 100 Infosys Consulting (Belgium) NV   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants (Belgium) S.A.) (4) Belgium 99.90 99.90 99.90 Infosys Consulting GmbH   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH) (3) Germany 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd.   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pte Ltd) (21) Singapore 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting SAS   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants SAS) (3) France 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting s.r.o.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants s.r .o.)
(3) Czech Republic 100 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH (3) Austria 100 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Co., Ltd. (3) China 100 100 100 Infy Consulting Company Limited   (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Ltd.) (3) U.K. 100 100 100 foreign currency being reduced from export turnover but not reduced  from total turnover.
Demand for fiscals 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and  2011 also includes disallowance of portion of profit earned outside  India from the STP units under Section 10A of the Income-tax Act  and disallowance of profits earned from SEZ units under Section 10AA  of the Income-tax Act.
Demand for fiscals 2012 and 2013 includes  disallowance of certain expenses incurred in foreign currency being  reduced from export turnover but not reduced from total turnover  and disallowance of profits earned from SEZ units which commenced  operations before April 1, 2009 under Section 10AA of the Income-tax  Act and also others.
The matters for fiscals 2007, 2008, 2009 and  2013 are pending before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals),  Bengaluru.
The matter for fiscals 2010, 2011 and 2012 is pending before  the Hon’ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), Bengaluru.
The Company is contesting the demand and the Management, including  its tax advisors believes that its position will likely be upheld in the  appellate process.
The Management believes that the ultimate outcome  of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the  Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims, which have  arisen in the ordinary course of business.
The Company’s management  does not reasonably expect that these legal actions, when ultimately  concluded and determined, will have a material and adverse effect on  the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.
152 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of subsidiaries Country Holding as at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Infy Consulting B.V .
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants B.V .)
(3) The Netherlands 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting Ltda.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Ltda.)
(4) Brazil 99.99 99.99 99.99 Infosys Consulting Sp.
Z.o.o.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Sp.
z o.o.)
(3) Poland 100 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Portugal,   Unipessoal, Lda (3) Portugal 100 100 100 S.C. Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(formerly S.C. Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
(3) Romania 100 100 100 Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
(3) Argentina 100 100 100 Infosys Canada Public Services Ltd. (8) Canada – – – Infosys Nova Holdings LLC.
(Infosys Nova) (9) U.S. 100 100 100 Panaya Inc. (Panaya) (10) U.S. 100 100 100 Panaya Ltd. (11) Israel 100 100 100 Panaya GmbH (11) Germany 100 100 100 Panaya Pty Ltd (11)(19) Australia – – – Panaya Japan Co. Ltd. (11) Japan 100 100 100 Skava Systems Pvt.
Ltd. (Skava Systems) (12) India 100 100 – Kallidus Inc. (Kallidus) (13) U.S. 100 100 – Noah Consulting LLC (Noah) (14) U.S. 100 100 – Noah Information Management Consulting Inc.   (Noah Canada) (15) Canada 100 100 – (1) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys BPO.
(2) Under liquidation (3) Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) (4) Majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries of Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) (5) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Portland Group Pty Ltd.
Liquidated effective May 14, 2014.
(6) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Consulting AG (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants AG) (7) Incorporated effective February 14, 2014 (Refer to Note 2.5.3) (8) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Public Services, Inc.
Incorporated effective December 19, 2014 (9) Incorporated effective January 23, 2015 (10) On March 5, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting interest in Panaya Inc. (11) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Panaya Inc. (12) On June 2, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting interest in Skava Systems (Refer to Note 2.5.2) (13) On June 2, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting interest in Kallidus Inc. (Refer to Note 2.5.2) (14) On November 16, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the membership interests in Noah (Refer to Note 2.5.1) (15) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Noah (16) Incorporated effective November 20, 2015 (17) Liquidated effective March 15, 2016  (18) Liquidated effective October 5, 2016  (19) Liquidated effective November 16, 2016  (20) Liquidated effective December 21, 2016  (21) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Infosys has provided guarantee for the performance of certain  contracts entered into by its subsidiaries.
in % Name of  associate Country   Holding as at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 DWA Nova  LLC (1) U.S. 16 16 20 (1) Associate of Infosys Nova Holdings LLC.
List of other related parties Particulars Country Nature of  relationship  Infosys Limited Employees’  Gratuity Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys Infosys Limited Employees’  Provident Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys Standalone financial statements | 153  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Country Nature of  relationship  Infosys Limited Employees’  Superannuation Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys Infosys Science Foundation India Controlled trust Infosys Limited Employees’  Welfare Trust India Controlled trust Infosys Employee Benefits  Trust India Controlled trust Refer to Note 2.22 for information on transactions with post-employment  benefit plans mentioned above.
List of key managerial personnel Whole-time directors • U.
B. Pravin Rao • Dr. Vishal Sikka  Non-whole-time directors • K. V .
Kamath (resigned effective June 5, 2015) • Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman • R. Seshasayee • Ravi Venkatesan  • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • Carol M. Browner (resigned effective November 23, 2015) • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy  • Roopa Kudva  • Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha   (appointed effective January 14, 2016) • D. N. Prahlad (appointed effective October 14, 2016) Executive officers M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer (effective October 12, 2015) David D. Kennedy General Counsel and Chief  Compliance Officer  (till December 31, 2016) Rajiv Bansal Chief Financial Officer (till October 12, 2015) Mohit Joshi President (effective October 13, 2016) Rajesh K. Murthy President (effective October 13, 2016) Ravi Kumar S. President and Deputy Chief  Operating Officer (effective October 13, 2016) Sandeep Dadlani President (effective October 13, 2016) Krishnamurthy Shankar  Group Head – Human Resources (effective October 13, 2016) Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan Acting General Counsel (effective January 1, 2017) Company Secretary A. G. S. Manikantha (appointed effective June 22, 2015) The details of amounts due to or due from related parties as  at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 are  as follows :  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Investment in debentures EdgeVerve (2)  2,129  2,549  –   2,129  2,549  –  Particulars As at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Trade receivables Infosys China  41  29  16  Infosys Mexico  2  6  1  Infosys Brasil  1  1  5  Infosys BPO  5  5  1  Infy Consulting Company  Ltd.  73  8  26  EdgeVerve  –  –  14  Infosys Public Services  61  153  246  Infosys Sweden  1  28  –  Kallidus  6  –  –  Infosys McCamish  Systems LLC  1  –  –  Panaya Ltd.  44  14  –   235  244  309  Loans (1) Infy Consulting Company  Ltd.  –  –  6  Infosys Sweden  –  24  –  Infosys Technologies  China  69  67  –  EdgeVerve  –  –  18   69  91  24  Prepaid and other  financial assets Infosys BPO  5  5  1  Infosys Public Services  –  8  4  EdgeVerve  –  3  14  Panaya  57  43  –  Infosys Consulting SAS  3  6  3  Infosys Consulting  GmbH  1  1  1  Infosys China  1  –  –  Infy Consulting Company  Ltd.  4  1  20  Infosys Consulting AG  1  –  –  Infy Consulting B.V .
1  –  –  Infosys Consulting Pte  Ltd.  1  –  –   74  67  43  Unbilled revenues Infosys Consulting SAS  –  –  1  EdgeVerve  45  20  –  Kallidus  2  –  –  Infosys McCamish  Systems LLC  –  –  5   47  20  6  Trade payables Infosys China  10  10  10  Infosys BPO  33  6  –  Infosys (Czech Republic)  Limited s.r.o.
3  2  –  Portland Group Pty Ltd  –  –  1  Infosys Mexico  2  2  1  Infosys Sweden  5  8  5  Infosys Management  Consulting Pty Limited 8  16  10  154 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Infosys Consulting Pte  Ltd.  4  7  8  Infy Consulting Company  Ltd.  9  83  65  Infosys Brasil  1  –  2  Noah Consulting LLC  17  –  –  Panaya Ltd.  1  9  –  Infosys Public Services  3  2  –  Kallidus  35  –  –  Infosys Poland Sp Z.o.o  1  –  –  Noah Information  Management Consulting  Inc.  3  –  –   135  145  102  Other financial liabilities Infosys BPO  2  27  16  Infosys McCamish  Systems LLC  –  –  2  Infosys Consulting AG  –  1  1  Infy Consulting Company  Ltd.  –  1  1  EdgeVerve  –  –  9  Panaya Ltd.  –  1  –  Infosys Public Services  –  7  4  Infosys Consulting  Holding AG  10  –  –  Infosys Consulting  GmbH  1  –  –  Infosys Mexico  1  1  –   14  38  33  Accrued expenses Infosys BPO  –  1  (1) Kallidus Inc.  –  18  –  Panaya Ltd  3  –  –  Noah Consulting, LLC  –  10  –  EdgeVerve  –  –  37   3  29  36  Rental Deposit given for  shared services Infosys BPO  –  21  21  Rental Deposit taken for  shared services Infosys BPO  –  27  27  (1) The above loans were given in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the loan agreement and carry an interest rate of 6% per annum each  and is repayable within a period of one year and at any time within  four years from the date of grant for Infosys China and Infosys Sweden  respectively .
(2) At an interest rate of 8.5% per annum.
in ` crore Particulars Maximum amount  outstanding during 2017 2016 Loans and advances in the nature of  loans given to subsidiaries Infosys China  72  68  EdgeVerve  –  110  Particulars Maximum amount  outstanding during 2017 2016 Kallidus Inc.  –  10  Infosys Sweden  25  24  Infosys Consulting Holding AG  –  6  The details of the related-party transactions entered into by  the Company , in addition to the lease commitments described  in Note 2.21, for the years ended March  31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Capital transactions    Financing transactions Equity EdgeVerve  –  850  Infosys China  67  –  Infosys Sweden  76  –  Infosys Shanghai  180  258  Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd  10  –  Noah Consulting LLC  71  –   404  1,108  Debenture given / (repaid) EdgeVerve  (420)  2,549   (420)  2,549  Loans (net of repayment) (1)    Kallidus  –  –  Infosys Sweden  (1)  23  Infosys China  3  68  EdgeVerve  –  (18) Infy Consulting Company  Limited  –  (6)  2  67  Cash paid under business  transfer EdgeVerve  –  335   –  335  Revenue transactions   Purchase of services Infosys China  120  126  Infosys Management Consulting  Pty Limited  125  130  Infy Consulting Company  Limited  697  882  Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd.  36  104  Portland Group Pty Ltd  3  2  Infosys (Czech Republic)  Limited s.r.o.
31  17  Infosys BPO  391  341  Infosys Sweden  72  79  Infosys Mexico  22  11  Infosys Public Services  22  11  Panaya Ltd.  50  20  Infosys Brasil  8  10  Infosys Poland Sp Z.o.o  4  –  Kallidus  75  18  Noah Consulting, LLC  135  10  Standalone financial statements | 155  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Noah Information Management  Consulting Inc.  4  –   1,795  1,761  Purchase of shared services  including facilities and personnel Panaya Ltd.  2  –  Infosys BPO  19  18   21  18  Interest income Infosys China  4  –  Infosys Sweden  1  1  EdgeVerve  197  62   202  63  Sale of services Infosys China  15  11  Infosys Mexico  31  37  Infy Consulting Company  Limited  75  30  Infosys Brasil  12  7  Infosys BPO  58  69  McCamish Systems LLC  1  3  Infosys Sweden  17  27  EdgeVerve  303  –  Kallidus  6  –  Infosys Public Services  893  900   1,411  1,084  Sale of shared services including  facilities and personnel EdgeVerve  40  143  Panaya Ltd.  32  15  Infy Consulting Company  Limited  3  5  Infosys Public Services  1  –  Infosys BPO  46  42  Infy Consulting B.V  1  –  Infosys Consulting SAS  2  1   125  206  (1) Loan outstanding (including accrued interest) given to Infosys Sweden  is converted to equity during the year ended March 31, 2017.
Transactions with key managerial personnel The table below describes the compensation to key managerial  personnel which comprise directors and executive officers  under Ind AS 24 :  in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Salaries and other employee  benefits to whole-time directors  and executive officers (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)  84  101  Commission and other benefits  to non-executive / independent  directors 10  9  Total  94  110  (1) Includes stock compensation expense of ` 36 crore for the year ended  March 31, 2017 (` 7 crore for the year ended March 31, 2016) towards  key managerial personnel.
Refer to Note 2.12.
(2) Year ended March 31, 2017 includes ` 6 crore payable under severance  agreement to David D. Kennedy , who stepped down as General Counsel  and Chief Compliance Officer w.e.f.
December 31, 2016.
(3) Year ended March  31, 2016 includes ` 17.38  crore payable under  severance agreement to Rajiv Bansal who stepped down as Chief  Financial Officer w.e.f.
October 12, 2015.
(4) The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination  and remuneration committee, approved on April  13, 2017,  US $ 0.82 million as variable pay to CEO for the year ended March 31,  2017.
The shareholders vide a postal ballot had approved a variable pay  of US $ 3 million at target.
Pursuant to the approval from the shareholders through a postal  ballot on March 31, 2016, Dr. Vishal Sikka is eligible to receive under  the 2015 Plan, an annual grant of RSUs of fair value US $2 million  which will vest over time, subject to continued service and an annual  grant of performance-based equity and stock options of US $5 million  subject to the achievement of performance targets set by the Board  or its committee, which will vest over time.
The Board, based on the  recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee,  approved on April  13, 2017, performance-based equity and stock  options for fiscal 2017 comprising RSUs amounting to US $1.9 million  and ESOPs amounting to US $0.96 million.
Further, the Board also  approved the annual time-based vesting grant for fiscal 2018 amounting  to RSUs of US $ 2 million.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
The year ended March 31, 2016 includes provision for variable pay  amounting to US $4.33 million (approximately ` 29 crore) to CEO.
The shareholders at the extraordinary general meeting dated July 30,  2014 had approved a variable pay of US $4.18 million (approximately  ` 28 crore at current exchange rate) at a target level and also authorized  the Board to alter and vary the terms of remuneration.
Accordingly ,  the Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and  remuneration committee, approved on April 15, 2016, US $4.33 million  (approximately ` 29  crore) as variable pay for the year ended  March 31, 2016.
(5) On March 31, 2017, the shareholders vide a postal ballot approved a  revision in the salary of U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO and whole-time director,  w.e.f.
November 1, 2016.
Further, the nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting  held on October 14, 2016, recommended a grant of 27,250 RSUs and  43,000 ESOPs to U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO, under the 2015 Plan and  the same was approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot  on March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
2.26  Corporate social responsibility As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a company ,  meeting the applicability threshold, needs to spend at least  2% of its average net profit for the immediately preceding  three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR)  activities.
The areas for CSR activities are eradication of hunger  and malnutrition, promoting education, art and culture,  healthcare, destitute care and rehabilitation, environment  sustainability , disaster relief and rural development projects.
A CSR committee has been formed by the Company as per  the Act.
The funds were primarily allocated to a corpus  and utilized through the year on these activities which are  specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. a) The gross amount required to be spent by the Company  during the year is ` 287 crore.
156 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 b) The details of the amount spent during the year on CSR  activities are as follows : in ` crore Sl.
No.
Particulars In cash Yet to  be paid  in cash Total (i) Construction /  acquisition of any  asset 75  –  75  (ii) On purposes other  than (i) above 215  –  215  2.27 Disclosure on Specified Bank Notes During the year, the Company had Specified Bank Notes  (SBNs) or other denomination notes as defined in the  MCA notification, G.S.R.
308(E), dated March 31, 2017.
The details of SBNs held and transacted during the  period from November  8, 2016 to December  30, 2016,  the denomination-wise SBNs and other notes as per the  notification are as follows : in `  Particulars SBNs (1) Other  denomination  notes Total Closing cash  in hand as on  November 8,  2016 2,32,000  3,52,117  5,84,117  Add : Permitted  receipts  –  5,61,236  5,61,236  Less : Permitted  payments (98,000)  (7,65,438)   (8,63,438) Less : Amount  deposited in  Banks   (1,34,000)  –    (1,34,000) Closing cash  in hand as on  December 30,  2016 –  1,47,915  1,47,915  (1) For the purposes of this clause, the term ‘Specified Bank Notes’ shall  have the same meaning provided in the notification of the Government  of India, in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs  number S.O.
3407(E), dated November 8, 2016.
2.28 Segment reporting Ind AS 108 establishes standards for the way that public  business enterprises report information about operating  segments and related disclosures about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers.
The Company’s  operations predominantly relate to providing end-to-end  business solutions to enable clients to enhance business  performance.
Based on the ‘management approach’ as  defined in Ind AS 108, the Chief Operating Decision Maker  (CODM) evaluates the Company’s performance and allocates  resources based on an analysis of various performance  indicators by business segments and geographic segments.
Accordingly , information has been presented both along  business segments and geographic segments.
The accounting  principles used in the preparation of the financial statements  are consistently applied to record revenue and expenditure  in individual segments, and are as set out in the significant  accounting policies.
Business segments of the Company are primarily enterprises in  Financial Services (FS), enterprises in Manufacturing (MFG),  enterprises in Retail, Consumer packaged goods and Logistics  (RCL), enterprises in Energy & utilities, Communication and  Services (ECS), enterprises in Hi-Tech (Hi-Tech), enterprises  in Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (HILIFE),  and all other segments.
All other segments represent the  operating segments of businesses in India, Japan and China.
Geographic segmentation is based on business sourced from  that geographic region and delivered from both onsite and  offshore locations.
North America comprises the United  States of America, Canada and Mexico, Europe includes  continental Europe (both the east and the west), Ireland and  the United Kingdom, and the Rest of the World comprises all  other places except those mentioned above and India.
Revenue and identifiable operating expenses in relation to  segments are categorized based on items that are individually  identifiable to that segment.
Revenue for ‘all other segments’  represents revenue generated from customers located in India,  Japan and China.
Allocated expenses of segments include  expenses incurred for rendering services from the Company’s  offshore software development centers and onsite expenses,  which are categorized in relation to the associated turnover of  the segment.
Certain expenses, such as depreciation, which  form a significant component of total expenses, are not  specifically allocable to specific segments as the underlying  assets are used interchangeably .
The Management believes  that it is not practical to provide segment disclosures relating  to those costs and expenses, and accordingly , these expenses  are separately disclosed as ‘unallocated’ and adjusted against  the total income of the Company .
Assets and liabilities used in the Company’s business are not  identified to any of the reportable segments, as these are  used interchangeably between segments.
The Management  believes that it is currently not practicable to provide segment  disclosures relating to total assets and liabilities since a  meaningful segregation of the available data is onerous.
Geographical information on revenue and business segment  revenue information are collated based on individual  customers invoiced or in relation to which the revenue is  otherwise recognized.
Standalone financial statements | 157  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Business segments For the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 : in ` crore Particulars FS (1) MFG (2) ECS (3) RCL (4) HILIFE (5) Hi-Tech All other  segments Total Revenue from operations  15,735  6,086  13,999  10,280  7,065  4,901  1,223  59,289   14,846  5,434  12,124  9,411  6,392  4,736  1,040  53,983  Identifiable operating expenses  8,408  3,136  6,931  5,127  3,607  2,595  788  30,592   7,582  2,855  5,745  4,615  3,204  2,367  583  26,951  Allocated expenses  3,036  1,180  2,713  1,994  1,369  952  236  11,480   3,079  1,143  2,550  1,979  1,344  996  218  11,309  Segment operating income  4,291  1,770  4,355  3,159  2,089  1,354  199  17,217   4,185  1,436  3,829  2,817  1,844  1,373 239  15,723  Unallocable expenses  1,341   1,129  Operating profit  15,876   14,594  Other income, net  3,062   3,006  Profit before income tax  18,938   17,600  Income tax expense  5,120   4,907  Net profit  13,818   12,693  Depreciation and amortization  1,331   1,115  Non-cash expenses other than  depreciation and amortization  10        14  (1) Financial Services (4) Retail, Consumer packaged goods and Logistics (2) Manufacturing (5) Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (3) Energy & utilities, Communications and Services Geographic segments For the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 : in ` crore Particulars North America Europe India Rest of the  World  Total Revenue from operations  38,578  13,019  1,798  5,894  59,289   35,638  11,775  1,274  5,296 53,983 Identifiable operating expenses  20,337  6,664  786  2,805  30,592   18,052  5,868  568  2,463 26,951 Allocated expenses  7,479  2,523  345  1,133  11,480   7,493  2,471  255  1,090 11,309 Segment operating income  10,762  3,832  667  1,956  17,217  10,093 3,436 451 1,743 15,723 Unallocable expenses  1,341   1,129  Operating profit  15,876  14,594 Other income, net  3,062   3,006  Profit before income tax  18,938  17,600 Income tax expense  5,120   4,907  Net profit  13,818  12,693 Depreciation and amortization  1,331   1,115  Non-cash expenses other than depreciation and amortization  10       14  158 | Standalone financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Significant clients No client individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues in the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016.
2.29 Function-wise classification of the Statement of Profit and Loss in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31,  2017  2016 Revenue from operations  59,289  53,983  Cost of sales  37,057  33,409  Gross Profit  22,232  20,574  Operating expenses Selling and marketing expenses  2,728  2,695  General and administration expenses  3,628  3,285  Total operating expenses  6,356  5,980  Operating profit  15,876  14,594  Other income, net  3,062  3,006  Profit before tax  18,938  17,600  Tax expense Current tax  5,068  4,898  Deferred tax  52  9  Profit for the period  13,818  12,693  Other comprehensive income  Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset  (42)  (2) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  (5)  –  (47) (2) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value changes on cash flow hedges, net  39  –  Fair value changes on investments, net  (10)  –  29 – Total other comprehensive income, net of tax  (18)  (2) Total comprehensive income for the period  13,800  12,691  As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary Consolidated financial statements | 159  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Members of Infosys Limited Report on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial statements of Infosys Limited (‘the Holding Company’) and  its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘the Company’ or ‘the Group’), which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as  at 31 March 2017, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the Consolidated  Statement of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended and a summary of the  significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as ‘the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements’).
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of these consolidated Ind AS financial statements  in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’) that give a true and fair view of  the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated  cash flows and consolidated changes in equity of the Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted  in India, including the Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued  thereunder.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance of  adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for  preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;  making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view and  are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company , as aforesaid.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated Ind AS financial statements based on our audit.
While conducting  the audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are  required to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those standards  require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the consolidated Ind AS financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated  Ind AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks  of material misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk  assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the Holding Company’s preparation of the consolidated  Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the  circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness  of the accounting estimates made by the Holding Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation  of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated  Ind AS financial statements give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view  in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India including the Ind AS, of the consolidated financial  position of the Group, as at 31 March 2017 and its consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive income,  its consolidated cash flows and the consolidated changes in equity for the year then ended.
Consolidated financial statements 160 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, that : a.
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
b.
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS  financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books.
c. The consolidated Balance Sheet, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, the Consolidated Statement of Cash  Flows and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant  books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements comply with the accounting standards specified  under Section 133 of the Act, read with relevant rules issued thereunder.
e. On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2017  taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its  subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of the Directors of the Group companies incorporated in India is  disqualified as on 31 March 2017 from being appointed as a Director of that company in terms of Section 164(2) of  the Act.
f. With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Group and the operating  effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in ‘Annexure A ’; and g. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies  (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations  given to us : i. the consolidated Ind AS financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial  position of the Group.
Refer to Note 2.24 to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements; ii.
provision has been made in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, as required under the applicable law or  accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any , on long-term contracts including derivatives contracts.
Refer to Note 2.16 to the consolidated financial statements; iii.
there has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and  Protection Fund by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India; and iv.
the Company has provided requisite disclosures in its consolidated Ind AS financial statements as to holdings  as well as dealings in Specified Bank Notes during the period from 8 November, 2016 to 30 December, 2016  and these are in accordance with the books of accounts maintained by the Company .
Refer to Note 2.28 to the  consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 Bengaluru 13 April, 2017 Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 Annexure A to the Auditors’ Report Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 31  March 2017, we have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Infosys Limited (‘the Holding Company’)  and its subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in  India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial  Consolidated financial statements | 161  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance  Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India  (ICAI).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that  were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s  policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our  audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by ICAI and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed  under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both  issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting  was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system  over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting  included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material  weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  of the Ind AS financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on  the Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as  necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that  receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors  of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,  use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion  or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to  the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,  or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all  material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial controls  over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31 March 2017, based on the internal control over financial reporting  criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 Bengaluru 13 April, 2017 Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 162 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Consolidated Balance Sheet in ` crore Particulars Note As at March 31, As at April 1,  20152017 2016 ASSETS  Non-current assets Property , plant and equipment 2.4  9,751  8,637  7,685  Capital work-in-progress  1,365  960  776  Goodwill 2.5  3,652  3,764  3,091  Other intangible assets 2.5  776  985  638  Investment in associate 2.25  71  103  93  Financial assets Investments 2.6  6,382  1,714  1,305  Loans 2.7  29  25  31  Other financial assets 2.8  309  286  173  Deferred tax assets (net) 2.17  540  536  536  Income tax assets (net) 2.17  5,716  5,230  4,089  Other non-current assets 2.11  1,059  1,357  698  Total non-current assets  29,650  23,597  19,115  Current assets  Financial assets Investments 2.6  9,970  75  874  Trade receivables 2.9  12,322  11,330  9,713  Cash and cash equivalents 2.10  22,625  32,697  30,367  Loans 2.7  272  303  222  Other financial assets 2.8  5,980  5,190  4,527  Other current assets 2.11  2,536  2,158  1,541  Total current assets  53,705  51,753  47,244  Total assets  83,355  75,350  66,359  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity  Equity share capital 2.13  1,144  1,144  572  Other equity  67,838  60,600  54,198  Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company  68,982  61,744  54,770  Non-controlling interests  –  –  –  Total equity  68,982  61,744  54,770  Liabilities Non-current liabilities  Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 2.14  70  69  –  Deferred tax liabilities (net) 2.17  207  252  159  Other non-current liabilities 2.15  83 46 47 Total non-current liabilities  360  367  206  Current liabilities  Financial liabilities Trade payables  367  386  140  Other financial liabilities 2.14  6,349  6,302  5,983  Other current liabilities 2.15  3,007  2,629  1,964  Provisions 2.16  405  512  478  Income tax liabilities (net) 2.17  3,885  3,410  2,818  Total current liabilities  14,013  13,239  11,383  Total equity and liabilities  83,355  75,350  66,359  The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary Consolidated financial statements | 163  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss in ` crore, except equity share and per equity share data Particulars Note For the year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue from operations 2.18  68,484  62,441  Other income, net 2.19  3,080  3,123  Total income  71,564  65,564  Expenses Employee benefit expenses 2.20  37,659  34,406  Deferred consideration pertaining to acquisition  –  149  Cost of technical sub-contractors  3,833  3,531  Travel expenses  2,235  2,263  Cost of software packages and others 2.20  1,597  1,274  Communication expenses  549  449  Consultancy and professional charges  763  779  Depreciation and amortization expenses 2.4 & 2.5  1,703  1,459  Other expenses 2.20  3,244  2,511  Total expenses  51,583  46,821  Profit before non-controlling interests / share in net loss of associate  19,981  18,743  Share in net loss of associate and others  (30)  (3) Profit before tax  19,951  18,740  Tax expense Current tax 2.17  5,653  5,318  Deferred tax 2.17  (55)  (67) Profit for the period  14,353  13,489  Other comprehensive income  Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset  (45)  (12) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  (5)  –   (50)  (12) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value changes on derivatives designated as cash flow hedge, net 2.12  39  –  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (257)  303  Fair value changes on investments, net  (10)  –   (228)  303  Total other comprehensive income, net of tax  (278)  291  Total comprehensive income for the period  14,075  13,780  Profit attributable to Owners of the Company  14,353  13,489  Non-controlling interests  –  –   14,353  13,489  Total comprehensive income attributable to   Owners of the Company  14,075  13,780  Non-controlling interests  –  –   14,075  13,780  Earnings per equity share Equity shares of par value ` 5 each  Basic (`)  62.80  59.02  Diluted (`)  62.77  59.02  Weighted average equity shares used in computing earnings per equity share 2.23 Basic 2,28,56,39,447 2,28,56,16,160 Diluted 2,28,63,96,745 2,28,57,18,894 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary 164 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity  in ` crore  Particulars Equity  share  capital  (1) OTHER EQUITY Total equity  attributable  to equity  holders of the  Company Reserves and surplus Other comprehensive income Securities  premium  reserve Retained  earnings Capital  reserve General  reserve Share  options  outstanding  account Special  Economic  Zone Re- investment  Reserve (2) Other  reserves  (3) Equity  instruments  through other  comprehensive  income Exchange  differences  on translating  the financial  statements  of a foreign  operation Cash  flow  hedge  reserve Other items  of other  comprehensive  income Balance as of April 1, 2015 572 2,784 41,606  54 9,336  2  –  4  – 411  –  1 54,770 Changes in equity for the year  ended March 31, 2016 Increase in share capital on  account of bonus issue (1)   (Refer to Note 2.13)  572  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  572  Amounts utilized for bonus issue  (Refer to Note 2.13) (1)  –  (572)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (572) Exercise of stock options  –  1  –  –  –  (1)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Transfer to general reserve  –  – (1,217)  –  1,217  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Transfer to other reserve  –  –  (1)  –  –  –  –  1  –  –  –  –  –  Transferred to Special Economic  Zone Re-investment Reserve  –  –  (591)  –  –  –  591  –  –  –  –  –  –  Transferred from Special Economic  Zone Re-investment Reserve on  utilization  –  – 591  –  –  –  (591)  –  –  –  –  –  –  Share-based payments to  employees (Refer to Note 2.13)  –  –  –  –  –  7  –  –  –  –  –  –  7  Remeasurement of the net defined  benefit liability / asset, net of tax  effect (Refer to Notes 2.22.1 and  2.17)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (12)  (12) Equity instruments through other  comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Dividends   (including corporate dividend tax)  –  –    (6,814)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (6,814) Profit for the period  –  –  13,489  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  13,489  Exchange differences on  translation of foreign operations  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  304  –  –  304  Balance as of March 31, 2016  1,144 2,213 47,063  54 10,553  8  –  5  – 715  –  (11) 61,744 Consolidated financial statements | 165  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Equity  share  capital  (1) OTHER EQUITY Total equity  attributable  to equity  holders of the  Company Reserves and surplus Other comprehensive income Securities  premium  reserve Retained  earnings Capital  reserve General  reserve Share  options  outstanding  account Special  Economic  Zone Re- investment  Reserve (2) Other  reserves  (3) Equity  instruments  through other  comprehensive  income Exchange  differences  on translating  the financial  statements  of a foreign  operation Cash  flow  hedge  reserve Other items  of other  comprehensive  income Balance as of April 1, 2016  1,144 2,213 47,063  54 10,553  8  –  5  – 715  –  (11) 61,744 Changes in equity for the year  ended March 31, 2017   Share-based payments to  employees (Refer to Note 2.13)  –  –  –  –  – 114  –  –  –  –  –  –  114  Income tax benefit arising on  exercise of stock options  –  –  –  –  –  1  –  –  –  –  –  –  1  Exercise of stock options   (Refer to Note 2.13)  –  3  –  –  –  (3)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Dividends (including corporate  dividend tax)  –  –    (6,952)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (6,952) Transfer to general reserve – – (1,582)  –  1,582  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Transferred to Special Economic  Zone Re-investment Reserve  –  –  (953)  –  –  –  953  –  –  –  –  –  –  Transferred from Special Economic  Zone Re-investment Reserve on  utilization  –  –  953  –  –  –  (953)  –  –  –  –  –  –  Remeasurement of the net defined  benefit liability / asset, net of tax  effect   (Refer to Notes 2.22.1 and 2.17 )  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (45)  (45) Equity instruments through other  comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (5)  –  –  –  (5) Fair value changes on derivatives  designated as cash flow hedge, net  of tax (Refer to Note 2.12)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  39  –  39  Fair value changes on investments,  net of tax effect  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (10)  (10) Profit for the period  –  –  14,353  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  14,353  Exchange differences on  translation of foreign operations  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (257)  –  –  (257) Balance as of March 31, 2017 1,144  2,216 52,882 54 12,135 120  –  5  (5) 458 39 (66) 68,982  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity (contd.)
in ` crore 166 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Notes : The non-controlling interest for each of the above periods is less than ` 1 crore (1) Net of treasury shares  (2) The Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve has been created out of the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of Section 10AA (1) (ii) of the Income-tax Act,1961.
The Reserve should be utilized  by the Company for acquiring new plant and machinery for the purpose of its business in the terms of the Section 10AA (2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
(3) Under the Swiss Code of Obligation, few subsidiaries of Infosys Lodestone are required to appropriate a certain percentage of the annual profit to legal reserve, which may be used only to cover losses or for measures  designed to sustain the Company through difficult times, to prevent unemployment or to mitigate its consequences.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and Whole-time Director BengaluruApril 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary Consolidated financial statements | 167  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in ` crore Particulars For the year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the period  14,353  13,489  Adjustments to reconcile net profit to net cash provided by operating activities Income tax expense  5,598  5,251  Depreciation and amortization  1,703  1,459  Interest and dividend income  (2,668)  (2,697) Impairment loss on financial assets  132  (52) Exchange differences on translation of assets and liabilities  38  71  Deferred consideration pertaining to acquisition  –  149  Other adjustments  184  169  Changes in assets and liabilities Trade receivables and unbilled revenue  (1,743)  (1,654) Loans, other financial assets and other assets  (683)  (1,134) Trade payables  (19)  242  Other financial liabilities, other liabilities and provisions  289  600  Cash generated from operations  17,184  15,893  Income taxes paid  (5,653)  (5,865) NET CASH GENERATED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES  11,531  10,028  Cash flows from investing activities Expenditure on property , plant and equipment net of sale proceeds, including changes  in retention money and capital creditors  (2,760)  (2,723) Loans to employees  27  (75) Deposits placed with corporation  (164)  (142) Interest and dividend received on investments  2,753  2,383  Payment for acquisition of business, net of cash acquired  –  (747) Payment of contingent consideration for acquisition of business  (36)  –  Payments to acquire financial assets Preference and equity securities  (68)  (82) Tax-free bonds and government bonds  (322)  (302) Liquid mutual funds and fixed maturity plan securities  (54,215)  (24,171) Non-convertible debentures  (3,956)  –  Certificates of deposit  (7,823) Others  (26)  (22) Proceeds on sale of financial assets Tax-free bonds and government bonds  7  –  Liquid mutual funds and fixed maturity plan securities  52,041  24,980  NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES  (14,542)  (901) Cash flows from financing activities Payment of dividends (including corporate dividend tax)  (6,939)  (6,813) NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES  (6,939)  (6,813) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (9,950)  2,314  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period  32,697  30,367  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (122)  16  Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period  22,625  32,697  Supplementary information Restricted cash balance 572  492  The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number :205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha  Company Secretary 168 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Company overview and significant  accounting policies 1.1 Company overview Infosys (‘the Company’) is a leading provider of consulting,  technology , outsourcing and next-generation services.
Along  with its subsidiaries, Infosys provides Business IT services  (comprising application development and maintenance,  independent validation, infrastructure management,  engineering services comprising product engineering and  life cycle solutions and business process management);  consulting and systems integration services (comprising  consulting, enterprise solutions, systems integration and  advanced technologies); products, business platforms and  solutions to accelerate intellectual property-led innovation  including Finacle ®, its banking solution; and offerings in the  areas of analytics, cloud, and digital transformation.
Infosys together with its subsidiaries and controlled trusts is  hereinafter referred to as ‘the Group’.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India and has its registered office in Bengaluru,  Karnataka, India.
The Company has its primary listings  on the BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India  Limited in India.
The Company’s American Depositary  Shares (ADSs) representing equity shares are also listed on  the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext London and  Euronext Paris.
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are approved for  issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on April 13, 2017.
1.2 Basis of preparation of financial statements These consolidated financial statements are prepared in  accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  under the historical cost convention on the accrual basis,  except for certain financial instruments which are measured  at fair values, the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  (‘the Act’) (to the extent notified) and guidelines issued by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).
The Ind AS  are prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with Rule 3  of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015  and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment  Rules, 2016.
The Group has adopted all the Ind AS standards and the  adoption was carried out in accordance with Ind AS  101, First-Time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards.
The  transition was carried out from Indian Accounting  Principles generally accepted in India as prescribed under  Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies  (Accounts) Rules, 2014 (IGAAP), which was the previous  GAAP .
Reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the  transition have been summarized in Notes 2.1 and 2.2.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied except  where a newly-issued accounting standard is initially adopted  or a revision to an existing accounting standard requires a  change in the accounting policy hitherto in use.
As the quarterly and yearly figures are taken from the source  and rounded to the nearest digits, the figures already reported  for all the quarters during the year might not always add up  to the year figures reported in this statement.
1.3 Basis of consolidation  Infosys consolidates entities which it owns or controls.
The  consolidated financial statements comprise the financial  statements of the Company , its controlled trusts and its  subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 2.25.
Control exists when  the parent has power over the entity , is exposed, or has rights,  to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and  has the ability to affect those returns by using its power  over the entity .
Power is demonstrated through existing  rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, those  which significantly affect the entity’s returns.
Subsidiaries are  consolidated from the date control commences until the date  control ceases.
The financial statements of the Group companies are  consolidated on a line-by-line basis and intra-group  balances and transactions, including unrealized gain / loss  from such transactions, are eliminated upon consolidation.
These financial statements are prepared by applying uniform  accounting policies in use at the Group.
Non-controlling  interests which represent part of the net profit or loss and  net assets of subsidiaries that are not, directly or indirectly ,  owned or controlled by the Company , are excluded.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant  influence but not control.
Investments in associates are  accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The  investment is initially recognized at cost, and the carrying  amount is increased or decreased to recognize the investor’s  share of the profit or loss of the investee after the acquisition  date.
The Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill  identified on acquisition.
1.4 Use of estimates  The preparation of the financial statements in conformity  with Ind AS requires the Management to make estimates,  judgments and assumptions.
These estimates, judgments and  assumptions affect the application of accounting policies and  the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures  of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses  during the period.
Application of accounting policies that  require critical accounting estimates involving complex  and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions in  these financial statements have been disclosed in Note 1.5.
Accounting estimates could change from period to period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Appropriate  changes in estimates are made as the Management becomes  aware of changes in circumstances surrounding the estimates.
Changes in estimates are reflected in the financial statements  in the period in which changes are made and, if material,  their effects are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated  financial statements.
Consolidated financial statements | 169  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 1.5 Critical accounting estimates  a.
Revenue recognition  The Group uses the percentage-of-completion method  in accounting for its fixed-price contracts.
The use of the  percentage-of-completion method requires the Group to  estimate the efforts or costs expended to date as a proportion  of the total efforts or costs to be expended.
Efforts or costs  expended have been used to measure progress towards  completion as there is a direct relationship between input  and productivity .
Provisions for estimated losses, if any , on  uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which  such losses become probable, based on the expected contract  estimates at the reporting date.
b.
Income taxes  The Company’s two major tax jurisdictions are India and  the U.S., though the Company also files tax returns in other  overseas jurisdictions.
Significant judgments are involved  in determining the provision for income taxes, including  amount expected to be paid / recovered for uncertain tax  positions.
Also refer to Note 2.17. c. Business combinations and intangible assets Business combinations are accounted for using Ind AS 103,  Business Combinations.
Ind AS 103 requires the identifiable  intangible assets and contingent consideration to be fair valued  in order to ascertain the net fair value of identifiable assets,  liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Significant  estimates are required to be made in determining the value  of contingent consideration and intangible assets.
These  valuations are conducted by independent valuation experts.
d. Property, plant and equipment Property , plant and equipment represent a significant  proportion of the asset base of the Group.
The charge in  respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining  an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected  residual value at the end of its life.
The useful lives and  residual values of the Group’s assets are determined by the  Management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed  periodically , including at each financial year end.
The lives  are based on historical experience with similar assets as well  as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life,  such as changes in technology .
e. Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and  whenever there is an indication that the recoverable amount of  a cash-generating unit (CGU) is less than its carrying amount,  based on a number of factors including operating results,  business plans, future cash flows and economic conditions.
The recoverable amount of CGUs is determined based on  the higher of value-in-use and fair value less cost to sell.
The  goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of the CGU  or groups of CGUs which are benefiting from the synergies of  the acquisition and which represent the lowest level at which  goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Market-related information and estimates are used to  determine the recoverable amount.
Key assumptions on which  the Management has based its determination of recoverable  amount include estimated long-term growth rates, weighted  average cost of capital and estimated operating margins.
Cash flow projections take into account past experience  and represent the Management’s best estimate about future  developments.
1.6 Revenue recognition  The Company derives revenues primarily from software  development and related services and from the licensing  of software products.
Arrangements with customers  for software-related services are either on a fixed-price,  fixed-timeframe or on a time-and-material basis.
Revenue on time-and-material contracts are recognized as  the related services are performed and revenue from the end  of the last billing to the Balance Sheet date is recognized as  unbilled revenues.
Revenue from fixed-price, fixed-timeframe  contracts, where there is no uncertainty as to the measurement  or collectability of consideration, is recognized as per the  percentage-of-completion method.
When there is uncertainty  as to the measurement or ultimate collectability , revenue  recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is resolved.
Efforts or costs expended have been used to measure progress  towards completion as there is a direct relationship between  input and productivity .
Provisions for estimated losses, if  any , on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period  in which such losses become probable based on the current  contract estimates.
Costs and earnings in excess of billings are  classified as unbilled revenue, while billings in excess of costs  and earnings are classified as unearned revenue.
Deferred  contract costs are amortized over the term of the contract.
Maintenance revenue is recognized rateably over the term of  the underlying maintenance arrangement.
In arrangements for software development and related  services and maintenance services, the Company has applied  the guidance in Ind AS 18, Revenue, by applying the revenue  recognition criteria for each separately identifiable component  of a single transaction.
The arrangements generally meet the  criteria for considering software development and related  services as separately identifiable components.
For allocating  the consideration, the Company has measured the revenue  in respect of each separable component of a transaction at its  fair value, in accordance with principles given in Ind AS 18.
The price that is regularly charged for an item when sold  separately is the best evidence of its fair value.
In cases where  the Company is unable to establish objective and reliable  evidence of fair value for the software development and  related services, the Company has used a residual method  to allocate the arrangement consideration.
In these cases, the  balance of the consideration, after allocating the fair values of  undelivered components of a transaction, has been allocated  to the delivered components for which specific fair values  do not exist.
License fee revenues are recognized when the general revenue  recognition criteria given in Ind AS 18 are met.
Arrangements  to deliver software products generally have three elements :  license, implementation and Annual Technical Services (ATS).
The Company has applied the principles given in Ind AS 18  to account for revenues from these multiple element  arrangements.
Objective and reliable evidence of fair value  has been established for ATS.
Objective and reliable evidence  170 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 of fair value is the price charged when the element is sold  separately .
When other services are provided in conjunction  with the licensing arrangement and objective and reliable  evidence of their fair values have been established, the revenue  from such contracts is allocated to each component of the  contract in a manner, whereby revenue is deferred for the  undelivered services and the residual amounts are recognized  as revenue for delivered elements.
In the absence of objective  and reliable evidence of fair value for implementation, the  entire arrangement fee for license and implementation is  recognized using the percentage-of-completion method as the  implementation is performed.
Revenue from client training,  support and other services arising due to the sale of software  products is recognized as the services are performed.
ATS  revenue is recognized rateably over the period in which the  services are rendered.
Advances received for services and products are reported as  client deposits until all conditions for revenue recognition  are met.
The Group accounts for volume discounts and pricing  incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based on  the rateable allocation of the discounts / incentives amount  to each of the underlying revenue transaction that results  in progress by the customer towards earning the discount /  incentive.
Also, when the level of discount varies with  increase in levels of revenue transactions, the Company  recognizes the liability based on its estimate of the customer’s  future purchases.
If it is probable that the criteria for the  discount will not be met, or if the amount thereof cannot  be estimated reliably , then discount is not recognized until  the payment is probable and the amount can be estimated  reliably .
The Company recognizes changes in the estimated  amount of obligations for discounts in the period in which the  change occurs.
The discounts are passed on to the customer  either as direct payments or as a reduction of payments due  from the customer.
The Company presents revenues net of value-added taxes in  its Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.7 Property, plant and equipment Property , plant and equipment are stated at cost, less  accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any .
Costs  directly attributable to acquisition are capitalized until the  property , plant and equipment are ready for use, as intended  by the Management.
The Group depreciates property , plant  and equipment over their estimated useful lives using the  straight-line method.
The estimated useful lives of assets are  as follows : Buildings (1) 22-25 years Plant and machinery (1) 5 years Office equipment 5 years Computer equipment (1) 3-5 years Furniture and fixtures (1) 5 years Vehicles (1) 5 years (1) Based on technical evaluation, the Management believes that the  useful lives as given above best represent the period over which the  Management expects to use these assets.
Hence, the useful lives for  these assets is different from the useful lives as prescribed under Part C  of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are  reviewed periodically , including at each financial year end.
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property , plant and  equipment outstanding at each Balance Sheet date is classified  as capital advances under other non-current assets and the  cost of assets not put to use before such date are disclosed  under ‘Capital work-in-progress’.
Subsequent expenditures  relating to property , plant and equipment are capitalized only  when it is probable that future economic benefits associated  with these will flow to the Group and the cost of the item  can be measured reliably .
Repairs and maintenance costs are  recognized in net profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss  when incurred.
The cost and related accumulated depreciation  are eliminated from the financial statements upon sale or  retirement of the asset and the resultant gains or losses are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Assets to be  disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying value or  the fair value less cost to sell.
1.8 Business combinations Business combinations have been accounted for using the  acquisition method under the provisions of Ind AS 103,  Business Combinations.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the  assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities  incurred or assumed at the date of acquisition, which is the  date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The cost  of acquisition also includes the fair value of any contingent  consideration.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and  contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are  measured initially at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
Business combinations between entities under common  control are accounted for at carrying value.
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with  a business combination such as finder’s fees, legal fees, due  diligence fees, and other professional and consulting fees are  expensed as incurred.
1.9 Goodwill Goodwill represents the cost of business acquisition in excess  of the Group’s interest in the net fair value of identifiable  assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities  and contingent liabilities acquired exceeds the cost of business  acquisition, a gain is recognized immediately in net profit in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Goodwill is measured at cost  less accumulated impairment losses.
1.10 Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated  amortization and impairment.
Intangible assets are amortized  over their respective individual estimated useful lives on a  straight-line basis, from the date that they are available for  use.
The estimated useful life of an identifiable intangible  asset is based on a number of factors, including the effects  of obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic  factors (such as the stability of the industry , and known  technological advances), and the level of maintenance  expenditures required to obtain the expected future cash  Consolidated financial statements | 171  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 flows from the asset.
Amortization methods and useful lives  are reviewed periodically , including at each financial year end.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Software product  development costs are expensed as incurred unless technical  and commercial feasibility of the project is demonstrated,  future economic benefits are probable, the Company has an  intention and ability to complete and use or sell the software  and the costs can be measured reliably .
The costs which  can be capitalized include the cost of material, direct labor,  overhead costs that are directly attributable to preparing the  asset for its intended use.
Research and development costs  and software development costs incurred under contractual  arrangements with customers are accounted in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
1.11  Financial instruments 1.11.1  Initial recognition The Group recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities  when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the  instrument.
All financial assets and liabilities are recognized  at fair value on initial recognition, except for trade receivables  which are initially measured at transaction price.
Transaction  costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue  of financial assets and financial liabilities, that are not at fair  value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on  initial recognition.
Regular way purchase and sale of financial  assets are accounted for at trade date.
1.11.2  Subsequent measurement a. Non-derivative financial instruments (i) Financial assets carried at amortized cost A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortized cost if  it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold  the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the  contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and  interest on the principal amount outstanding.
(ii)  Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive  income (FVOCI) A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value  through other comprehensive income if it is held within a  business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting  contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and the  contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and  interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Further, in  cases where the Group has made an irrevocable election based  on its business model, for its investments which are classified  as equity instruments, the subsequent changes in fair value  are recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI).
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above  categories are subsequently fair valued through profit or loss.
(iv) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at amortized cost  using the effective interest method, except for contingent  consideration recognized in a business combination which  is subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss.
For trade and other payables maturing within one year from  the Balance Sheet date, the carrying amounts approximate  the fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
b.
Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivative financial instruments such as  foreign exchange forward and options contracts to mitigate  the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency  exposures.
The counterparty for these contracts is generally  a bank.
(i)  Financial assets or financial liabilities, at fair value  through profit or loss This category has derivative financial assets or liabilities  which are not designated as hedges.
Although the Group believes that these derivatives constitute  hedges from an economic perspective, they may not qualify  for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
Any derivative that is either not designated as hedge, or is so  designated but is ineffective as per Ind AS 109, is categorized  as a financial asset or financial liability , at fair value through  profit or loss.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized initially  at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognized  in net profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss when  incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these derivatives  are measured at fair value through profit or loss and the  resulting exchange gains or losses are included in other  income.
Assets / liabilities in this category are presented as  current assets / current liabilities if they are either held for  trading or are expected to be realized within 12 months after  the Balance Sheet date.
(ii) Cash flow hedge The Group designates certain foreign exchange forward and  options contracts as cash flow hedges to mitigate the risk of  foreign exchange exposure on highly probable forecast cash  transactions.
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging  instrument, the effective portion of changes in the fair value  of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income  and accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve.
Any  ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative  is recognized immediately in the net profit in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets  the criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge accounting is  discontinued prospectively .
If the hedging instrument expires  or is sold, terminated or exercised, the cumulative gain or loss  on the hedging instrument recognized in cash flow hedging  reserve till the period the hedge was effective remains in cash  flow hedging reserve until the forecasted transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in the  cash flow hedging reserve is transferred to the net profit in  the Statement of Profit and Loss upon the occurrence of the  related forecasted transaction.
If the forecasted transaction is  no longer expected to occur, then the amount accumulated  in cash flow hedging reserve is reclassified to net profit in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
172 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 c. Share capital and treasury shares (i) Ordinary shares  Ordinary shares are classified as equity .
Incremental costs  directly attributable to the issuance of new ordinary shares  and share options are recognized as a deduction from equity ,  net of any tax effects.
(ii) Treasury shares  When any entity within the Group purchases the Company’s  ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly  attributable incremental cost, is presented as a deduction  from total equity , until they are cancelled, sold or reissued.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently , the  amount received is recognized as an increase in equity , and the  resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred  to / from share premium.
1.11.3  Derecognition of financial instruments The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual  rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or  it transfers the financial asset and the transfer qualifies for  derecognition under Ind AS 109.
A financial liability (or a  part of a financial liability) is derecognized from the Group’s  Balance Sheet when the obligation specified in the contract  is discharged or cancelled or expires.
1.12  Fair value of financial instruments In determining the fair value of its financial instruments,  the Group uses a variety of methods and assumptions that  are based on market conditions and risks existing at each  reporting date.
The methods used to determine fair value  include discounted cash flow analysis, available quoted  market prices and dealer quotes.
All methods of assessing  fair value result in general approximation of value, and such  value may never actually be realized.
Refer to Note 2.12 in for the disclosure on carrying value and  fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
For financial assets  and liabilities maturing within one year from the Balance  Sheet date and which are not carried at fair value, the carrying  amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of  these instruments.
1.13 Impairment a.
Financial assets The Group recognizes loss allowances using the expected  credit loss (ECL) model for the financial assets which are  not fair valued through profit or loss.
Loss allowance for  trade receivables with no significant financing component is  measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL.
For all other  financial assets, ECLs are measured at an amount equal  to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant  increase in credit risk from initial recognition in which case  those are measured at lifetime ECL.
The amount of ECL (or  reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the  reporting date to the amount that is required to be recognized  is recognized as an impairment gain or loss in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
b.
Non-financial assets (i) Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and  whenever there is an indication that goodwill may be  impaired, relying on a number of factors including operating  results, business plans and future cash flows.
For the purpose  of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business  combination is allocated to the Group’s CGUs or groups of  CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies arising from  the business combination.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable  group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely  independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group  of assets.
Impairment occurs when the carrying amount  of a CGU, including the goodwill, exceeds the estimated  recoverable amount of the CGU.
The recoverable amount of  a CGU is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its  value-in-use.
Value-in-use is the present value of future cash  flows expected to be derived from the CGU.
Total impairment loss of a CGU is allocated first to reduce the  carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the CGU and then  to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the  carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
An impairment  loss on goodwill is recognized in net profit in the Statement of  Profit and Loss and is not reversed in the subsequent period.
(ii) Intangible assets and property , plant and equipment Intangible assets and property , plant and equipment are  evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not  be recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the  recoverable amount (i.e.
the higher of the fair value less cost  to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual  asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that  are largely independent of those from other assets.
In such  cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to  which the asset belongs.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to  be recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss is measured  by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets  exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the asset.
An  impairment loss is reversed in the Statement of Profit and Loss  if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine  the recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of the asset is  increased to its revised recoverable amount, provided that  this amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would  have been determined (net of any accumulated amortization  or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognized for  the asset in prior years.
1.14  Provisions A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the  Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that is  reasonably estimable, and it is probable that an outflow of  economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected  future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market  assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific  to the liability .
Consolidated financial statements | 173  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 a. Post-sales client support The Group provides its clients with a fixed-period post-sales  support for corrections of errors and support on all its  fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts.
Costs associated with  such support services are accrued at the time-related revenues  are recorded and included in cost of sales.
The  Group  estimates such costs based on historical experience and  estimates are reviewed on a periodic basis for any material  changes in assumptions and likelihood of occurrence.
b. Onerous contracts Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when  the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a  contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting  the future obligations under the contract.
The provision is  measured at the present value of the lower of the expected  cost of terminating the contract and the expected net  cost of continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is  established, the Group recognizes any impairment loss on  the assets associated with that contract.
1.15  Foreign currency Functional currency The functional currency of Infosys, Infosys BPO,  controlled trusts, EdgeVerve and Skava is the Indian rupee.
The functional currencies for Infosys Australia, Infosys China,  Infosys Mexico, Infosys Sweden, Infosys Brasil, Infosys  Public Services, Infosys Shanghai, Infosys Lodestone, Infosys  Americas, Infosys Nova, Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd., Panaya,  Kallidus and Noah are the respective local currencies.
These  financial statements are presented in Indian rupees (rounded  off to crore; one crore equals ten million).
Transactions and translations Foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and  liabilities are translated into the relevant functional currency  at exchange rates in effect at the Balance Sheet date.
The gains  or losses resulting from such translations are included in net  profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Non-monetary  assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign  currency and measured at fair value are translated at the  exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value  was determined.
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary  liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured  at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevalent  at the date of transaction.
Transaction gains or losses realized upon settlement of  foreign currency transactions are included in determining  net profit for the period in which the transaction is settled.
Revenue, expense and cash-flow items denominated in  foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional  currencies using the exchange rate in effect on the date of  the transaction.
The translation of financial statements of the foreign  subsidiaries to the presentation currency is performed for  assets and liabilities using the exchange rate in effect at the  Balance Sheet date and for revenue, expense and cash-flow  items using the average exchange rate for the respective  periods.
The gains or losses resulting from such translation  are included in currency translation reserves under other  components of equity .
When a subsidiary is disposed of, in  full, the relevant amount is transferred to net profit in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
However, when a change in  the parent’s ownership does not result in loss of control of a  subsidiary , such changes are recorded through equity .
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition  of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the  foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate in effect at  the Balance Sheet date.
1.16  Earnings per equity share Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the  net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company  by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding  during the period.
Diluted earnings per equity share is  computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the equity  holders of the Company by the weighted average number of  equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity  share and also the weighted average number of equity shares  that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive  potential equity shares.
The dilutive potential equity shares  are adjusted for the proceeds receivable had the equity shares  been actually issued at fair value (i.e.
the average market  value of the outstanding equity shares).
Dilutive potential  equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning of  the period, unless issued at a later date.
Dilutive potential  equity shares are determined independently for each period  presented.
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive equity  shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods presented for  any share splits and bonus share issues including for changes  effected prior to the approval of the financial statements by  the Board of Directors.
1.17  Income taxes  Income tax expense comprises current and deferred income  tax.
Income tax expense is recognized in net profit in the  Statement of Profit and Loss except to the extent that it  relates to items recognized directly in equity , in which case  it is recognized in other comprehensive income.
Current  income tax for current and prior periods is recognized at  the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax  authorities, using the tax rates and tax laws that have been  enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for all  temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets  and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial  statements except when the deferred income tax arises from  the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in  a transaction that is not a business combination and affects  neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the  transaction.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting  date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable  that the related tax benefit will be realized.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using  tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively  enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply  to taxable income in the years in which those temporary  174 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
The effect  of changes in tax rates on deferred income tax assets and  liabilities is recognized as income or expense in the period  that includes the enactment or the substantive enactment date.
A deferred income tax asset is recognized to the extent that it  is probable that future taxable profit will be available against  which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can  be utilized.
Deferred income taxes are not provided on the  undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and branches where it  is expected that the earnings of the subsidiary or branch will  not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The Group offsets  current tax assets and current tax liabilities, where it has a  legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts and  where it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize  the asset and settle the liability simultaneously .
Tax benefits  of deductions earned on exercise of employee share options  in excess of compensation charged to income are credited to  share premium.
1.18  Employee benefits  1.18.1  Gratuity  The Group provides for gratuity , a defined benefit retirement  plan (‘the Gratuity Plan’) covering eligible employees of  Infosys and its Indian subsidiaries.
The Gratuity Plan provides  a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement,  death, incapacitation or termination of employment, of an  amount based on the respective employee’s salary and the  tenure of employment with the Group.
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity Plan are determined by  actuarial valuation, performed by an independent actuary , at  each Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit method.
The Company fully contributes all ascertained liabilities to  the Infosys Limited Employees’ Gratuity Fund Trust (‘the  Trust’).
In case of Infosys BPO and EdgeVerve, contributions  are made to the Infosys BPO’s Employees’ Gratuity Fund  Trust and EdgeVerve Systems Limited Employees’ Gratuity  Fund Trust, respectively .
Trustees administer contributions  made to the trusts and contributions are invested in a scheme  with the Life Insurance Corporation of India as permitted by  Indian law.
The Group recognizes the net obligation of a defined benefit  plan in its Balance Sheet as an asset or liability .
Gains and losses  through remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability /  (asset) are recognized in other comprehensive income and  are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
The actual return of the portfolio of plan assets, in excess of  the yields computed by applying the discount rate used to  measure the defined benefit obligation, is recognized in other  comprehensive income.
The effect of any plan amendments is  recognized in net profits in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.18.2  Superannuation  Certain employees of Infosys, Infosys BPO and EdgeVerve  are participants in a defined contribution plan.
The Group  has no further obligations to the plan beyond its monthly  contributions which are periodically contributed to a trust  fund, the corpus of which is invested with the Life Insurance  Corporation of India.
1.18.3  Provident fund  Eligible employees of Infosys receive benefits from a provident  fund, which is a defined benefit plan.
Both the eligible  employee and the Company make monthly contributions to  the provident fund plan equal to a specified percentage of  the covered employee’s salary .
The Company contributes a  portion to the Infosys Limited Employees’ Provident Fund  Trust.
The trust invests in specific designated instruments as  permitted by Indian law.
The remaining portion is contributed  to the government-administered pension fund.
The rate at  which the annual interest is payable to the beneficiaries by the  trust is being administered by the government.
The Company  has an obligation to make good the shortfall, if any , between  the return from the investments of the trust and the notified  interest rate.
In respect of Indian subsidiaries, eligible employees receive  benefits from a provident fund, which is a defined contribution  plan.
Both the eligible employee and the respective companies  make monthly contributions to this provident fund plan  equal to a specified percentage of the covered employee’s  salary .
Amounts collected under the provident fund plan are  deposited in a government administered provident fund.
The  companies have no further obligation to the plan beyond its  monthly contributions.
1.18.4  Compensated absences  The Group has a policy on compensated absences which  are both accumulating and non-accumulating in nature.
The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences  is determined by actuarial valuation performed by an  independent actuary at each Balance Sheet date using  projected unit credit method on the additional amount  expected to be paid / availed as a result of the unused  entitlement that has accumulated at the Balance Sheet date.
Expense on non-accumulating compensated absences is  recognized in the period in which the absences occur.
1.19  Share-based compensation  The Group recognizes compensation expense relating  to share-based payments in net profit using fair value in  accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment.
The  estimated fair value of awards is charged to income on a  straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each  separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was  in-substance, multiple awards with a corresponding increase  to share options outstanding account.
1.20  Cash flow statement Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, whereby  profit for the period is adjusted for the effects of transactions  of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or  future operating cash receipts or payments and item of  income or expenses associated with investing or financing  cash flows.
The cash flows from operating, investing and  financing activities of the Company are segregated.
Consolidated financial statements | 175  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 1.21  Dividends  The final dividend on shares is recorded as a liability on the  date of approval by the shareholders, and interim dividends  are recorded as a liability on the date of declaration by  the Company’s Board of Directors.
1.22  Other income Other income is comprised primarily of interest income,  dividend income, gain / loss on investments  and exchange  gain / loss on forward and options contracts and on translation  of other assets and liabilities.
Interest income is recognized  using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is  recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
1.23  Leases Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance  leases.
When acquired, such assets are capitalized at fair  value or present value of the minimum lease payments at the  inception of the lease, whichever is lower.
Lease payments  under operating leases are recognized as an expense on a  straight-line basis in net profit in the Statement of Profit and  Loss over the lease term.
1.24  Government grants The Group recognizes government grants only when there  is reasonable assurance that the conditions attached to them  shall be complied with, and the grants will be received.
Government grants related to assets are treated as deferred  income and are recognized in net profit in the Statement of  Profit and Loss on a systematic and rational basis over the  useful life of the asset.
Government grants related to revenue  are recognized on a systematic basis in net profit in the  Statement of Profit and Loss over the periods necessary to  match them with the related costs which they are intended  to compensate.
1.25  Recent accounting pronouncements 1.25.1  Standards issued but not yet effective In March 2017, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendments)  Rules, 2017, notifying amendments to Ind AS 7, Statement  of Cash Flows and Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment.
These  amendments are in accordance with the recent amendments  made by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)  to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 2, Share-Based  Payment, respectively .
The amendments are applicable to the  Group from April 1, 2017.
Amendment to Ind AS 7 The amendment to Ind AS 7 requires the entities to provide  disclosures that enable users of financial statements to  evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities,  including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash  changes, suggesting inclusion of a reconciliation between  the opening and closing balances in the Balance Sheet  for liabilities arising from financing activities, to meet the  disclosure requirement.
The Group has evaluated the disclosure requirements of  the amendment and the effect on the consolidated financial  statements is not expected to be material.
Amendment to Ind AS 102 The amendment to Ind AS 102 provides specific guidance  for the measurement of cash-settled awards, modification of  cash-settled awards and awards that include a net settlement  feature in respect of withholding taxes.
It clarifies that the fair value of cash-settled awards is  determined on a basis consistent with that used for  equity-settled awards.
Market-based performance conditions  and non-vesting conditions are reflected in the ‘fair values’,  but non-market performance conditions and service vesting  conditions are reflected in the estimate of the number of  awards expected to vest.
Also, the amendment clarifies that  if the terms and conditions of a cash-settled share-based  payment transaction are modified with the result that it  becomes an equity-settled, share-based payment transaction,  the transaction is accounted for as such from the date of the  modification.
Further, the amendment requires the award  that include a net settlement feature in respect of withholding  taxes to be treated as equity-settled in its entirety .
The cash  payment to the tax authority is treated as if it was part of an  equity settlement.
The Group is evaluating the requirements of the amendment  and the impact on the consolidated financial statements.
2.
Notes to the consolidated financial  statements for the year ended  March 31, 2017 2.1 First-time adoption of Ind AS These consolidated financial statements of Infosys Limited  and its subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2017 have  been prepared in accordance with Ind AS.
For the purposes of  transition to Ind AS, the Company has followed the guidance  prescribed in Ind AS 101, First-Time Adoption of Indian  Accounting Standards, with April 1, 2015 as the transition date  and IGAAP as the previous GAAP .
The transition to Ind AS has resulted in changes in the  presentation of the consolidated financial statements,  disclosures in the notes thereto and accounting policies  and principles.
The accounting policies set out in Note 1  have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial  statements for the year ended March  31, 2017 and the  comparative information.
An explanation of how the  transition from previous GAAP to Ind AS has affected the  Group’s Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss, is set out in Notes 2.2.1 and  2.2.2.
Exemptions on first time adoption of Ind AS availed in  accordance with Ind AS 101 have been set out in Note 2.1.1.
2.1.1  Exemptions availed on first-time adoption of  Ind AS 101 Ind AS 101 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from  the retrospective application of certain requirements under  Ind AS.
The Group has accordingly applied the following  exemptions :  (a) Business combinations The Group is allowed to choose any date in the past from  which it wants to account for the business combinations under  Ind AS 103, without having to restate business combinations  prior to such date.
Accordingly , the Group has applied the  176 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 standard for all acquisitions completed after April 1, 2007,  which coincides with the Group’s date of transition to IFRS.
For all such acquisitions : • Intangible assets previously included within goodwill under  IGAAP have been recognized separately in the opening  Balance Sheet in accordance with Ind AS 103.
• Deferred taxes have been recorded on intangible assets,  wherever applicable.
• Goodwill has been restated in accordance with Ind AS 21,  with the corresponding impact in the other comprehensive  income in equity .
• Retained earnings has been adjusted to include the  amortization on identified intangibles, net of taxes, that  would have been recorded from the date of acquisition till  the transition date.
(b) Share-based payment transaction The Group is allowed to apply Ind AS 102, Share-Based  Payment to equity instruments that remain unvested as of  transition date.
The Group has elected to avail itself of this  exemption and apply the requirements of Ind AS 102 to all  such grants under the 2015 Stock Incentive Compensation  Plan (‘the 2015 Plan’, formerly ‘the 2011 Plan’).
Accordingly ,  these options have been measured at fair value, as against  intrinsic value, previously under IGAAP .
The excess of stock compensation expense measured  using fair value over the cost recognized under IGAAP  using intrinsic value has been adjusted in ‘Share Options  Outstanding Account’, with the corresponding impact taken  to the retained earnings as on the transition date.
(c) Designation of previously recognized financial instruments Under Ind AS 109, at initial recognition of a financial asset, an  entity may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent  changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity  instrument in other comprehensive income.
Ind AS 101  allows such designation of previously recognized financial  assets, as FVOCI on the basis of the facts and circumstances  that existed at the date of transition to Ind AS.
Accordingly , the Group has designated its investments  in certain equity instruments at fair value through other  comprehensive income on the basis of the facts and  circumstances that existed at the date of transition to Ind AS.
2.2 Reconciliations The following reconciliations provide the effect of transition  to Ind AS from IGAAP in accordance with Ind AS 101 :  1.
Equity as at April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2016 2.
Net profit for the year ended March 31, 2016 2.2.1 Reconciliation of equity as previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS in ` crore Particulars Note Opening Balance Sheet as at April 1, 2015 Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016 IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS ASSETS       Non-current assets       Property , plant and  equipment   7,685  –  7,685  8,637  –  8,637  Capital work-in-progress   776  –  776  960  –  960  Goodwill (a)  3,595  (504)  3,091  4,476  (712)  3,764  Other intangible assets (a)  66  572  638  67  918  985  Investment in associate   93  –  93  103  –  103  Financial assets       Investments (b)  1,305  –  1,305  1,714  –  1,714  Loans   31  –  31  25  –  25  Other financial assets   173  –  173  286  –  286  Deferred tax assets (net) (c)  536  –  536  533  3  536  Income tax assets (net)   4,089  –  4,089  5,230  –  5,230  Other non-current assets   698  –  698  1,357  –  1,357  Total non-current assets  19,047  68  19,115  23,388  209  23,597  Current assets       Financial assets       Investments (b)  872  2  874  75  –  75  Trade receivables   9,713  –  9,713  11,330  –  11,330  Cash and cash  equivalents   30,367  –  30,367  32,697  –  32,697  Loans   222  –  222  303  –  303  Other financial assets   4,527  –  4,527  5,190  –  5,190  Other current assets   1,541  –  1,541  2,158  –  2,158  Total current assets   47,242  2  47,244  51,753  –  51,753  Total assets   66,289  70  66,359  75,141  209  75,350  Consolidated financial statements | 177  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Note Opening Balance Sheet as at April 1, 2015 Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016 IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES       Equity       Equity share capital   572  –  572  1,144  –  1,144  Other equity (g)  50,164  4,034  54,198  56,682  3,918  60,600  Total equity attributable  to equity holders of the  Company   50,736  4,034  54,770  57,826  3,918  61,744  Non-controlling interests   –  –  –  –  –  –  Total equity   50,736  4,034  54,770  57,826  3,918  61,744  Liabilities  Non-current liabilities      Financial liabilities       Other financial  liabilities (d)  –  –  –  80  (11)  69  Deferred tax  liabilities (net) (c)  –  159  159  –  252  252  Other non-current  liabilities (e)  50  (3)  47  46  –  46  Total non-current  liabilities   50  156  206  126  241  367  Current liabilities      Financial liabilities      Trade payables   140  –  140  386  –  386  Other financial  liabilities (d)  6,021  (38)  5,983  6,309  (7)  6,302  Other current liabilities (e)  1,968  (4)  1,964  2,633  (4)  2,629  Provisions (f)  4,556  (4,078)  478  4,451  (3,939)  512  Income tax liabilities  (net)   2,818  –  2,818  3,410  –  3,410  Total current liabilities   15,503  (4,120)  11,383  17,189  (3,950)  13,239  Total equity and liabilities  66,289  70  66,359  75,141  209  75,350  Explanations for the reconciliation of the Balance Sheet as  previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS : (a) Goodwill and intangible assets Intangible assets and deferred tax asset / liabilities in relation  to business combinations which were included within  Goodwill under IGAAP , have been recognized separately  under Ind AS with corresponding adjustments to retained  earnings and other comprehensive income for giving effect of  amortization expenses and exchange gains and losses.
(b) Investments Tax-free bonds are carried at amortized cost both under  Ind AS and IGAAP .
Investment in equity instruments are  carried at fair value through OCI in Ind AS, as compared to  being carried at cost under IGAAP .
(c) Deferred taxes  Deferred taxes in relation to business combinations have been  recognized under Ind AS.
(d) Other financial liabilities Adjustments include impact of discounting the deferred  and contingent consideration payable for acquisitions under  Ind AS.
(e) Other liabilities Adjustments that reflect unamortized negative past service  cost arising on modification of the Gratuity Plan in an earlier  period.
Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, requires such gains and  losses to be adjusted to retained earnings.
They also reflect  adjustments for interim dividend (including corporate  dividend tax), declared and approved by the Board, post  reporting period.
(f) Provisions Adjustments reflect final dividend (including corporate  dividend tax), declared and approved post reporting period.
(g) Other equity 1.
Adjustments to retained earnings and other comprehensive  income have been made in accordance with Ind AS, for the  above-mentioned line items.
2.
In addition, as per Ind AS 19, actuarial gains and losses are  recognized in other comprehensive income as compared  to being recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss  under IGAAP .
178 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.2.2 Reconciliation Statement of Profit and Loss as previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS in ` crore Particulars   Note Year ended March 31, 2016 IGAAP Effects of  transition to  Ind AS Ind AS Revenue from operations  62,441  –  62,441  Other income, net  3,128  (5)  3,123  Total income  65,569  (5)  65,564  Expenses   Employee benefit expenses (h)  34,418  (12)  34,406  Deferred consideration pertaining to acquisition (i)  110  39  149  Cost of technical sub-contractors  3,531  –  3,531  Travel expenses  2,263  –  2,263  Cost of software packages and others  1,274  –  1,274  Communication expenses  449  –  449  Consultancy and professional charges  779  –  779  Depreciation and amortization expenses (j)  1,266  193  1,459  Other expenses (i)  2,497  14  2,511  Total expenses  46,587  234  46,821  Profit before non-controlling interests / share in net loss of  associate  18,982  (239)  18,743  Share in net loss of associate and others  (3)  –  (3) Profit before tax  18,979  (239)  18,740  Tax expense   Current tax (k)  5,315  3  5,318  Deferred tax (l)  (14)  (53)  (67) Profit for the period  13,678  (189)  13,489  Other comprehensive income   Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss   Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset (h)  –  (12)  (12) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  –  –  –    –  (12)  (12) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss   Fair value changes on cash flow hedges, net  –  –  –  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (m)  81  222  303    81  222  303  Total other comprehensive income, net of tax  81  210  291  Total comprehensive income for the period  13,759  21  13,780  Profit attributable to    Owners of the Company  13,678  (189)  13,489  Non-controlling interests  –  –  –    13,678  (189)  13,489  Total comprehensive income attributable to    Owners of the Company  13,759  21  13,780  Non-controlling interests  –  –  –    13,759  21  13,780  Explanations for the reconciliation of profit and loss as  previously reported under IGAAP to Ind AS : (h) 1.
As per Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, actuarial gains and  losses are recognized in other comprehensive income and not  reclassified to profit and loss in a subsequent period.
2.
Adjustments reflect unamortized negative past service  cost arising on modification of the Gratuity Plan in an earlier  period.
Ind AS 19 requires such gains and losses to be  adjusted to retained earnings.
(i) Adjustments reflect impact of discounting pertaining to  deferred and contingent consideration payable for business  combinations.
(j) Adjustment reflects impact of amortization of intangible  assets included within goodwill under the IGAAP , separately  recognized under Ind AS.
(k) Tax component on actuarial gains and losses which was  transferred to other comprehensive income under Ind AS.
(l) The reduction in deferred tax expense is on account of  reversal of deferred tax liabilities recorded on intangible assets  acquired in business combination.
Consolidated financial statements | 179  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 (m) Under Ind AS, exchange differences on translation of  foreign operations are recorded in other comprehensive  income.
2.2.3 Cash flow statement There were no significant reconciliation items between cash  flows prepared under IGAAP and those prepared under  Ind AS.
2.3 Business combinations  Noah Consulting LLC On November 16, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% membership  interest in Noah Consulting LLC (Noah), a leading provider  of advanced information management consulting services  for the oil and gas industry .
The business acquisition was  conducted by entering into a share purchase agreement  for cash consideration of US $33  million (approximately  ` 216 crore), contingent consideration of up to US $ 5 million  (approximately ` 33  crore on acquisition date) and  an additional consideration of up to US $32  million  (approximately ` 212 crore on acquisition date), referred to  as retention bonus, payable to the employees of Noah at each  anniversary year following the acquisition date over the next  three years, subject to their continuous employment with the  Group at each anniversary .
This acquisition combines Noah’s industry knowledge,  information strategy planning, data governance and  architecture capabilities with Infosys’ ability to provide  technology and outsourcing services on a global scale to oil  and gas clients.
The excess of the purchase consideration paid  over the fair value of assets acquired has been attributed to  goodwill.
The purchase price has been allocated based on the  Management’s estimates and independent appraisal of fair  values as follows : in ` crore Component Acquiree’s  carrying  amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase  price  allocated Net assets (1) 39  – 39 Intangible assets Technical know-how  – 27  27  Trade name  – 27 27 Customer contracts  and relationships – 119 119 39 173 212 Goodwill 30 Total purchase price   242 (1) Includes cash and cash equivalents acquired of ` 18 crore  Goodwill of ` 4 crore is tax deductible.
The gross amount of trade receivables acquired and its fair  value is ` 29 crore and the amounts have been fully collected.
The acquisition date fair value of each major class of  consideration as of the acquisition date is as follows :  in ` crore Component Consideration  Cash paid 216 Fair value of contingent  consideration 26 Total purchase price 242 The fair value of contingent consideration is determined  by discounting the estimated amount payable to the  sellers of Noah on achievement of certain financial targets.
At acquisition date, the key inputs used in the determination  of the fair value of contingent consideration are the discount  rate of 32% and the probabilities of achievement of the  financial targets.
During the year ended March 31, 2016,  based on an assessment of Noah achieving the targets for the  years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, the  entire contingent consideration was reversed in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
The retention bonus is treated as a post-acquisition employee  remuneration expense as per Ind AS 103.
Post-acquisition  employee remuneration expense of ` 95  crore has been  recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year  ended March 31, 2017.
The transaction costs of ` 11 crore related to the acquisition  was recognized under consultancy and professional charges  and employee benefit costs in the Statement of Profit and Loss  for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Finacle and Edge Services On April 24, 2015, the Board of Directors of Infosys authorized  the Company to execute a Business Transfer Agreement  and related documents with EdgeVerve, a wholly-owned  subsidiary , to transfer the business of Finacle and Edge  Services.
Post the requisite approval from shareholders  through a postal ballot on June 4, 2015, a Business Transfer  Agreement and other related documents were executed with  EdgeVerve to transfer the business with effect from August 1,  2015.
The Company had undertaken an enterprise valuation  by an independent valuer and accordingly , the businesses  were transferred for a consideration of ` 3,222 crore and  ` 177 crore for Finacle and Edge Services, respectively .
The consideration was settled through the issue of  85,00,00,000 equity shares amounting to ` 850 crore and  25,49,00,000 non-convertible redeemable debentures  amounting to ` 2,549 crore in EdgeVerve, post the requisite  approval from shareholders on December 11, 2015.
During  the year ended March  31, 2017, EdgeVerve had repaid  ` 420  crore by redeeming a proportionate number of  debentures.
The transfer of assets and liabilities was accounted for  at carrying values and did not have any impact on the  consolidated financial statements.
180 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Kallidus Inc. (d.b.a Skava) On June  2, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting  interests in Kallidus Inc., US (Kallidus), a leading provider  of digital experience solutions, including mobile commerce  and in-store shopping experiences to large retail clients and  100% of the voting interests of Skava Systems Private Limited,  India, an affiliate of Kallidus.
The business acquisition was  conducted by entering into a share purchase agreement  for a cash consideration of US $91 million (approximately  ` 578  crore) and a contingent consideration of up to  US $ 20 million (approximately ` 128 crore on acquisition  date).
Infosys expects to help its clients bring new digital experiences  to their customers through IP-led technology offerings,  new automation tools and skill and expertise in these new  emerging areas.
The excess of the purchase consideration paid  over the fair value of assets acquired has been attributed to  goodwill.
The purchase price has been allocated based on the  Management’s estimates and independent appraisal of fair  values as follows :  in ` crore Component Acquiree’s  carrying  amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase  price  allocated Net assets (1) 35 – 35 Intangible assets Technology – 130 130 Trade name – 14 14 Customer contracts  and relationships– 175 175 Deferred tax liabilities  on intangible assets–  (128) (128) 35 191 226 Goodwill 452 Total purchase price   678 (1) Includes cash and cash equivalents acquired of ` 29 crore The goodwill is not tax-deductible.
The gross amount of trade receivables acquired and its fair  value is ` 57 crore and the amounts have been fully collected.
The acquisition date fair value of each major class of  consideration as of the acquisition date is as follows :  in ` crore Component Consideration  Cash paid 578 Fair value of contingent consideration 100 Total purchase price 678 The payment of contingent consideration to sellers of Kallidus  is dependent upon the achievement of certain financial  targets by Kallidus over a period of three years ending on  December 31, 2017.
The fair value of contingent consideration is determined  by discounting the estimated amount payable to the sellers  of Kallidus on achievement of certain financial targets.
At  acquisition date, the key inputs used in determination of  the fair value of contingent consideration are the discount  rate of 14% and the probabilities of achievement of the  financial targets.
During the year ended March  31, 2017, a contingent  consideration of ` 40  crore was paid to the sellers of  Kallidus on the achievement of certain financial targets.
The  balance contingent consideration, as of March 31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016 was ` 91 crore and ` 132 crore, respectively ,  on an undiscounted basis.
The transaction costs of ` 12 crore related to the acquisition  have been included under consultancy and professional  charges and employee benefit costs in the Statement of Profit  and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Panaya On March 5, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting  interests in Panaya Inc. (Panaya), a Delaware Corporation  in the United States.
Panaya is a leading provider of  automation technology for large-scale enterprise and software  management.
The business acquisition was conducted  by entering into a share purchase agreement for cash  consideration of ` 1,398 crore.
Panaya’s CloudQuality™ suite positions Infosys to bring  automation to several of its service lines via an agile SaaS  model, and helps mitigate risk, reduce costs and shorten  time to market for clients.
The excess of the purchase  consideration paid over the fair value of net assets acquired  has been attributed to goodwill.
The purchase price has been allocated based on the  Management’s estimates and independent appraisal of fair  values as follows : in ` crore Component Acquiree’s  carrying  amount Fair value  adjustments Purchase  price  allocated Property , plant and  equipment 9 – 9 Net current assets (1) 38 – 38 Intangible assets Technology – 243 243 Trade name – 21 21 Customer contracts  and relationships– 82 82 Non-compete  agreements – 26 26 Deferred tax liabilities  on intangible assets –  (99)  (99) 47 273 320 Goodwill  1,078  Total purchase price    1,398  (1) Includes cash and cash equivalents acquired of ` 116 crore.
The goodwill is not tax-deductible.
The gross amount of trade receivables acquired and its  fair value is ` 58 crore and the amounts have been largely  collected.
The fair value of total cash consideration as at the acquisition  date was ` 1,398 crore.
The transaction costs of ` 22 crore related to the acquisition  have been included under consultancy and professional  charges and employee benefit costs in the Statement of Profit  and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2015.
Consolidated financial statements | 181  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone  Holding AG) On October 22, 2012, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting  interests in Lodestone Holding AG, a global management  consultancy firm headquartered in Zurich.
The business  acquisition was conducted by entering into a share purchase  agreement for a cash consideration of ` 1,187  crore and  an additional consideration of up to ` 608  crore, which  the Company refers to as deferred purchase price, estimated  on the date of acquisition, payable to the selling shareholders  of Lodestone Holding AG who are continuously employed or  otherwise engaged by the Group during the three-year period  following the date of the acquisition.
This transaction was treated as post-acquisition employee  remuneration expense as per Ind AS 103.
For the year ended  March 31, 2016, a post-acquisition employee remuneration  expense of ` 149 crore is recorded in the Statement of Profit  and Loss.
The liability towards post-acquisition employee  remuneration expense was settled during the year ended  March 31, 2016.
2.4 Property, plant and equipment The changes in the carrying value of property , plant and equipment for the year ended March 31, 2017 were as follows : in ` crore Particulars Land –  Freehold Land –  Leasehold Buildings (1) Plant and  machinery (2) Office  equipment  Computer  equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Vehicles Total Gross carrying  value as of April 1,  2016 972  650  6,325  1,759  839  4,072  1,444  29  16,090  Additions  123  21  981  349  138  800  379  8  2,799  Deletions  –  –  –  (4)  (52)  (315)  (113)  (6)  (490) Translation  difference  –  –  (27)  (3)  (3)  (17)  (17)  –  (67) Gross carrying  value as of  March 31, 2017 1,095  671  7,279  2,101  922  4,540  1,693  31  18,332  Accumulated  depreciation as of  April 1, 2016 –  (22)  (2,201)  (1,100)  (509)  (2,618)  (986)  (17)  (7,453) Depreciation  –  (5)  (239)  (261)  (119)  (678)  (210)  (5)  (1,517) Accumulated  depreciation on  deletions –  –  –  4  27  230  92  5  358  Translation  difference  –  –  –  4  2  13  12  –  31  Accumulated  depreciation as of  March 31, 2017 –  (27)  (2,440)  (1,353)  (599)  (3,053)  (1,092)  (17)  (8,581) Carrying value as of  March 31, 2017 1,095  644  4,839  748  323  1,487  601  14  9,751  Carrying value as of  April 1, 2016  972  628  4,124  659  330  1,454  458  12  8,637  The changes in the carrying value of property , plant and equipment for the year ended March 31, 2016 were as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Land –  Freehold Land –  Leasehold Buildings (1) Plant and  machinery  Office  equipment  Computer  equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Vehicles Total Gross carrying  value as of April 1,  2015  931  633  5,881  1,427  676  3,347  1,179  34  14,108  Acquisitions  through business  combinations   (Refer to Note 2.3)  –  –  –  –  1  2  1  –  4  Additions  41  17  444  333  166  1,103  265  6  2,375  Deletions  –  –  –  (1)  (6)  (396)  (8)  (12)  (423) 182 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Land –  Freehold Land –  Leasehold Buildings (1) Plant and  machinery  Office  equipment  Computer  equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Vehicles Total Translation  difference  –  –  –  –  2  16  7  1  26  Gross carrying  value as of  March 31, 2016  972  650  6,325  1,759  839  4,072  1,444  29  16,090  Accumulated  depreciation as of  April 1, 2015  –  (16)  (1,982)  (881)  (412)  (2,287)  (826)  (19)  (6,423) Acquisitions  through business  combinations  –  –  –  –  (1)  (1)  –  –  (2) Depreciation  –  (6)  (219)  (220)  (100)  (553)  (161)  (5)  (1,264) Accumulated  depreciation on  deletions –  –  –  1  5  237  4  7  254  Translation  difference  –  –  –  –  (1)  (14)  (3)  –  (18) Accumulated  depreciation as of  March 31, 2016 –  (22)  (2,201)  (1,100)  (509)  (2,618)  (986)  (17)  (7,453) Carrying value as of  March 31, 2016 972  628  4,124  659  330  1,454  458  12  8,637  Carrying value as of  April 1, 2015 931  617  3,899  546  264  1,060  353  15  7,685  (1) Buildings include ` 250 being the value of five shares of ` 50 each in Mittal Towers Premises Co-operative Society Limited.
(2) Includes CSR spend amounting to ` 25 crore for the year ended March 31, 2017 Gross carrying value of leasehold land represents amounts  paid under certain lease-cum-sale agreements to acquire land,  including agreements where the Company has an option  to purchase or renew the properties on expiry of the lease  period.
The aggregate depreciation has been included under  depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss.
2.5 Goodwill and other intangible assets A summary of changes in the carrying amount of goodwill  is as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31,  2017 2016 Carrying value at the beginning  3,764  3,091  Goodwill on Kallidus d.b.a Skava  acquisition (Refer to Note 2.3) –  452  Goodwill on Noah acquisition   (Refer to Note 2.3)  –  30  Translation differences  (112)  191  Carrying value at the end  3,652  3,764  For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in  a business combination is allocated to the CGUs or groups  of CGUs, which benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
The chief operating decision maker reviews the goodwill for  any impairment at the operating segment level, which is  represented through groups of CGUs.
The break-up of allocation of goodwill to operating segments  as at April 1, 2015 is as follows : in ` crore Segment    As at April 1,  2015 Financial services  663  Insurance  367  Manufacturing  656  Energy , Communication and Services  318  Resources and utilities  141  Retail, Consumer packaged goods and  Logistics  473  Life Sciences and Healthcare  193  Growth Markets  280  Total  3,091  During the year ended March  31, 2016, the Company  reorganized some of its segments to enhance executive  customer relationships, improve focus of sales investments  and increase management oversight.
Consequent to these  internal reorganizations there were changes effected in the  segments based on the ‘management approach’ as defined in  Ind AS 108, Operating Segments.
Consolidated financial statements | 183  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Accordingly , the goodwill has been allocated to the new  operating segments as at March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017. in ` crore  Segment    As of March 31,  2017 2016 Financial services  826  851  Manufacturing  409  423  Retail, Consumer packaged goods  and Logistics  556  573  Life Sciences, Healthcare and  Insurance  638  656  Energy & Utilities, Communication  and Services 765  789   3,194  3,292  Operating segments without  significant goodwill 458  472  Total  3,652  3,764 The entire goodwill relating to Infosys BPO’s acquisition  of McCamish has been allocated to the groups of CGUs  which are represented by the Life Sciences, Healthcare and  Insurance segment.
The goodwill relating to Infosys BPO, Infosys Lodestone,  Portland, Panaya and Kallidus (d.b.a Skava) has been  allocated to the groups of CGUs which are represented by a  majority of the entity’s operating segment.
The entire goodwill relating to Noah acquisition has been  allocated to the group of CGUs which is represented by the  Energy & utilities, Communication and Services segment.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair  value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
The fair value of a  CGU is determined based on the market capitalization.
The  value-in-use is determined based on specific calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections for a  CGU / groups of CGUs over a period of five years.
An average  of the range of each assumption used is mentioned below.
As of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015,  the estimated recoverable amount of the CGU exceeded its  carrying amount.
The recoverable amount was computed  based on the fair value less cost to sell being higher than  value-in-use.
The carrying amount of the CGU was computed  by allocating the net assets to operating segments for the  purpose of impairment testing.
The key assumptions used  for the calculations are as follows : in %  Particulars As of March 31, As at  April 1,  2015 2017 2016 Long-term growth rate 8-10 8-10 8-10 Operating margins 17-20 17-20 17-20 Discount rate 14.4 14.2 13.9 The above discount rate is based on the Weighted Average  Cost of Capital (WACC) of the Company .
These estimates  are likely to differ from future actual results of operations  and cash flows.
The changes in the carrying value of acquired intangible assets for the year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Customer-  related Software- related Sub- contracting  rights  -related Intellectual  property  rights  -related Land  use  rights-  related Brand or  trademark- related Others Total Gross carrying value as of   April 1, 2016  775  414  21  1  72  93  63  1,439  Additions during the period  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Deletions during the period  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Translation difference  (25)  (9)  –  –  (6)  (3)  (1) (44) Gross carrying value as of   March 31, 2017  750  405  21  1  66  90  62  1,395  Accumulated amortization as of  April 1, 2016  (303)  (62)  (21)  (1)  (6)  (38)  (23)  (454) Amortization expense  (91)  (63)  –  –  (1)  (14)  (17)  (186) Deletion during the period  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Translation differences  12  4  –  –  –  3  2  21  Accumulated amortization as of  March 31, 2017 (382)  (121)  (21)  (1)  (7)  (49)  (38)  (619) Carrying value as of   March 31, 2017  368  284  –  –  59  41  24  776  Carrying value as of April 1, 2016  472  352  –  –  66  55  40  985  Estimated useful life (in years) 3-10 5-8  –  – 50 3-10 3-5 Estimated remaining useful life   (in years) 1-6 3-6  –  – 44 1-8 1-4   During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Management, based on an internal evaluation, reassessed the remaining useful life  of certain software technology assets acquired as a part of business combinations.
Accordingly , the remaining useful life of the  184 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 said asset which was eight years has been revised to three years.
Amortization expense for the year ended March 31, 2017 is  higher by ` 19 crore due to the revision.
The changes in the carrying value of acquired intangible assets for the year ended March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Customer-  related Software  -related Sub- contracting  rights-  related Intellectual  property  rights  -related Land  use- rights  -related Brand or  trademark-  related Others Total Gross carrying value as of   April 1, 2015  448  261  21  11  71  49  34  895  Additions through business  combinations (Refer to Note 2.3) 294  130  –  –  –  41  27  492  Additions  –  2  –  –  –  –  –  2  Deletions  –  –  –  (10)  –  –  –  (10) Translation difference  33  21  –  –  1  3  2  60  Gross carrying value as of   March 31, 2016  775  414  21  1  72  93  63  1,439  Accumulated amortization as of  April 1, 2015  (162)  (21)  (21)  (11)  (5)  (28)  (9)  (257) Amortization expense  (132)  (40)  –  –  (1)  (9)  (13)  (195) Deletions during the period  –  –  –  10  –  –  –  10  Translation differences  (9)  (1)  –  –  –  (1)  (1)  (12) Accumulated amortization as of  March 31, 2016 (303)  (62)  (21)  (1)  (6)  (38)  (23)  (454) Carrying value as of   March 31, 2016  472  352  –  –  66  55  40  985  Carrying value as of April 1, 2015  286  240  –  –  66  21  25  638  Estimated useful life (in years) 3-10 8-10  –  – 50 3-10 3-5 Estimated remaining useful life   (in years) 1-7 7-9  –  – 45 2-9 2-5   The amortization expense has been included under depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated Statement of  Profit and Loss.
Research and development expenditure Research and development expense recognized in net profit in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the years ended  March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 is ` 789 crore and ` 712 crore, respectively .
in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31,  2017 2016 Expenditure at the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) approved R&D  centres (eligible for weighted deduction) (1) Capital expenditure – – Revenue expenditure  163  174  Other R&D expenditure  Capital expenditure –  31  Revenue expenditure  626  538  Total R&D expenditure Capital expenditure –  31  Revenue expenditure  789  712  (1) During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has claimed weighted tax deduction on eligible research and development expenditure based on the  approval received from Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) which is valid up to March 31, 2017.
An application has been filed for  renewal of the R&D recognition with DSIR.
The weighted tax deduction is equal to 200% of such expenditure incurred.
During year ended March 31, 2016, Infosys had claimed weighted tax deduction on eligible research and development till July 31, 2015 based on the  approval received from DSIR on November 23, 2011 which was renewed effective April 2014.
With effect from August 1, 2015 the business of Finacle,  including the R&D activities, was transferred to its wholly-owned subsidiary EdgeVerve Systems Limited.
The approval for EdgeVerve was effective  April 2016.
The eligible R&D revenue and capital expenditure are  ` 163 crore and nil for the year ended March 31, 2017 and ` 174 crore and nil for the year ended  March 31, 2016.
Consolidated financial statements | 185  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.6 Investments in ` crore Particulars   As at March 31,  2017 March 31,  2016 April 1,  2015 Non-current  Unquoted Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income   (Refer to Note 2.6.1) Preference securities  144  92  –  Equity instruments  15  1  1   159  93  1  Investments carried at fair value through profit and loss (Refer to Note 2.6.1) Convertible promissory note  10  –  –  Others  35  22  –   45  22  –  Quoted Investment carried at amortized cost (Refer to Note 2.6.2) Tax-free bonds  1,898  1,599  1,300  Government bonds  –  –  4   1,898  1,599  1,304  Investments carried at fair value through profit and loss (Refer to Note 2.6.3) Fixed maturity plan securities  407  –  –   407  –  –  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income   (Refer to Note 2.6.4) Non-convertible debentures  3,873  –  –   3,873  –  –  Total non-current investments  6,382  1,714  1,305  Current  Unquoted Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss (Refer to Note 2.6.3) Liquid mutual fund units  1,803  68  842   1,803  68  842  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income   (Refer to Note 2.6.4) Certificates of deposit  7,905  –  –   7,905  –  –  Quoted Investment carried at amortized cost (Refer to Note 2.6.2) Government bonds  9  7  –   9  7  –  Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss (Refer to Note 2.6.3) Fixed maturity plan securities  151  –  32   151  –  32  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income   (Refer to Note 2.6.4) Non-convertible debentures  102  –  –   102  –  –  Total current investments  9,970  75  874  Total investments  16,352  1,789  2,179  Aggregate amount of quoted investments  6,440  1,606  1,336  Market value of quoted investments (including interest accrued)  6,701  1,703  1,376  Aggregate amount of unquoted investments   (including investment in associate)  9,983  286  936  Aggregate amount of impairment made for non-current unquoted investments  (including associate)  24  6  6  Investment carried at amortized cost  1,907  1,606  1,304  Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income  12,039  93  1  Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss  2,406  90  874  186 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars   As at March 31,  2017 2016 Trifacta Inc.  26  –  11,80,358 (Nil) Preferred Stock Cloudyn Software Ltd  13  –  27,022 (Nil) Preferred Series B-3  shares, fully paid up, par value  ILS 0.01 each  Equity instruments OnMobile Systems Inc., USA –  –  21,54,100 (21,54,100) common  stock at USD 0.4348 each, fully paid  up, par value USD 0.001 each  Merasport Technologies Private  Limited  –  –  2,420 (2,420) equity shares at  ` 8,052 each, fully paid up, par  value ` 10 each Global Innovation and Technology  Alliance  1  1  15,000 (15,000) equity shares at  ` 1,000 each, fully paid up, par  value ` 1,000 each Unsilo A / S  14  –  69,894 (Nil) equity shares, fully  paid up, par value DKK 1 each Others Stellaris Venture Partners India I  3  –  Vertex Ventures US Fund L.L.P  32  22  Convertible promissory note Tidalscale  10  –    204  115  2.6.1 Details of investments The details of investments in preference, equity and other  instruments at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as  follows : in ` crore, except otherwise stated Particulars   As at March 31,  2017 2016 Preference securities Airviz Inc.  9  13  2,82,279 (2,82,279) Series A  Preferred Stock, fully paid up, par  value USD 0.001 each  ANSR Consulting  10  9  52,631 (52,631) Series A Preferred  Stock, fully paid up, par value  USD 0.001 each Whoop Inc.  15  20  16,48,352 (16,48,352) Series B  Preferred Stock, fully paid up, par  value USD 0.0001 each CloudEndure Ltd.  37  13  25,59,290 (12,79,645) Preferred  Series B Shares, fully paid up, par  value ILS 0.01 each Nivetti Systems Private Limited  10  10  2,28,501 (2,28,501) Preferred  Stock, fully paid up, par value ` 1  each Waterline Data Science, Inc.  24  27  39,33,910 (39,33,910) Preferred  Series B Shares, fully paid up, par  value USD 0.00001 each 2.6.2  Details of investments in tax-free bonds and government bonds The balances held in tax-free bonds as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows :   in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars   Face value ` As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  7.04% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  03MAR2026  10,00,000  470  50  –  –  7.16% Power Finance Corporation Ltd. Bonds 17JUL2025  10,00,000 1,000  107  –  –  7.18% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  19FEB2023  1,000 20,00,000  201 20,00,000  201  7.28% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited  21DEC2030  1,000 4,22,800  42 4,22,800  42  7.28% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  18SEP2030  10,00,000 3,300  343 2,000  200  7.34% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  19FEB2028  1,000 21,00,000  211 21,00,000  211  7.35% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  11JAN2031  1,000 5,71,396  57 5,71,396  57  7.93% Rural Electrification Corporation Limited Bonds  27MAR2022  1,000 2,00,000  21 2,00,000  21  8.00% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  2022  1,000 1,50,000  15 1,50,000  15  8.10% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  23FEB2027  1,000 5,00,000  53 5,00,000  53  8.20% Power Finance Corporation Limited Bonds 2022  1,000 5,00,000  50 5,00,000  51  Consolidated financial statements | 187  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars   Face value ` As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  8.26% India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Bonds  23AUG2028  10,00,000 1,000  100 1,000  100  8.30% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  25JAN2027  1,000 5,00,000  53 5,00,000  53  8.35% National Highways Authority of India Bonds  22NOV2023  10,00,000 1,500  150 1,500  150  8.46% India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Bonds  30AUG2028  10,00,000 2,000  200 2,000  200  8.46% Power Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  30AUG2028  10,00,000 1,500  150 1,500  150  8.48% India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Bonds  05SEP2028  10,00,000  450  45  450  45  8.54% Power Finance Corporation Limited Bonds  16NOV2028  1,000 5,00,000  50 5,00,000  50    74,55,416 1,898 74,52,646 1,599 The balances held in government bonds as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows :  in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars Face value  PHP  As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  Fixed Rate Treasury Notes 1.62 PCT MAT Date 7 Sept 2016  100  –  –  50,000  1  Fixed Rate Treasury Notes 2.20 PCT MAT Date 25 Apr 2016  100  –  –  60,000  1  Fixed Rate Treasury Notes 1.00 PCT MAT Date 25 Apr 2016  100  –  –  2,00,000  3  Treasury Notes PHY6972FWG18 MAT Date 22 Feb 2017  100  –  –  1,60,000  2  Treasury Notes PHY6972FWQ99 MAT Date 07 June 2017  100  3,40,000  4  –  –  Treasury Notes PIBl1217CO56 MAT Date 14 Mar 2018  100  4,00,000  5  –  –     7,40,000  9  4,70,000  7  2.6.3  Details of investments in liquid mutual fund units and fixed maturity plan securities The balances held in liquid mutual fund units as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016  Units Amount  Units Amount  Birla Sun Life Cash Plus Growth Direct Plan 1,45,22,491  380  –  –  Birla Sun Life Cash Manager – Regular Plan  –  –  3,89,089  14  BSL Cash Manager – Growth  2,66,264  11  –  –  ICICI Prudential Liquid – Direct Plan – Daily Dividend  –  – 16,07,064  16  ICICI Prudential Liquid Direct Plan Growth 1,03,88,743  250  –  –  IDFC Cash Fund Growth (Direct Plan)  12,65,679  250  –  –  Kotak Low Duration Fund Direct Growth (Ultra Short-Term)  15,02,564  305  –  –  L&T Liquid Fund Direct Plan Growth  6,72,806  150  –  –  Reliance Liquid Fund Cash Plan  28,305  7  2  –  Reliance Liquid Fund – Treasury Plan – Direct Growth Plan – Growth  Option  8,82,465  350  2,07,283  31  Reliance Money Manage Fund  –  –  32,925  7  SBI Premier Liquid Fund Direct Plan Growth  3,91,909  100  –  –   2,99,21,226 1,803 22,36,363  68  188 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The balances held in fixed maturity plan securities as at March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31, 2017 Units Amount  Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan – Series OD 1145 Days – GR direct  6,00,00,000  61  Birla Sun Life Fixed Term Plan – series OE 1153 days – GR direct  2,50,00,000  25  HDFC FMP 1155D Feb 2017– Direct Growth Series 37  3,80,00,000  38  HDFC FMP 1169D Feb 2017 – Direct-Quarterly Dividend – Series 37  4,50,00,000  45  ICICI FMP Series 80-1194 D Plan F Div.
5,50,00,000  55  ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan Series 80 – 1187 Days Plan G direct Plan  4,20,00,000  42  ICICI Prudential Fixed Maturity Plan series 80 – 1253 Days Plan J Direct Plan  3,00,00,000  30  IDFC Fixed Term Plan Series 129 direct Plan – Growth 1147 Days  1,00,00,000  10  IDFC Fixed Term Plan Series 131 direct Plan – Growth 1139 Days  1,50,00,000  15  Kotak FMP Series 199 Direct – Growth  3,50,00,000  36  Reliance Fixed Horizon Fund – XXXII Series 8 – Dividend Plan  5,00,00,000  50  Reliance Yearly Interval Fund Series – 1 – Direct Plan – Growth Plan 10,69,06,898  151  51,19,06,898  558  2.6.4  Details of investments in non-convertible debentures and certificates of deposit The balances held in non-convertible debenture units as at March 31, 2017 are as follows :  in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars   As at March 31, 2017 Face value `  Units Amount  7.48% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 18NOV2019 1,00,00,000  50  52  7.58% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 11JUN2020  10,00,000  500  51  7.58% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 28FEB2020  10,00,000  1,000  100  7.59% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 14OCT2021  10,00,000  3,000  309  7.75% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 27AUG2021  10,00,000  1,250  129  7.79% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 19JUN2020  10,00,000  500  52  7.80% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 11NOV2019 1,00,00,000  150  155  7.81% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 27APR2020  10,00,000  2,000  208  7.95% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 23SEP2019 1,00,00,000  50  53  8.02% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 18FEB2020  10,00,000  500  51  8.26% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 12AUG2019 1,00,00,000  100  106  8.34% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 06MAR2019 1,00,00,000  200  217  8.37% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 03OCT2019  10,00,000  2,000  218  8.37% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 10MAY2021  10,00,000  500  55  8.43% IDFC Bank Limited 30JAN2018  10,00,000  1,000  102  8.46% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 11MAR2019 1,00,00,000  50  54  8.47% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 21JAN2020  10,00,000  500  52  8.49% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 27APR2020  5,000  900  49  8.50% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 31AUG2020 1,00,00,000  100  108  8.54% IDFC Bank Limited 30MAY2018  10,00,000  1,500  182  8.59% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 14JUN2019 1,00,00,000  50  51  8.60% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 22JUL2020  10,00,000  1,000  108  8.60% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 29JUL2020  10,00,000  1,750  190  8.61% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 11DEC2019  10,00,000  1,000  104  8.66% IDFC Bank Limited 27DEC2018  10,00,000  400  49  8.66% IDFC Bank Limited 25JUN2018  10,00,000  1,520  184  8.72% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 15APR2019 1,00,00,000  75  77  8.75% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 13JAN2020  5,00,000  5,000  260  8.75% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 14JAN2020  10,00,000  1,070  112  8.75% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 21DEC2020  10,00,000  1,000  104  8.97% LIC Housing Finance Ltd 29OCT2019  10,00,000  500  53  9.45% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 21AUG2019  10,00,000  3,000  327  9.65% Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd 19JAN2019  10,00,000  500  53     32,715  3,975  Consolidated financial statements | 189  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The balances held in certificates of deposit as at March 31, 2017 are as follows : in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars   As at March 31, 2017 Face value `  Units Amount  Andhra Bank 1,00,000  35,000  344  Axis Bank 1,00,000  3,05,600  2,914  Corporation Bank 1,00,000  33,500  327  DBS Bank 1,00,000  5,000  49  ICICI Bank Limited 1,00,000  42,500  413  IDFC Bank 1,00,000  1,40,000  1,328  IndusInd Bank 1,00,000  1,06,400  1,011  Kotak Bank 1,00,000  85,500  813  Vijaya Bank 1,00,000  14,000  137  Yes Bank 1,00,000  60,000  569     8,27,500  7,905  2.7 Loans  in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Unsecured, considered  good Other loans Loans to employees  29  25  31   29  25  31  Unsecured, considered  doubtful Loans to employees  24  19  12   53  44  43  Less : Allowance for  doubtful loans to  employees  24  19  12   29  25  31  Current Unsecured, considered  good Other loans Loans to employees  272  303  222   272  303  222  Total loans  301  328  253  2.8 Other financial assets in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Security deposits (1)  86  78  68  Rental deposits (1)  175  146  47  Restricted deposits (1)  48  62  58   309  286  173  Current Security deposits (1)  10  7  4  Rental deposits (1)  9  13  24  Restricted deposits (1)  1,416  1,238  1,100  Unbilled revenues (1)  3,648  3,029  2,845  Interest accrued but not  due (1)  576  762  444  Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Foreign currency forward  and options contracts (2)(3)  284  116  101  Others (1)  37  25  9   5,980  5,190  4,527  Total financial assets  6,289  5,476  4,700  (1) Financial assets carried at  amortized cost 6,005  5,360  4,599  (2) Financial assets carried at  fair value through other  comprehensive income 52  –  –  (3) Financial assets carried at  fair value through profit or  loss 232  116  101  Restricted deposits represent deposits with financial  institutions to settle employee-related obligations as and  when they arise during the normal course of business.
Security deposits relate principally to leased telephone lines  and electricity supplies.
Other assets primarily represent  travel advances and other recoverables.
2.9 Trade receivables (1) in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Current Unsecured  Considered good  12,322  11,330  9,713  Considered doubtful  318  289  366   12,640  11,619  10,079  Less : Allowances for  credit loss  318  289  366   12,322  11,330  9,713  (1) Includes dues from  companies where directors  are interested1  1 6 190 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.10 Cash and cash equivalents in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Balances with banks In current and deposit  accounts  14,889  27,420  26,195  Cash on hand  –  –  –  Others Deposits with financial  institutions  7,736  5,277  4,172   22,625  32,697  30,367  Balances with banks  in unpaid dividend  accounts 17  5  3  Deposit with more than  12-month maturity 6,954  404  311  Balances with banks held  as margin money deposits  against guarantees 404  342  185  Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2017, March 31,  2016 and April 1, 2015 include restricted cash and bank  balances of ` 572  crore, ` 492  crore and ` 364  crore,  respectively .
The restrictions are primarily on account of cash  and bank balances held by irrevocable trusts controlled by  the Company , bank balances held as margin money deposits  against guarantees and balances held in unpaid dividend  bank accounts.
The deposits maintained by the Group with banks and  financial institutions comprise time deposits, which can be  withdrawn by the Group at any point without prior notice or  penalty on the principal.
The details of balances as on Balance Sheet dates with banks  are as follows : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 Current accounts ANZ Bank, Taiwan  3  13  Axis Bank, India  1  1  Banamex Bank, Mexico  2  5  Banamex Bank, Mexico   (U.S. Dollar account)  8  3  Bank of America, Mexico  54  21  Bank of America, USA  1,030  681  Bank Zachodni WBK S.A, Poland  4  3  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.,  Japan  –  1  Barclays Bank, UK  1  19  Bank Leumi, Israel   (U.S. Dollar account)  2  17  Bank Leumi, Israel  11  10  BNP Paribas Bank, Norway  17  –  China Merchants Bank, China  9  8  Citibank N.A, China  61  65  Citibank N.A., China   (U.S. Dollar account)  11  72  Citibank N.A., Costa Rica  5  2  Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 Citibank N.A., Australia  19  72  Citibank N.A., Brazil  30  5  Citibank N.A., Dubai  1  1  Citibank N.A., Hungary  3  –  Citibank N.A., India  3  1  Citibank N.A., Japan  12  15  Citibank N.A., New Zealand  10  6  Citibank N.A., Portugal  2  2  Citibank N.A., Singapore  2  3  Citibank N.A., South Korea  1  –  Citibank N.A., South Africa  9  5  Citibank N.A., South Africa   (Euro account)  1  1  Citibank N.A., Philippines,   (U.S. Dollar account)  1  1  Citibank N.A., USA  78  60  Citibank N.A., EEFC   (U.S. Dollar account)  1  –  Commerzbank, Germany  18  19  Crédit Industriel et Commercial  Bank, France  –  4  Deutsche Bank, India  12  8  Deutsche Bank, Philippines  5  13  Deutsche Bank, Philippines   (U.S. Dollar account)  4  1  Deutsche Bank, Poland  12  5  Deutsche Bank, Poland   (Euro account)  4  –  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (Australian Dollar account)  38  2  Deutsche Bank, EEFC (Euro  account)  25  32  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (Swiss Franc account)  2  5  Deutsche Bank, EEFC   (U.S. Dollar account)  76  96  Deutsche Bank, EEFC (United  Kingdom Pound Sterling account) 10  9  Deutsche Bank, Belgium  10  59  Deutsche Bank, Malaysia  7  9  Deutsche Bank, Czech Republic  8  14  Deutsche Bank, Czech Republic  (Euro account) 7  1  Deutsche Bank, Czech Republic  (U.S. Dollar account) 30  28  Deutsche Bank, France  8  10  Deutsche Bank, Germany  48  17  Deutsche Bank, Netherlands  2  6  Deutsche Bank, Russia  3  2  Deutsche Bank, Russia   (U.S. Dollar account)  1  1  Deutsche Bank, Singapore  6  4  Deutsche Bank, Spain  –  1  Deutsche Bank, Switzerland  9  1  Deutsche Bank, Switzerland   (U.S. Dollar account)  1  –  Deutsche Bank, United Kingdom  26  170  Consolidated financial statements | 191  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 Deutsche Bank, USA  12  –  HSBC Bank, Brazil  1  5  HSBC Bank, Hong Kong  1  1  ICICI Bank, India  53  72  ICICI Bank, EEFC (Euro account)  1  –  ICICI Bank, EEFC   (U.S. Dollar account)  5  10  ICICI Bank, EEFC (United Kingdom  Pound Sterling account)  1  –  ING Bank, Belgium  2  3  Nordbanken, Sweden  33  15  Punjab National Bank, India  6  4  Raiffeisen Bank, Czech Republic  4  5  Raiffeisen Bank, Romania  4  4  Royal Bank of Canada, Canada  83  78  Santander Bank, Argentina  1  –  State Bank of India, India  7  8  Silicon Valley Bank, USA  4  5  Silicon Valley Bank, (Euro account)  19  65  Silicon Valley Bank, (United  Kingdom Pound Sterling account) 2  19  Union Bank of Switzerland AG  3  15  Union Bank of Switzerland AG,  (Euro account) 4  12  Union Bank of Switzerland AG,  (Australian Dollar account) –  2  Union Bank of Switzerland AG,  (U.S. Dollar account)  –  28  Union Bank of Switzerland AG,  (United Kingdom Pound Sterling  account)  –  4  Wells Fargo Bank N.A., USA  33  23  Westpac, Australia  1  6   2,044  1,994  Deposit accounts Andhra Bank  –  948  Axis Bank  1,175  1,340  Bank BGZ BNP Paribas S.A  183  –  Bank of India  –  77  Barclays Bank  825  –  Canara Bank  84  2,115  Central Bank of India  –  1,538  Citibank  165  125  Corporation Bank  –  1,285  Deutsche Bank, Poland  71  237  HDFC Bank  469  2,650  HSBC Bank  500  –  ICICI Bank  4,644  4,049  IDBI Bank  1,750  1,900  IDFC Bank  200  –  Indian Overseas Bank  –  1,250  IndusInd Bank  191  250  Jammu & Kashmir Bank  –  25  Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited  535  537  National Australia Bank Limited  –  1  Oriental Bank of Commerce  –  1,967  Punjab National Bank  –  18  Particulars As at March 31,  2017 2016 South Indian Bank  450  23  Standard Chartered Bank  500  –  State Bank of India  –  2,310  Syndicate Bank  49  1,266  Union Bank of India  –  140  Vijaya Bank  –  304  Yes Bank  633  724   12,424  25,079  Unpaid dividend accounts Axis Bank, unpaid dividend account  2  2  HDFC Bank, unpaid dividend  account  2  1  ICICI Bank, unpaid dividend  account  13  2   17  5  Margin money deposits against  guarantees Canara Bank  177  132  Citibank  2  3  ICICI Bank  225  150  State Bank of India  –  57   404  342  Deposits with financial institutions  HDFC Limited 7,036  5,277  LIC Housing Finance Limited  700  –   7,736  5,277  Total cash and cash equivalents  22,625  32,697  2.11 Other assets in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Capital advances  600  933  664  Advances other than  capital advances Prepaid gratuity   (Refer to Note 2.22.1)  79  4  27  Deferred contract cost  284  333  –  Prepaid expenses  96  87  7   1,059  1,357  698  Current Advances other than  capital advances Payment to vendors for  supply of goods 131  110  79  Others Withholding taxes and  others  1,886  1,799  1,364  Prepaid expenses  441  201  98  Deferred contract cost  78  48  –   2,536  2,158  1,541  Total other assets  3,595  3,515  2,239  Deferred contract costs are upfront costs incurred for the  contract and are amortized over the term of the contract.
Withholding taxes and others primarily consist of input  tax credits.
192 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.12  Financial instruments The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of March 31, 2017 are as follows :  in ` crore  Particulars Amortized  cost   Financial assets / liabilities  at fair value through profit  or loss Financial assets / liabilities at  fair value through OCI Total  carrying  value   Total fair  value   Designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Equity  instruments  designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Assets Cash and cash equivalents   (Refer to Note 2.10)  22,625  –  –  –  –  22,625  22,625  Investments (Refer to Note 2.6) Equity and preference securities  –  – –  159  –  159  159  Tax-free bonds and government  bonds  1,907  –  –  –  –  1,907 (1) 2,168  Liquid mutual fund units  –  –  1,803  –  –  1,803  1,803  Non-convertible debentures  –  –  –  –  3,975  3,975  3,975  Certificates of deposit – – – –  7,905  7,905  7,905  Convertible promissory note  –  –  10  –  –  10  10  Other investments – –  35 – –  35  35  Fixed maturity plan securities  –  –  558  –  –  558  558  Trade receivables (Refer to Note 2.9)  12,322  –  –  –  –  12,322  12,322  Loans (Refer to Note 2.7)  301  –  –  –  –  301  301  Other financial assets (Refer to Note 2.8)  6,005  –  232  –  52  6,289  6,289  Total  43,160  –  2,638  159  11,932  57,889  Liabilities Trade payables  367  –  –  –  –  367  367  Other financial liabilities   (Refer to Note 2.14)  4,973  –  87  –  –  5,060  5,060  Total  5,340  –  87  –  –  5,427   (1) Changes in fair values including interest accrued The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of March 31, 2016 were as follows :  in ` crore  Particulars Amortized  cost   Financial assets / liabilities  at fair value through profit  or loss Financial assets / liabilities at  fair value through OCI Total  carrying  value   Total fair  value   Designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Equity  instruments  designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Assets Cash and cash equivalents   (Refer to Note 2.10)  32,697  –  –  –  –  32,697  32,697  Investments (Refer to Note 2.6) Equity , preference and other  securities  –  –  22  93  –  115  115  Tax-free bonds and government  bonds  1,606  –  –  –  –  1,606  (1) 1,703  Liquid mutual fund units  –  –  68  –  –  68  68  Trade receivables (Refer to Note 2.9)  11,330  –  –  –  –  11,330  11,330  Loans (Refer to Note 2.7)  328  –  –  –  –  328  328  Other financial assets   (Refer to Note 2.8)  5,360  –  116  –  –  5,476  5,476  Total  51,321  –  206  93  –  51,620  Liabilities Trade payables  386  –  –  –  –  386  386  Other financial liabilities   (Refer to Note 2.14)  4,908  –  122  –  –  5,030  5,030  Total  5,294  –  122  –  –  5,416   (1) Changes in fair values including interest accrued Consolidated financial statements | 193  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of April 1, 2015 were as follows :  in ` crore  Particulars Amortized  cost   Financial assets / liabilities  at fair value through profit  or loss Financial assets / liabilities at  fair value through OCI Total  carrying  value   Total fair  value   Designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Equity  instruments  designated  upon initial  recognition Mandatory Assets Cash and cash equivalents   (Refer to Note 2.10)  30,367  –  –  –  –  30,367  30,367  Investments (Refer to Note 2.6) Equity , preference and other  securities  –  –  –  1  –  1  1  Tax-free bonds and government  bonds  1,304  –  –  –  –  1,304 (1) 1,344  Liquid mutual fund units  –  –  842  –  –  842  842  Fixed maturity plan securities  –  –  32  –  –  32  32  Trade receivables (Refer to Note 2.9)  9,713  –  –  –  –  9,713  9,713  Loans (Refer to Note 2.7)  253  –  –  –  –  253  253  Other financial assets   (Refer to Note 2.8)  4,599  –  101  –  –  4,700  4,700  Total  46,236  –  975  1  –  47,212  Liabilities Trade payables  140  –  –  –  –  140  140  Other financial liabilities   (Refer to Note 2.14)  4,911  –  3  –  –  4,914  4,914  Total  5,051  –  3  –  –  5,054   (1) Changes in fair values including interest accrued Fair value hierarchy Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability , either directly  (i.e.
as prices) or indirectly (i.e.
derived from prices).
Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of March 31, 2017 is as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of   March 31,  2017  Fair value measurement at end of the reporting  period / year using  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Investments in liquid mutual fund units (Refer to Note 2.6)  1,803  1,803  –  –  Investments in tax-free bonds (Refer to Note 2.6)  2,159  282  1,877  –  Investments in government bonds (Refer to Note 2.6)  9  9  –  –  Investments in equity instruments (Refer to Note 2.6)  15  –  –  15  Investments in preference securities (Refer to Note 2.6)  144  –  –  144  Investments in non-convertible debentures (Refer to Note 2.6)  3,975  3,371  604  –  Investments in certificates of deposit (Refer to Note 2.6)  7,905  –  7,905  –  Investments in fixed maturity plan securities (Refer to Note 2.6)  558  –  558  –  Investments in convertible promissory note (Refer to Note 2.6)  10  –  –  10  Others (Refer to Note 2.6)  35  –  –  35  Derivative financial instruments – gain on outstanding foreign  currency forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.8)  284  –  284  –  Liabilities Derivative financial instruments – loss on outstanding foreign  currency forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.14)  2  –  2  –  Liability towards contingent consideration (Refer to Note 2.14) (1)  85  –  –  85  (1) Discounted US $14 million (approximately ` 91 crore) at 14.2% 194 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 A one percentage point change in the unobservable inputs  used in fair valuation of Level 3 assets and liabilities does not  have a significant impact in its value.
The movement in contingent consideration as of March 31,  2017 from March 31, 2016 is on account of the settlement of a  contingent consideration of ` 40 crore and change in discount  rate and passage of time.
The movement in Level 3 investments from fiscal 2016 to  fiscal 2017 is on account of purchase of additional investments  during the year and change in fair value.
The fair value of liquid mutual funds is based on quoted  price.
The fair value of tax-free bonds and government bonds  is based on quoted prices and market-observable inputs.
The  fair value is of non-convertible debentures is based on quoted  prices and market observable inputs.
The fair value of fixed  maturity plan securities and certificates of deposit is based on  market-observable inputs.
Derivative financial instruments  are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets and  liabilities in active markets or inputs that are directly or  indirectly observable in the marketplace.
The amount invested and fair value of unquoted equity and  preference securities of March 31, 2017 is ` 161 crore and  ` 159 crore.
The fair value is determined using Level 3 inputs  like Discounted Cash Flow Method, Market Multiple Method,  Option Pricing Model, etc.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors  The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial  risks  : market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The  Group’s focus is to foresee the unpredictability of financial  markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on  its financial performance.
The primary market risk to the  Group is foreign exchange risk.
The Group uses derivative  financial instruments to mitigate foreign exchange related risk  exposures.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced  mainly by the individual characteristic of each customer and  the concentration of risk from the top few customers.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, tax-free bonds of ` 115 crore were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 of fair value  hierarchy , since these were valued based on market observable inputs.
The fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2016 was as follows : in ` crore  Particulars As of  March 31,  2016  Fair value measurement at end of the reporting  period / year using  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Investments in liquid mutual fund units (Refer to Note 2.6)  68  68  –  –  Investments in bonds (Refer to Note 2.6)  1,696  369  1,327  –  Investments in government bonds (Refer to Note 2.6)  7  7  –  –  Investments in equity instruments (Refer to Note 2.6)  1  –  –  1  Investments in preference securities (Refer to Note 2.6)  92  –  –  92  Others (Refer to Note 2.6)  22  –  –  22  Derivative financial instruments – gain on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.8)  116  –  116  –  Liabilities Derivative financial instruments – loss on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.14)  5  –  5  –  Liability towards contingent consideration (Refer to Note 2.14) (1)  117  –  –  117  (1) Discounted US $20 million (approximately ` 132 crore) at 13.7%  The fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2015 was as follows : in ` crore  Particulars As of April 1,  2015 Fair value measurement at end of the reporting  period / year using  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets  Investments in liquid mutual fund units (Refer to Note 2.6)  842  842  –  –  Investments in fixed maturity plan securities (Refer to Note 2.6)  32  –  32  –  Investments in bonds (Refer to Note 2.6)  1,340  604  736  –  Investments in government bonds (Refer to Note 2.6)  4  4  –  –  Investments in equity instruments (Refer to Note 2.6)  1  –  –  1  Derivative financial instruments – gain on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.8)  101  –  101  –  Liabilities Derivative financial instruments – loss on foreign currency  forward and options contracts (Refer to Note 2.14)  3  –  3  –  Consolidated financial statements | 195  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Market risk  The Group operates internationally and a major portion of the  business is transacted in several currencies and consequently  the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its sales  and services in the United States and elsewhere, and purchases  from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies.
The  Group holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign  exchange forward and options contracts to mitigate the risk  of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency exposures.
The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and foreign  currencies has changed substantially in recent years and may  fluctuate substantially in the future.
Consequently , the results  of the Group’s operations are adversely affected as the rupee  appreciates / depreciates against these currencies.
The foreign currency risk from financial instruments as of March 31, 2017 was as follows :  in ` crore Particulars USD Euro GBP AUD Other  currencies  Total  Cash and cash equivalents  1,334  131  36  183  700  2,384  Trade receivables  8,345  1,244  775  561  702  11,627  Other financial assets (including loans)  2,862  535  372  159  403  4,331  Trade payables (115) (32) (13) (5) (158)  (323) Other financial liabilities (2,129) (406) (211) (211) (547)  (3,504) Net assets / (liabilities)  10,297 1,472  959  687  1,100  14,515  The foreign exchange risk from financial instruments as of March 31, 2016 was as follows :  in ` crore Particulars USD Euro GBP AUD Other  currencies  Total  Cash and cash equivalents  1,124  167  202  171  601  2,265  Trade receivables  7,558  1,280  721  598  696  10,853  Other financial assets (including loans)  1,967  405  216  124  337  3,049  Trade payables (126) (75) (73) (4) (76)  (354) Other financial liabilities  (2,430) (369) (197) (243) (558)  (3,797) Net assets / (liabilities)  8,093  1,408  869  646  1,000  12,016  For each of the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016, every percentage point depreciation / appreciation in  the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and US dollar,  has affected the Company’s incremental operating margins by  approximately 0.50%.
Sensitivity analysis is computed based on the changes in the  income and expenses in foreign currency upon conversion  into functional currency , due to exchange rate fluctuations  between the previous reporting period and the current  reporting period.
Derivative financial instruments  The Group holds derivative financial instruments such as  foreign currency forward and options contracts to mitigate  the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency  exposures.
The counterparty for these contracts is generally a  bank.
These derivative financial instruments are valued based  on quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active  markets or inputs that are directly or indirectly observable  in the marketplace.
The details in respect of outstanding foreign currency forward  and options contracts are as follows : Particulars  As of March 31,   2017 2016 In million In ` crore In million In ` crore Derivatives  designated  as cash flow  hedges Forward  contracts In Euro  95  658  –  –  In GBP  40  324  –  –  In AUD  130  644  –  –  Options  contracts In Euro  40  277  –  –  In GBP  –  –  –  –  In AUD  –  –  –  –  Other  derivatives Forward  contracts In USD 526 3,411 510 3,379 196 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars  As of March 31,   2017 2016 In million In ` crore In million In ` crore In Euro 114 786 100 750 In GBP 75 609 65 623 In AUD 35 174 55 281 In CHF 10 65  25  173  In SGD 5 23  –  –  In SEK 50 36  –  –  Options  contracts In USD  195  1,265  125  828  In Euro  25  173  –  –  In GBP  30  243  –  –  In CAD  13  65  –  –  Total forwards  and options 8,753  6,034 The foreign exchange forward and options contracts mature  within 12 months.
The table below analyzes the derivative  financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based  on the remaining period as of the Balance Sheet date : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31, 2017 2016 Not later than one month  2,303  1,577  Later than one month and not later  than three months  4,316  3,420  Later than three months and not  later than one year 2,134  1,037   8,753 6,034 During the year ended March  31, 2017, the Group has  designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts as  cash flow hedges to mitigate the risk of foreign exchange  exposure on highly probable forecast cash transactions.
The  related hedge transactions for balance in cash flow hedging  reserve are expected to occur and reclassified to revenue in  the Statement of Profit and Loss within three months.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge  relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness  assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists  between the hedged item and hedging instrument, including  whether the hedging instrument is expected to offset changes  in cash flows of hedged items.
If the hedge ratio for risk management purposes is no  longer optimal, but the risk management objective remains  unchanged and the hedge continues to qualify for hedge  accounting, the hedge relationship will be rebalanced by  adjusting either the volume of the hedging instrument or  the volume of the hedged item so that the hedge ratio aligns  with the ratio used for risk management purposes.
Any hedge  ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for in profit or loss  at the time of the hedge relationship rebalancing.
The reconciliation of cash flow hedge reserve for the year  ended March 31, 2017 is as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning of the period  –  Gain / (Loss) recognized in other  comprehensive income during the  period121 Amount reclassified to revenue during  the period  (69) Tax impact on above  (13) Balance at the end of the period 39 The Group offsets a financial asset and a financial liability  when it currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the  recognized amounts and the Group intends either to settle  on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability  simultaneously .
The quantitative information about offsetting of derivative  financial assets and derivative financial liabilities is as follows : in ` crore  Particulars As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Derivative  financial  asset Derivative  financial  liability Derivative  financial  asset  Derivative  financial  liability Gross amount  of recognized  financial asset /  liability 285  (3)  124  (13) Amount set off  (1)  1  (8)  8  Net amount  presented in  Balance Sheet 284  (2)  116  (5) Credit risk  Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation by  the counterparty resulting in a financial loss.
The maximum  exposure to the credit risk at the reporting date is primarily  from trade receivables amounting to ` 12,322  crore and  ` 11,330 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively , and unbilled revenue amounting to ` 3,648 crore  and ` 3,029 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively .
Trade receivables and unbilled revenue are  typically unsecured and are derived from revenue earned  from customers primarily located in the United States.
Credit risk has always been managed by the Group through  credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously  monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the  Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business.
On account of adoption of Ind AS 109, the Group uses ECL  model to assess the impairment loss or gain.
The Group uses  a provision matrix to compute the ECL allowance for trade  receivables and unbilled revenues.
The provision matrix  takes into account available external and internal credit risk  factors such as credit default swap quotes, credit ratings from  international credit rating agencies and the Group’s historical  experience for customers.
Consolidated financial statements | 197  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The details in respect of the percentage of revenues generated  from top customer and top five customers are as follows : in % Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue from top customer 3.4  3.6  Revenue from top five customers 12.6  13.8  Credit risk exposure The allowance for lifetime ECL on customer balances for the  year ended March 31, 2017 was ` 132 crore.
The reversal of  provision of allowance for lifetime ECL on customer balances  for the year ended March 31, 2016 was ` 52 crore.
in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Balance at the beginning 289 366  Impairment loss recognized /  (reversed)  132  (52) Amounts written off  (1)  (33) Translation differences  (9)  8  Balance at the end 411 289  The Company’s credit period generally ranges from 30-60  days.
in ` crore, except otherwise stated  Particulars As of March 31, 2017 2016 Trade receivables  12,322  11,330  Unbilled revenues  3,648  3,029  Days Sales Outstanding   (DSO) (days)  68  66  Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited as we  generally invest in deposits with banks and financial  institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international  and domestic credit rating agencies.
Investments primarily  include investment in liquid mutual fund units, fixed  maturity plan securities, certificates of deposit, quoted bonds  issued by government and quasi government organizations  and non-convertible debentures.
Liquidity risk The Group’s principal sources of liquidity are cash and  cash equivalents and the cash flow that is generated from  operations.
The Group has no outstanding bank borrowings.
The Group believes that the working capital is sufficient to  meet its current requirements.
As of March  31, 2017, the Group had a working capital  of ` 39,692  crore including cash and cash equivalents of  ` 22,625  crore and current investments of ` 9,970  crore.
As of March  31, 2016, the Group had a working capital  of ` 38,514  crore including cash and cash equivalents of  ` 32,697 crore and current investments of ` 75 crore.
As of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, the outstanding  employee compensated absences were ` 1,359 crore and  ` 1,341 crore, respectively , which have been substantially  funded.
Accordingly , no liquidity risk is perceived.
The details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as of March 31, 2017 are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total  Trade payables  367  –  –  –  367  Other financial liabilities (excluding liability towards  acquisition) (Refer to Note 2.14) 4,943  31  –  –  4,974  Liability towards acquisitions on an undiscounted basis  (including contingent consideration) (Refer to Note 2.14) 45  46  –  –  91   The details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as of March 31, 2016 are as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-4 years 4-7 years Total  Trade payables  386  –  –  –  386  Other financial liabilities (excluding liability towards  acquisition) (Refer to Note 2.14) 4,875  25  9  –  4,909  Liability towards acquisitions on an undiscounted basis  (including contingent consideration) (Refer to Note 2.14) 86  46  –  –  132  198 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 through a postal ballot.
For both the bonus issues, a bonus  share of one equity share for every equity share held, and a  stock dividend of one ADS for every ADS held, respectively ,  has been allotted.
Consequently , the ratio of equity shares  underlying the ADSs held by an American Depositary  Receipt (ADR) holder remains unchanged.
Options granted  under the restricted stock unit (RSU) plan have been  adjusted for bonus shares.
The Board has increased dividend payout ratio from up to  40% to up to 50% of post-tax consolidated profits effective  fiscal 2015.
The Board, in its meeting on April 15, 2016, recommended  a final dividend of ` 14.25 per equity share and the same  was approved by the shareholders at the Annual General  Meeting held on June 18, 2016.
The amount was recognized  as distributions to equity shareholders during the year ended  March 31, 2017 and the total appropriation was ` 3,923 crore  (excluding dividend on treasury shares), including corporate  dividend tax.
(Refer to Note 2.2.1 for impact on transition to  Ind AS.)
The amount of per share dividend recognized as distributions  to equity shareholders during the year ended March 31, 2016  was ` 29.50 per equity share (not adjusted for June 17, 2015  bonus issue).
The Board, in its meeting on October 14, 2016, declared an  interim dividend of ` 11 per equity share, which resulted in  cash outflow of ` 3,029 crore, (excluding dividend paid on  treasury shares) inclusive of corporate dividend tax.
The Board, in its meeting on April 13, 2017, has recommended  a final dividend of ` 14.75 per equity share for the financial  year ended March 31, 2017.
The proposal is subject to the  approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be  held on June 24, 2017 and, if approved, would result in a cash  outflow of approximately ` 4,061 crore (excluding dividend  paid on treasury shares), including corporate dividend tax.
In the event of liquidation of the Company , the holders of  equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining  assets of the Company in proportion to the number of equity  shares held by the shareholders, after distribution of all  preferential amounts.
However, no such preferential amounts  exist currently , other than the amounts held by irrevocable  controlled trusts.
For irrevocable controlled trusts, the corpus  would be settled in favor of the beneficiaries.
The details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares as at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : Name of the shareholder As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 No.
of shares % held No.
of shares % held Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas   (Depository of ADRs – legal ownership) 38,33,17,937 16.69 38,53,17,937 16.78 Life Insurance Corporation of India 16,14,36,123  7.03 13,22,74,300 5.76 2.13 Equity Share capital in ` crore, except as otherwise stated Particulars As at March 31 April 1,  20152017 2016 Authorized Equity shares, ` 5   par value 2,40,00,00,000  (2,40,00,00,000 (3))   equity shares  1,200  1,200  600  Issued, subscribed and  paid up Equity shares, ` 5 par  value (1) 2,28,56,55,150  (2,28,56,21,088 (3))  equity shares fully paid  up (2)  1,144     1,144     572      1,144  1,144  572  Notes : Forfeited shares amounted to ` 1,500 (` 1,500)  (1) Refer to Note 2.23 for details of basic and diluted shares.
(2) Net of treasury shares 1,12,89,514 (1,13,23,576)  (3) Represents number of shares as of March 31, 2016 The Company has only one class of shares referred to  as equity shares having a par value of ` 5.
Each holder of  equity shares is entitled to one vote per share.
The equity  shares represented by ADSs carry similar rights to voting and  dividends as the other equity shares.
Each ADS represents one  underlying equity share.
The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors (‘the Board’) is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing  Annual General Meeting.
The remittance of dividends outside  India is governed by Indian law on foreign exchange and is  subject to applicable distribution taxes.
In the period of five years immediately preceding March 31,  2017 : • The Company has allotted 1,14,84,72,332 and  57,42,36,166 fully-paid-up shares of face value ` 5 each  during the quarter ended June 30, 2015 and December 31,  2014, pursuant to bonus issue approved by the shareholders  Consolidated financial statements | 199  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding and the amount of share capital as at March 31, 2017 and March 31,  2016 is as follows : in ` crore, except as stated otherwise Particulars   As at March 31, 2017 As at March 31, 2016 No.
of shares Amount No.
of shares Amount At the beginning of the period 2,28,56,21,088 1,144 1,14,28,05,132  572  Add : Bonus shares issued (including bonus on treasury shares) – – 1,14,84,72,332  574  Add : Shares issued on exercise of employee stock options  34,062  –  10,824  –  Less : Increase in treasury shares consequent to bonus issue  –  –  56,67,200  2  At the end of the period 2,28,56,55,150 1,144 2,28,56,21,088 1,144 Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) 2015 Stock Incentive Compensation Plan (‘the 2015 Plan’) :  SEBI issued the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Share-based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (‘SEBI  Regulations’) which replaced the SEBI ESOP Guidelines,  1999.
The 2011 Plan (as explained below) was required  to be amended and restated in accordance with the SEBI  Regulations.
Consequently , to effect this change and to further  introduce stock options / ADRs and other stock incentives,  the Company put forth the 2015 Plan for approval to the  shareholders of the Company .
Pursuant to the approval by the shareholders through a postal  ballot which ended on March 31, 2016, the Board of Directors  has been authorized to introduce, offer, issue and allot  share-based incentives to eligible employees of the Company  and its subsidiaries under the 2015 Plan.
The  maximum  number of shares under the 2015 Plan shall not exceed  2,40,38,883 equity shares (this includes 1,12,23,576 equity  shares which were held by the Trust towards the 2011 Plan as  at March 31, 2016).
Of this, 1,70,38,883 equity shares will be  issued as RSUs at par value and 70,00,000 equity shares will  be issued as stock options at market price.
These instruments  will vest over a period of four years and the Company expects  to grant the instruments under the 2015 Plan over the period  of four to seven years.
On August 1, 2016, the Company granted 17,83,615 RSUs  (including equity shares and equity shares represented by  ADSs) at par value, to employees up to mid-management  (excluding grants made to Dr. Vishal Sikka).
Further, the  Company granted 73,020 incentive units (cash-settled) to  eligible employees.
These instruments will vest equally over  a period of four years and are subject to continued service.
On November 1, 2016, the Company granted 9,70,375 RSUs  (including equity shares and equity shares represented by  ADSs) at par value, 12,05,850 ESOPs (including equity shares  and equity shares represented by ADSs) to be exercised at  market price at the time of grant, to certain employees at  the senior management level.
Further, the Company granted  20,640 incentive units (cash-settled) to certain employees  at the senior management level.
These instruments will  vest equally over a period of four years and are subject to  continued service.
On February 1, 2017, the Company granted 18,550 incentive  units (cash-settled) to certain employees at the senior  management level.
These instruments will vest equally over  a period of four years and are subject to continued service.
As of March 31, 2017, 1,12,89,514 shares are held by the  trust towards 2015 Plan, out of which 1,00,000 shares have  been earmarked for welfare activities of employees.
As of  March 31, 2017, 1,06,845 incentive units were outstanding  (net of forfeitures) and the carrying value of the cash liability  is ` 3 crore.
Pursuant to the approval from the shareholders through a  postal ballot on March 31, 2016, Dr. Vishal Sikka, Chief  Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO & MD),  is eligible to receive under the 2015 Plan, an annual grant  of RSUs of fair value US $2  million which will vest over  time, subject to continued service, and an annual grant of  performance-based equity and stock options of US $5 million  subject to the achievement of performance targets set  by the Board or its committee, which will vest over time.
US $2 million of fair value in RSUs for fiscal 2017 was granted  on August 1, 2016 amounting to 1,20,700 RSUs in equity  shares represented by ADSs.
The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination  and remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017,  performance-based equity and stock options for fiscal  2017 comprising RSUs amounting to US $1.9 million and  ESOPs amounting to US $0.96 million.
Further, the Board  also approved the annual time-based vesting grant for fiscal  2018 amounting to RSUs of US $2 million.
These RSUs  and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
Though  the performance-based RSUs and stock options for fiscal  2017 and time-based RSUs for the remaining employment  term have not been granted as of March  31, 2017, in  accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-Based Payment, the  Company has recorded employee stock-based compensation  expense.
The Company has recorded employee stock-based  compensation expense of ` 28 crore and ` 7 crore during the  year ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 respectively ,  towards CEO compensation.
The nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting  held on October 14, 2016, recommended a grant of 27,250  RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs to U.
B. Pravin Rao, Chief Operating  Officer (COO), under the 2015 Plan and the same was  approved by the shareholders through a postal ballot on  March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
These RSUs and stock options would vest over  a period of four years and shall be exercisable within the  period as approved by the committee.
The exercise price of  the RSUs will be equal to the par value of the shares and the  exercise price of the stock options would be the market price  as on the date of grant, as approved by the shareholders.
200 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Though these RSUs and ESOPs have not been granted as of  March 31, 2017, in accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-Based  Payment, the Company has recorded employee stock-based  compensation expense for the same during the year ended  March 31, 2017.
2011 RSU Plan (‘the 2011 Plan’, now called ‘the 2015 Plan’) :  The Company had a 2011 RSU Plan which provided for the  grant of RSUs to eligible employees of the Company .
The  Board recommended the establishment of the 2011 Plan to  the shareholders on August 30, 2011 and the shareholders  approved the recommendation of the Board on October 17,  2011 through a postal ballot.
The maximum aggregate  number of shares that may be awarded under the plan was  1,13,34,400 as on date of approval of the plan adjusted for  bonus shares and the plan was expected to continue in effect  for a term of 10 years from the date of initial grant under the  plan.
Awards have been granted to Dr. Vishal Sikka under  the 2011 RSU Plan as detailed below.
Further, the Company  has earmarked 1,00,000 equity shares for welfare activities  of the employees, approved by the shareholders vide a postal  ballot which ended on March 31, 2016.
The equity shares  as of March 31, 2016 held under this plan, i.e.
1,12,23,576  equity shares (this includes the aggregate number of equity  shares that may be awarded under the 2011 Plan as reduced  by 10,824 equity shares already exercised by Dr. Vishal Sikka  and 1,00,000 equity shares which have been earmarked for  welfare activities of the employees) have been subsumed  under the 2015 Plan.
During the year ended March  31, 2015, the Company  made a grant of 1,08,268 RSUs (adjusted for bonus issues)  to Dr. Vishal Sikka, Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director.
The Board, in its meeting held on June 22, 2015,  on the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration  committee, further granted 1,24,061 RSUs to Dr.  Vishal  Sikka.
These RSUs are vesting over a period of four years from  the date of the grant in the proportions specified in the award  agreement.
The RSUs will vest subject to the achievement of  certain key performance indicators as set forth in the award  agreement for each applicable year of the vesting tranche and  continued employment through each vesting date.
The award granted to Dr. Vishal Sikka on June 22, 2015 was  modified by the nomination and remuneration committee on  April 14, 2016.
There is no modification or change in the total  number of RSUs granted or the vesting period (which is four  years).
The modifications relate to the criteria of vesting for  each of the years.
Based on the modification, the first tranche  of the RSUs will vest subject to the achievement of certain key  performance indicators for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Subsequent vesting of RSUs for each of the remaining years  would be subject to continued employment.
The activity in the 2015 Plan (formerly the 2011 RSU Plan)  for equity-settled share-based payment transactions during  the year ended March 31, 2017 is set out below : Particulars   Year ended March 31, 2017 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price (`) 2015 Plan : Indian equity  shares (RSU – IES) Outstanding at the  beginning (1)  2,21,505  5  Granted  18,78,025  5  Forfeited and expired  61,540  5  Exercised  34,062  5  Outstanding at the end  20,03,928  5  Exercisable at the end  –  –  2015 Plan : Employee  Stock Options   (ESOPs – IES) Outstanding at the  beginning  –  –  Granted  3,09,650  998  Forfeited and expired  –  –  Exercised  –  –  Outstanding at the end  3,09,650  998  Exercisable at the end  –  –  (1) Adjusted for bonus issues (Refer to Note 2.13 above) Particulars   Year ended March 31, 2017 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price ($) 2015 Plan : American  Depository Shares   (RSU – ADS) Outstanding at the  beginning  –  –  Granted  9,96,665  0.07  Forfeited and expired  39,220  0.07  Exercised  –  –  Outstanding at the end  9,57,445  0.07  Exercisable at the end  –  –  2015 Plan : Employee  Stock Options   (ESOPs – ADS) Outstanding at the  beginning  –  –  Granted  8,96,200  15.26  Forfeited and expired  8,200  15.26  Exercised  –  –  Outstanding at the end  8,88,000  15.26  Exercisable at the end  –  –  Consolidated financial statements | 201  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 The activity in the 2015 Plan (formerly the 2011 RSU Plan)  for equity-settled, share-based payment transactions during  the year ended March 31, 2016 was as follows : Particulars Year ended March 31, 2016 Shares arising  out of options Weighted  average exercise  price (`) 2015 Plan : Indian equity  shares (IES) Outstanding at the  beginning (1)  1,08,268  5  Granted  1,24,061  5  Forfeited and expired  –  –  Exercised (1)  10,824  5  Outstanding at the end  2,21,505  5  Exercisable at the end  –  –  (1) Adjusted for bonus issues (Refer to Note 2.13 above) During the years ended March  31, 2017 and March  31,  2016, the weighted average share prices of options exercised  under the 2015 Plan on the date of exercise were ` 1,084 and  ` 1,088 respectively .
The following table summarizes information about  equity-settled RSUs and ESOPs outstanding as of March 31,  2017 : Range of exercise  prices per share  (`) Options outstanding No.
of shares  arising out  of options Weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life Weighted  average  exercise  price (`) 2015 Plan : ADS  and IES 0-5 (RSU)  29,61,373  1.88  5.00  900-1,100  (ESOP)  11,97,650  7.09  1,026.50    41,59,023  3.38  299.16  The weighted average remaining contractual life of RSUs  outstanding as of March 31, 2016 under the 2015 Plan was  1.98 years.
The fair value of each equity-settled RSU is estimated on the  date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton model, with the  following assumptions : Particulars For options granted in Fiscal  2017 –  Equity  shares –  RSU Fiscal  2017 –   ADS –  RSU Fiscal  2016 –  Equity  shares –  RSU Fiscal  2015 –  Equity  shares –  RSU Grant date 01-Aug- 16 01-Aug- 16 22-Jun- 15 21-Aug- 14 Weighted average  share price (`) /  ($ – ADS) (1) 1,085 16.57 1,024 3,549 Exercise price  (`) / ($ – ADS) (1) 5.00 0.07 5.00 5.00 Expected  volatility (%)25-29 26-30 28-36 30-37 Particulars For options granted in Fiscal  2017 –  Equity  shares –  RSU Fiscal  2017 –   ADS –  RSU Fiscal  2016 –  Equity  shares –  RSU Fiscal  2015 –  Equity  shares –  RSU Expected life of  the option (years)1-4 1-4 1-4 1-4 Expected  dividends (%)2.37 2.29 2.43 1.84 Risk-free interest  rate (%)6-7 0.5-1 7-8 8-9 Weighted average  fair value as on  grant date (`) /   ($ – ADS) (1)  1,019 15.59 948 3,355 (1) Data for fiscal 2015 is not adjusted for bonus issues Particulars   For options granted in fiscal 2017 Equity shares ADSs RSU ESOP RSU  ESOP Grant date 01-Nov- 16 01-Nov- 16 01-Nov- 16 01-Nov- 16 Weighted average  share price (`) /  ($ – ADS) 989 989 15.26 15.26 Exercise price  (`) / ($ – ADS) 5.00 998 0.07 15.26 Expected  volatility (%)24-29 27-29 26-29 27-31 Expected life of  the option (years)1-4 3-7 1-4 3-7 Expected  dividends (%)2.37 2.37 2.29 2.29 Risk-free interest  rate (%)6-7 6-7 1-2 1-2 Weighted average  fair value as on  grant date (`) /   ($ – ADS)  929  285 14.35  3.46  The expected term of the RSU / ESOP is estimated based on  the vesting term and contractual term of the RSU / ESOP ,  as well as expected exercise behavior of the employee who  receives the RSU / ESOP .
Expected volatility during the  expected term of the RSU / ESOP is based on historical  volatility of the observed market prices of the Company’s  publicly traded equity shares during a period equivalent to  the expected term of the RSU / ESOP .
During the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  the Company recorded an employee stock compensation  expense of ` 117  crore and ` 7  crore, respectively in the  Statement of Profit and Loss, which includes cash-settled  stock compensation expense of ` 3 crore and nil, respectively .
202 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.14 Other financial liabilities in ` crore Particulars   As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Non-current Others Accrued compensation  to employees (1)  30  33  –  Payable for acquisition  of business   (Refer to Note 2.3) (2) Contingent  consideration  40  36  –   70  69  –  Current Unpaid dividends (1)  17  5  3  Others Accrued compensation  to employees (1)  1,881  2,265  2,106  Accrued expenses (1)  2,585  2,189  1,984  Retention monies (1)  220  80  53  Payable for acquisition  of business Deferred  consideration   (Refer to Note 2.3) (1)  –  –  487  Contingent  consideration   (Refer to Note 2.3) (2)  45  81  –  Client deposits (1)  32  28  27  Payable by controlled  trusts (1)  145  167  177  Compensated absences  1,359  1,341  1,069  Foreign currency  forward and options  contracts (2)  2  5  3  Capital creditors (1)  48  81  43  Other payables (1)  15  60  31   6,349  6,302  5,983  Total financial liabilities  6,419  6,371  5,983  (1) Financial liability carried at  amortized cost 4,973  4,908  4,911  (2) Financial liability carried at  fair value through profit and  loss 87  122  3  Contingent consideration  on undiscounted basis 91  132  –  Accrued expenses primarily relate to cost of technical  sub-contractors, telecommunication charges, legal and  professional charges, brand building expenses, overseas travel  expenses and office maintenance.
2.15 Other liabilities in ` crore Particulars   As at March 31, April 1,  20152017  2016 Non-current Others Deferred income –  government grant on  land use rights  41  46  47  Deferred income  42  –  –   83  46  47  Current Unearned revenue  1,777  1,332  1,052  Other Withholding taxes and  others  1,226  1,296  904  Accrued gratuity   (Refer to Note 2.22.1)  1  –  7  Deferred rent  2  –  –  Deferred income –  government grant on  land use rights  1  1  1   3,007  2,629  1,964  3,090 2,675 2,011 2.16 Provisions in ` crore Particulars   As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Current Others Post-sales client  support and warranties  and others 405  512  478  Total  405  512  478  Provision for post-sales client support and warranties  and others in ` crore Particulars   Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  512  Provision recognized / (reversed)  94  Provision utilized  (195) Exchange difference  (6) Balance at the end  405  Provision for post-sales client support and warranties and  other provisions are expected to be utilized over a period of  six months to one year.
2.17 Income taxes Income tax expense in the consolidated Statement of Profit  and Loss comprises : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Current taxes  5,653  5,318  Deferred taxes  (55)  (67) Income tax expense  5,598  5,251  Consolidated financial statements | 203  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Income tax expense for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016 includes reversals (net of provisions)  of ` 152 crore and ` 309 crore, respectively , pertaining to  prior periods.
The entire deferred income tax for the years ended March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016 relates to origination and reversal  of temporary differences.
During the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  a current tax credit of ` 10 crore and ` 2 crore respectively have  been recorded in other comprehensive income pertaining to  remeasurement of defined benefit plan asset.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, a deferred tax liability  of ` 13 crore has been recorded in other comprehensive  income pertaining to unrealized gains on derivatives  designated as cash flow hedges.
A reconciliation of the income tax provision to the amount  computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the  income before income taxes is summarized below : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Profit before income taxes 19,951 18,740 Enacted tax rates in India (%) 34.61 34.61 Computed expected tax expense  6,905  6,486  Tax effect due to non-taxable  income for Indian tax purposes (1,982)  (1,758) Overseas taxes  750  715  Tax provision (reversals), overseas  and domestic  (152)  (309) Effect of exempt non-operating  income  (65)  (83) Effect of unrecognized deferred tax  assets  93  62  Effect of differential overseas tax  rates  64  3  Effect of non-deductible expenses  26  194  Additional deduction on research  and development expense(56) (60) Others  15  1  Income tax expense  5,598  5,251  The applicable Indian statutory tax rates for fiscals 2017 and  2016, is 34.61%.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has claimed  weighted tax deduction on eligible research and development  expenditure based on the approval received from Department  of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), which is valid  up to March 31, 2017.
The weighted tax deduction is equal  to 200% of such expenditure incurred.
An application has  been filed for a renewal of the R&D recognition with DSIR.
During year ended March 31, 2016, Infosys had claimed  weighted tax deduction on eligible research and development  till July  31, 2015 based on the approval received from  DSIR on November 23, 2011 which was renewed effective  April 2014.
With effect from August 1, 2015, the business  of Finacle, including the R&D activities, was transferred to  its wholly-owned subsidiary , EdgeVerve Systems Limited.
However, the approval for EdgeVerve was effective April 2016.
The foreign expense is due to income taxes payable overseas  principally in the United States.
In India, the Company has  benefited from certain tax incentives that the Government  of India had provided for export of software from the units  registered under the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) Act,  2005.
SEZ units which began the provision of services on  or after April 1, 2005 are eligible for a deduction of 100%  of profits or gains derived from the export of services for  the first five years from the financial year in which the unit  commenced the provision of services and 50% of such profits  or gains for further five years.
Up to 50% of such profits  or gains is also available for a further five years subject to  creation of a Special Economic Zone Re-investment Reserve  out of the profit of the eligible SEZ units and utilization of  such reserve by the Company for acquiring new plant and  machinery for the purpose of its business as per the provisions  of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Infosys is subject to a 15% Branch Profit Tax (BPT) in the  U.S. to the extent its U.S. branch’s net profit during the year  is greater than the increase in the net assets of the U.S. branch  during the year, computed in accordance with the Internal  Revenue Code.
As of March 31, 2017, Infosys’ U.S. branch  net assets amounted to approximately ` 5,995 crore.
As of  March 31, 2017, the Company has provided for branch profit  tax of ` 327 crore for its U.S. branch, as the Company estimates  that these branch profits are expected to be distributed in the  foreseeable future.
The change in provision for branch profit  tax includes ` 7 crore movement on account of exchange rate  during the year ended March 31, 2017.
Deferred income tax liabilities have not been recognized  on temporary differences amounting to ` 5,309 crore and  ` 4,195 crore as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016,  respectively , associated with investments in subsidiaries and  branches as it is probable that the temporary differences will  not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The details of income tax assets and income tax liabilities as  of March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2015 are  as follows : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Income tax assets  5,716  5,230  4,089  Current income tax  liabilities  3,885  3,410  2,818  Net current income tax  asset / (liability) at the  end 1,831  1,820  1,271  The gross movement in the current income tax asset / (liability)  for the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 was  as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net current income tax asset /  (liability) at the beginning 1,820  1,271  Translation differences  –  –  Income tax paid  5,653 5,865 Current income tax expense   (Refer to Note 2.17)  (5,653)  (5,318) 204 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Income tax benefit arising on  exercise of stock options  1  –  Income tax on other  comprehensive income 10 2 Net current income tax asset /  (liability) at the end 1,831  1,820  The tax effects of significant temporary differences that  resulted in deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as  follows : in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017  2016 Deferred income tax  assets Property , plant and  equipment  138 178 241 Computer software 40 50 51 Accrued compensation to  employees57 68 48 Trade receivables 136 89 111 Compensated absences 374 389 299 Post-sales client support 97  77  74  Intangibles 22  4  –  Others 143 55 31 Total deferred income tax  assets 1,007 910 855 Deferred income tax  liabilities Intangible asset (206) (252) (159) Temporary difference  related to branch profits (327) (334) (316) Others (141) (40) (3) Total deferred income tax  liabilities(674) (626) (478) Deferred income tax  assets after set-off 540  536  536  Deferred income tax  liabilities after set-off(207) (252) (159) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset  wherever the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off  current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where the  deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income  taxes levied by the same taxation authority .
The deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax  liabilities recoverable within and after 12 months are as  follows : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31,  2017 2016 Deferred income tax assets to be  recovered after 12 months 529  409  Deferred income tax assets to be  recovered within 12 months 478  501  Total deferred income tax assets  1,007 910 Deferred income tax liabilities to be  settled after 12 months (312) (446) Particulars As of March 31,  2017 2016 Deferred income tax liabilities to be  settled within 12 months  (362) (180) Total deferred income tax liabilities  (674) (626) In assessing the reliability of deferred income tax assets, the  Management considers whether some portion or all of the  deferred income tax assets will not be realized.
The ultimate  realization of deferred income tax assets is dependent upon  the generation of future taxable income during the periods  in which the temporary differences become deductible.
The  Management considers the scheduled reversals of deferred  income tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and  tax planning strategies in making this assessment.
Based on  the level of historical taxable income and projections for  future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred  income tax assets are deductible, the Management believes  that the Group will realize the benefits of those deductible  differences.
The amount of the deferred income tax assets  considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near  term if estimates of future taxable income during the carry  forward period are reduced.
The gross movement in the deferred income tax account for  the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, was  as follows :  in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net deferred income tax asset at  the beginning284  377  Addition through business  combination (Refer to Note 2.3) – (128) Translation differences 7 (32) Credits / (charge) relating to  temporary differences   (Refer to Note 2.17 above)  55  67  Temporary differences on other  comprehensive income(13)  –  Net deferred income tax asset at  the end  333 284 The charge relating to temporary differences during the year  ended March 31, 2017 are primarily on account of property ,  plant and equipment, and compensated absences, partially  offset by trade receivables and post-sales client support.
The  credits relating to temporary differences during the year  ended March 31, 2016 are primarily on account of accrued  compensation to employees and compensated absences,  partially offset by reversal of credits pertaining to property ,  plant and equipment and trade receivables.
2.18 Revenue from operations in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016  Revenue from software services  66,383  60,528  Revenue from software products  2,101  1,913    68,484  62,441  Consolidated financial statements | 205  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.19 Other income in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016  Interest received on financial assets  carried at amortized cost Bonds and government bonds  128  113  Deposits with banks and others  2,233  2,521  Interest received on financial assets  carried at fair value through other  comprehensive income Non-convertible debentures  190  –  Income received on investment  carried at fair value through profit  or loss  Dividend received on liquid  mutual fund units  29  64  Gains / (losses) on liquid mutual  fund units  119  –  Exchange gains / (losses) on  foreign currency forward and  options contracts 591  29  Exchange gains / (losses) on  translation of other assets and  liabilities (359)  140  Others  149  256   3,080  3,123  2.20 Expenses in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016  Employee benefit expenses Salaries including bonus  36,557  33,549  Contribution to provident and  other funds  770  648  Share-based payments to  employees (Refer to Note 2.13)  117  7  Staff welfare  215  202   37,659  34,406  Cost of software packages and  others For own use  795  740  Third-party items bought for  service delivery to clients  802  534   1,597  1,274  Other expenses Repairs and maintenance  1,242  1,014  Power and fuel  228  217  Brand and marketing  342  198  Operating lease payments  491  360  Rates and taxes  148  109  Consumables  40  41  Insurance  56  60  Provision for post-sales client  support and warranties  80  8  Commission to non-whole-time  directors  10  9  Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016  Impairment loss recognized /  (reversed) on financial assets  140  (46) Auditor’s remuneration Statutory audit fees  7  7  Taxation matters  –  –  Other services  –  –  Reimbursement of expenses  –  –  Contributions towards corporate  social responsibility  230  216  Others  230  318    3,244  2,511  2.21  Leases The lease rentals charged during the period are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016  Lease rentals 491 360  The obligations on long-term, non-cancellable operating  leases payable as per the rentals stated in the respective  agreements are as follows : in ` crore Future minimum lease  payable As at March 31, April 1,  2015 2017 2016 Not later than 1 year  461  372  168  Later than 1 year and not  later than 5 years 1,237  873  395  Later than 5 years  740  442  168  The operating lease arrangements are renewable on a periodic  basis and for most of the leases extend up to a maximum of  10 years from their respective dates of inception and relates  to rented premises.
Some of these lease agreements have price  escalation clauses.
2.22  Employee benefits 2.22.1  Gratuity The funded status of the Gratuity Plan and the amounts  recognized in the Group’s financial statements as of March 31,  2017 and March 31, 2016 are as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change in benefit obligations     Benefit obligations at the beginning  944 816  Service cost  129 118  Interest expense  69 61  Addition through business  combination  –  1  Remeasurements – Actuarial  (gains) / losses  67 23  Curtailment gain (3)  –  Benefits paid (89) (75) Benefit obligations at the end  1,117 944  206 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars As of March 31, 2017 2016 Change in plan assets  Fair value of plan assets at the  beginning  947 836  Interest income  79 66  Remeasurements – Return on plan  assets excluding amounts included  in interest income12 9  Contributions  246 111  Benefits paid (89) (75) Fair value of plan assets at the end  1,195 947  Funded status 78 3  Prepaid gratuity benefit  79 4  Accrued gratuity (1) (1) The amounts for the years ended March  31, 2017 and  March 31, 2016, recognized in the Statement of Profit and  Loss under employee benefit expense, are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Service cost  129  118  Net interest on the net defined  benefit liability / asset  (10)  (5) Curtailment gain  (3)  –  Net gratuity cost  116  113  The amounts for the years ended March  31, 2017 and  March  31, 2016, recognized in the statement of other  comprehensive income, are as follows : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Remeasurements of the net defined  benefit liability / (asset)   Actuarial (gains) / losses  67  23  (Return) / loss on plan assets  excluding amounts included in  the net interest on the net defined  benefit liability / (asset) (12) (9)   55 14  in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 (Gain) / loss from change in  demographic assumptions –  –  (Gain) / loss from change in  financial assumptions 56  –    56  –  The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit  obligations as of March  31, 2017, March  31, 2016 and  April 1, 2015 are as follows : in % Particulars As of March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Discount rate 6.9 7.8 7.8 Weighted average rate of  increase in compensation  levels8.0 8.0 8.0 The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net  periodic benefit cost for the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016 are as follows : Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Discount rate (%) 7.8 7.8 Weighted average rate of increase  in compensation levels (%) 8.0 8.0 Weighted average duration of  defined benefit obligation (years)6.1 6.4 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in  accordance with the published statistics by the Life Insurance  Corporation of India.
The Company assesses these assumptions with its projected  long-term plans of growth and prevalent industry standards.
The discount rate is based on the government securities yield.
As of March  31, 2017, every percentage point increase /  decrease in discount rate will affect our gratuity benefit  obligation by approximately ` 57 crore.
As of March  31, 2017, every percentage point increase /  decrease in weighted average rate of increase in compensation  levels will affect our gratuity benefit obligation by  approximately ` 49 crore.
Sensitivity to significant actuarial assumptions is computed  by varying one actuarial assumption used for the valuation  of the defined benefit obligation by one percentage, keeping  all other actuarial assumptions constant.
Gratuity is applicable only to employees drawing a salary  in Indian rupees and there are no other significant foreign  defined benefit gratuity plans.
The Company contributes all ascertained liabilities towards  gratuity to the Infosys Limited Employees’ Gratuity Fund  Trust.
In case of Infosys BPO and EdgeVerve, contributions  are made to the Infosys BPO Employees’ Gratuity Fund Trust  and EdgeVerve Systems Limited Employees Gratuity Fund  Trust, respectively .
Trustees administer contributions made to  the trust.
As of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, the plan  assets have been primarily invested in insurer-managed funds.
Actual return on assets for the years ended March  31,  2017 and March 31, 2016 were ` 91 crore and ` 75 crore,  respectively .
The Group expects to contribute ` 100 crore to the gratuity  trusts during fiscal 2018.
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation : in ` crore Within 1 year 159 1-2 year 165 2-3 year 171 3-4 year 186 4-5 year 198 5-10 years 958 Consolidated financial statements | 207  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.22.2  Superannuation The Company contributed ` 168 crore and ` 234 crore to the  superannuation plan during the years ended March 31, 2017  and March 31, 2016, respectively and the same has been  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head  employee benefit expense.
2.22.3  Provident fund Infosys has an obligation to fund any shortfall on the yield  of the trust’s investments over the administered interest rates  on an annual basis.
These administered rates are determined  annually predominantly considering the social rather than  economic factors and in most cases the actual return earned  by the Company has been higher in the past years.
The  actuary has provided a valuation for provident fund liabilities  on the basis of guidance issued by the Actuarial Society of  India and based on the assumptions provided below, there  is no shortfall as at March 31, 2017, March 31, 2016 and  April 1, 2015, respectively .
The details of fund and plan asset position are as follows : in ` crore Particulars As of March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Plan assets at period end,  at fair value  4,459  3,808  2,912  Present value of benefit  obligation at period end 4,459  3,808  2,912  Asset recognized in  Balance Sheet  –  –  –  The plan assets have been primarily invested in government  securities.
Assumptions used in determining the present value obligation  of the interest rate guarantee under the Deterministic  Approach : Particulars As of March 31, April 1,  2015 2017 2016 Government of India (GOI)  bond yield (%)6.90 7.80 7.80 Remaining term to maturity  of portfolio (years) 6 7 7 Expected guaranteed interest  rate (%) First year 8.60 8.75 8.75 Thereafter 8.60 8.60 8.60 The Group contributed ` 462 crore and ` 413 crore to the  provident fund during the years ended March  31, 2017  and March 31, 2016, respectively and the same has been  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head  employee benefit expense.
The provident fund plans are applicable only to employees  drawing a salary in Indian rupees and there are no other  significant foreign-defined benefit plans.
Employee benefit costs include :  in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Salaries and bonus (1)  36,913 33,646 Defined contribution plans  252 302 Defined benefit plans  494 458   37,659 34,406 (1) Includes stock compensation expense of ` 117 crore and ` 7 crore for  the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively .
Refer  to Note 2.13.
2.23   Reconciliation of basic and diluted shares  used in computing earnings per share Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Basic earnings per equity  share – weighted average  number of equity shares  outstanding (1) 2,28,56,39,447 2,28,56,16,160 Effect of dilutive  common equivalent  shares – share options  outstanding 7,57,298  1,02,734  Diluted earnings per  equity share – weighted  average number of  equity shares and  common equivalent  shares outstanding 2,28,63,96,745 2,28,57,18,894 (1) Excludes treasury shares For the year ended March 31, 2017, 1,12,190 options to  purchase equity shares had an anti-dilutive effect.
For the year  ended March 31, 2016, no outstanding option to purchase  equity shares had an anti-dilutive effect.
2.24    Contingent liabilities and commitments  (to the extent not provided for) in ` crore Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Contingent liabilities Claims against  the Company , not  acknowledged as debts (2) [Net of amount paid  to statutory authorities  ` 4,717 crore   (` 4,409 crore)] 1,997  284  264  208 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.25  Related party transactions in % Name of subsidiaries Country Holdings as at March 31, 2017 2016 Infosys BPO Limited (Infosys BPO) India 99.98 99.98 Infosys Technologies (China) Co. Limited (Infosys China) China 100 100 Infosys Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V .
(Infosys Mexico) Mexico 100 100 Infosys Technologies (Sweden) AB (Infosys Sweden) Sweden 100 100 Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited (Infosys Shanghai) China 100 100 Infosys Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda.
(Infosys Brasil) Brazil 100 100 Infosys Public Services, Inc. USA (Infosys Public Services) U.S. 100 100 Infosys Americas Inc., (Infosys Americas) U.S. 100 100 Infosys (Czech Republic) Limited s.r.o.
(formerly Infosys BPO s. r .
o) (1) Czech Republic 99.98 99.98 Infosys Poland, Sp z.o.o (formerly Infosys BPO Poland, Sp z.o.o) (1) Poland 99.98 99.98 Infosys BPO S.de.R.L.de.C.V .
(1)(13) Mexico  –  –  Infosys McCamish Systems LLC (1) U.S. 99.98 99.98 Portland Group Pty .
Ltd (1) Australia 99.98 99.98 Infosys BPO Americas LLC.
(1)(12) U.S. 99.98  –  Infosys Technologies (Australia) Pty .
Limited (Infosys Australia) (2) Australia 100 100 EdgeVerve Systems Limited (EdgeVerve) India 100 100 Infosys Consulting Holding AG (Infosys Lodestone) (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) Switzerland 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Inc. (3) U.S. 100 100 Infosys Management Consulting Pty Limited (formerly Lodestone Management  Consultants Pty Limited)  (3) Australia 100 100 Infosys Consulting AG (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants AG)  (3) Switzerland 100 100 Lodestone Augmentis AG (5)(14) Switzerland  – 100 Lodestone GmbH (formerly Hafner Bauer & Ödman GmbH)  (3)(16) Switzerland  – 100 Infosys Consulting (Belgium) NV (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants  (Belgium) S.A.)  (4) Belgium 99.90 99.90 Infosys Consulting GmbH (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH)  (3) Germany 100 100 Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd. (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Pte Ltd.)  (17) Singapore 100 100 Infosys Consulting SAS (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants SAS)  (3) France 100 100 Infosys Consulting s.r.o.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants s.r .o.)
(3) Czech Republic 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants GmbH (3) Austria 100 100 Particulars As at March 31, April 1,  20152017 2016 Commitments Estimated amount of  contracts remaining to  be executed on capital  contracts and not  provided for (net of  advances and deposits) 1,149  1,486  1,574  Other commitments (1)  114  79  –  (1) Uncalled capital pertaining to investments (2) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts as on March 31,  2017 include demand from the Indian income tax authorities for the  payment of tax of ` 6,122 crore (` 4,135 crore), including interest of  ` 1,885 crore (` 1,224 crore) upon completion of their tax assessment for  fiscals 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Demands were  paid to statutory tax authorities in full except for fiscals 2009, 2011,  2012 and 2013.
Demand for fiscals 2007, 2008 and 2009 includes disallowance of a  portion of the deduction claimed by the Company under Section 10A  of the Income-tax Act as determined by the ratio of export turnover to  total turnover.
The disallowance arose from certain expenses incurred in  foreign currency being reduced from export turnover but not reduced  from total turnover.
Demand for fiscals 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and  2011 also includes disallowance of portion of profit earned outside  India from the STP units under Section 10A of the Income-tax Act  and disallowance of profits earned from SEZ units under Section 10AA  of the Income-tax Act.
Demand for fiscals 2012 and 2013 includes  disallowance of certain expenses incurred in foreign currency being  reduced from export turnover but not reduced from total turnover  and disallowance of profits earned from SEZ units which commenced  operations before April 1, 2009 under Section 10AA of the Income-tax  Act and also others.
The matters for fiscals 2007, 2008, 2009 and  2013 are pending before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals),  Bengaluru.
The matter for fiscals 2010, 2011 and 2012 is pending before  the Hon’ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), Bengaluru.
The Company is contesting the demand and the Management,  including its tax advisors, believes that its position will likely be upheld  in the appellate process.
The Management believes that the ultimate  outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on  the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims, which have  arisen in the ordinary course of business.
The Company’s management  does not reasonably expect that these legal actions, when ultimately  concluded and determined, will have a material and adverse effect on  the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.
Consolidated financial statements | 209  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Name of subsidiaries Country Holdings as at March 31, 2017 2016 Lodestone Management Consultants Co., Ltd. (3) China 100 100 Infy Consulting Company Ltd. (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Ltd.)  (3) U.K. 100 100 Infy Consulting B.V .
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants B.V .)
(3) The Netherlands 100 100 Infosys Consulting Ltda.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Ltda.)
(4) Brazil 99.99 99.99 Infosys Consulting Sp.
z.o.o (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants Sp.
z o.o.)
(3) Poland 100 100 Lodestone Management Consultants Portugal, Unipessoal, Lda (3) Portugal 100 100 S.C. Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(formerly S.C. Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
(3) Romania 100 100 Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
(formerly Lodestone Management Consultants S.R.L.)
(3) Argentina 100 100 Infosys Canada Public Services Ltd. (6) Canada – – Infosys Nova Holdings LLC.
(Infosys Nova) U.S. 100 100 Panaya Inc. (Panaya) U.S. 100 100 Panaya Ltd. (7) Israel 100 100 Panaya GmbH (7) Germany 100 100 Panaya Pty Ltd. (7)(15) Australia – – Panaya Japan Co. Ltd. (7) Japan 100 100 Skava Systems Pvt.
Ltd. (Skava Systems) (8) India 100 100 Kallidus Inc. (Kallidus) (9) U.S. 100 100 Noah Consulting LLC (Noah) (10) U.S. 100 100 Noah Information Management Consulting Inc. (Noah Canada) (11) Canada 100 100 (1) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys BPO (2) Under liquidation (3) Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) (4) Majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries of Infosys Consulting Holding AG (formerly Lodestone Holding AG) (5) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Consulting AG (formerly Lodestone Management Consultants AG) (6) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Public Services, Inc.  (7) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Panaya Inc. (8) On June 2, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting interest in Skava Systems.
(9) On June 2, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the voting interest in Kallidus Inc. (10) On November 16, 2015, Infosys acquired 100% of the membership interests in Noah.
(11) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Noah (12) Incorporated effective November 20, 2015 (13) Liquidated effective March 15, 2016 (14) Liquidated effective October 5, 2016 (15) Liquidated effective November 16, 2016 (16) Liquidated effective December 21, 2016  (17) Wholly-owned subsidiary of Infosys Infosys has provided guarantee for the performance of certain  contracts entered into by its subsidiaries.
in % Name of  associate Country Holdings as at March 31, 2017 2016 DWA Nova  LLC (1) U.S. 16 16 (1) Associate of Infosys Nova Holding LLC Share in net loss of associate and others for the year ended  March 31, 2017 includes an impairment loss of ` 18 crore on  investment in DWA Nova LLC.
List of other related parties Particulars Country Nature of  relationship  Infosys Limited Employees’  Gratuity Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys Particulars Country Nature of  relationship  Infosys Limited Employees’  Provident Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys Infosys Limited Employees’  Superannuation Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys Infosys BPO Limited  Employees’ Superannuation  Fund Trust India  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys BPO Infosys BPO Limited  Employees’ Gratuity Fund  TrustIndia  Post-employment  benefit plan of  Infosys BPO EdgeVerve Systems Limited  Employees’ Gratuity Fund  TrustIndia  Post-employment  benefit plan of  EdgeVerve EdgeVerve Systems Limited  Employees’ Superannuation  Fund TrustIndia  Post-employment  benefit plan of  EdgeVerve 210 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Particulars Country Nature of  relationship  Infosys Limited Employees’  Welfare Trust India Controlled trust Infosys Employee Benefits  TrustIndia Controlled trust Infosys Science Foundation India Controlled trust Refer to Note 2.22 for information on transactions with post-employment  benefit plans mentioned above.
List of key managerial personnel Whole-time directors • U.
B. Pravin Rao • Dr. Vishal Sikka  Non-whole-time directors • K. V .
Kamath (resigned effective June 5, 2015) • Prof. Jeffrey S. Lehman • R. Seshasayee • Ravi Venkatesan  • Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw • Carol M. Browner (resigned effective November 23, 2015) • Prof. John W .
Etchemendy  • Roopa Kudva  • Dr. Punita Kumar-Sinha  (appointed effective January 14, 2016) • D. N. Prahlad (appointed effective October 14, 2016) Executive officers M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer (effective October 12, 2015) David D. Kennedy General Counsel and Chief  Compliance Officer  (till December 31, 2016) Rajiv Bansal Chief Financial Officer (till October 12, 2015) Mohit Joshi President (effective October 13, 2016) Rajesh K. Murthy President (effective October 13, 2016) Ravi Kumar S. President and Deputy Chief  Operating Officer (effective October 13, 2016) Sandeep Dadlani President (effective October 13, 2016) Krishnamurthy Shankar Group Head – Human Resources (effective October 13, 2016) Gopi Krishnan Radhakrishnan Acting General Counsel (effective January 1, 2017) Company Secretary A. G. S. Manikantha (appointed effective June 22, 2015) Related party transactions Transactions with key managerial personnel The table below describes the compensation to key managerial  personnel comprising directors and executive officers under  Ind AS 24 : in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Salaries and other employee  benefits to whole-time directors  and executive officers (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)  84 101 Commission and other benefits  to non-executive / independent  directors  11 10 Total  95 111 (1) Includes stock compensation expense of ` 36 crore and ` 7 crore for the  years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively , towards  key managerial personnel (Refer to Note 2.13).
(2) Year ended March 31, 2017 includes ` 6 crore payable under severance  agreement to David D. Kennedy , who stepped down as General Counsel  and Chief Compliance Officer w.e.f.
December 31, 2016.
(3) Year ended March  31, 2016 includes ` 17.38  crore payable under  severance agreement to Rajiv Bansal who stepped down as Chief  Financial Officer w.e.f.
October 12, 2015.
(4) The Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and  remuneration committee, approved on April 13, 2017, US $ 0.82 million  as variable pay to the CEO for the year ended March 31, 2017.
The  shareholders vide a postal ballot had approved a variable pay of  US $ 3 million at target.
Pursuant to the approval from the shareholders through a postal ballot  on March 31, 2016, Dr. Vishal Sikka is eligible to receive, under the  2015 Plan, an annual grant of RSUs of fair value US $2 million which  will vest over time, subject to continued service and an annual grant  of performance-based equity and stock options of US $5  million  subject to the achievement of performance targets set by the Board  or its committee, which will vest over time.
The Board, based on the  recommendations of the nomination and remuneration committee,  approved on April  13, 2017, performance-based equity and stock  options for fiscal 2017 comprising RSUs amounting to US $1.9 million  and ESOPs amounting to US $0.96 million.
Further, the Board also  approved the annual time-based vesting grant for fiscal 2018 amounting  to RSUs of US $2 million.
These RSUs and ESOPs will be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
The year ended March 31, 2016 includes provision for variable pay  amounting to US $4.33 million (approximately  ` 29 crore) to the CEO.
The shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting dated July 30,  2014 had approved a variable pay of US $4.18 million (approximately  ` 28 crore at current exchange rate) at a target level and also authorized  the Board to alter and vary the terms of remuneration.
Accordingly ,  the Board, based on the recommendations of the nomination and  remuneration committee, approved on April 15, 2016, US $4.33 million  (approximately ` 29 crore) as variable pay for the year ended March 31,  2016.
(5) On March 31, 2017, the shareholders vide a postal ballot approved  a revision in the salary of U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO and Whole-time  Director, w.e.f.
November 1, 2016.
Further, the nomination and remuneration committee in its meeting,  held on October 14, 2016 recommended a grant of 27,250 RSUs and  43,000 ESOPs to U.
B. Pravin Rao, COO and Whole-time Director,  under the 2015 Plan and the same was approved by the shareholders  through a postal ballot on March 31, 2017.
These RSUs and ESOPs will  be granted w.e.f.
May 2, 2017.
Consolidated financial statements | 211  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Additional information pursuant to para 2 of general instructions for the preparation of consolidated financial statements in ` crore Name of entity Net assets Share in profit or loss Share in other comprehensive  income Share in total comprehensive  income as % of  consolidated net  assets Amount as % of  consolidated  profit or loss Amount as % of  consolidated other  comprehensive  income Amount as % of  consolidated total  comprehensive  income Amount Infosys Ltd. 93.5  68,017 95.7  13,818 85.7  (18) 95.7  13,800  Indian subsidiaries Infosys BPO 5.5  3,995 3.8  552 19.0  (4) 3.8  548  EdgeVerve (2.4)  (1,715) 1.7  245 4.8 1 1.7  246  Skava Systems –  23 0.1  8 –  – 0.1  8  Foreign subsidiaries Infosys China 0.1  105 (0.4)  (58) – – (0.4)  (58) Infosys Mexico 0.2  128 0.3  41 – – 0.3  41  Infosys Sweden –  17 (0.1)  (18) –  – (0.1)  (18) Infosys Shanghai 1.1  765 (0.2)  (27) –  – (0.2)  (27) Infosys Brasil 0.1  103 –  2 –  – –  2  Infosys Public Services 0.5  387 0.9  126 –  – 0.9  126  Infosys Americas –  1 –  – –  – –  –  Infosys (Czech Republic) Limited s.r.o.
0.1  58 0.1  12 –  – 0.1  12  Infosys Poland Sp Z.o.o 0.6  439 0.7  102 –  – 0.7  102  Infosys BPO Americas –  4 –  (3) –  – –  (3) Infosys McCamish Systems LLC 0.2  127 0.5  75 –  – 0.5  75  Portland Group Pty Ltd. 0.1  106 –  6 –  – –  6  Infosys Australia –  36 – – –  – –  –  Infosys Lodestone 0.3  217 (0.6)  (81) –  – (0.6)  (81) Lodestone Management Consultants  Inc. –  28 0.1  11 –  – 0.1  11  Infosys Management Consulting Pty  Limited –  (20) –  (1) –  – –  (1) Infosys Consulting AG 0.1  64 –  5 –  – –  5  Infosys Consulting (Belgium) NV –  (22) –  (1) –  – –  (1) Infosys Consulting GmbH –  (30) (0.5)  (65) –  – (0.5)  (65) Infosys Consulting Pte Ltd. –  (2) (0.1)  (11) –  – (0.1)  (11) Infosys Consulting SAS –  (6) –  3 –  – –  3  Infosys Consulting s.r.o.
–  4 –  – –  – –  –  Lodestone Management Consultants  GmbH –  (2) –  – –  – –  –  Lodestone Management Consultants  Co., Ltd. (0.1)  (58) (0.4)  (56) –  – (0.4)  (56) 212 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Name of entity Net assets Share in profit or loss Share in other comprehensive  income Share in total comprehensive  income as % of  consolidated net  assets Amount as % of  consolidated  profit or loss Amount as % of  consolidated other  comprehensive  income Amount as % of  consolidated total  comprehensive  income Amount Infy Consulting Company Ltd. –  3 –  1 –  – –  1  Infy Consulting B.V .
–  25 0.1  12 –  – 0.1  12  Infosys Consulting Ltda.
–  (20) (0.4)  (60) –  – (0.4)  (60) Infosys Consulting Sp.
Z.o.o –  1 –  (5) –  – –  (5) Lodestone Management Consultants  Portugal, Unipessoal, Lda.
–  (3) –  (1) –  – –  (1) S.C. Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
–  6 –  1 –  – –  1  Infosys Consulting S.R.L.
–  (1) –  (3) –  – –  (3) Infosys Nova 0.1  98 –  0 –  – – – Panaya 0.1  68 –  4 –  – –  4  Panaya Ltd. (0.4)  (283) (1.1)  (161) –  – (1.1)  (161) Panaya Gmbh –  (3) –  1 –  – –  1  Panaya Japan Co. Ltd. –  (1) –  – –  – –  –  Kallidus 0.2  133 0.4  60 –  – 0.4  60  Noah –  (23) (0.6)  (90) –  – (0.6)  (90) Noah Canada –  (14) –  (2) –  – –  (2) Subtotal 100  72,755 100  14,442 100  (21) 100  14,421  Adjustment arising out of consolidation  (3,869)  (78)  (257)  (335) Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries  –  –  –  –  Associate DWA Nova LLC  (26)  (30)  –  (30) Controlled Trusts  122  19  –  19  Total  68,982  14,353  (278)  14,075  Consolidated financial statements | 213  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.26  Corporate social responsibility (CSR) As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a company ,  meeting the applicability threshold, needs to spend at least 2%  of its average net profit for the immediately preceding three  financial years on CSR activities.
The areas for CSR activities are  eradication of hunger and malnutrition, promoting education,  art and culture, healthcare, destitute care and rehabilitation,  environment sustainability , disaster relief and rural development  projects.
A CSR committee has been formed by the Company  as per the Act.
Funds were primarily allocated to a corpus and  utilized through the year on the activities specified in Schedule  VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
• Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during  the year is ` 303 crore.
• Amount spent during the year on : in ` crore Particulars In cash Yet to be  paid in cash Total Construction /  acquisition of any asset  75  –  75  On purposes other than  the above230  –  230  2.27    Dues to micro enterprises and small  enterprises As at March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, there are no  outstanding dues to micro and small enterprises.
There are  no interests due or outstanding on the same.
2.28  Disclosure on Specified Bank Notes During the year, the Company had Specified Bank Notes  (SBNs) or other denomination notes as defined in the  MCA notification, G.S.R.
308(E), dated March 31, 2017.
The details of SBNs held and transacted during the  period from November  8, 2016 to December  30, 2016,  the denomination-wise SBNs and other notes as per the  notification are as follows : in ` Particulars SBNs (1) Other  denomination  notes Total Closing cash  in hand as on  Nov 8,  2016 6,48,000  3,75,928  10,23,928  Add : Permitted  receipts  4,000  9,23,626  9,27,626  Less : Permitted  payments  (98,000)  (11,12,953)   (12,10,953) Less : Amount  deposited in Banks   (5,54,000)  (402)  (5,54,402) Closing cash in  hand as on Dec  30, 2016 –  1,86,199  1,86,199  (1) For the purposes of this clause, the term ‘Specified Bank Notes’ shall  have the same meaning provided in the notification of the Government  of India, in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs  number S.O.
3407(E), dated November 8, 2016.
2.29  Segment reporting Ind AS 108 establishes standards for the way that public  business enterprises report information about operating  segments and related disclosures about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers.
The Group’s operations  predominantly relate to providing end-to-end business  solutions to enable clients to enhance business performance.
Based on the ‘management approach’ as defined in Ind AS  108, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) evaluates  the Group’s performance and allocates resources based on an  analysis of various performance indicators by business segments  and geographic segments.
Accordingly , information has been  presented both along business segments and geographic  segments.
The accounting principles used in the preparation  of the financial statements are consistently applied to record  revenue and expenditure in individual segments, and are as set  out in the significant accounting policies.
Business segments of the Group are primarily enterprises in  Financial Services (FS), enterprises in Manufacturing (MFG),  enterprises in Retail, Consumer packaged goods and Logistics  (RCL), enterprises in the Energy & utilities, Communication  and Services (ECS), enterprises in Hi-Tech (Hi-Tech),  enterprises in Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (HILIFE)  and all other segments.
The FS reportable segments have been  aggregated to include the Financial Services operating segment  and the Finacle operating segment because of the similarity in  the economic characteristics.
All other segments represent the  operating segments of businesses in India, Japan and China,  and IPS.
Geographic segmentation is based on business sourced  from that geographic region and delivered from both onsite and  offshore locations.
North America comprises the United States  of America, Canada and Mexico, Europe includes continental  Europe (both the east and the west), Ireland and the United  Kingdom, and the Rest of the World comprises all other places  except those mentioned above and India.
Revenue and identifiable operating expenses in relation to  segments are categorized based on items that are individually  identifiable to that segment.
Revenue for ‘all other segments’  represents revenue generated by IPS and revenue generated  from customers located in India, Japan and China.
Allocated  expenses of segments include expenses incurred in rendering  services from the Group’s offshore software development  centers and onsite expenses, which are categorized in relation  to the associated turnover of the segment.
Certain expenses  such as depreciation, which form a significant component  of total expenses, are not specifically allocable to specific  segments as the underlying assets are used interchangeably .
The Management believes that it is not practical to provide  segment disclosures relating to those costs and expenses,  and accordingly , these expenses are separately disclosed  as ‘unallocated’ and adjusted against the total income of  the Group.
Assets and liabilities used in the Group’s business are not  identified to any of the reportable segments, as these are  used interchangeably between segments.
The Management  believes that it is currently not practicable to provide segment  disclosures relating to total assets and liabilities since a  meaningful segregation of the available data is onerous.
Geographical information on revenue and business segment  revenue information is collated based on individual customers  invoiced or in relation to which the revenue is otherwise  recognized.
214 | Consolidated financial statements Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Business segments For the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 : in ` crore Particulars FS (1) MFG (2) ECS (3) RCL (4) HILIFE (5) Hi-Tech All other  segments Total Revenue from operations  18,555  7,507  15,430  11,225  8,437  5,122  2,208  68,484   17,024  6,948  13,547  10,226  8,090  4,891  1,715  62,441  Identifiable operating expenses  9,271  3,922  7,430  5,378  4,178  2,659  1,406  34,244   8,199  3,684  6,196  4,878  3,841  2,391  1,035  30,224  Allocated expenses  4,075  1,737  3,569  2,598  1,951  1,186  510  15,626   3,986  1,704  3,322  2,508  1,984  1,199  421  15,124  Segmental operating income  5,209  1,848  4,431  3,249  2,308  1,277  292  18,614   4,839  1,560  4,029  2,840  2,265  1,301  259  17,093  Unallocable expenses  1,713   1,473  Other income, net  3,080   3,123  Share in net loss of associate   and others  (30)  (3) Profit before tax  19,951   18,740  Tax expense  5,598   5,251  Profit for the period  14,353   13,489  Depreciation and amortization  1,703   1,459  Non-cash expenses other than  depreciation and amortization 10          14  (1) Financial Services (4) Retail, Consumer packaged goods and Logistics (2) Manufacturing (5) Life Sciences, Healthcare and Insurance (3) Energy & utilities, Communications and Services Geographic segments For the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 : in ` crore Particulars  North America  Europe  India  Rest of the  World   Total  Revenue from operations  42,408  15,392  2,180  8,504  68,484   39,139  14,373  1,623  7,306  62,441  Identifiable operating expenses  21,618  7,694  1,002  3,930  34,244   19,283  6,966  711  3,264  30,224  Allocated expenses  9,799  3,548  442  1,837  15,626   9,591  3,510  338  1,685  15,124  Segmental operating income  10,991  4,150  736  2,737  18,614   10,265  3,897  574  2,357  17,093  Unallocable expenses  1,713   1,473  Other income, net  3,080   3,123  Share in net loss of associate and others  (30)  (3) Profit before tax  19,951   18,740  Tax expense  5,598   5,251  Profit for the period  14,353   13,489  Depreciation and amortization  1,703   1,459  Non-cash expenses other than depreciation and  amortization  10        14  Consolidated financial statements | 215  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Significant clients No client individually accounted for more than 10% of the revenues in the years ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016.
2.30 Function-wise classification of consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss in ` crore Particulars Year ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue from operations  68,484  62,441  Cost of sales  43,253  39,098  Gross profit  25,231  23,343  Operating expenses Selling and marketing expenses  3,591  3,431  General and administration expenses  4,739  4,292  Total operating expenses  8,330  7,723  Operating profit  16,901  15,620  Other income  3,080  3,123  Profit before non-controlling interests / share in net loss of associate  19,981  18,743  Share in net loss of associate and others  (30)  (3) Profit before tax  19,951  18,740  Tax expense Current tax  5,653  5,318  Deferred tax  (55)  (67) Profit for the period  14,353  13,489  Other comprehensive income  Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / asset  (45)  (12) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  (5)  –   (50)  (12) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Fair value changes on derivatives designated as cash flow hedge, net  39  –  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (257)  303  Fair value changes on investments, net  (10) –  (228)  303  Total other comprehensive income, net of tax  (278)  291  Total comprehensive income for the period  14,075  13,780  Profit attributable to Owners of the Company  14,353  13,489  Non-controlling interests  –  –   14,353  13,489  Total comprehensive income attributable to Owners of the Company  14,075  13,780  Non-controlling interests  –  –   14,075  13,780  As per our report of even date attached for B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s registration number : 101248W/W-100022 for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Infosys Limited Supreet Sachdev Partner Membership number : 205385 R. Seshasayee Chairman Dr. Vishal Sikka Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director U.
B. Pravin Rao Chief Operating Officer and  Whole-time Director Bengaluru April 13, 2017 Roopa Kudva Director M. D. Ranganath Chief Financial Officer A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary 216 | Shareholder information Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Shareholder information Corporate Infosys was incorporated in Pune, in 1981, as Infosys  Consultants Private Limited, a private limited company  under the Indian Companies Act, 1956.
In 1983, the  corporate headquarters was relocated to Bengaluru.
The  name of the Company was changed to Infosys Technologies  Private Limited in April 1992 and to Infosys Technologies  Limited in June 1992, when the Company became a public  limited company .
We made an initial public offering in  February 1993 and were listed on stock exchanges in India  in June 1993.
Trading opened at ` 145 per share, compared to  the IPO price of ` 95 per share.
In October 1994, we made a  private placement of 5,50,000 shares at ` 450 each to Foreign  Institutional Investors (FIIs), Financial Institutions (FIs) and  body corporates.
In March 1999, we issued 20,70,000 American Depositary  Shares (ADSs) (equivalent to 10,35,000 equity shares of par  value ` 10 each) at US $34 per ADS under the ADS Program,  and the same were listed on the NASDAQ National Market.
All the above data is unadjusted for stock split and bonus  shares.
During July 2003, June 2005 and November 2006,  we successfully completed secondary-sponsored American  Depositary Receipt (ADR) issues of US $294 million, US $1.1  billion and US $1.6 billion, respectively .
During fiscal 2012, the name of the Company was changed  from Infosys Technologies Limited to Infosys Limited to mark  the transition from being a technology services provider to a  business transformation partner for our clients.
During fiscal 2013, we delisted our ADSs from NASDAQ,  and listed the same in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE),  Euronext London and Euronext Paris markets.
The delisting  and listing was made to leverage the Euronext partnership,  since both the U.S. and Europe are home to many of our  investors, clients and employees.
The Company’s financial year begins on April 1 and ends on  March 31, every year.
The address of our registered office is  Electronics City , Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 100, Karnataka,  India.
Bonus issues and stock split Fiscal 1986 1989 1991 1992 1994 1997 1999 2005 2007  2015 2016 (1)  Bonus 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 3:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 Notes : In addition to issuing the above bonus shares, the Company split the stock in the ratio of 2 to 1 in fiscal 2000.
(1) The Company had allotted bonus shares in the ratio of 1:1 pursuant to a bonus issue approved by shareholders in June 2015.
Capital Allocation Policy and Dividend Distribution  Policy Refer to ‘Material changes and commitments affecting financial  position’ in the Board’s report section of this Annual Report.
Unclaimed dividend Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Investor  Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit,  Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘the Rules’) mandates that  companies transfer dividend that has remained unclaimed for  a period of seven years from the unpaid dividend account to  the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF).
Further,  the Rules mandate the transfer of shares with respect to the  dividend, which has not been paid or claimed for seven  consecutive years or more to IEPF .
Accordingly , the dividend  for the years mentioned as follows will be transferred to  the IEPF on the respective dates if the dividend remains  unclaimed for seven years, and the corresponding shares will  also be transferred to IEPF if dividend is unclaimed for seven  consecutive years : Year T ype of dividend Dividend per share ( `) Date of declaration Due date for transfer Amount (`) (1) 2010 Final 15.00 June 12, 2010 July 17, 2017 60,82,320 2011 Interim (2) 40.00 October 15, 2010 November 20, 2017 1,55,43,920 Final 20.00 June 11, 2011 July 16, 2018 76,15,840 2012 Interim 15.00 October 12, 2011 November 17, 2018 71,82,930 Final (3) 32.00 June 09, 2012 July 14, 2019 1,42,99,648 2013 Interim 15.00 October 12, 2012 November 17, 2019 73,20,705 Final 27.00 June 15, 2013 July 20, 2020 1,18,27,728 2014 Interim 20.00 October 18, 2013 November 23, 2020 1,14,31,860 Final 43.00 June 14, 2014 July 19, 2021 1,51,68,852 2015 Interim 30.00 October 10, 2014 November 14, 2021 1,13,11,740  Final 29.50 June 22, 2015 July 23, 2022 1,99,48,755 2016 Interim 10.00 October 12, 2015 November 17, 2022 1,57,00,110 Final 14.25 June 18, 2016 July 17, 2023 2,30,05,071 2017 Interim 11.00 October 14, 2016 November 19, 2023 32,93,037 (1) Amount unclaimed as on March 31, 2017.
(2) Includes 30th year special dividend of ` 30 per share.
(3) Includes special dividend of ` 10 per share on the successful completion of 10 years of Infosys BPO operations.
Shareholder information | 217  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Investor services Tentative calendar Quarter  ending Earnings  release Trading window closure Jun 30, 2017 Jul 14, 2017 Jun 16, 2017 to Jul 16, 2017 Sep 30, 2017 Oct 13, 2017 Sep 16, 2017 to Oct 15, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 Jan 12, 2018 Dec 16, 2017 to Jan 14, 2018 Mar 31, 2018 Apr 13, 2018 Mar 16, 2018 to Apr 15, 2018 Annual General Meeting Date and time June 24, 2017, Saturday ,   3:00 p.m. IST Venue The Christ University  Auditorium, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru 560 029 E-voting dates June 19 to June 23, 2017 Book closure date June 3, 2017 Dividend payment date June 27, 2017 Dematerialization of shares and liquidity Infosys shares are tradable in the electronic form only .
We  have established connectivity with National Securities  Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services  (India) Limited (CDSL) through Karvy Computershare  Private Limited, our registrars and share transfer agents.
The  International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted  to our shares under the Depository System is INE009A01021.
As on March 31, 2017, 99.81% of our shares were held in  dematerialized form and the rest in physical form.
We were the first company in India to pay a one-time custodial  fee of ` 44.43 lakh to NSDL.
Consequently , our shareholders  do not have to pay depository participants the custodial fee  charged by NSDL on their holding.
Shares held in demat and physical mode as on March 31,  2017 are as follows : Category Number of % to total  equitycases shares Demat mode 7,10,707 2,29,26,63,376 99.81 Physical  mode 422 42,81,288 0.19 Grand total 7,11,129 2,29,69,44,664 100 We request shareholders whose shares are in the physical  mode to dematerialize their shares and update their bank  accounts with the respective depository participants to enable  us to provide better service.
Investor awareness We have provided a synopsis of the rights and responsibilities  of shareholders on our website, https://www.infosys.com/ investors/shareholder-services/pages/faqs.aspx.
We encourage  you to read the details provided and seek answers to questions  that you may have regarding your rights as a shareholder.
Secretarial audit Pursuant to Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  Rules thereunder, the Board of Directors of the Company  appointed Parameshwar G. Hegde, Practicing Company  Secretary , to conduct Secretarial Audit of records and  documents of the Company .
The Secretarial Audit Report  confirms that the Company has complied with all applicable  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Depositories Act,  1996, Listing Agreements with the Stock Exchanges, and all  the Regulations and Guidelines of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (SEBI), as applicable to the Company .
The  audit also covers the reconciliation on a quarterly basis,  the total admitted capital with NSDL and CDSL, and the  total issued and listed capital.
The audit has confirmed that  the total issued / paid-up capital is in agreement with the  aggregate total number of shares in physical form and the  total number of dematerialized shares held with NSDL and  CDSL.
Further, the Company complies with the mandatory  and voluntary Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of  Company Secretaries of India.
Investor complaints Nature of  complaints Received Attended 2017 2016 2017 2016 Dividend /  Annual Report  related576 594 576 594 We attended to most of the investors’ grievances and postal /  electronic communications within a period of 10 days from  the date of receipt of such grievances.
The exceptions have  been for cases constrained by disputes or legal impediments.
The Company sends periodic intimation to the concerned shareholders, advising them to lodge their claims with respect to  unclaimed dividends.
Shareholders may note that both the unclaimed dividend and corresponding shares transferred to IEPF  including all benefits accruing on such shares, if any , can be claimed back from IEPF following the procedure prescribed in  the Rules.
No claim shall lie in respect thereof with the Company .
Dividend remitted to IEPF during the last three years Fiscal T ype of dividend Dividend declared on Amount transferred to IEPF (` ) Date of transfer to IEPF 2017 Interim October 09, 2009 53,48,610 November 12, 2016 Final June 20, 2009 15,69,766 July 25, 2016 2016 Interim October 11, 2008 17,29,130 November 6, 2015 Final June 14, 2008 23,69,407 July 10, 2015 2015 Interim October 11, 2007 7,52,112 November 5, 2014 Final June 22, 2007 5,54,117 July 15, 2014 218 | Shareholder information Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Legal proceedings There are certain pending cases related to disputes over title  to shares in which we had been made a party .
However, these  cases are not material in nature.
Share transfers in physical form Shares sent for physical transfer are effected after giving a  15-day notice to the seller for confirmation of the sale.
The  total number of shares transferred in physical form during the  year was nil as against 15,000 for the previous year.
Shareholding pattern The detailed report on the shareholding pattern of  the Company as on March 31, 2017 is presented in MGT-9  enclosed to the Board’s report as Annexure 6.
Shareholders holding more than 1% of the shares The details of shareholders (non-founders and non-ADR)  holding more than 1% of the equity as on March 31, 2017  are as follows : Name of the shareholder No.
of shares %  Life Insurance Corporation of  India (1) 16,14,36,123 7.03 Oppenheimer Developing Markets  Fund (3) 5,42,93,808 2.36 Government of Singapore (3) 5,26,89,626 2.29 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (3) 4,09,33,655 1.78 HDFC Trustee Company Limited (2) 3,82,58,488 1.67 ICICI Prudential Fund (2) 3,32,62,193 1.45 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance  Company Ltd (1) 3,08,38,562 1.34 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock  Index Fund, a series of Vanguard  International Equity Index Fund (3) 3,00,56,272 1.31 SBI Mutual Fund (2) 2,61,14,623 1.14 (1) Insurance company (2) Indian mutual fund (3) Foreign portfolio investor / Foreign  institutional investors Distribution of shareholding as on March 31, 2017 No.
of shares  held No.
of  cases % to  cases No.
of shares % to  equity 1 13,883 1.95 13,883 – 2-10 1,47,746 20.78 10,17,453 0.04  11-50 2,89,319 40.68 84,44,897 0.37  51-100 1,07,378 15.10 85,66,438 0.37  101-200 68,704 9.66 1,06,74,769 0.46  201-500 46,162 6.49 1,53,01,304 0.67  501-1,000 16,211 2.28 1,18,96,520 0.52  1,001-5,000 14,248 2.00 3,18,29,028 1.39  5,001-10,000 2,527 0.36 1,83,55,292 0.80  10,001 and  above 4,951 0.70 2,19,08,45,080 95.38  Total 7,11,129 100.00 2,29,69,44,664 100.00 Listing on stock exchanges Codes India Global NSE BSE NYSE Exchange INFY 500209 INFY Reuters INFY.NS INFY.BO INFY.K Bloomberg INFO IS INFO IB INFY UN The listing fees for fiscal 2017 have been paid for all of the  above stock exchanges in India and overseas.
ISIN Code for ADS : US4567881085 Stock market data relating to shares listed in India and  NYSE Our market capitalization is included in the computation of  the BSE 30 Sensitive Index (Sensex), the BSE Dollex, the S&P  CNX NIFTY Index, Dow Jones Global Titans 50 and NYSE.
Stock market data – exchanges in India  The monthly high and low quotations, as well as the volume of shares traded at the BSE, the NSE, and NYSE for the current  year are provided as follows : 2016-17 BSE NSE Volume Months High (`) Low (`) Volume A  (No.)
High (`) Low (`) Volume B  (No.)
(A+B) (No.)
April 1,268 1,151 97,20,735 1,268 1,151 6,59,54,381 7,56,75,116 May 1,270 1,172 24,60,696 1,272 1,171 5,51,44,806 5,76,05,502 June 1,278 1,156 35,33,314 1,279 1,155 6,70,69,050 7,06,02,364 July 1,195 1,056 96,18,741 1,196 1,052 10,33,18,265 11,29,37,006 August 1,094 1,009 53,18,517 1,095 1,009 7,81,16,022 8,34,34,539 September 1,069 1,024 61,88,665 1,069 1,024 5,94,15,210 6,56,03,875 October 1,081 994 46,03,095 1,083 993 6,00,13,510 6,46,16,605 November  1,010 900 43,82,558 1,007 901 8,30,86,381 8,74,68,939 December 1,021 958 36,96,839 1,022 958 6,24,14,827 6,61,11,666 January 1,045 905 78,41,706 1,040 901 11,46,69,064 12,25,10,770 February 1,028 906 60,96,919 1,031 905 8,29,66,621 8,90,63,540 March 1,044 999 32,99,425 1,044 999 6,78,41,984 7,11,41,409 Total   6,67,61,210   90,00,10,121 96,67,71,331 Note : The number of shares outstanding is 1,91,36,26,727 as of March 31, 2017.
ADSs have been excluded for the purpose of this calculation.
Shareholder information | 219  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Volume traded / average outstanding shares (%) in the last three fiscals is as follows : Fiscal Volume (BSE)  Volume (NSE) Volume (BSE +NSE) 2016-17 4 47 51 2015-16 3 49 52 2014-15 5  62 67 Stock market data – NYSE 2016-17 High ($) Low ($) High (`) Low (`) Volume (No.)
Months April 20.47 17.86 1,358 1,185 8,75,95,491 May 19.53 18.19 1,314 1,223 4,86,62,337 June 19.76 17.31 1,334 1,169 8,21,61,036 July 18.48 16.31 1,239 1,093 9,39,20,069 August 16.64 15.64 1,114 1,047 12,52,38,584 September 16.57 15.76 1,104 1,050 9,43,37,442 October 16.71 15.19 1,116 1,015 10,13,00,760 November  15.34 13.74 1,049 940 14,31,44,388 December 15.07 14.16 1,024 962 7,16,25,917 January 15.38 13.58 1,044 922 18,04,79,005 February 15.30 13.42 1,021 895 14,19,44,611 March 15.92 14.93 1,032 968 13,84,86,873 Total     1,30,88,96,513 Note : 1 ADS = 1 equity share.
The US dollar has been converted into the Indian rupee at the monthly closing rates.
The number of ADSs outstanding  as on March 31, 2017 was 38,33,17,937.
The percentage of volume traded for the year at NYSE, to the total float was 341%.
ADS premium compared to price quoted on NSE ADR (`) Equity (`) Premium (%) Apr 16  1,358  1,268  7.10 May 16  1,314 1,272 3.30 Jun 16    1,334  1,279  4.30 Jul 16  1,239  1,196  3.60 Aug 16    1,114  1,095 1.74 Sep 16 1,104 1,069  3.27 Oct 16     1,116  1,083  3.05 Nov 16     1,049 1,007 4.17 Dec 16     1,024 1,022  0.20 Jan 17    1,044  1,040  0.38 Feb 17     1,021  1,031 (0.97) Mar 17   1,032  1,044  (1.15) (`) (%) 1,500 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 0 (2.00) Outstanding ADSs Our ADSs, as evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), are traded in the U.S. on the NYSE at New York, Euronext  London and Euronext Paris under the ticker symbol ‘INFY’.
The currency of trade of ADS in the U.S. is USD and at London  and Paris is Euro (EUR).
Each equity share is represented by one ADS.
The ADRs evidencing ADSs began trading on the NYSE,  New York, from December 12, 2012, and Euronext London and Paris from February 20, 2013, when they were listed pursuant  to the Listing Agreement entered with the NYSE.
As on March 31, 2017, there were 31,639 record holders of ADRs evidencing  38,33,17,937 ADSs (1 ADS = 1 equity share).
220 | Shareholder information Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Infosys share price versus the NSE Nifty 120 100 80 60 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 Infosys Nifty Note: Base 100 = April 1, 2016 Share price chart 7,00,000 6,00,000 5,00,000 4,00,000 3,00,000 2,00,000 1,00,000 0 Feb 93 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 20052006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mar 17Infosys Relative to index BSE Index Notes : The historical stock price performance in the above graph should not be considered indicative of potential future stock price performance.
Adjusted for bonus issues and stock split wherever applicable   Base 100 = February 1993 Global locations Infosys is a leading provider of technology services and consulting and have operations spread over 45 countries.
We do not  have any manufacturing plants, but have development centers and offices in India and overseas.
Visit https://www.infosys.com/ investors/reports-filings/Documents/global-presence2017.pdf for details related to our global locations.
Shareholder information | 221  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Investor contacts For queries relating to financial statements Jayesh Sanghrajka Deputy Chief Financial Officer & EVP Tel : 91 80 2852 1705 Fax : 91 80 2852 0754 Email : jayesh.sanghrajka@infosys.com Investor correspondence Sandeep Mahindroo VP , Financial Controller and Head – Investor Relations  Tel : 91 80 3980 1018 Fax : 91 80 2852 0754 Email : sandeep_mahindroo@infosys.com For queries relating to shares / dividend /  compliance A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary Tel : 91 80 4116 7775 Fax : 91 80 2852 0754 Email : manikantha_ags@infosys.com For queries relating to business responsibility  report Aruna C. Newton AVP and Head – Diversity and Inclusion Tel : 91 80 2852 0261 Email : arunacnewton@infosys.com Registrar and share transfer agents Karvy Computershare Private Limited Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Contact person Shobha Anand Assistant General Manager , Karvy Computershare Private Limited Tel : 91 40 67161559 Email : shobha.anand@karvy .com Depositary bank (ADS) United States Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas Deutsche Bank, 60 Wall Street, 16th Floor Global Transaction Banking Depositary Receipts New York 10005, NY, U.S. Tel : 1 212 250 2500 Fax : 1 732 544 6346 India Deutsche Bank AG, Filiale Mumbai Global Transaction Banking – Depositary Receipts The Capital, C-70, G Block Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400 051, India Tel : 91 22 7180 4444 Fax : 91 22 7180 4122 Custodian in India (ADS) ICICI Bank Limited Securities Market Services 1st Floor, Empire Complex, 414, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013, Maharashtra, India.
Tel : 91 22 66672005 / 43434116 / 43434121   Fax : 91 22 66672779 Sponsor Bank for ADS in Europe BNP Paribas Securities Services CTS Services Aux Emetteurs Les Grands Moulins De Pantin 9 Rue du Débarcadère 93761 Pantin Cedex, France Depository for equity shares in India National Securities Depository Limited Trade World, ‘A ’ Wing, 4th Floor Kamala Mills Compound Senapati Bapat Marg,   Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013, India Tel : 91 22 2499 4200 Fax : 91 22 2497 6351 Central Depository Services (India) Limited Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 17th Floor Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001, India Tel : 91 22 2272 3333 Fax : 91 22 2272 3199 222 | Shareholder information Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Addresses of regulatory authority / stock exchanges In India Securities and Exchange Board of India Plot No.
C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051, India Tel : 91 22 2644 9000, 91 22 4045 9000 Fax : 91 22 2644 9019-22, 91 22 4045 9019-22 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. Exchange Plaza, Plot No.
C / 1, G Block Bandra Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051, India Tel : 91 22 2659 8100 Fax : 91 22 2659 8120 BSE Ltd. Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers Dalal Street, Kala Ghoda, Mumbai 400 001, India Tel : 91 22 2272 1233 Fax : 91 22 2272 1919 Outside India New York Stock Exchange 11 Wall Street, New York, NY 10005, U.S. Tel : 1 212 656 3000 Fax : 1 212 656 5549 Euronext, London Juxon House, 100 St. Paul’s Churchyard London EC4M 8BU Tel : 44 20 7280 6850 / 44 20 7076 0900 Euronext, Paris 14, place des Reflets 92054 Paris La Défense Cedex Tel +33 (0)1 70 48 24 00 Business Responsibility Report | 223  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Business Responsibility Report 2016-17 The Infosys Business Responsibility Report 2016-17 follows the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and  Economic Responsibilities of Business, as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India.
We also  publish a comprehensive Sustainability Report annually , independently assured by DNV GL, in accordance with the Global  Reporting Initiative’s G4 (Comprehensive) framework.
The Sustainability Report will be available at https://www.infosys.com/sustainability .
Our Business Responsibility Report includes our responses to questions on our practices and performance on key principles  defined by Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, covering topics  across environment, governance, and stakeholder relationships.
In keeping with the guiding principles of integrated reporting,  we have provided cross-references to the reported data within the main sections of this Annual Report for all aspects that are  material to us and to our stakeholders.
Business Responsibility Report  (As per Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)  Section A : General information about the Company 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company L 8 5 1 1 0 K A 1 9 8 1 P L C 0 1 3 1 1 5 2.
Name of the Company Infosys Limited 3.
Registered address Electronics City , Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 100, India 4.
Website www.infosys.com 5.
Email ID sustainability@infosys.com 6.
Financial year reported April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in  (industrial activity code-wise) Name and description of main products / services : Computer  programming, consultancy and related activities NIC code of the product / service : 620 8.
List three key products / services that the Company  manufactures / provides (as in Balance Sheet) Software services, consulting, and products 9.
Total number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company i.
Number of international locations https://www.infosys.com/about/Pages/locations.aspx  (Provide details of major five) ii.
Number of national locations https://www.infosys.com/about/Pages/locations.aspx 10.
Markets served by the Company – Local / State /  National / InternationalRefer to Segment reporting, page 156 and page 213 Section B : Financial details of the Company (1) 1.
Paid-up capital ( `) ` 1,148 crore 2.
Total turnover (`) ` 59,289 crore  3.
Total profit after taxes ( `) ` 13,818 crore  4.
Total spending on Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) as percentage of profit after tax (%) 2% of average net profits of the Company made during  the three immediately preceding financial years.
Refer to  Annexure 7 in the Annual Report, page 54 5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above  has been incurredRefer to the Annexure 7 in the Annual Report, page 54 (1) As per the Standalone Ind AS financials Business responsibility report 224 | Business Responsibility Report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Section C : Other details 1.
Does the Company have any subsidiary company /  companies?
: Yes.
Refer to Annexure 1 in the Annual Report, page 29 2.
Do the subsidiary company / companies participate in  the BR initiatives of the parent Company?
If yes, then  indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s).
: Yes.
3.
Do any other entity / entities (e.g.
suppliers,  distributors, etc.)
that the Company does business  with participate in the BR initiatives of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity /  entities (Less than 30%, 30%, 60%, More than 60%).
: Yes.
Less than 30%.
Section D : BR information 1.
Details of Director / Directors responsible for BR a.
Details of the Director responsible for implementation of the BR policy / policies 1.
DIN Number : 0 6 7 8 2 4 5 0 2.
Name : U.
B. Pravin Rao 3.
Designation : Chief Operating Officer and Whole-time Director b.
Details of the BR Head 1.
DIN Number (if applicable) : Not applicable 2.
Name : Aruna C. Newton 3.
Designation : Associate Vice President 4.
Telephone number : 91 80 4961 4243 5.
E-mail ID : arunacnewton@infosys.com Business Responsibility Report | 225  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2.
Principle-wise (as per National Voluntary Guidelines) Business Responsibility (BR) policy / policies (reply with Yes / No) Sl.No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1.
Do you have a policy / policies for...
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 2.
Has the policy been formulated  in consultation with the relevant  stakeholders?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 3.
Does the policy conform to any  national / international standards?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 4.
Has the policy been approved by the  Board?
If yes, has it been signed by the MD / owner / CEO / appropriate  Board Director?
(1) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 5.
Does the Company have a specified  committee of the Board / Director / Official to oversee the implementation  of the policy?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 6.
Indicate the link for the policy to be  viewed online.
Refer to the  Whistleblower Policy and Code of Conduct and Ethics.
Available on our intranet Available on our intranet Refer to the CSR Policy   (available on www.infosys.com) and Sustainability Policy (available on our intranet).
Available on our intranet Available on our intranet Available on our intranet Refer to the CSR committee charter, CSR Policy (available  on www.infosys.com)  and Sustainability Policy (available on our intranet).
Available on our intranet 7.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 8.
Does the Company have an in-house structure to implement the policy /  policies?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 9.
Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy / policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the  policy / policies?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 10.
Has the Company carried out independent audit / evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal  or external agency?
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Principle-wise index : P1 – Code of Conduct and Ethics, Whistleblower Policy P2 – Responsible Supply Chain Policy , Supplier Code of Conduct, Information Security Policy P3 – HR Policies, Human Rights StatementP4 – CSR Policy , Sustainability Policy P5 – Human Rights Statement P6 – HSE Policy P7 – Sustainability policy P8 – CSR Policy , Sustainability PolicyP9 – Information Security Policy , Brand Guidelines, Data Privacy Policy (1) Designated department heads, who report to the Chief Operating Officer (COO) monitor and oversee policy implementation.
The COO monitors policy implementation and progress on initiatives and actions through  periodic reviews.
226 | Business Responsibility Report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 2a.
If answer to Sl.
No.
1 against any principle is ‘No’, please explain why (tick up to two options) – Not applicable Sl.No.
Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1.
The Company has not understood the principles.
Not applicable 2.
The Company is not at a stage where it finds itself in  a position to formulate and implement the policies on  specified principles.
3.
The Company does not have financial or manpower  resources available for the task.
4.
It is planned to be done within the next six months.
5.
It is planned to be done within the next one year.
6.
Any other reason (please specify).
3.
Governance related to BR Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors,  committee of the Board or CEO assesses the BR performance of the Company – Within 3 months, 3-6 months, annually , more  than 1 year.
: We have constituted a corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee of the Board which oversees  our CSR strategy and progress.
For more details on the frequency of the committee’s meetings, refer to  the ‘Corporate social responsibility committee’ sub-section in the Corporate Governance Report, and the  ‘Corporate governance’ section in the Board’s Report, which are part of this Annual Report.
Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report?
What is the hyperlink for viewing this report?
How frequently is it  published?
: Yes, annual;  https://www.infosys.com/sustainability Section E : Principle-wise performance Principle No.
Description Response P1 – Business should conduct and govern themselves with ethics, transparency and accountability .
1.1 Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the Company?
Yes / No.
Does it extend to the Group / Joint Ventures / Suppliers / Contractors / NGOs / Others?Our policies related to ethics, bribery and corruption are part of our corporate governance framework and cover the  Infosys Group and our suppliers.
For more details, refer to the Compliance with corporate governance codes sub-section under the Code of conduct section in the Corporate Governance Report chapter in this report, and the Whistleblower Policy  available on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/investors/corporate-governance/Documents/whistleblower-policy .pdf.
Business Responsibility Report | 227  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Principle No.
Description Response 1.2 How many stakeholder complaints  have been received in the  past financial year, and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the Management?
If so, provide the details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Infosys’ stakeholders include our investors, clients, employees, vendors / partners, government and local communities.
For details on investor complaints, refer to Investor complaints section in the Annual Report.
For details on employee  grievances and resolution, refer to the table in section 3.7.
More details will be available in our Sustainability Report   on www.infosys.com/Sustainability.
P2 – Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle.
2.1 List up to three of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and / or opportunities.Infosys is a provider of consulting, technology , outsourcing and next-generation services.
Our sustainability strategy  strives to make : • Our business sustainable • Our client’s business sustainable • Our ecosystem sustainable We continue to work on large-scale digital-transformation projects that significantly impact the socio-economic  progress of the country .
Infosys’ core banking and insurance solutions have enabled the Department of Post in India to provide easy and effective banking and insurance services to rural and semi-rural regions of India.
23,249 post offices provide banking solutions.
Over 598 million accounts have been migrated to the system till date.
975 ATMs have also been enabled to service India Post customers.
25,448 post offices have been enabled to provide insurance policies, and 29 million  policies have been migrated to the new system.
The eBiz portal developed by Infosys is one of the 31 Mission Mode Projects (MMPs) under the National eGovernance Plan (NeGP) of the Government of India.
An initiative by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, eBiz is a one-of-its-kind portal conceived to bring about a radical shift in the government’s service delivery approach to improve ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in India.
Currently , the portal hosts over 50 services, including 22 central services  and 30 state services.
The Government of India’s impetus on digital payments propelled many organizations towards providing enabling systems and platforms.
The collaboration between Paytm and Infosys has helped in rolling out an innovative digital payments platform.
Paytm Payment Bank leverages Finacle’s proven platform for its deposit products and payments platform, enabling it to rapidly roll out innovative offerings.
Paytm is India’s largest mobile payments and commerce  platform.
2.2 For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy , water, raw material, etc.)
per unit of product (optional) :Our business being IT services and consulting primarily , our solutions that have been detailed under 2.1, fuel the  digital transformation of our nation.
Being a responsible corporation, we track the consumption of resources critically , and our goals and performance  related to these parameters will be provided in our Sustainability Report on http://www.infosys.com/sustainability .
228 | Business Responsibility Report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Principle No.
Description Response 2.3 Does the Company have  procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including transportation)?
If yes, what percentage of your  inputs was sourced sustainably?
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Our Responsible Supply Chain Policy guides our actions in the supply chain and interactions with our supply chain partners.
We have a comprehensive engagement model, to meaningfully engage with our suppliers on material aspects.
Regular capacity building and assessments are conducted for key suppliers.
The proportion of spending on domestic  suppliers at significant locations was about 79% in fiscal 2017.
2.4 Has the Company taken any steps to procure goods and  services from local and small  producers, including communities  surrounding their place of work?
If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors?
We have a Responsible Supply Chain Policy and a Supplier Code of Conduct.
Our suppliers are categorized into three broad categories – people, services and products.
Our contracts have appropriate clauses and checks to prevent the employment of child labor or forced labor in any form.
We also provide forums where suppliers can voice their concerns and issues.
We continue to engage with all supplier segments working within our boundary covering People and Services categories by conducting training, assessments and audits on Health and Safety , Compliance and Anti-corruption, Human Rights and Anti-Harassment.
We engage with local suppliers for our People and Services  categories.
2.5 Does the Company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste?
If yes, what is the percentage of  recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%)?
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Ozone, our Health, Safety and Environment Management System (HSEMS), guides our efforts on the responsible use of scarce natural resources.
For details on how we recycle products and manage waste, visit our sustainability  microsite, https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/.
P3 – Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees.
3.1 Please indicate the total number of  employees.
Our global employee count stands at 2,00,364 as on March 31, 2017.
3.2 Please indicate the total number of  employees hired on a temporary / contractual / casual basis.
Most of our employees work as full-time, permanent employees.
More details will be available in our Sustainability  Report on www.infosys.com/Sustainability .
3.3 Please indicate the number of permanent women employees.The number of our global women employees is 72,248 as on March 31, 2017.
3.4 Please indicate the number of permanent employees with  disabilities.
Being an equal opportunity employer, we do not mandate the disclosure of disability .
The number of employees who have voluntarily disclosed their disability status and the nature of disability stands  at 161, as on March 31, 2017. Business Responsibility Report | 229  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Principle No.
Description Response 3.5 Do you have an employee  association that is recognized by the Management?
We recognize the right to freedom of association through collective bargaining agreements in accordance with the guidelines and compliance frameworks put forth by governments in countries where we have our operations.
A de minimis percentage of our employees are covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA).
3.6 What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this recognized employee association?
Details will be available in our Sustainability Report on www.infosys.com/Sustainability .
3.7 Please indicate the number of  complaints relating to child labor,  forced labor, involuntary labor and sexual harassment in the last financial year, and those that are pending, as on the end of the financial year.
Our anti-discrimination and anti-harassment policies apply to everyone involved in the operations of the Company ,  including vendors and clients.
The forums to deal with issues and concerns raised by our employees are as follows : • Hearing Employees and Resolving (HEAR) • Anti-Sexual Harassment Initiative (ASHI) • Whistleblower Policy The details of concerns and grievances raised in fiscal 2017 are as follows : Employee grievances Number of grievances Workplace harassment (1) 111 Workplace concerns (2) 516 Disciplinary issues – major (3) 359 Disciplinary issues – minor (4) 484 Total 1,470 Closure statistics Internal arbitration 495 Disciplinary action 925 Total (5) 1,420 Scope : Infosys Group  (1) Workplace harassment – Refers to all major and minor sexual harassment issues heard and resolved at the workplace.
(2) Workplace concerns – Refers to grievances employees raise at the workplace.
(3) Major – These cases involve reputation risk to the Company / employees, fraud or other ethical misconduct.
This year, we are reporting the  disciplinary action taken on individuals on account of incorrect data provided at the time of joining.
(4) Minor – These cases refer to misdemeanors or mistakes that can be corrected.
(5) Neutral panel investigations are in progress for 50 open cases.
This is work in progress for closure.
The details of workplace sexual harassment complaints in India, reported as per the Sexual Harassment of Women at  Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, and the Ministry of Women and Child Development  notification dated December 9, 2013 are as follows : Complaints received Fiscal 2017 Number of cases filed 88 Disposal by conciliation 5 Disposal by disciplinary action(s) (1) 72 (1) 11 cases evaluated by the Internal Committee (IC) were reported in March 2017 and the investigation process was under way as on  March 31, 2017.
230 | Business Responsibility Report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Principle No.
Description Response 3.8 What percentage of your  under-mentioned employees were  given safety and skill up-gradation  training in the last year?• Permanent employees • Permanent women employees • Casual / temporary / contractual employees • Employees with disabilities Our training programs cover all our employees irrespective of race, gender, or physical disability .
Our Education,  Training and Assessment (ETA) group offers industry-benchmarked learning programs to ensure talent enablement.
Refer to Education and Learning as the Path to Our T ransformation section in the Annual Report to read more details about our training strategy and continuous learning interventions.
The total number of training days for the last three years is as follows : Particulars Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Employee count 2,00,364 1,94,044 1,76,187 Total training days 20,40,962 21,22,318 33,60,099 Ozone, our Heath, Safety and Environmental Management System (HSEMS) seeks to provide a safe and healthy  workplace to our employees, visitors and contract workers.
The initiative also keeps employees, contractors and others well-informed, trained and committed to our HSE policy and procedures.
The HSE training needs are identified for different personnel based on the nature of their jobs.
Accordingly , training –  including awareness sessions, mock drills, classroom sessions and periodic demonstrations related to safety , security and wellbeing – is provided.
HSEMS training is also a part of our employee-induction programs.
E-learning modules  have also been rolled out for creating awareness.
P4 – Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.
4.1 Has the Company mapped its  internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
The details are provided on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/about-us/overview/pages/ index.aspx.
4.2 Out of the above, has the Company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
Yes.
The details are provided on our website, at https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/social  4.3 Are there any special initiatives undertaken by the Company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders?
If so, provide the details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Yes, as a socially responsible organization, we are committed to work for the welfare of the communities  around us.
Our community engagement interventions include : • Grant-making • Organization-led projects • Employee-driven initiatives • Community sabbaticals For more details on our work with communities, refer to Annexure 7 to Boards’ report in the Annual Report and our  websites, www.infosys.org and https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/.
P5 – Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
5.1 Does the policy of the Company on human rights cover only  the Company or extend to the  Group / Joint Ventures / Suppliers  / Contractors / NGOs / Others?
Yes, all companies in the Infosys Group are covered by the policy .
Business Responsibility Report | 231  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Principle No.
Description Response 5.2 How many stakeholder complaints  have been received in the  past financial year, and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the Management?
Infosys is signatory to the UNGC.
The Human Rights Statement, based on the United Nations Global Compact  (UNGC) principles, guides our policies and practices.
We have various grievance redressal channels to deal with issues related to discrimination, retaliation and harassment.
The complainants are assured of complete anonymity and confidentiality .
Refer to the table under 3.7 for details on stakeholder complaints.
P6 – Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment.
6.1 Does the policy related  to Principle 6 cover only the Company , or does it extend to the Group / Joint Ventures / Suppliers / Contractors / NGOs / Others?
Protection of the environment ranks high among our corporate goals and as a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to putting a specific policy in place to ensure we take definite steps to protect the environment.
Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy – that regularly shares best practices and provides a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors – is testimony to this effort.
The policy is made available to all our employees worldwide on Sparsh (our intranet), and as posters and instructions on digital and physical display areas across our campuses.
We have received ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001 certification for 81% of our locations in India.
Our objectives and targets have been documented at the corporate and development center levels and is monitored and tracked at regular intervals.
We also have operational controls for impact management based  on severity .
6.2 Does the Company have strategies / initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc?
Yes / No.
If yes, please give the hyperlink for the web page, etc.In 2008, we had committed to an aggressive goal of reducing our per capita energy consumption by 50% by fiscal 2018.
In fiscal 2017, we achieved a reduction of 51.18% in per capita energy consumption, thereby meeting and exceeding the goal a year ahead of target.
For more details, visit our website,  www.infosys.com, and our sustainability  microsite, https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/.
6.3 Does the Company identify and assess potential environmental risks?Environmental risks form a part of our operational risks in the ‘Integrated Risk Management’ framework.
Ozone, our Health, Safety and Environment Management System (HSEMS), guides our efforts in managing environmental  impacts of our operations.
Read our Sustainability Reports on https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/ for information on the progress of our  environmental sustainability efforts.
6.4 Does the Company have any  project related to the Clean Development Mechanism?
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Also, if yes, has any environmental compliance report been filed?
Not applicable 232 | Business Responsibility Report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Principle No.
Description Response 6.5 Has the Company undertaken  any other initiatives on clean technology , energy efficiency , renewable energy , etc.?
Yes / No.
If yes, please give the hyperlink for the web page, etc.
We have been front-runners in embracing new technologies that generate cleaner forms of energy .
While we have set up one of the largest solar farms to power an entire campus in Hyderabad, we have also been pursuing cleaner technologies across our operations.
For more details, visit our website,  www.infosys.com, and our sustainability  microsite, https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/environment.
6.6 Are the emissions / waste  generated by the Company within  the permissible limits given by  CPCB / SPCB for the financial year  being reported?
Yes, we comply with all the local pollution control boards’ guidelines and go beyond adherence to the guidelines.
For more details, visit our website, www.infosys.com, and our sustainability microsite, https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/.
6.7 Number of show cause / legal notices received from CPCB /  SPCB which are pending (i.e., not  resolved to satisfaction) as on the end of the financial year.
We did not have any monetary or non-monetary sanctions imposed on us for non-compliance with environmental  laws and regulations during fiscal 2017.
P7 – Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy , should do so in a responsible manner.
7.1 Is your Company a member of any trade and chamber or association?
If yes, name only those major ones  that your business deals with.
Yes, as an industry influencer, we are part of global and local associations.
We forge strategic partnerships with industry bodies and consortiums at the local, national and international levels.
The following are the significant  associations during fiscal 2017 : a.
National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) b.
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) c.  Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) d.  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) e.  IEEE Bangalore Section Payment Gateway f.  Indo-Australian Chamber of Commerce g.  business disability international (bdi) h.  Chamber of Commerce of the U.S.A. i.
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), U.S. j.
Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy (AEEE), India k.  Solar Energy Research Institute for India and the U.S. (SERIIUS) l.  Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) Business Responsibility Report | 233  Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Principle No.
Description Response 7.2 Have you advocated / lobbied  through the above associations for  the advancement or improvement  of public good?
Yes / No.
If yes, specify the broad areas (Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy Security , Water, Food Security , Sustainable Business Principles, Others).
We believe that it is our responsibility to help build a better business environment and thus a better world with opportunities for everyone.
Our advocacy efforts are championed across the world by our senior leaders.
In an effort to drive advocacy globally and locally , we have been part of governance bodies of national and international  organizations across economic, social and environmental dimensions.
For more details, visit https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/about-us/overview/Pages/partnerships.aspx.
P8 – Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development.
8.1 Does the Company have specified  programs / initiatives / projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8?
If yes, provide the details thereof.
Our corporate social responsibility supports inclusive growth of not only communities where we have our operations, but also encompasses the overall development of societies and human capabilities.
From uplifting the poorest sections  of the society through the Infosys Foundation, promoting science and math education in the U.S. through the Infosys Foundation USA, encouraging science and research through the Infosys Science Foundation, increasing the  employability of engineering students through Campus Connect, to empowering our employees to become responsible citizens through volunteering, we will continue to strive towards inclusive growth and community development.
For more details, refer to www.infosys.org and https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/social.
8.2 Are the programs / projects undertaken through an in-house team / own foundation / external NGO / government structures / any other organization?Infosys has established foundations in India and the U.S. For more details on our work with the community , visit  www.infosys.org and https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/social.
8.3 Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?Yes, the impact due to the Foundations’ programs are provided on the respective websites, www.infosys.org and  https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/social.
8.4 What is your Company’s direct contribution to community development projects – amount in  ` and the details of the projects  undertaken.
Refer to Annexure 7 of the Annual Report.
For more details on our work with the community , visit www.infosys.org and https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/social.
8.5 Have you taken steps to ensure  that this community development  initiative is successfully adopted by the community?
Please explain  in 50 words or so.
Yes, a majority of our community development projects go beyond the philanthropic one-time engagement and is  designed for self-sustenance through a ‘teach fishing’ model.
For more details on our work with the community , visit  www.infosys.org and https://www.infosys.com/sustainability/social.
234 | Business Responsibility Report Infosys Annual Report 2016-17Principle No.
Description Response P9 – Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner.
9.1 What percentage of client  complaints / consumer cases are pending as on the end of the financial year?
None 9.2 Does the Company display product information on the product label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
Yes / No / NA / Remarks (additional information).
Not applicable 9.3 Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the Company regarding unfair trade practices,  irresponsible advertising, and / or  anti-competitive behavior during the last five years and pending as  on the end of the financial year?
If  so, provide the details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
We have various mechanisms to receive and address complaints from stakeholders related to compliance, corruption or bribery .
As of March 31, 2017, no stakeholder has filed any case against the Company , nor are any cases pending  regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and / or anti-competitive behavior.
9.4 Did your Company carry out any consumer survey / measure consumer satisfaction trends?We interact with our clients on a regular basis and across multiple platforms.
We also host premier CXO-level events  annually in Europe and the Americas.
Customer-focused excellence demands constant sensitivity to changing and emerging customer requirements and  close attention to the voice of the customer.
Infosys’ customer experience increased significantly in 2016.
All four measures of Satisfaction, Loyalty , Advocacy , and Business Value Perceptions witnessed a healthy increase.
The satisfaction score for the year was 5.97.
For more details on our business and sustainable practices, visit our website,  www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings and https://www.infosys.com/sustainability .
Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Notes Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 Safe Harbor This Annual Report contains ‘forward-looking statements’ that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates  and projections about the Company, our industry, economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, and certain other  matters.
Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as  ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘seek’, ‘should’ and similar expressions.
Those statements  include, among other things, the discussions of our business strategy and expectations concerning our market position, future  operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources.
These statements are subject to known and unknown risks,  uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those implied by the  forward-looking statements.
Important factors that may cause actual results or outcomes to differ from those implied by the  forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the ‘Outlook, risks and concerns’ section in this  Annual Report.
In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not conclude that the results or outcomes referred to in any  of the forward-looking statements will be achieved.
All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are based on  information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements to reflect  future events or circumstances unless required to do so by law.
Creative concept and design by Communication Design Group, Infosys Limited.
© 2017 Infosys Limited, Bengaluru, India.
Infosys acknowledges the proprietary rights in the trademarks and product names of other companies mentioned in this report.
The Annual Report is printed on 100% recycled paper certified by the UK-based National Association of Paper Merchants (NAPM) and Germany-based Blue Angel.
To read the report online  :  https://www.infosys.com/AR-2017 www.infosys.com May 19, 2017 Dear member, You are cordially invited to attend the 36th Annual General Meeting of the members of Infosys Limited (‘the Company’)  to be held on Saturday, June 24, 2017 at 3:00 p.m. IST at the Christ University Auditorium, Hosur Road, Bengaluru  560 029, Karnataka, India.
The Notice of the meeting, containing the business to be transacted, is enclosed herewith.
As per Section 108 of the  Companies Act, 2013, read with the related Rules and Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company is pleased to provide its members the facility to cast their vote  by electronic means on all resolutions set forth in the Notice.
The instructions for e-voting are enclosed herewith.
Very truly yours, R. Seshasayee Chairman of the Board Enclosures : 1.
Notice to the 36th Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2.
Proxy form 3.
Attendance slip   4.
Instructions for e-voting Note : Attendees who are differently-abled and require assistance at the AGM are requested to contact :  Bhawesh Kumar, Regional Head – Facilities, Infosys Limited, Electronics City, Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 100, India,  Tel : 91 80 39802035 Ext : 2035, Mobile : 91 98451 80174 INFOSYS LIMITED CIN : L85110KA1981PLC013115 Electronics City, Hosur Road Bengaluru 560 100, India Tel : 91 80 2852 0261 Fax : 91 80 2852 0362 investors@infosys.com www.infosys.com Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited Hosur Main Road               Dairy Circle Flyover        Dairy Circle Road          Hosur  Road                      Ho su r Road         From  Silk Boar d Christ University  Auditorium Bangalore  Dairy New Mico Road Adugodi Police Station Bosch Mico Factory Forum Mall St. Anthony’s Church St. John’s  Hospital NIMHANS Sarjap ur Road Outer Ring Road           Outer Ring Road       Bannerghatta M ain Road              Banner gha tta  M ain Road Koramangala Madiwala Silk Board From M. G. Road Route map to the venue of the AGM Christ University Auditorium Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 029 Karnataka, India.
www.christuniversity.in For queries, contact us : Tel : +91 80 28520261 Email : investors@infosys.com Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited Notice to the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 36th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the members of Infosys Limited will be held on  Saturday, June 24, 2017, at 3:00 p.m. IST at the Christ University Auditorium, Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 029, Karnataka,  India, to transact the following business : Ordinary business Item no.
1 – Adoption of financial statements To consider and adopt the audited financial statements (including the consolidated financial statements) of the Company  for the financial year ended March 31, 2017 and the reports of the Board of Directors (‘the Board’) and Auditors thereon.
Item no.
2 – Declaration of dividend To declare a final dividend of ` 14.75 per equity share and to approve the interim dividend of ` 11.00 per equity share,  already paid during the year, for the year ended March 31, 2017.
Item no.
3 – Appointment of U.
B. Pravin Rao as a director liable to retire by rotation To appoint a director in place of U.
B. Pravin Rao (DIN : 06782450), who retires by rotation and, being eligible, seeks  reappointment.
Explanation : Both our executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation based on the terms of their appointment.
Last year, Dr. Vishal Sikka was subjected to retirement by rotation and was reappointed by shareholders.
U.
B. Pravin Rao  was appointed as a whole-time director liable to retire by rotation on June 14, 2014 and was thereafter reappointed as  a whole-time director at the AGM held on June 22, 2015.
To the extent that U.
B. Pravin Rao is required to retire by rotation, he would need to be reappointed as a whole-time  director.
Therefore, shareholders are requested to consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as ordinary resolution  : RESOLVED THAT, pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  the approval of the members of the Company be, and is hereby accorded to the reappointment of U.
B. Pravin Rao  (DIN :  06782450) as a whole-time director, to the extent that he is required to retire by rotation.
Item no.
4 – Appointment of auditors To appoint the auditors of the Company, and to fix their remuneration.
Explanation : The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) was notified effective April 1, 2014.
Section 139 of the Act lays down the  criteria for appointment and mandatory rotation of statutory auditors.
Pursuant to Section 139 of the Act and the Rules  made thereunder, it is mandatory to rotate the statutory auditors on completion of two terms of five consecutive years.
The Rules also lay down the transitional period that can be served by the existing auditors depending on the number of  consecutive years for which an audit firm has been functioning as auditor in the same company.
The incumbent auditors,  B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm registration number : AAB-8181) have served the Company for over 10  years before the Act was notified and will be completing the maximum number of transitional period (three years) at the  ensuing 36th AGM.
The audit committee of the Company has proposed and on January 13, 2017, the Board has recommended the appointment  of Deloitte Haskins & Sells, LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm registration number 117366 W/W 100018) (‘Deloitte’) as  the statutory auditors of the Company.
Deloitte will hold office for a period of five consecutive years from the conclusion  of the 36th Annual General Meeting of the Company till the conclusion of the 41st Annual General Meeting to be held in  2022.
The first year of audit will be of the financial statements for the year ending March 31, 2018, which will include  the audit of the quarterly financial statements for the year.
To align with the above, the Board has also approved the appointment of Deloitte as the independent registered public  accounting firm of the Company.
This appointment is effective the year ending March 31, 2018.
As the independent  registered public accounting firm, Deloitte will audit the annual financial statements of the Company to be included in  the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
KPMG will  continue as the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm through the completion of the audit for the  year ending March 31, 2017 and for the purpose of filing such audited financial statements in the Form 20-F for the year  ending March 31, 2017.
Therefore, shareholders are requested to consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as ordinary resolution  : RESOLVED THAT, pursuant to Sections 139 and 142 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the  Rules made thereunder, as amended from time to time, pursuant to the proposals of the audit committee of the Board and  recommendation of the Board, Deloitte Haskins & Sells, LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm registration number : 117366  W/W 100018) be and is hereby appointed as the statutory auditors of the Company, to hold office for a period of five  Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited consecutive years commencing from the financial year 2017-18, on a remuneration that may be determined by the audit  committee in consultation with the auditors, and that such remuneration may be paid on a progressive billing basis.
Item no.
5 – Appointment of branch auditors To appoint the branch auditors of the Company, and to fix their remuneration and to pass the following resolution as an  ordinary resolution :  RESOLVED THAT, pursuant to the provisions of Section 143(8) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies  Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Board be and is hereby  authorized to appoint branch auditors of any branch office of the Company, whether existing or which may be opened /  acquired hereafter, outside India, in consultation with the Company’s auditors, any person(s) qualified to act as branch  auditors and to fix their remuneration.
Registered office  : Electronics City, Hosur Road Bengaluru 560 100 India by order of the Board of Directors  for Infosys Limited A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary April 13, 2017 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote in the meeting  instead of himself / herself, and the proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A person can act as a proxy on  behalf of a maximum of 50 members and holding in aggregate not more than 10% of the total share capital of the  Company.
A member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights may  appoint a single person as proxy, provided that the person does not act as proxy for any other person or shareholder.
2.
Corporate members intending to send their authorized representatives to attend the meeting are requested to  send a certified copy of the Board resolution to the Company or upload it on the e-voting portal, authorizing their  representative to attend and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
3.
The instrument appointing the proxy, duly completed, must be deposited at the Company’s registered office not less  than 48 hours before the commencement of the meeting (on or before June 22, 2017, 3:00 p.m. IST).
A proxy form  for the AGM is enclosed.
4.
During the period beginning 24 hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the AGM and until the conclusion  of the meeting, a member would be entitled to inspect the proxies lodged during the business hours of the Company,  provided that not less than three days of notice in writing is given to the Company.
5.
Members / proxies / authorized representatives should bring the duly filled attendance slip enclosed herewith to  attend the meeting.
6.
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which the directors are interested,  maintained under Section 189 of the Act, will be available for inspection by the members at the AGM.
7.
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain closed on June 3, 2017 for the purpose of payment  of the final dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2017 and the AGM.
8.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, dividend as recommended by the Board, if declared at the meeting, will be paid  within a period of 30 days from the date of declaration, to those members whose names appear on the Register of  Members as on June 2, 2017.
The final dividend is ` 14.75 per equity share.
9.
Members whose shareholding is in electronic mode are requested to direct change of address notifications and  updates of bank account details to their respective depository participant(s).
We urge the members to utilize the  Electronic Clearing System (ECS) for receiving dividends.
10.
Members are requested to address all correspondence, including on dividends, to the Registrar and Share Transfer  Agents, Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Unit  : Infosys Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli,  Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 500 032.
11.
Members wishing to claim dividends that remain unclaimed are requested to correspond with the Registrar and Share  Transfer Agents as mentioned above, or the Company Secretary, at the Company’s registered office.
Members are  requested to note that dividends that are not claimed within seven years from the date of transfer to the Company’s  Unpaid Dividend Account, will, as per Section 124 of the Act, be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund (IEPF).
Shares on which dividend remains unclaimed for seven consecutive years will be transferred to the IEPF  as per Section 124 of the Act, and the applicable rules.
Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited 12.
We urge members to support our commitment to environmental protection by choosing to receive their shareholding  communication through email.
You can do this by updating your email addresses with your depository participants.
13.
In compliance with Section 108 of the Act, read with corresponding rules, and Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations’), the Company has provided a  facility to its members to exercise their votes electronically through the electronic voting (e-voting) service facilitated  by the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL).
The facility for voting through ballot paper will also be made  available at the AGM and members attending the AGM, who have not already cast their votes by remote e-voting shall  be able to exercise their right at the AGM through ballot paper.
Members who have cast their votes by remote e-voting  prior to the AGM may attend the AGM but shall not be entitled to cast their votes again.
The instructions for e-voting  are annexed to the Notice.
The Board has appointed Parameshwar G. Hegde, Practicing Company Secretary, as the  Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting / ballot process in a fair and transparent manner.
14.
The e-voting period commences on June 19, 2017 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on June 23, 2017 (5:00 p.m. IST).
During this period, members holding shares either in physical or dematerialized form, as on the relevant date, i.e.
June 17, 2017, may cast their vote electronically.
The e-voting module will be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter.
A member will not be allowed to vote again on any resolution for which the vote has already been cast.
The voting  rights of members shall be proportionate to their share of the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the  relevant date, i.e.
June 17, 2017.
E-voting rights cannot be exercised by a proxy, though corporate and institutional  shareholders shall be entitled to vote through their authorized representatives with proof of their authorization.
15.
The Annual Report 2016-17, the Notice of the 36th AGM and instructions for e-voting, along with the attendance  slip and proxy form, are being sent by electronic mode to members whose email addresses are registered with the  Company / depository participant(s), unless a member has requested for a physical copy of the documents.
For  members who have not registered their email addresses, physical copies are being sent by the permitted mode.
16.
Members may also note that the Notice of the 36th AGM and the Infosys Annual Report 2016-17 will be available on  the Company’s website, www.infosys.com.
17.
Additional information, pursuant to Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations, in respect of the directors seeking  appointment / reappointment at the AGM, forms part of the Notice.
18.
The SEBI has mandated the submission of the Permanent Account Number (PAN) by every participant in the securities  market.
Members holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit their PAN to their depository  participant(s).
Members holding shares in physical form are required to submit their PAN details to the Registrar and  Share Transfer Agents.
19.
All documents referred to in the Notice will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during  normal business hours on working days up to the date of the AGM.
•  The attendance registration procedure for the AGM is as follows : a.
Shareholders are requested to tender their attendance slips at the registration counters at the venue of the AGM  and seek registration before entering the meeting hall.
b. Alternatively, to facilitate smooth registration / entry, the Company has also provided a web check-in facility, which  would help the shareholder enter the AGM hall directly without going through the registration formalities at the  registration counters.
c. The online registration facility will be available from June 21, 2017 (9:00 a.m. IST) to June 23, 2017 (5:00  p.m. IST).
•  The procedure of web check-in for the AGM is as follows : a. Log in to https ://karisma.karvy.com<https ://karisma.karvy.com/ and click on the online registration link.
b.
Select the company name.
c. Pass through the security credentials viz., DP ID, Client ID / Folio entry, PAN No., and ‘CAPTCHA’ as directed by  the system and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
d. The system will validate the credentials.
Click on the ‘Generate my attendance slip’ button that appears on the  screen.
e. The attendance slip in PDF format will appear on the screen.
Select the ‘PRINT’ option for direct printing or  download and save for printing.
The shareholder needs to furnish the printed attendance slip along with a valid identity proof such as the PAN card,  passport, AADHAAR card or driving license to enter the AGM hall.
Registered office  : Electronics City, Hosur Road Bengaluru 560 100 India by order of the Board of Directors for Infosys Limited A. G. S. Manikantha Company Secretary April 13, 2017 Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited Additional information on director recommended for appointment / reappointment as  required under Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 U.
B. Pravin Rao U.
B. Pravin Rao is the Chief Operating Officer and a Whole-time Director of Infosys Limited.
He was  inducted on January 10, 2014 as a member of the Board.
As Chief Operating Officer of Infosys Limited, Pravin Rao has overall strategic and operational  responsibility for the entire portfolio of the Company’s offerings.
He oversees the key functions of global  sales, global delivery and business enablement.
He drives the continuous renewal of key processes,  systems and policies across the Company in client relationship management, sales effectiveness,  delivery excellence, quality, talent management and leadership development.
Pravin is also the  Chairperson of Infosys BPO.
Pravin has over 30 years of industry experience.
Since joining Infosys in 1986, Pravin has held a  number of senior leadership roles including Head of Infrastructure Management Services, Delivery  Head for Europe, and Head of Retail, Consumer Packaged Goods, Logistics and Life Sciences.
Pravin holds a degree in electrical engineering from Bangalore University, India.
He is a member of the  National Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Executive Councils of NASSCOM  and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD).
Nature of expertise in specific functional areas Information Technology Services and Business Management.
Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors and Key Managerial Personnel Nil Listed companies (other than Infosys Group) in which U.
B. Pravin Rao holds directorship and  committee membership : Directorship Nil Chairperson / Membership of Board committees Nil Shareholding in the Company 5,55,520 Note : (1) The nomination and remuneration committee, in its meeting held on October 14, 2016,  recommended a grant of 27,250 RSUs and 43,000 ESOPs to U.
B. Pravin Rao, Chief Operating  Officer (COO), under the 2015 Stock Incentive Compensation Plan and the same was approved by the  shareholders through a postal ballot concluded on March 31, 2017.
The Board, in its meeting held on  April 13, 2017, granted these RSUs and ESOPs with effect from May 2, 2017.
These would vest over  a period of four years and shall be exercisable within the period as approved by the committee.
The  exercise price of the RSUs will be equal to the par value of the shares and the exercise price of the  stock options would be the market price as on the date of grant, as approved by the shareholders.
(2) Details of U.
B. Pravin Rao’s age, remuneration and number of Board meetings attended during  fiscal 2017 are provided in the Corporate governance report of the Annual Report 2016-17.
Instructions for e-voting A detailed list of instructions for e-voting is annexed to this Notice.
Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited Proxy form [Pursuant to Section 105 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19 (3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,   2014 – Form No.
MGT-11] INFOSYS LIMITED CIN : L85110KA1981PLC013115 Electronics City, Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 100, India, Tel : 91 80 2852 0261, Fax : 91 80 2852 0362 investors@infosys.com | www.infosys.com 36th Annual General Meeting – June 24, 2017 Name of the member(s) Registered address Registered email address Folio no.
/ Client ID DP ID I / We, being the member(s) of ………………….……………………………………….
shares of the above named company, hereby  appoint Name :  ................................................................................... Email :  ..............................................................................
Address :  ......................................................................................................................................................................................    ................................................................................................................ Signature  : __________________________ or failing him / her Name :  ................................................................................... Email : ......... .....................................................................
Address :  ......................................................................................................................................................................................    ................................................................................................................ Signature  : __________________________ or failing him / her  Name :  ................................................................................... Email :  ..............................................................................
Address :   ......................................................................................................................................................................................   ... ............................................................................................................. Signature  : __________________________ Notice of the 36th Annual General Meeting Notice of the 36th Annual General MeetingInfosys Limited Infosys Limited as my / our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me / us and on my / our behalf at the 36th Annual General Meeting  of the Company, to be held on Saturday, June 24, 2017, at 3:00 p.m. IST, at the Christ University Auditorium, Hosur Road,  Bengaluru 560 029, Karnataka, India and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated  below : Resolution  number Resolution Vote (Optional, see Note 2) (Please mention no.
of shares) For Against Ordinary business 1 Adoption of financial statements  2 Declaration of dividend 3 Appointment of U.
B. Pravin Rao as a director liable to retire by rotation 4 Appointment of auditors 5 Appointment of branch auditors Signed  this ………………………………….
day of ………………………… 2017.
……………………………....…… Signature of the member ………………………...............………… Signature of the proxy holder(s) Affix revenue  stamp of not  less than   ` 1  Notes : 1.
This form, in order to be effective, should be duly stamped, completed, signed and deposited at the registered office of the Company, not less than  48 hours before the Annual General Meeting (on or before June 22, 2017 at 3:00 p.m. IST).
2.
It is optional to indicate your preference.
If you leave the ‘for’ or ‘against’ column blank against any or all of the resolutions, your proxy will be entitled  to vote in the manner as he / she may deem appropriate.
Attendance slip INFOSYS LIMITED CIN : L85110KA1981PLC013115 Electronics City, Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 100, India, Tel : 91 80 2852 0261, Fax : 91 80 2852 0362 investors@infosys.com | www.infosys.com 36th Annual General Meeting – June 24, 2017 Registered Folio no.
/ DP ID no.
/ Client ID no.
: Number of shares held :  I certify that I am a member / proxy / authorized representative for the member of the Company.
I hereby record my presence at the 36th Annual General Meeting of the Company at the Christ University Auditorium,  Hosur Road, Bengaluru 560 029, Karnataka, India, on Saturday, June 24, 2017, at 3:00 p.m. IST.
………………...........………………… ………………………...............………… Name of the member / proxy Signature of the member / proxy (in BLOCK letters) Note :  Please fill up this attendance slip and hand it over at the entrance of the meeting hall at the registration desk.
Members are requested  to bring their copies of the Annual Report to the AGM.
…………………………………….........……… Please tear here ………………………………………………………… Registered Folio no.
/ DP ID no.
/ Client ID no.
: Number of shares held : Dear member, Subject : Instructions for e-voting Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013, Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and  Administration) Rules, 2014, substituted by Companies (Management and Administration) Amendment, 2015 and Regulation  44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company is pleased to provide  e-voting facility to the members to cast their votes electronically on all resolutions set forth in the Notice convening the 36th  Annual General Meeting to be held on Saturday, June 24, 2017, at 3:00 p.m. IST.
The Company has engaged the services of  the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) to provide the e-voting facility.
The Notice is displayed on the Company's  website, www.infosys.com, and on the website of NSDL, www.nsdl.co.in.
The e-voting facility is available at the link, https://www.evoting.nsdl.com E-voting particulars EVEN (e-voting event number) User ID Password  The e-voting facility will be available during the following voting period : Commencement of e-voting End of e-voting June 19, 2017 at 9:00 a.m. IST June 23, 2017 at 5:00 p.m. IST Please read the following instructions before exercising your vote  : These details and instructions form an integral part of the Notice for the Annual General Meeting to be held on June 24, 2017.
Steps for e-voting  1.
Open the internet browser and type the following URL or scan the QR code using your smart phone  : https://www.evoting.nsdl.com 2.
Click on Shareholder-Login.
3.
If you are already registered with NSDL for e-voting, log in using your existing User ID and Password.
INFOSYS LIMITED CIN : L85110KA1981PLC013115 Electronics City, Hosur Road  Bengaluru 560 100, India T 91 80 2852 0261 F 91 80 2852 0362 investors@infosys.com  www.infosys.com *EM698700010IN* Member Name : Address : Instructions for e-voting The detailed list of instructions for e-voting is as follows : In compliance with Regulation 44, SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and Sections  108 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the related Rules, the Company is pleased to  provide e-voting facility to all its members, to enable them to cast their votes electronically.
The Company has engaged  the services of NSDL for the purpose of providing e-voting facility to all its Members.
The instructions for e-voting are as follows : 1.
Members whose email addresses are registered with the depository participant(s) will receive an email from NSDL  informing them of their user ID and password.
On receiving the email, members will need to go through the following  steps to complete the e-voting process : a.
Open the email and download the PDF file titled ‘Infosys e voting.pdf’ using your Client ID or Folio No.
as password.
The PDF file contains your user ID and password for e-voting.
Please note that this password is an initial password.
Note : Shareholders who have already registered with NSDL for e-voting will not receive the PDF file, ‘Infosys e voting.pdf’.
b.
Launch your internet browser and type the following URL : http://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
Click on Shareholder – Login.
c. Enter the user ID and password (the initial password mentioned in the e-mail sent by NSDL to shareholders  whose email addresses are registered with the company / depository participant(s) or mentioned in the e-Voting  instruction page).
Click on Login.
d. The Password change menu will appear.
Change the password to a password of your choice.
The new password  should have a minimum of 8 digits / characters or a combination thereof.
It is strongly recommended that you  do not share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password confidential.
e. The home page of e-voting will open.
Click on e-voting : Active Voting Cycles.
f. Select ‘EVEN’ (E-Voting Event Number) of Infosys Limited.
g. Now you are ready for e-voting as the ‘Cast Vote’ page opens.
h. Cast your vote by selecting the option of your choice and click on ‘Submit’, and also remember to ‘Confirm’  when prompted.
i.
On confirmation, the message, ‘Vote cast successfully’, will be displayed.
j.
After you have voted on a resolution once, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
k. Institutional members (i.e.
other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.)
are required to send a scanned copy (PDF /  JPG format) of the relevant Board resolution / authorization letter etc., together with the attested specimen  signature/s of the authorized signatory(ies) who is / are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer via email to  evoting@infosys.com, with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
2.
For members whose email IDs are not registered with depository participant(s), the following instructions may be noted : a.
The initial user ID and password is provided at the bottom of the e-voting instructions page.
b.
Please follow the instructions from b. to k. as mentioned in step 1 to cast your vote.
3.
For queries, refer to the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and e-voting user manual for members available in the  ‘Downloads’ section of www.evoting.nsdl.com.
Members can also contact Mr. Amit Vishal, Senior Manager, NSDL,  to resolve any grievances with regard to e-voting.
Tel : 022-24994360; email : AmitV@nsdl.co.in   4.
Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password.
In  such an event, you will need to go through the ‘Forgot User Details / Password’ option available on the site to reset  the password.
5.
If you are already registered with NSDL for e-voting, you can use your existing user ID and password for casting your  vote.
Note : Shareholders who have lost their login credentials can use the ‘Forgot User Details / Password?’ or ‘Physical User Reset Password?’  option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
a.
For shareholders holding shares in demat mode, user ID is the combination of DP ID + Client ID.
b.
For shareholders holding shares in physical mode, user ID is the combination of EVEN No + Folio No.
6.
The e-voting period commences on June 19, 2017 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on June 23, 2017 (5:00 p.m. IST).
During  this period, members of the Company holding shares either in physical or dematerialized form, as on the relevant  date i.e.
June 17, 2017, may cast their vote electronically.
The e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting  thereafter.
A member will not be allowed to vote again on any resolution on which a vote has already been cast.
Any  person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a member of the Company after dispatch of the Notice  convening the AGM and up to the cut-off date i.e.
June 17, 2017, may obtain his login ID and password by sending  a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
7.
The voting rights of members shall be proportionate to their share of the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as  on the relevant date i.e.
June 17, 2017.
E-voting rights cannot be exercised by a proxy, though corporate and institutional  shareholders shall be entitled to vote through their authorized representatives with proof of their authorization.