3 73rd Annual Report (Integrated)  2017-18 2,398 2,016 81,090 Total employees Total R&D spend Tata Motors Limited (in J Crores) Jaguar Land Rover (in £ Millions) FY18 highlights 31,121  EBITDA2 (in J Crores) 42,672 Total CAPEX (in J Crores) 2,94,243  Revenue1 (in J Crores) 12,21,124 50+ 2 9 Total vehicles sold Products launched Tata Motors Limited Jaguar Land Rover Commercial Vehicles3 Passenger Vehicles4 Vehicles 1 Net of excise duty 2 Reported EBITDA is defined to include the product development expenses charged to Profit and Loss (P&L), revaluation of current assets and liabilities and realised  foreign exchange (forex) and commodity hedges, but excludes the revaluation of foreign currency, Mark to Market (MTM) on forex and commodity hedges, other  income, as well as exceptional items.
3 With more than 200 variants 4 With six variants Mobility is transitioning to a new era marked by remarkable technological  innovation.
The global automobile industry is being shaped by this transition  and is further affected by urbanisation, population growth and climate change.
As the Commercial Vehicles (CV) segment is experiencing improved active  emissions control and an expanded product portfolio, the Passenger Vehicles  (PV) space is readying its format to embrace higher degrees of automation,  while moving on to non-conventional sources of energy.
The connected and  autonomous vehicle technologies are poised to help make driving safer and  cleaner in future across the world.
Building on an enabling ecosystem of sustainable technology, the zero- emission electric variant of vehicles is defining the automotive landscape of the  world.
The trend is likely to continue going forward.
At the Tata Motors Group, we stay ahead of the future.
With our continued  investments in hybrid and Battery Electric Vehicle (BEV) technologies, we are  actively working on innovation by bringing ingenuity into the areas of vehicle  engineering and development.
Our keen eye for digitisation, connectivity,  automation and advanced regulations compliance is helping us deliver exciting  innovations to our customers worldwide.
In preparation for the future, we are also transforming our organisation  from within, by building in operational efficiency using modular architecture,  managing costs and embedding the culture of innovation.
We believe that tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
As  responsible automakers, we are committed to transforming the future of  mobility and more.
FUTURE READY Contents About this Report  Tata Motors Limited (TML) has adopted the  Integrated Reporting framework prescribed by  the International Integrated Reporting Council  (IIRC).
This is the second year of our journey  on Integrated Reporting.
Through this Report,  we aspire to provide to our stakeholders an  all-inclusive depiction of the organisation’s value  creation using both financial and non-financial  resources.
The Report provides insights into  our key strategies, operating environment, the  operating risks and opportunities, governance  structure and the Company’s approach towards  long-term sustainability.
Responsibility statement In order to optimise governance oversight, risk  management and controls, the contents of this  Report have been reviewed by the Members of the  Executive Committee of TML.
Reporting principle The financial and statutory data presented in  this Report is in line with the requirements of  the Companies Act, 2013 (and the rules made  thereunder), Indian Accounting Standards, the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 and the Secretarial Standards  issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of  India.
The non-financial section of the Report is  guided by the framework of the IIRC.
Our approach to reporting Integrated Report 2 About Tata Motors 4 Our global footprint 6 Our diverse product suite 10 Product launches in FY18 13 Our future-ready portfolio 14 Our achievements during FY18  16 Key performance indicators 18 Chairman’s message 20 Leadership messages 22 Our business model 24 Our external environment 26 Our strategic framework 32 Risks and opportunities 38 The ‘Turnaround’ story 42 Keeping the momentum with Turnaround 2.0 46 Transforming today for tomorrow 50 Long-term value creation 51 Our way forward 52 Governance framework 56 Our people practices 60 For a sustainable future 65 Corporate information Statutory reports 66 Board’s Report 108 Management discussion and  analysis 150 Corporate governance 173 Business Responsibility Report Financial statements Standalone 186 Independent Auditor’s Report 192 Balance Sheet 193 Statement of Profit and Loss 194 Cash Flow Statement 195 Statement of Changes in Equity 197 Notes to Accounts Consolidated 255 Independent Auditor’s Report 260 Balance Sheet 261 Statement of Profit and Loss 262 Cash Flow Statement 264 Statement of Changes in Equity 266 Notes to Accounts 346 Summarised Statements  348 Financial Statistics 350  Subsidiary Companies Financial   Highlights 2017-18 354 Notice Materiality and scope of the Integrated  Report This Report includes information that is material to  our stakeholders and it presents an overview of our  businesses and associated activities that help in short-,  medium- and long-term value creation.
We have also  presented information around our strategic approach  towards the material issues.
We have presented the information on the Tata Motors  Group in a fair and balanced manner.
Assurance statement Assurance on financial statements has been provided  by independent auditors BSR & Co. and non-financial  statements by TUV India Private Limited.
The  assurance report issued by TUV India Private Limited is  available on our website www.tatamotors.com →18Chairman’s message →46 Transforming today  for tomorrow →60 For a sustainable   future Forward-looking statements Certain statements in this Report regarding our business operations may constitute forward-looking statements.
These include all statements other than statements of historical fact, including  those regarding the financial position, business strategy, management plans and objectives for future operations.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as ‘believes’,  ‘estimates’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘plans’, ‘outlook’ and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.
Forward- looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and that may be incapable of being realised, and as such, are not intended  to be a guarantee of future results, but constitute our current expectations based on reasonable assumptions.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking  statements due to various events, risks, uncertainties and other factors.
We neither assume any obligation nor intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of  new information, future events or otherwise.
The ‘Turnaround’ story →38 2 About Tata Motors Group Vision As a high-performance organisation, we are, by FY19: • Among the top three in global CV and domestic PV • Achieving sustainable financial performance • Delivering exciting innovations Mission We innovate mobility  solutions with passion to  enhance quality of life Values Integrity  Teamwork  Accountability  Customer Focus  Excellence  Speed Tata Motors Group (Tata Motors) is a $45 Billion organisation and a part of the $100 Billion Tata group.
It is a leading global automobile  manufacturing company.
Its diverse portfolio includes an extensive range of cars, sports utility vehicles, trucks, buses and defence  vehicles.
Tata Motors is India’s largest and the only Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) offering an extensive range of integrated,  smart and e-mobility solutions.
We have operations in the UK, South Korea, Thailand, South Africa, Indonesia, Austria and Slovakia  through a strong global network of 97 subsidiaries and nine associate companies, four Joint Ventures (JVs) and two joint operations,  including Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) in the UK and Tata Daewoo in South Korea.
Our brands Each Tata Motors brand, though unique in its own right, speaks in a common voice.
The Tata Motors brands are an expression of the Tata Motors Group’s promise to  connect aspirations, bringing people’s dreams to life through path-breaking product  development and engineering capabilities.
Tata Motors Limited (TML) is India’s  market leader in CV and among the top  four in the PV market.
Our brand promise In FY18, ‘Connecting Aspirations’ was  chosen to define Tata Motors’ promise as  a brand that understands its customers  and imagines mobility in all its forms.
The  expression captures the personality of  Tata Motors as an intelligent, perceptive  and innovative brand, delivering mobility  solutions that are designed to meet the  aspirations of people across the world.
TATA MOTORS GROUP TATA BRANDS TATA MOTORS LTD. TMF HOLDING S LTD. TATA DAEWOO COMMERCIAL VEHICLES CO. LTD. JAGUAR AND LAND ROVER JAGUAR LAND ROVER AUTOMOTIVE PLC 3 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), is Britain’s largest  automobile company engaged in designing,  manufacturing and selling some of the  world’s best-known premium cars.
The  two iconic brands of JLR are Jaguar, which  includes a portfolio of luxury sedans, sports  cars and luxury performance Sport-Utility  Vehicles (SUVs), and Land Rover, with a  range of premium all-terrain vehicles.
JLR  has made its mark in the Chinese automotive  market with Chery Jaguar Land Rover  Automotive Co. Ltd. (CJLR), a 50:50 JV  between Chery Automobile and JLR.
Mission We are entering the largest, fastest industrial revolution ever, driven by decarbonisation, air quality, digitisation, connectivity,  automation and technology.
Against this backdrop, we see endless exciting opportunities to create a world in which we will live  safer, better, more connected and mobile lives.
PIONEERING, INTEGRITY, EXCELLENCE, UNITY, RESPONSIBILITY Our most valuable asset is our people; nothing is more important  than their safety and wellbeing MORE GREAT   PRODUCTS   FASTER ENGAGED  PASSIONATE   PEOPLE TRANSFORMED   COST  STRUCTURE BUSINESS   EXCELLENCE GLOBAL  GROWTH CUSTOMER   FIRST EXPERIENCES  CUSTOMERS  LOVE, FOR LIFE ENVIRONMENTAL   INNOVATION ONE COMPANY PURPOSE TWO GLOBAL ICONIC BRANDS THREE PASSIONS FOUR   FOUNDATIONS FIVE CORE   VALUES Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company (TDCV) is South Korea’s  second largest manufacturer of medium- and heavy-duty trucks.
Formerly a part of the Daewoo Group, the Company was acquired  by Tata Motors in March 2004.
TDCV is enhancing its reach across  overseas markets with exports to ~60 countries.
TMF Holdings Limited (TMFHL) is a Core Investment Company (CIC),  which ensures funding of equity or debt requirement of all subsidiary  companies, including Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) and   Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (TMFSL).
The objective of  TMFL is to become a preferred finance provider for the customers   of Tata Motors’ dealers.
4 Our global footprint Tata Motors 1  JLR, Halewood, UK 2  JLR, Solihull, UK 3  JLR, Castle Bromwich, UK 4  JLR, Warwick Manufacturing Group, UK 5  JLR, Itatiaia, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  6  JLR, Graz, Austria   (Contract manufacturing; operational 2018) 7  JLR, Changshu, China 8  JLR, Nitra, Slovakia 9  JLR Pune, Maharashtra Jaguar Land Rover Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities 1  TML, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand 2  TML, Pantnagar, Uttarakhand 3  TML, Dharwad, Karnataka 4  TML, Pune, Maharashtra 5  TML, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 6  TML, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 7  Tata Marcopolo, Dharwad, Karnataka 8 9 5 7 8 1 1 3 2 1 4 5 6 7 6 5 Tata Daewoo 1  TDVC, Gunsan, South Korea 6 7 TML and JLR have manufacturing locations across the world.
These  manufacturing operations are supported by a vast network of design and  innovation centres spanning four continents.
These state-of-the-art facilities  have helped both TML and JLR grow their commercial presence in diverse  geographies and for different product segments.
Map not to scale 9 5 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Our centres for   innovation and design  1  Whitley, Global Headquarters, Engineering &  Design, UK 2  Coventry, Special Vehicle Operations  Technical Centre, UK 3  Gaydon, UK National Sales Centre, Design  and Engineering Centre and Test Centre UK 4  Warwick Manufacturing Group Advanced  Research Centre, UK and Tata Motors  European Technical Centre (TMETC) 5  Jamshedpur, India 6  Pune, India 7  Gunsan, South Korea 8  Portland, US 9  Trilix, Italy Total Tata Motors Group sales in FY18 1 After inter-segment elimination 2 After intra-segment elimination *These revenues are gross of excise duty Revenues – Automotive operations  ( J in Crores) Tata and other brand vehicles   JLR Total 2  66,620.38  226,964.86  293,453.33  Segment-wise revenues ( J in Crores) Automotive operations   Others  Total 1 293,453.33   3,252.36  295,409.34 43,394 59,593 49,68146,393 44,992 51,356 Geography-wise  Revenues*  FY18   ( J in Crores) 20.2%   16.8%    14.7%    17.4%  15.2%     15.7% ChinaUK US Rest of Europe Rest of  the world India Our dealer/retailer networks (As on March 31, 2018) TML JLR 746 PV sales touchpoints 576 PV service touchpoints 19,972 CV retailers 1,571 Retailers/dealers Tata and   other brands TML 219,274 PVs 456,552 CVs *Including CJLR   JLR 614,309 Total Retail Sales 108,759 129,319 133,592 150,116 92,523 JLR Geography-  wise   Retail (%) 21.75% 24.44% 15.06% 21.05% 17.70% Europe China* Overseas North  America UK 6 Our diverse product suite Tata Motors LimitedHATCHBACKSSEDANSSUVs NEXON SUMO GOLD TIAGO BOLT HEXA SAFARI STORME Passenger Vehicles (PV) TIGOR  ZEST GENX NANO 7 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 SMALL COMMERCIAL  VEHICLES   (SCV) & PICK-UPS (PU) PASSENGER   TRANSPORTATION INTERMEDIATE AND LIGHT   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES (ILCV) MEDIUM AND HEAVY   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES (MHCV) CARGO RANGE CONSTRUCK RANGE ACE RANGE YODHA RANGEXL RANGE Commercial Vehicles (CV) COACHES  URBAN BUSES  CONTRACT CARRIAGES  VANS ULTRA RANGE SFC & LP RANGE  8 Our diverse product suite Jaguar E-PACE I-PACE XF F-TYPE F-PACE XE XF SPORTBRAKE  XJ 9 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Land Rover RANGE ROVER RR SPORT VELAR EVOQUE DISCOVERY DISCOVERY SPORT 10 Product launches in FY18 TIAGO XTA (AMT)  TIAGO WIZZ TATA NEXON HEXA DOWNTOWN, URBAN EDITION TIGOR AMT VARIANTS TIGOR EV Tata Motors Limited 11 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 ACE MEGA XL MAGIC EXPRESS SIGNA 4923.S ULTRA AMT BUS TIGOR XM VARIANT  12 Jaguar and Land Rover Product launches in FY18 JAGUAR  XEL JAGUAR XF SPORTBRAKE JAGUAR E-PACE JAGUAR F-PACE SVR RANGE ROVER AND RANGE ROVER SPORT LAND ROVER REBORN RANGE ROVER SV COUPÉ JLR’s long-wheelbase  XE model produced  exclusively in China Limited edition, hand-built An addition to the PACE family with a  five-star Euro NCAP rating, underlining  the compact SUV’s safety credentials JAGUAR E-TYPE REBORN Jaguar celebrates 50 years  of the iconic E-Type Offering from JLR Classic JAGUAR I-PACE The world’s first fully electric premium SUV With a plug-in hybrid powertrain  option, this model offers customers  31 miles of electric-only range and a  fuel economy of up to 91.1 mpg Joins the award-winning XF saloon  in its tenth year of production  Jaguar’s ultimate performance SUV,  also considered as one of the safest 13 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Our future-ready portfolio Tata Motors is prepared for the future   with its promising portfolio, addressing  various product and technology drivers.
These drivers range from changing  standards on emissions – Bharat Stage VI  (BS VI) – safety norms, fuel economy, rated  loads, megatrends such as the Autonomous,  Connected, Electric, Shared (ACES)  phenomenon and strategic product offerings.
TML ’s upcoming offerings The key leading-edge powertrain technologies that TML is prepared  with include: • New-gen family of powertrains with best-in-class fuel efficiency,  performance, durability and reliability.
The powertrains have  multi-fuel capability, including CNG/LPG, ethanol, bio-diesel and  bio-CNG • Advanced powertrains (xEVs) for Tigor EV and Diesel Hybrid Bus,  India’s first fuel cell bus  • Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) system for its Medium to  Heavy Commercial Vehicles (MHCV), helping adhere to BS IV  standards, while investing in BS VI powertrains • Range of manual and automatic transmissions for a wide gamut  of applications, including reliable, rugged and efficient drivelines TML ’s range of Electric Vehicles (EVs) include IRIS EV, Magic EV,  12 m Urban Electric Bus, Tiago EV, Tigor EV and RaceMo EV, along  with the EVision Concept Electric Vehicle showcased at the Geneva  International Motor Show in March 2018.
JLR’s future product line-up Jaguar’s Portfolio The XJ, Jaguar’s flagship luxury saloon car, offers unprecedented  power and performance in the form of the 186 mph XJR575.
Further  demonstrating a long-term commitment to the Chinese market, the all- new XEL saloon – with an additional 100mm added to the wheelbase – is  the second Jaguar product engineered exclusively for China, following  the larger XFL, and is the fourth JLR model to be manufactured in China.
The XEL delivers even greater interior comfort for rear-seat passengers.
• I-PACE, the all-Electric Vehicle from Jaguar, set a precedent in the  industry.
Two electric motors deliver 400 PS, all-wheel drive traction  and 0-60 mph in just 4.5 seconds.
The 90kWh lithium-ion battery  gives a range of up to 480 km (Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicle  Test Procedure (WLTP) cycle), while the 100kW DC charging can  deliver 80% charge (from 0%) in just 40 minutes.
Land Rover’s product suite • Range Rover and Range Rover Sport both offer customers 31 miles of  electric-only range and fuel economy of up to 91.1 mpg through Land  Rover’s plug-in hybrid powertrain option.
This exceptional, new hybrid  powertrain, a Range Rover Sport P400e, became the first SUV to  ascend the famously challenging 45°, 999-step staircase to Heaven’s  Gate rock arch in China.
• Range Rover Velar was launched in 2017 and was recognised as  the World Design of the Year.
It is a midsized luxury SUV known for  its safety, design and technology.
Velar received the five-star Euro  NCAP rating and the independent safety body noted its outstanding  performance in the severe side barrier and side pole crash tests.
• A Land Rover Discovery towed a 110-tonne road train along a   16 km test route in the heat and dust of Australia’s Northern Territory,  proving its versatility and position as the world’s best family SUV  in the most extreme conditions.
The compact SUVs, Land Rover  Discovery Sport and Range Rover Evoque, offer greater performance  with the Ingenium petrol engines.
1373 rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) 14 April Our achievements during FY18  → TML handed over the first 117 of the 500 new  next-generation low-floor urban city buses to  Ivory Coast.
→ TAL Manufacturing Solutions, a subsidiary of  TML, launched the TAL BRABO robot in two  variants; the TAL BRABO is a ‘Made in India’  solution.
→ TML announced its readiness in implementing  the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) and  Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) technologies  for BS IV-compliant engines in its range of CV.
→ Two ground-breaking JLR vehicles – the Range  Rover Velar and the Jaguar I-PACE Concept –  debuted in China at the Shanghai Motor Show.
Jaguar F-PACE received the prestigious  World Car of the Year and World Car  Design of the Year titles at the 2017  World Car Awards.
May TML won the HR Innovation of the Year  award for outstanding contribution to  skill development at the   Asia Pacific Excellence Awards.
June  → TML commenced trials of its Tata Ultra  ELECTRIC 9m bus in Chandigarh.
→ JLR announced the ‘Lighting up Lives’  collaboration with sustainability experts  ClimateCare to bring safe and clean light to  1.2 Million people in East Africa, replacing the  hazardous kerosene fuel.
→ InMotion, JLR’s mobility services business,  announced a £25 Million investment in Lyft, the  fastest-growing ride-share company   in the US.
JLR engineer Dr. Amy Rimmer won  Autocar magazine’s Rising Star award  for British women in the car industry.
July  → TATA TIAGO, the first TML car to embody the  Company’s impACT design philosophy, crossed  the 1 Lakh bookings milestone in the Indian  market.
→ TML showcased the country’s first bio-CNG bus  at the bio-energy programme, Urja Utsav.
→ TML partnered with the Pilipinas Taj Autogroup  Inc. as the official distributor of Tata Motors CV in  the Philippines.
→ JLR confirmed the newest member of its  Jaguar PACE family, the E-PACE, which will  be manufactured on two continents to satisfy  expected customer demand for the compact  SUV.
→ JLR opened its Chinese engine plant as part of  its ¥10.9 Billion JV with Chery Automobile Ltd. August  → TML adopted a new corporate brand identity   ‘Connecting Aspirations’.
September  → JLR announced plans to collaborate with robotics  researchers at Harvard University as part of an  effort to develop next-generation technologies  to create super-human strength in the factory of  future.
→ JLR revealed the first voice-activated Artificial  Intelligence (AI) based connected steering wheel  of the future – Sayer – at London.
This is a step  towards the FUTURE-TYPE Concept, JLR’s  advanced research project for on-demand cars in  2040 and beyond.
15 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 October  → TML showcased the new safety  technology, Electronic Stability Control  (ESCsmart™), for the range of PRIMA and  SIGNA trucks at an event in Chennai.
→ TML ’s Grahak Seva Mahotsav, or National  Customer Care Day, witnessed over  16,000 customers visiting daily.
TML  initiated the Grahak Samvaad campaign  to educate more than 8,000 customers  in ten days.
November  → TML signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) with Energy  Efficiencies Services Limited (EESL) to  achieve energy and resource conservation,  by implementing various energy  efficiency initiatives across the Company’s  manufacturing facilities in India.
→ JLR participated in the UK’s first road tests  for autonomous and connected vehicles,  making intelligent vehicles a reality.
JLR Classic enjoyed a double victory at  the 2017 Octane Awards  held in London.
The ‘Legends Continued’ Jaguar XKSS  variation was crowned 2017 Car of  the Year and JLR Classic received the  Manufacturer Heritage Collection   of the Year title.
TML Nexon received the prestigious   Best Design Award of this Year by  Autoportal.
December February March  → TML rolled out the first batch of the Tigor EV  from its Sanand facility in Gujarat.
→ Tata Ace crossed the important milestone of   20 Lakh vehicle sales on road.
→ In JLR’s largest ever volunteering activity,  more than 150 employees participated in the  Company’s first ‘Mapathon’ event, plotting roads,  rivers and buildings across a sprawling area  in the Kurigram district of Bangladesh using  satellite imagery.
TML conferred with the prestigious  National Energy Conservation Award  for its Jamshedpur plant, by the  Government of India.
TML Starbus Hybrid received   Special Recognition at the Apollo CV  Awards 2018.
January  → TML launched the branded Tata Motors Genuine  Oil exclusively for Tata Motors CV range in the  Indian market.
→ JLR confirmed its plans to open a software  engineering centre and create 150 jobs in  Shannon, Republic of Ireland, in 2018.
JLR was named the largest automotive  vehicle and engine manufacturer in  the UK in 2017.
→ As part of a unique initiative to promote ‘Skill  India Mission’, Tata Motors and Automotive Skills  Development Council (ASDC) certified the first  batch of trainees under their collaborative skills  development and certification programme.
→ The indigenously-developed Tata Starbus Hybrid  Electric Bus with full low-floor configuration was  formally handed over to Mumbai Metropolitan  Region Development Authority (MMRDA) at the  launch ceremony in Mumbai.
→ JLR and Waymo announced a long-term strategic  partnership for developing the world’s first  premium self-driving EV for Waymo’s driverless  transportation service.
16 Key performance indicators  Financial KPIs (Consolidated) Total income Net profit   (after minority interest)(` in Crores) (` in Crores) 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 296,298 275,247 278,546 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 9,091 7,557  11,678 Operating profits (` in Crores) 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 36,873 36,912 41,776 Earnings per share (after minority interest) Basic (`) 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 26.46 21.94 34.25  17 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Total debt Net debt equity ratio(` in Crores) 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 88,950 78,604  69,360  2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 0.42 1.35 0.88 Net cash from operations (` in Crores) 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 23,857 30,199  37,900   18 Chairman’s Message The commitment to growth,  disciplined capital allocation  and shareholder returns  are shared goals for Jaguar  Land Rover and Tata Motors.
Natarajan Chandrasekaran Non-Executive Chairman Chairman’s message Dear Shareholders, It is my privilege to write to you and present the Annual  Report for 2017-18 as the Chairman of the Board at Tata  Motors and its British subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover.
This  year, we mark the 150th year of the foundation of the Tata  Group and Tata Motors has been an integral part of the  Tata Group’s journey of industrializing India.
Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover are both iconic  companies and brands.
We are together, preparing  ourselves to leverage growth potential of the Indian  economy, while facing the headwinds of uncertainty due to  market cyclicality, Brexit and the decline in diesel demand.
The global automobile industry is undergoing a structural  shift due to technology led business and market  disruption, evolving consumer preferences, market  cyclicality, regulatory overhauls and geopolitical  uncertainty.
The ACES (Autonomous, Connected,  Electric, Shared) phenomenon is likely to transform  mobility and influence consumer preferences  going forward.
Some of the key operating markets  for the group are faced with diverse market  dynamics requiring specific interventions to ensure  sustainable profitable growth.
North America is  nearing the peak of the demand cycle and growth  is likely to remain muted in the near term.
While  regulatory restrictions on diesel, market cyclicality,  Brexit and taxation in UK pose specific challenges  in Europe and UK, the key Asian markets of China  and India offer high growth opportunities led  19 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 by GDP growth, strong domestic consumption and  favourable demographic support.
India’s automotive industry is the fourth-largest in  the world (by production), and the annual production  in FY 2017-18 grew sharply at 14.8% yoy.
This sector  is well positioned for growth, given low rates of auto  penetration, rising incomes and increasing affordability.
In addition, we expect to see government policy  supporting auto growth through lower excise duties  and the National Electric Mobility Mission Plan 2020.
Altogether, by 2026 India is expected to be the third  largest automotive market in the world.
The Indian  auto industry is not without its challenges, including  adapting to a structural shift towards electric vehicles  (EVs), shared mobility options with ride-sharing  permeating the urban landscape, a pan-India shift  to Bharat Stage-VI emission by 2020 and enhanced  safety norms.
As such, we will have to be more agile  than ever and work towards being future-ready.
I am encouraged to note that Jaguar Land Rover  continues to set new standards for engineering  excellence with the introduction of new automotive  technologies and advanced design.
This is reflected by  the multiple awards for its various models.
Jaguar Land  Rover continues its investment for growth, launched  exciting new products and landmark partnerships  during the year.
The company also announced its  electrification roadmap to address diesel challenges.
The company will focus on optimization, drive operating  leverage and manage capital spends prudently to offset  the impact of headwinds facing the business.
Tata Motors delivered a strong performance this year.
Within the commercial vehicles segment, key gaps were  identified and addressed through modular product designs.
In the passenger car segment, your company focused  on improving customer experience and providing “best  in class” features, which is driving changes in the brand  perception.
The company will continue to focus on product  development, network expansion and cost reduction.
The commitment to growth, disciplined capital allocation  and shareholder returns are shared goals for Jaguar  Land Rover and Tata Motors.
I am confident that both  shall continue to work towards delivering Competitive,  Consistent and Cash Accretive Growth in the coming years.
I would like to thank our employees as well as our  extended partners, including dealers, suppliers and other  stakeholders for their hard work and commitment in this  critical but exciting phase of your company.
Finally, I thank you for your continued trust, confidence  and support.
Best Regards,     N Chandrasekaran  Mumbai, May 23, 2018 We will have to be more agile than ever   and work towards being future-ready.
20 Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director, Tata Motors Dear Shareholders,  I am excited to present the annual performance report of Tata  Motors standalone business for FY18 on a much more positive  note than a year ago.
For the year gone by, I would regard the BSIV transition as the  most difficult part of our journey, eventually dampening the first  quarter results.
This coupled with the carry forward impact of  weak financials from FY17 was enough to bring a sense of urgency  within the organisation, building up to the launch of ‘Business  Turnaround’ in June 2017.
The aggressive ‘Turnaround’ plan was  approved by the Board in June 2017 and the organisation shifted  gears with an immediate effect.
The next nine months of FY18  saw the organisation  demonstrating a single-minded focus on execution of three  objectives - sales enhancement, rigorous cost reduction and  supply debottlenecking.
Back-to-back product launches, intensified stakeholder  engagement, production ramp-up,  effectiveness of product  line function enabling higher empowerment and accountability  within business units all paved the way for a comprehensive  implementation of the ‘Turnaround’ plan.
ImpACT projects, our strategic priorities, which were seeded  in FY17 as part of the ‘transformation journey’ bore fruit,  contributing to 50% of the total cost reduction achieved  in FY18, in addition to structurally improving the fundamental  process backbone for long-term sustainability of the performance  improvement.
The new taxation regime of Goods and Services Tax  (GST) was well-managed within the timelines and was capitalised  as a value creation opportunity rather than a mere compliance  milestone.
Overall, the ‘Turnaround’ led to outstanding results with the business  reporting higher volume growth, stronger improvement in underlying  profitability, and positive free cash flow.
The market share in CV  increased by 70 bps to 45.1%, and by 60 bps to 5.7% in PV.
Our  standalone net revenues increased by 31.6% to H58,457 Crore for  the 12 months to March 31, 2018 and our standalone profit before  exceptional items and tax for the year came at H20 Crore, compared  with a loss of H2,015 Crore in the previous year.
Further, this was the year that gave wings to our aspirations in  the EV space, well demonstrated by some of the industry-first  achievements - winning prestigious order of Tigor EV from EESL and  garnering majority share in the e-bus contracts, winning 6 out of 10  cities.
We fully recognise that this is just the beginning and to deliver  competitive, consistent, cash-accretive growth, the ‘Turnaround’  approach must continue.
In FY19, we have announced the launch of  ‘Turnaround 2.0’ with three clear objectives viz.
‘win decisively’ in CV,  ‘win sustainably’ in PV and embed a culture of ‘Turnaround’ deep into  the organisation.
I am confident that as a team we will draw strength from our strong  performance in FY18, and commit ourselves to deliver ‘Turnaround  2.0’ to further improve our performance in FY19.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for your  confidence in our abilities.
With your continued support, I am  optimistic of a brighter future for  Tata Motors, reclaiming  its pride of  place in the coming years.
Best Regards, Guenter Butschek  Mumbai, May 23, 2018 TML CEO and Managing Director’s message We fully recognise that this is just the  beginning and to deliver competitive,  consistent, cash-accretive growth, the  ‘Turnaround’ approach must continue.
21 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Professor Dr. Ralf D. Speth   (KBE, FREng) CEO, Jaguar Land Rover Dear Shareholders,  This year JLR celebrates 10 years of Tata ownership.
Since 2008,  we have grown into a global player in the premium market.
We are  proud to be Britain’s largest automotive manufacturer, respected  for our outstanding award-winning products.
JLR delivered a solid business and financial performance in FY18.
We increased sales volumes, grew revenue to £25.8 Billion and  sustained profitability.
Our global retail sales rose 1.7% to 614,309.
Growing demand in  China and the US offset weaker conditions in the UK and   mainland Europe.
Our Products  Today, JLR offers the most luxurious and most sustainable  product portfolio in our history.
Jaguar expanded its portfolio to include the E-PACE, a new  compact SUV.
We introduced the Chinese market XEL, the  beautiful XF Sportbrake and the F-Pace SVR, Jaguar’s ultimate  performance SUV.
The launch of the Jaguar I-PACE, the world’s first fully electric  premium SUV, is a technological game-changer.
Land Rover attracted new customers with the new Discovery and  revealed the 18 Model Year Range Rover and Range Rover Sport,  both with plug-in hybrid versions.
The limited edition Range  Rover SV Coupe takes our flagship brand to new heights.
Among the 200 awards won this year, the newly introduced Velar,  the fourth Range Rover model, was named ‘World Car Design of the  Year’.
Our Technologies It is through innovation that JLR will become a true   technology-driven company.
Our future modular architecture will bring flexibility and greater  economies of scale, offering our customers a full choice of  electrified vehicle options, as well as clean petrol and diesel.
From  2020, all new Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles will be electrified.
We are working tirelessly to improve the efficiencies of our engine  technologies, while simultaneously moving to ‘ACE’ (Autonomous,  Connected, Electrified technologies).
Our People At JLR, our primary asset is our people.
We are committed to  attracting and retaining the best people and our 43,000-strong  workforce has continued to grow, with recruitment starting for our  new plant in Nitra, Slovakia.
Our External Environment As a company operating globally, we favour a policy and trading  environment that protects tariff-free, fair and frictionless trade.
While we respect the democratic decision of the UK people, JLR  is seeking clarification and certainty on the terms of Britain’s  withdrawal from the European Union.
It is of paramount importance  that as many benefits as possible are preserved.
Demand has been undermined in Europe by consumer uncertainty  over diesel, particularly in the UK where diesel cars face unfair tax  treatment.
Our Future A world of sustainable mobility will offer significant economic, social  and health benefits: zero emissions vehicles, zero congestion and  zero accidents.
We are committed to recycling and zero emissions at every stage.
All of our cars offer greater connectivity than ever before, and we  are already testing fully autonomous vehicles on UK roads.
We will continue to invest in new products, technology and capacity  to drive long-term profitable growth.
As we embark on the next phase of our strategy, let me reaffirm our  pledge: that we will continue to produce and deliver vehicles that create  experiences customers will love, for life.
Best Regards, Professor Dr. Ralf D. Speth  Mumbai, May 23, 2018 JLR CEO’s message JLR delivered a solid business and financial  performance in FY18.
We increased sales  volumes, grew revenue to £25.8 Billions  and sustained profitability.
22 Key inputsCapitals engaged Our business model Financial Capital The funds and monetary resources needed  to establish and operate the business.
The  business raises funds through a mix of debt  and equity and optimises its debt based on  market conditions.
Capital expenditure (Consolidated) K42,672 Crores Research and Development (R&D) R&D investment People strength (Consolidated) 81,090   Employees Employee cost (Consolidated) K30,300 Crores Natural resources used Manufactured Capital The production facilities and equipment for  designing, prototyping and manufacturing  vehicles.
Intellectual Capital Research and Development (R&D),  innovation, design and engineering,   which form the basis of our product  development efforts.
Human Capital The collective skills, experience and  expertise of our people, which drive our  production process.
Social & Relationship Capital Stable and sustainable relationships with  value-chain partners and customers are  indispensable for business continuity.
Our  relations with communities ensure our  social licence to operate.
Natural Capital The automotive business is dependent  on multiple natural resource based raw  materials.
At the same time, there are  several impacts of the business activities  on nature.
Manufacturing assets Key manufacturing units  *except the facility in Slovakia, which will be  functional from December 2018 6   TML  Consumption of raw materials  K1,73,371 Crores 8*   JLR  K2,398 Crores    TML K21.44 Crores  TML CSR spend £2,016 Millions    JLR 2  JLR Innovation Hubs in Europe and the US £10.5 Millions    JLR 4.91 GJ   TML 2.11 MWh  JLR 3    TML India (Pune), the UK and South Korea R&D centres Community investments Energy consumption per vehicle  Our partners  Growth drivers • Strong industry know-how • State-of-the-art   manufacturing sites • Consistent innovation • Talent development and retention • Disciplined capital allocation • Robust risk management  • Strong supplier and customer relationships 4,931 Sales and service touchpoints for PV  and CV businesses of TML 1,571  Strong dealer   network of JLR 23 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) Outcomes Impact on stakeholders Output Business value chain Designing new products and solutions  Judicious investment in technology and  R&D, together with an understanding of  market trends and customer needs.
S1 and S4 Strategic focus areas linked to our business processes Shareholders  With profitable growth  and financial returns,  we strive to deliver  sustainable returns for  our shareholders.
More on Page 16 Customers  It is our endeavour  to achieve market  leadership by delivering  products that meet  the evolving needs of  customers on safety,  inside-car environment,  eco-friendliness and  future technologies.
More on Page 50 Employees  We strive to attract,  develop, retain and  reward talent and build  a diverse workforce to  draw requisite skills  to drive our future  strategy needs.
More on Page 56 Suppliers and dealers  We engage closely  with our value-chain  partners to develop  their skills and mutually  benefit by creating  efficient processes  and consolidating our  supply chains.
More on Page 50 Communities   We engage with the  communities we  operate in and enhance  their quality of lives  through technology- enabled interventions  in the domains of  health, education and  livelihood development,  among others.
More on Page 60 Winning new businesses  Offering value through strong  engineering capability, global footprint  and innovative solutions.
S2, S3 and S4 Sourcing materials and products  Moving towards consolidation of   supply chain for efficiency and reducing  the time for design-to-delivery.
S3 and S5 Efficient manufacturing  Efficient and cost-effective processes  that make higher levels of capacity  utilisation possible.
S5 Delivering high-quality products  Meeting customers’ needs and  earning trust.
S1 and S4 Commitment towards sustainability  Intensifying our focus on developing  alternative fuel engine technologies   for a cleaner and greener environment.
S1 and S5 New technologies developed LTIFR TML ranked second in J D Power  2017 India Customer Service Index  (CSI) Study JLR Retailers invested £ 3 Billions  in Arch sites, a customer experience  game changer Reduction in specific   water consumption   Reduction in specific GHG emissions (%) CSR beneficiaries Diversity  Patents granted Designs registered TML – India’s  first bio-methane  engine for buses JLR – CloudCar  and Connected  Car technology TML – 3% women  workforce JLR – 24 % increase  in the proportion of  women in workforce  since 2014 66,620  TML Vehicles sold (Consolidated) 12,21,124 80 TML 0.08 TML 15.91% TML (y-o-y) 4% TML (y-o-y) 39% JLR (since 2007) 46% JLR (since 2007) 6,44,000 TML 1.2 Million JLR 23 TML 2,26,965   JLR Revenue (in H Crores) Vehicles Manufactured  PVs, CVs, SUVs, EVs   More on Page 6-12 >> 1 2 3 4 5 6 S1 Focus on new product development S2 Expanding international business S3 Mitigating cyclicality S4 Customer focus S5 Organisational efficiency and cost management  More on Page 26 >EBIT (in H Crores) 11,846 Growth in PBT 20% PBT  (in H Crores) 11,155 (Consolidated) 24 Varying demand Several markets around the world have  been posting record levels of vehicle  demand in the last few years, in the  aftermath of recovery from the global  recession.
But this demand varies from  region to region.
Demand in the US has  plateaued; the European market is on  tenterhooks as there still is a lack of clarity  on the impact of Brexit, added with diesel  uncertainty, UK taxation and market  cyclicality.
On the back of a strong GDP  growth and a strong demographic support,  along with consistent consumer demand,  the Chinese automotive market is growing.
During 2017-18, the new car market in  the UK declined -5.1%, with registrations  by business, private and fleet buyers all  being down by -29.8%, -7.1% and -2.1%,  respectively.
Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) The volume of car sales in the US fell 1.8%  for the first time in eight years in 2017. money.cnn.com/2018/01/03/news/companies/auto-sales-fall In 2017, China’s Light Vehicle (LV) market  rose by 2.3% or 0.63 Million vehicles  to a record 27.6 Million unit.
Although  positive, this was the slowest growth in  over a decade.
automotiveworld.com/news-releases/chinas-new-vehicle- market-prospects-2022-automotive-world-report/ The Government of India’s support  for infrastructure growth and a y-o-y  increase in India’s industrial production  at 4.4% (in March 2018) are all  supporting the strong demand.
https:/ /dea.gov.in/sites/default/files/MER-April%202018.pdf What does it mean for Tata Motors?
A robust global strategy is in place  to navigate through the challenging  operating context.
New technologies and  return on investments  from IT Globally, automobile manufacturers  are making huge investments in R&D  for innovation such as autonomous  driving and electrification that represent  a huge opportunity to change a hyper- competitive playing field.
However,  the global automotive industry is  moving towards ACES vehicles and  this technology shift requires huge  investments from development to testing.
The outcomes of these investments  remain largely undetermined.
As a result,  today’s business models would have to  change to capture a reasonable return on  investments in new technologies.
An important factor that will determine the  success of these innovations will be their  affordability.
In 2017, the automotive industry’s R&D  expenditures are estimated to amount to   ~$98.2 Billion.
https:/ /www.statista.com/statistics/566098/research- development-spending-automotive-industry-worldwide/  What does it mean for Tata Motors?
Stepping up our investments in research  and innovation will offer a number of  opportunities for our businesses.
At the  same time, we will have to be conscious of  maintaining our cost leadership in   the market.
Changing   emission norms Emission norms are growing stricter, with  pollution control being the need of the hour.
Further, those such as BS VI are on the  anvil earlier than expected.
This changing  regulatory landscape is adding pressure on  automobile manufacturers to rethink the  way forward to be able to produce upgraded,  rules-compliant vehicles.
The Government of India has decided to  switch over directly from BS IV (equivalent  to EU 4) to BS IV (equivalent to EU 6) auto  fuel by April 1, 2020.
China requires all LVs to adhere to tougher  new China VIa emission standards by the  middle of 2020 and China VIb emission  standards by 2023.
What does it mean for Tata Motors?
Tata Motors has been gearing up for the  change though the right technology adoption,  manufacturing innovations, testing and  validation process improvements.
Overall, it  is fully prepared for a seamless transition   to the new regime.
Brexit    Significant uncertainty exists in the business  world, with respect to how the relationship  between the UK and the European Union  (EU) will unfold.
As a result, substantial doubt  prevails over the political and economic future  of the UK and the legal structure applicable to  companies that have a business presence in  the country.
The ongoing transitional period  ends on March 29, 2019.
What does it mean for Tata Motors?
Pending the determination of the terms of  the future relationship between the UK and  the EU, uncertainty over the former’s right to  access the single EU market, EU’s customs  area and global trade deals may have an  impact on our European business.
Our external environment With the kind of presence Tata Motors has across multiple geographies, it has to be cognisant of the global as well as regional trends.
25 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Changing consumer  preferences    Safety, environmental sustainability,  brand credibility and cost are the major  factors that help determine whether the  customers will accept the technology  value additions in our products.
The UK recorded more than 135,000  new registrations of plug-in cars by the  end of January 2018, demonstrating a  possible shift in consumer preferences.
KPMG’s Autonomous Vehicles Readiness Index 2017-18 What does it mean for Tata Motors?
Product innovation at Tata Motors is  increasingly integrating cost-efficient  technologies with the highest standards  of safety in the PV segment and focussing  on higher levels of process improvement  in the CV segment.
Tata Motors is  improving its brand image to connect  with the new-age customer through  experiential marketing, revamping its  network coverage and leveraging its  present architecture to expand its product  portfolio, among others.
At the same time,  JLR is focussing on customer aspirations  of environment-friendly EVs, shared  mobility and autonomous vehicles.
Emergence   of on-demand  transportation    There is a growing trend of transportation- on-demand services in many countries  across the world.
Shared mobility may  also cause the consumers to rethink on  vehicle ownership and opt for its lower,  usage-based cost model.
Customer  preferences continue to shift towards this,  leading to increased activity in fleet and  load aggregations.
According to a recent survey in the Asia- Pacific region, millennials are 49% more  likely to use shared-mobility solutions.
Gauging investment in self-driving cars, Brookings  Institution, October 16, 2017  What does it mean for Tata Motors?
While the concepts of vehicle ownership  are changing worldwide, this trend is  not expected to be adopted quickly in  India, where car ownership still holds  aspirational value.
This offers a clear  opportunity for our automotive business  in the country.
Catering to markets in the  US, UK, Europe and China,  JLR is already  focussing on ‘on-demand’ transportation  and has forged partnership with Lyft and  with its subsidiary In Motion, is making  shared and autonomous  mobility a reality.
Structural   reforms in India    From July 1, 2017, the Indian Government  introduced a unified tax regime, known as the  Goods and Services Tax (GST).
As a result, the  removal of inter-state checkpoints has led  to lower costs associated with supply chain.
Also, warehouse consolidation is leading  to greater overall efficiency, resulting in  reduction of overall operational costs.
Additionally, the re-modelling of  warehousing in a post-GST economy is  propelling the prominent trends in the  country’s logistics sector, such as a shift  to the hub and spoke model, introduction  of robotics, demand for better-quality  warehouses as well as back-end and front- end integration of supply chain management.
The base rate for the GST on different PV  and CV has been set at 28%, besides a cess  (1% to 15%, as the case may be), marginally  impacting the end prices.
Apart from this, the Government of India’s  enhanced focus on infrastructure growth,  e-commerce and a renewed impetus to  the rural economy are all factors that are  shaping the opportunity landscape for   the automotive sector.
What does it mean for TML?
*  TML is confident that the Indian economy’s  inherent resilience will help it overcome the  initial teething problems faced due to the  GST implementation; the Company is positive  about the future of its pan-India operations.
The Company is also prepared to tap the  rural market, which forms 35% of the   total market.
* This is India-specific information In addition to the above, please refer to the discussions in the  Management Discussion and Analysis section on Page 108 26 Our strategic framework Our objective TML To develop a range of exciting and  contemporary products and services across  the PV and CV segments to match and  surpass customer expectations JLR • Producing and delivering vehicles that  create experiences, which customers love,  for life  • Embracing technologies on ACES while  delivering products of the highest quality • Delivering a fully emissions-compliant  portfolio • Moving towards Modular Longitudinal  Architecture (MLA) - scalable architecture  that is agnostic to propulsion system and  will optimise commonality and reduce  complexity, while managing costs Key initiatives and actions TML The Company launched a number of models  during FY18: • Launched the next-generation Compact Utility  Vehicle (CUV) – Nexon • Rolled out the first batch of Tigor EV as part of  the prestigious EV car tender floated by EESL • Enhanced customer experience with exciting  design and features (including Automated  Manual Transmission [AMT] and smart  connectivity) • Introduced a number of new CV models,  including the new XL range of small commercial  cargo vehicles and a number of new products  on the Prima and Signa ranges • Unveiled a number of new products during the  Auto Expo 2018, including the new-generation  Tata H5X and 45X concepts, Intra compact truck,  Ultra T7 light truck and the SIGNA 4323, India’s  first six-axle rigid truck Focus on new product development JLR • Awarded the World Car Design of the Year award  at the 2018 World Car Awards for Range Rover  Velar, a luxury performance SUV • Launched E-PACE, Jaguar’s first compact  SUV, which  has a five-star Euro NCAP rating,  confirming it to be among the safest vehicles in  the market • Introduced I-PACE, the first fully electric  premium SUV in the world in early 2018, giving  JLR a true competitive advantage and helping  the Company attain a leadership position among  EVs • Launched plug-in hybrid variants of Rang Rovers  and Range Rover Sports, offering customers 31  miles of electric-only range and combined fuel  economy and CO2 emissions of up to 91.1 mpg  and as low as 72g/km • Continued investment in new models that cater  to the technology needs of ACES and helps the  Company remain competitive in the marketplace  — its new  factory in Slovakia is slated to  commence production by the end of 2018 Looking ahead TML • TML is leveraging modular approach state-of- the-art architectures both in CV and PV, while   developing a number of new products and  variants to enhance the range of choices for its  expanding customer base.
• The Company is introducing contemporary and  value-added features and technologies to increase  the product appeal, safety and passenger comfort.
• TML is actively working on alternate propulsion  systems, including zero-emission technology,  especially in EVs for certain applications.
JLR • Jaguar has started the migration to be a leader in  electrification.
At the same time, Land Rover has a  strong line-up of SUVs, including the new Defender,  which is currently under development.
JLR also  has a line-up of special vehicles created in Special  Vehicles Operations (SVO).
The Company aims to  grow and expand up to 16 nameplates between  FY22 to FY24.
• JLR is on track for complying with European fleet  average tailpipe CO2 emissions by 2020–supported  by the Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV)  powertrains in its Range Rover and Range Rover  Sport SUVs, the fully electric Jaguar I-PACE and  other future PHEV/BEVs.
• From 2020, all JLR vehicles will offer an electric  option.
These vehicles will be Mid Hybrids and/or  PHEVs or BEVs.
• JLR announced its partnership with Waymo  for development of autonomous cars and for  delivering 20,000 Jaguar I-Pace models under this  arrangement.
Key capitals deployed Strategy  1S1 27 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Our objective The focus of this strategy is to identify new international markets  based on the demographical and socio-economical features of  specific regions, which include the aspects of: • Regulatory landscape  • Geopolitical landscape  • Competitive landscape Expanding international business Key capitals deployed Key initiatives and actions TML • Shipments to ASEAN doubled in FY18 as compared to last year, making it  the fastest growing region.
• In FY18, the Company successfully bagged several prestigious orders,  including 250 units Xenon pickups, 200 units of LPTA 715 from the  Myanmar armed forces, 540 units of buses from ILOC, Senegal, 209 units of  Winger (135 units) and Xenon (75 units) from GVK EMRI Sri Lanka and 100  buses from FTC Mozambique.
• Some of the key events in FY18 were the launch of Prima in the Philippines,  Signa in Sri Lanka, Yodha in Nepal, Ultra buses in Tanzania, Ultra range in  South Africa and unveiling of Ultra in Thailand and Indonesia.
• Shipment of 9166 units of ILCV in FY18 is also the highest ever shipment for  the segment in a year.
JLR • Through the China JV, the Company capitalised on the high demand in  China.
Outside of the UK, JLR has a global plant network, with a contract  manufacturing facility at Austria and a plant at China.
It has established  local assembly operations at India and Brazil.
• JLR has attained a balanced sales profile across North America, China,  Europe, the UK and overseas during FY18.
• JLR has a global network of 23 National Sales Companies, which cover  92% of the worldwide volume.
With a common identity across the retailer  network for enhanced customer experiences (ARCH), JLR’s retailers are  investing around: • £3 Billion currently  • Plan to increase the investment to £9 Billion by FY23 Looking ahead TML The Company will enhance volumes from non-SAARC markets driven by growth in  ASEAN, Africa and the Middle East.
• To expand global market footprint further, TML will focus on four key areas  of developing suitable products, driving optimal sourcing and manufacturing,  enhancing overall customer experience and further establishing the TML brand  across geographies.
• The Company’s KD assembly facilities are spread across eight countries and it  aims to grow this to other strategic markets, taking KD contribution to almost  20% of total exports in FY21 compared to 8% in FY18.
JLR • JLR’s manufacturing footprint is expanding, with the Slovakia plant on track for  start of production by the end of 2018.
The Company’s approach is to support  key markets while accessing a lower cost base.
• JLR is also working on further expansion of its manufacturing footprint in China  through its JV.
• JLR continues to expand in new markets.
Strategy  2S2 28 Our strategic framework Mitigating cyclicality Our objective •  To mitigate the impact of cyclicality in the automobile industry, the Tata  Motors Group plans to continually strengthen operations while gaining  market share across different product lines and offering a wide range of  products in diverse geographies.
• The Company also plans to strengthen other business operations such  as financing of vehicles and spare part sales, service and maintenance  contracts, among others.
Key initiatives and actions TML •  TML has invested in building adequate capacities across locations, ensuring  smooth production ramp-up for all new models and creating flexibility  across manufacturing plants.
• The Company has been actively looking for opportunities to optimise its  operations, with specific focus on improving the supply chain efficiency,  significant cost reduction and sales enhancement initiatives.
• The Company is also actively pursuing increased penetration of  services, such as penetration of annual maintenance contracts and fleet  management services by leveraging its competencies and the use   of technology.
•  Initiatives such as sale of certified pre-owned CV and greater push   on spare parts and aftersales have also been actioned.
•  Expanding the addressable market in PV, with products targeting multiple  growth segments, is one of the key focus areas.
JLR • JLR is expanding its international footprint and maintains a balanced retail  sales profile across key sales regions.
• In addition, the Company is bringing in substantial changes to the market  (e.g.
automation and electrification) with new product launches, which  enables it to focus on industry-defining products ahead of its competition.
Key capitals deployed Looking ahead TML TML is working towards: • Increasing the sales of Tata OK refurbished vehicles • Growing business in the field of fully-built vehicles, such as trailers and tippers • Continued focus on cost management and production throughput to maximise  the overall efficiencies • Actively pursuing opportunities in EVs and mobility services as future growth  areas for the business JLR • To safeguard against the effects of a cyclical business, JLR is focussing on more  realistic planning of volumes in recognition of the present market realities.
It is  focussed on driving cost efficiency and operating leverage across the business.
The Company is also making prudent investment plans to meet the affordability  criteria while remaining at the forefront of technologies.
Jaguar and Land Rover  are both now stronger and more vibrant brands than ever before, supporting the  ambition for further global growth.
Strategy  3S3 29 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Key initiatives and actions TML Some of the key highlights for CV include: •  Introduced Sampoorna Seva, a holistic value- added package • Initiated actions to reduce  vehicle delivery time  to 24 hours in case of a breakdown of CV • Increased reach of telematics software for large  customers, supporting predictive maintenance • Provided 24x7 on-road assistance through Tata  Alert, Tata Zippy and Tata Kavach consistently • Expanded and strengthened its extensive  network of service centres, dealerships and  distributors across the country, including  specific focus on rural network • Deployed mobile or container workshops to  provide on-site repairs • Developed strong customer and stakeholder  engagement, leading to stronger CVBU Brand  NPS Some of the key highlights for the PV section  include: • Improved CSI from 847 to 877 (Rank 2nd) • Enhanced dealership network coverage,  effective resource deployment and focus on  product availability • Enhanced brand appeal and NPS rating • Achieved significant gains in quality through the  World Class Quality (WCQ) initiative JLR • JLR created synergistic collaborations between  its Customer Focussed Innovation (CFI) team, its  Design and Marketing team and its Production  team to make products that give its customers a  premium experience throughout.
• The Company hosted its first-ever customer  co-creation event, where the customers shared  ideas for new products and experiences.
• It established a connect with customers on  real-time basis through technology diagnostic  platforms such as CloudCar and Connected Car.
• The Company sold 46,000 units of Velar since its  launch in July 2017 and 9,000 units of E-PACE  since last November.
It is expecting to start  customer deliveries for I-PACE and is building up  an order bank.
Looking ahead TML • Strengthen dealership sales and service network by  increasing the number of customer touchpoints • Reinforce customer engagement activities such as  Key Account Management and customer and dealer  meets • Develop and provide value-added features and  services to its ever-increasing customer base using  technologies such as connectivity, data analytics  and Internet of Things (IoT) JLR • JLR strives for continuous improvement in  customer services.
Through the ‘Customer First’  transformation plan, the Company focusses on five  strategic objectives:  • Exceeding quality • Expectations • Delivering on time • Creating value for the company  • Creating value for the customers and enabling and  using people efficiently • The Company aims for higher quality, keeping  vehicle programmes on track and ensuring optimum  use of resources to deliver an optimal experience to  even more customers.
• The Company aims to provide products and services  that customers desire, while trying to exceed  customer expectations over time.
• JLR is currently operating in 129 countries with a  global network of 1,571 retailers and plans to expand  its retailer network to ~1,800 by FY23.
Customer focus Key capitals deployed Our objective •  TML ’s focus is on strengthening market  presence by offering solutions that meet and  surpass customers’ expectations and deliver  hassle-free sales and service experience to  customers.
• JLR’s philosophy   of ‘Customer First’ enables  personalised and ‘easy to do with’ experience  for its customers.
Strategy  4S4 30 Organisational efficiency and cost management •  To critically review and right-size the cost structure  to deliver best-in-class products at competitive  prices and maximise the returns on a continual  basis Key Capitals Deployed Our objective Key initiatives and actions TML TML undertook multiple initiatives in FY18 to bring  about higher efficiencies within the organisation.
Some of the key activities undertaken were:  •  Intense cost reduction exercise across the  product range through the Value Analysis Value  Engineering (VAVE) approach • Extensive benchmarking exercise with  systematic deployment of initiatives such as the  ‘should-cost’ approach • Alternate sourcing, and commercial negotiation • Critical review of internal resources, including  the roll out of operational efficiency initiatives,  productivity improvement initiatives and fixed- cost reduction measures • Establishing a clear decision-making matrix and  accountability within business units JLR JLR introduced certain initiatives to reduce product  and business complexity (e.g.
Modular Longitudinal  Architecture (MLA)) to benefit from economies  of scale and has established robust project  management processes to ensure the set targets  are met.
Some of the initiatives are:  • JLR is investing in new state-of-the-art facilities  designed for efficiency and quality with reduced  development cycle times.
• It plans to leverage new product architecture  commonality and scale efficiencies through  Design for Assembly and Design for Logistics.
• It is growing its facility utilisation and energy  efficiency with technology application and best  practice maintenance systems.
• JLR is also enhancing its logistics infrastructure  and systems for inbound supply chains  and is developing outbound logistics using  autonomous vehicle capabilities.
The Company  is sourcing globally to drive cost savings and  improve flexibility and logistics e.g.
in China,  Hungary and Slovakia.
Looking ahead TML • TML will continue to focus on identifying areas of  resource optimisation and reducing input costs.
• Initiatives such as margin improvement projects  and cost reduction actions across locations and  functions are continuing in FY19 to strengthen  overall financials.
JLR • JLR’s Slovakia plant provides an opportunity  to the Company for a relatively lower cost  manufacturing location compared to the UK.
It  offers the opportunity for lower labour cost in  the manufacturing facility and also better access  to supply base.
Global sourcing and supply base  will drive cost savings and improve flexibility and  logistics.
• JLR has been making tough and prudent choices  on its investment plan to meet affordability criteria  while remaining competitive and innovative.
Our strategic framework Strategy  5 S5  32 Risks and opportunities Rapid technology  change Evolving   customer demands There is a paradigm shift in the automobile marketplace with  rapid advances being made in new technologies such as  electrification and autonomous cars, among others.
The fast pace of technological development together with  scarcity of specialist resources could result in a significant  change in the automotive industry and increase the risk of  delivering superior products demanded by current and future  customers.
Recently, several geographies, such as Norway, Germany,  the UK, France, the Netherlands, India and China, announced  their intentions to eliminate the sale of conventionally fuelled  vehicles in their markets in the coming decades.
Customer preferences, especially in mature markets, are  trending towards smaller and more fuel-efficient cars and  environment-friendly vehicles.
In many markets, these  preferences are driven by customers’ environmental  concerns or increases in fuel prices.
JLR operates in the premium car segment.
Any downturn or  reduction in the demand for cars in these limited segments  could have a more pronounced effect on its performance  and earnings.
JLR is working towards meeting the changing  customer preferences.
Risk Risk We continue to invest substantially in R&D and also continue our  strategic focus on key technology areas, including autonomy,  connectivity and electrification, with the aim of launching our  products ahead of our competition.
We are working towards developing high-performance EVs, investing  in development programmes to reduce fuel consumption by using  lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses through the driveline  and improving aerodynamics.
Technology has been a major enabling factor for  transformation, whether in terms of added features  to products ensuring better ride quality, safety  and performance or manufacturing efficiency.
TML continues to invest in technology solutions  as substantial changes to the market in terms of  automation of factory lines and move from manual  to electric.
This enables us to focus on launching  industry-defining products ahead of our competition  as well as strengthening partnerships with global  technological organisations and leading academic  research teams.
Through innovation and technological  advancement, our product portfolio and  services can be developed according to the  changing consumer demands.
Mitigation Opportunities Opportunities TML and JLR are developing new models of vehicles in various  segments with different capabilities.
TML developed and launched India’s first bio-methane engine  for buses; Tata Nexon, an award-winning compact SUV and the  XL range of small commercial cargo vehicles in India on the ACE  platform.
JLR launched the I-PACE, a fully electric  premium sedan,  successfully electrified the Range Rover and the Range Rove Sport  models and introduced the premium SUV Range Rover Velar.
Mitigation HM 33 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Diesel  uncertainty  Competitive   business efficiency Adverse public perception of diesel-powered  vehicles mainly driven by the media and  government policy has precipitated a fall in diesel  sales, primarily in the UK and Europe.
It has also  created uncertainty for customers, which could  further impact future sales.
In addition to the financial impact of falling sales, a  significantly lower diesel sales mix would create a  challenge in achieving CO2 compliance and cause  major disruption to our supply base.
The Company initiated programmes to optimise  operating efficiency.
However, there is a risk that  these programmes may not deliver projected  efficiencies and anticipated benefits may not  accrue as expected.
If the Company is unable to deliver the desired  benefits from these programmes, its business  results may be adversely impacted and its ability  to compete successfully, over the longer term,  could be affected.
Risk Risk We are committed to the introduction and  expansion of our electrified fleet across the  product portfolio and the continued refinement of  our internal combustion engines and production  flexibility in our Engine Manufacturing Centre.
The Company launched certain initiatives to reduce  product and business complexity and to benefit from  economies of scale.
A robust project management  process is in place to ensure set targets are met.
TML initiated various ImpACT (Improvement by  Action) projects based on Balanced Score Card (BSC)  objectives and business challenges.
The ImpACT  projects constituted systemic projects addressing  key backbone processes, capacity building through  long-term enabling projects and high-impact projects  addressing its market position and profitability  aspirations.
This will enable us to grow our presence in  the EV and Hybrid spaces, thereby resulting  in recovering our investments made in full  battery-operated EVs such as the I-Pace,  PHEVs in Range Rover and Range Rover  Sport and also in refinement of the internal  combustion engines.
We develop real-time analytical data tools  to aid in business decision - making and  to realise greater degrees of efficiency.
Furthermore, its expansion plans present  opportunities to invest in world-class  facilities and enhanced capabilities.
MitigationMitigation OpportunitiesOpportunities M M Probability Financial Manufactured Intellectual  Human Social &  Relationship  Natural Capitals impacted H M High Medium 34 Risk Risk Risk Environmental  regulations and  compliances Information and  cyber security Both TML and JLR operate in an environment  of rapidly changing regulatory landscape,  particularly environmental issues relating to  emissions and fuel economy.
These would  have an impact on their products as well as  their manufacturing facilities.
TML must migrate to BS VI emission norms  in India from April 1, 2020.
In fact, Delhi has  already started receiving BS VI-compliant  fuel with effect from April 1, 2018.
This entails  challenges in the adaptation of technologies  and innovations relating to manufacturing,  testing and validation to the new standards.
New and emerging technologies  bring unprecedented threats to  internet-connected devices, including  vehicles.
Recent global hacking  incidents impacting the geo-political  environment indicate an increase  in the motivation to instigate cyber  attacks.
The loss of sensitive and personal  data or a breach in any safeguards  aimed at protecting this information  could lead to significant legal action  combined with the imposition of  regulation and associated fines.
TML successfully worked towards its goal  of manufacturing cleaner and more efficient  vehicles using advanced technologies.
TML  showcased its all-new electric EVision car at  the Geneva International Motor Show in March  2018.
The EVision uses the OMEGA architecture  and was developed in collaboration with JLR.
Both TML and JLR strive to implement  consistent security policies and procedures  while educating staff, vendors and suppliers  to embed best practices.
The Companies do  this by implementing internal tools to detect  and mitigate the current and emerging cyber  security threats.
The development of battery  electric products (starting with the  I-PACE and EVision in 2018) and  the introduction of plug-in hybrid  technologies such as Range Rover  and Range Rover Sport PHEV help  achieve compliance, aligning our  products with consumer demands.
TML developed India’s first   bio-methane engine for buses in the  current year.
We strive to maintain a strong   IT-controlled environment.
By  monitoring and responding to  emerging cyber threats, we embed  deeper, more intelligent controls  over time.
Exchange rate  fluctuations Approximately 80% of JLR’s revenue is  derived from international sales (e.g.
the  US and China) and we source a significant  proportion of our components from the  eurozone, while JLR’s reporting currency is  Pounds Sterling.
Currency transaction risk is managed with  financial derivatives in line with the hedging  policy approved by the JLR plc Board.
Also, we  aim to align our sourcing base with our global  sales profile.
Recently, we have executed  cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge our  exposure to a proportion of our US Dollar debt.
We continue to investigate  further opportunities to develop  our international manufacturing  footprint, which may result in   greater natural hedging of our currency exposures by aligning   the currency profile of cost with  sales.
Going forward, we plan to  execute further derivatives in order  to hedge significant proportions of our debt denominated in   foreign currency.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Opportunities Opportunities Opportunities M M Risks and opportunities H 35 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Risk Risk Opportunities Opportunities H H Volatile global economic  and geo-political  environment Product liability,  warranties and recalls The Indian automotive industry could be affected  materially by the general economic conditions in India  and around the world.
The automotive industry, in  general, is cyclical and economic slowdowns in the  recent past have affected the manufacturing sector in  India, including the automotive and allied industries.
Our expanding global presence increases our exposure  to changes in the global economic and geopolitical  environments as well as to other external factors (i.e.
Brexit, political instability, wars, terrorism and natural  disasters) that may impact our business.
Both TML and JLR are subjected to risks and costs  associated with product liability, warranties and recalls in  connection with performance, compliance or   safety-related issues affecting their products.
Moreover, in the Indian context, the additional factor to  consider is the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, 2017,  which is currently being debated in the Rajya Sabha.
This draft Bill addresses vehicle recalls, road safety,  traffic management and accident insurance, among  other matters, and imposes civil and criminal liability  on manufacturers selling vehicles in contravention of  the standards specified in the Bill or required by the  Government to recall their vehicles.
TML ’s CV business is already present in seven clusters, including Latin  America, North & West America, Africa, Association of Southeast Asian  Nations (ASEAN), South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation  (SAARC), the Middle East and Commonwealth of Independent States  (CIS).
The Company is further expanding its international footprint  through initiatives such as the launch of CV in new markets such as the  Philippines, growth of CV sales in markets such as Nepal and launch of  the Slovakia manufacturing plant.
It maintains a balanced retail sales  profile across key sales regions.
Also, Tata Motors closely monitors global geo-political and  macroeconomic developments.
JLR is continuing expansion in new  geographies like Slovakia and is trying to maintain a balanced retail sales  profile across key regions.
Both TML and JLR regularly monitor the service  data of their vehicles to proactively manage recalls  and minimise warranty claims.
The Companies also  issue technical updates to their dealer networks to  manage identified faults and defects.
Global economic growth in developed and emerging  markets represents opportunities to extend sales, both  in new and existing geographical markets as well as  segments.
Enhanced vehicle connectivity and digital  capability provide opportunities for us to  identify and remedy potential faults more  efficiently.
TML is aligned to the vision of the  Government of India.
Mitigation Mitigation 36 The Tata Motors  Group is all set to  embrace the future Our strategy sets the course of our actions for  today and tomorrow.
Our concerted efforts  have led to: 37 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated)  A remarkable turnaround of TML, recording  high volumes and margin improvements  JLR’s recognition as the largest automotive  manufacturer in Britain, in its ten years of  association with the Tata group 38 The ‘Turnaround’  story Tata Motors Limited (TML) In 2016, TML had stepped into its transformation journey, which was aimed  at countering some of the biggest internal and external challenges that the  Company was facing then.
Very few product introductions, weak market activation  compounded with increasing pressure on margins and a complex organisation  structure were a few of them.
TML ’s challenges were accentuated by the  developments in the external environment such as structural reforms in the  economy and introduction of new emission standards.
Our business sought a ‘Turnaround’ to overcome these challenges and to prepare  for the future.
The ‘Turnaround’ story translated into  success, with TML delivering profitable  growth even in challenging conditions.
73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) 39 The ‘Turnaround’  story Progressing on   a clear roadmap The roadmap for ‘Turnaround’ has been  contoured with our strategic interventions  for both our CV and PV businesses.
Execution areas Sales  enhancement For each of the execution   areas, there were a series of  interventions undertaken with  measurable impacts.
Leveraging  production and  supply-chain  efficiencies Cost reduction  and bottom-line  improvement 40 Customer centricity • Initiatives to improve ‘first time right’ and zero-defect stations  were launched to focus on reducing rejection, rework, warranty  and inventory cost and vendor recoveries.
• Better planning and execution resulted in improvement of the  Sales and Operations (S&OP) metrics such as forecast accuracy,  adherence to production plan, finished goods cover days,  reduction in unplanned shipments and others across both the PV  and CV businesses.
• Word-of-mouth communication was strengthened by onboarding  Tata ‘Advocates’ through a structured approach, including both  offline and online engagement with advocates.
Intense top-line focus • CV turnaround comprised initiatives focussed at gaining market  share.
• 18 work streams/levers deployed that covered TML policy  changes, as well as dealer operational efficiency improvements  • Mini-projects were rolled out in commercial, aftermarket and  operations areas Building a strategic supplier base • TML conducted deep-dive workshops to develop a plan  for a robust and strategic supplier base, along with  rigorous and exhaustive supplier assessments.
This enabled cost savings with optimised manufacturing  operations.
Impacts During FY18, TML achieved ~30% reduction in  supplier base through rationalisation of low APV  and poor performing suppliers.
Sales  enhancement Impacts Impacts 67%  40% ~15% 43% 24%  ~10% ~30% 30–45%  22%  NPS has improved Conversions from enquiry to  retail, showing an improvement  over FY17 and hitting the industry  benchmark rate twice in the year Increase in profitable  dealers compared  to FY17 Growth in retail sales due  to ‘Tata Guru Mechanics’,  an innovative scheme in  pilot markets Rural market penetration in  pilot markets due to the ‘Tata  Gramin Mitras’ programme Increase in Dealer  Satisfaction Score Increase in  Kaizen Pilot  for warehouse  throughput Quarter-wise conversion y-o-y Brand Consideration Score  (BCS) has improved over  FY17 baseline Leveraging  production and  supply-chain  efficiencies  41 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Organisational restructuring • Rationalising and reducing 13 managerial layers within the  organisational structure considerably to five layers improved  direction and decision making through streamlining of processes,   de-centralisation and delayering.
• Implementation of a BSC and alignment of KPIs with target outcomes  and success factor helped in creating controls.
• Compensation Benchmarking Study, Rewards Strategy and Benefits  Strategy have been revamped.
• Empowerment of management and employees to take decisions  percolated to lower levels.
Impacts Leaner manpower and processes due to the said initiatives  enabled TML to be better prepared and move quickly to  respond to market dynamics and threats.
Align cost management • Running Mega Competitive Teardown and VAVE idea  generation workshops to reduce costs for both CV and PV.
• Benchmark comparison to focus on high-potential areas,  commercial negotiations, ‘should cost model’ and e-auctions.
• Restructuring of post-sales discount, realisation of value chain  opportunities in supply chain and optimisation in Regional  Sales Office (RSO) costs.
Structural improvements • TML ’s modular Bill of Materials (BOM) capability was  horizontally deployed across CV and other PV platforms.
• TML created and tested the BOM Architecture, its system  and process readiness through POC on control set of Vehicle  Configurations (VCs) and went on to implement it successfully  on all VCs of the Alpha (X4) Platform.
Impacts Cost savings were driven with the model migration  to lower cost locations, selective outsourcing and  optimisation of manufacturing operations (shift patterns,  production scheduling and others) under the   long-term convergence plan towards the desired  manufacturing footprint.
Cost reduction   and bottom-line   improvement 45.1% CV market share compared   to 44.4% in FY17 CV PV 3-5%   (Post Product Development  Cost Policy changes)  between FY19 and FY21 5-7%   Over the long-term 5.7% PV market share compared  to 5.1% in FY17  Highest volume   in 5 years Highest volume   in 6 years The ‘Turnaround’ initiative led to strong overall performance with visible impacts in terms of improvements in the CV and PV market shares.
With this performance, TML is on its way to achieve its medium-to-long term EBIT targets of :  42 Keeping the  momentum with  Turnaround 2.0 It’s time to deliver again Building on the success of the first ‘Turnaround’ story, which focussed on execution, Turnaround 2.0 aims  to embed the turnaround thinking deep into the organisation.
With TML ’s concrete learnings from its CV  turnaround story, the Company is laying the future roadmap for its PV business and is assured of its  success in this space as well.
The objective is to enable the PV business to fund itself for the future and  also help in taking it much beyond the aspirations of being the No.
3 player in the domestic market by  FY19 as stated in the current vision of the Company, along with continuing focus on the CV business.
Turnaround 2.0 objectives ‘Winning  Decisively’ in the  CV business ‘Winning  Sustainably’  in the PV business Embedding turnaround  into our way of   life/culture 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) 43 The basic building blocks of  Turnaround 2.0 are its objectives,  ‘Winning Decisively’ in the CV  business, ‘Winning Sustainably’ in  the PV business and embedding  turnaround into our way of   life/culture.
44 Strengthening product  planning to address   white spaces TML has introduced more than 50 products  with more than 200+ variants, including  Ultra 1518, SIGNA 3718, Ace Gold and  Starbus Hybrid.
Additionally, TML is  adopting the BS IV technology to strengthen  its product range.
Leading in technology   and powertrain solutions  TML aims to use emission control  technologies across the CV range that aid in  superior performance, reliability, commercial  affordability, environmental sustainability  and future readiness of its vehicles.
Use of  the SCR technology will enable TML to meet  the increasingly stringent emission norms.
Building modularity and  architecture approach in  product development  Creating an effect across the entire value  chain, this will give TML the chance to reduce  the number of suppliers and also connect  with more capable suppliers by leveraging its  installed capacity in return of a higher output.
Enhancing customer engagement,   along with product and service offerings  While focussing on key customers, TML is concentrating on  improved live deal visibility.
A significant aspect is constant  engagement with different stakeholders, including dealers and  financiers, among others.
With concerted efforts towards each  of these strategic intervention areas, the production capacity is  significantly ramping up and the Company is well prepared for  FY19.
‘Winning Decisively’  in the CV business 45 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 As a major ‘turnaround’ initiative, TML is trying to embed a culture of ownership and  collaboration among employees.
By introducing Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs)  the Company is  trying to align rewards with performance.
This, in turn, will bring about a  competitive, consistent and cash-accretive growth in the long term.
Sales enhancement TML is focussing on bringing in different  vehicle models – from small hatchbacks to  SUVs – in order to cover different customer  segments, while enhancing network  coverage with an improved dealer network,  reinforced channel engagement and  channel capability and intensified marketing  strategy.
Stepping up capacity  utilisation The Company is setting targets for all  products and plant locations to meet the  enhanced requirement of capacity utilisation.
Architecture approach for  new launches TML is prepared to launch two new platforms  – Optimal Modular Efficient Global Advanced  (OMEGA-ARC) and Agile Light Flexible  Advanced (ALFA-ARC) – by 2019.
The two  innovative architectures were unveiled at  the Auto Expo (India) 2018.
The ALFA-ARC  will bring about high commonality across  architecture for both hatchbacks and sedans.
The OMEGA-ARC is a proven architecture for  Land Rover and is suited for products ranging  from long SUVs to full-size sedans.
Structural cost reduction The Company is bringing about many structural  changes to optimise operations for faster  decision making and overall execution of the  annual production plans.
There is also an  enhanced focus on embedding new capabilities  through analysis based on idea generation and  data-driven negotiations, which will facilitate  innovative ways of efficiency enhancement and  cost reduction.
Affordable and efficient capex The Company is working towards an affordable  and efficient capex to ensure return on research  investments and reduced time to market.
Improvement by Actions  (ImpACT) Initiatives To further step up the pace of Turnaround 2.0,  almost more than 20 prioritised high-impact  initiatives are planned.
The ImpACT initiatives  are shaped by bringing into consideration  factors such as strategic objectives of  the business division, future trends and  opportunities, key business challenges and  overall business excellence.
‘Winning Sustainably’  in the PV business Embedding turnaround into   our way of life/culture K1,900 Crores savings through ‘ImpACT’   initiatives during FY18  46 Transforming  today for  tomorrow JLR aims to ‘Win Distinctively’ by leveraging its uniqueness Differentiated premium brands   JLR will continue to develop two of the most-loved, well- differentiated premium brands – Jaguar and Land Rover.
Scale and agility   JLR will build agility by expanding its manufacturing capabilities  across geographies, building scale and using modular architecture,  coupled with digital technologies.
World-class design and engineering  JLR’s focus on innovation and engineering, coupled with its design  pedigree, will continue to provide its products with a distinct edge.
Passionate and talented team  JLR will continue nurturing its vast talent pool, enhancing their  engineering and scientific acumen.
Supportive and empowering ownership  JLR’s proud association with the Tata group will continue  empowering it for future growth.
Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) 47 With the global trends of  urbanisation, changing lifestyles  and the new face of luxury  emphasising on experiences,  wellness and sustainability,   JLR is focussing on the   new-age technologies of ACES,  without compromising its core  business attribute of premium  mobility.
The Company’s enhanced focus is on developing products that  are based on safer, smarter and cleaner technology.
The strategic  interventions are also aligned towards meeting this requirement.
JLR’s new partnership with Waymo, formerly the Google self-driving  car project, will be critical to the Company’s future plans.
It is working  together with Waymo to design and engineer the self-driving Jaguar  I-PACE vehicles.
This long-term strategic collaboration will further JLR’s  goal to make cars safer, save valuable time for people and improve  mobility for everyone.
JLR’s initiatives span across the ACES paradigm and the concept of  modular architecture.
Connected  possibilities Autonomous  innovation Electrification  advances Shared   future Delivering a   cleaner future Future-focus areas 48 Autonomous  innovation Connected  possibilities Electrification  advances Autonomous vehicles will change our customers’ experiences for the  better, saving them time, increasing safety and offering unparalleled  convenience.
Driver-less vehicles open up Jaguar and Land Rover  models to customers who may have struggled previously to drive,  offering transportation to the young, the elderly, the disabled or  those nervous behind the wheel.
As the UK’s leading auto manufacturer, JLR is part of the ‘UK  Autodrive project’, which is testing autonomous and connected  technologies in real-world scenarios.
JLR’s collaborations, such as  with Baidu in China, take advantage of autonomous technologies  that open the door to Autonomous Mobility on Demand (AMoD),  giving customers access to a fleet of autonomous vehicles at the  touch of a button.
JLR is investing in AMoD technologies now with its  partnerships with Lyft and Waymo.
In 2018, JLR launched the I-PACE, the first fully electric premium  SUV in the world.
This model provides the Company a competitive  advantage and gives it a leading position in the premium fleet,  where the electric powertrain is emerging as a prerequisite.
Built from the ground up by JLR,  the new Jaguar I-PACE is a pure  BEV.
Thrilling to look at and drive, Jaguar I-PACE is the ultimate  all-electric performance SUV.
The world is growing increasingly interconnected with the advent of IoT.
The car is no exception to this revolution and the pace of adoption of  connected mobility has accelerated in recent years.
The automotive  industry has also seen entrants from new competitors, such as Google  and Apple, as customers want seamless integration of their devices   even when they are on the move.
JLR’s vehicles are already   internet-enabled and connected, allowing ease of use and increased  security.
The Company is also investing in customer relationship  management systems for tailoring interactions with customers  appropriately, for predictive maintenance, remote diagnostics and for  reducing the inconvenience to them in the event of a breakdown.
JLR’s agreement with Qualcomm Technologies allows the Company to  prepare for 5G internet, giving ultra-fast connectivity and   over-the-air download capabilities, allowing customers to update any  software without visiting a retailer.
49 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Shared future Delivering a   cleaner future JLR is embracing the shared mobility trend, which is becoming  commonplace in different cities of the world.
As customers are looking for new ways to access vehicles beyond  the traditional ownership models, the Company is exploring  possibilities of premium mobility that will offer them the choice and  flexibility to match their lifestyles.
The Company has invested   $25 Million in Lyft and is partnering with Waymo and Baidu for  venturing into the ride-hailing sector.
The on-demand mobility company, Sheprd, which operates in  Boston, US, and provides on-demand school buses with approved  drivers to families, is using a fleet of Land Rover Discoveries.
Currently, JLR operates on multiple architectures.
However, with  investments in Modular Longitudinal Architecture (MLA), the  Company will provide customers an opportunity to choose the  powertrain systems that optimise commonality, reduce complexity  and increase efficiency.
By 2025, JLR’s current vehicles and all future nameplates will be  engineered on a flexible, modular architecture.
While MLA is an important part of the Company’s future roadmap,  JLR is focussing on the transformation of its cost structure by  applying an objective and data-driven approach to identifying,  analysing and solving cross-functional problems.
Our today… 614,309 Retail sales 3.8% EBIT reported 16%  Revenue invested in new  models, technology and  capacity ….is leading the way for our future To attain the medium-to-long term EBIT targets of: JLR is focussing on the following profit improvement drivers: • Growing premium segments • Introducing new and exciting products • Improving operating leverage • Driving cost efficiencies • Building a modular architecture strategy • Concentrating on ACES 4-7% (Post Product Development  Cost Policy changes) between  FY19 and FY21 7-9% Over the long-term 50 A key aspect of our preparedness for future TML PV Customer centricity is one of the top priorities for TML.
To improve  customer satisfaction, concerted efforts were made to enhance  entire customer life-cycle experiences.
To address the perceived  weak brand sentiment and low enquiries from customers, TML  launched various initiatives such as deploying ‘Tata Advocates’,  rolling out a standard operating procedure called ‘Mantra’, building  capabilities through large-scale trainings to the sales staff and  deploying an online client engagement platform.
TML CV To improve customer and dealer confidence, TML increased  engagement with them.
It developed ‘Sampoorna Seva’, which is a  comprehensive service package that provides complete solution  for the upkeep of vehicles.
TML has witnessed the benefits of these  initiatives whereby the NPS and the customer and dealer scores  have improved compared to earlier years in both the CV and PV  segments.
TML is moving into massive customisation to provide ‘Vehicle  of Choice’ to its customers.
The Modularisation and Super APP  Framework, which has been developed in-house, enables TML to  capture the customers requirements and configure accordingly for  both the CV and PV segments.
We continuously engage with our supply chain partners to improve  efficiency and address various bottlenecks that may impede our  production targets.
Our focus this year was to increase the ratio of  subsystem-and aggregator-level suppliers within our supplier base  while reducing the total number of suppliers.
We conduct regular site  assessments and quality checks for each of our suppliers and prescribe  our policies on sustainability.
Customers Sustainable supply chain TML ’s initiatives for strengthening customer connect and providing  enhanced value to them is covered in ‘S5: Customer Focus’ in the  section ‘Strategic Priorities’.
JLR Excellent customer service doesn’t just mean satisfying customers; it  means listening and responding to them for continuous improvements.
That is why JLR used over 250,000 verbatim comments from  customers, distilling their thoughts down into five Customer-First  principles: Easy to Do Business With, Dependable, Personalised, Make  Me Feel Special and Transparent.
These principles focus JLR’s attention on everything they do, from  each screw they turn to each mile they drive, keeping customers at the  forefront of their minds.
This is why JLR recruits only the best talent, who understand the  importance of customer care and can convey these principles  throughout the business, continuing to create experiences customers  love for life.
Long-term value creation 51 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Our way forward To keep pace with the rapidly changing automobile industry and to  prepare for what lies ahead, we expect that the investment needs will  remain high, especially on account of ACES, BS VI and new products.
While there are already 1,800+ touchpoints for CV as  of today, TML aims to attain a target of 1,200 outlets  for PV by 2020.
The Company is also considering the  possibility of introducing digital and virtual showrooms  to make customer experience a more fruitful one.
With 12 nameplates in FY18, JLR projects its  growth to 16 by FY24.
TML – On the path to connecting  aspirations  At the core of TML ’s brand remains its driving ambition,  ‘Connecting Aspirations’.
TML aims to develop innovative products to excite  customers.
It understands the need for a connected  ecosystem that it is developing for customers to  integrate into their digital lives.
Today’s customers want  their future vehicles to be more than just about four  wheels that transport them from one point to another.
With this aspiration in mind, TML plans to manufacture  connected vehicles, which will provide access to a  whole new world of experiences through a range of  predictive and personalised services.
TML is also well-positioned to play its part in India’s  ambitious road to progress.
The Government of  India is geared to take the nation to the next level by  building smart cities.
TML is committed to give this  aspiration the necessary impetus with its diverse set of  products that will drive connectivity in the smart-city  ecosystem.
Being the only auto major with an end-to- end product portfolio from public transport to personal  cars, from providing last-mile connectivity solutions  to Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), from emergency  response vehicles to commercial utility vehicles, from  green mobility to smart and secure mobility solutions  and vehicles designed to simply amplify the thrill  of the drive, the Company shares a responsibility to  seamlessly connect the smart cities.
JLR – ‘ACE’ing the future  Internationally, there is a shift from the internal  combustion engine environment to one with  autonomous, connected and electrified vehicles.
In  keeping with this change, JLR has set plans in motion  towards giving customers the choice of deciding the  degree of electrification in their vehicles from 2020.
The customers will be able to choose from mild  hybrids, plug-in hybrids and also BEVs.
At present, the  Company already has a plug-in hybrid option in the  refreshed Range Rover and Range Rover Sport models.
While the strategy for electrified vehicles has been  defined, there are challenges on the way.
There are  geopolitical issues, especially in Europe and the UK,  and higher taxes on diesel, that may throw a spanner  in the works.
However, JLR is quite optimistic that with  its premium, advanced vehicles, it can continue its  profitable sustainable growth.
Further, the import duty in China has gone down  by 10%, from 25% to 15%.
JLR is hopeful that its  consumers in China will benefit from the lower prices  and the Company sees this as a big step towards the  development of free trade and commerce.
51 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) Our EBIT target milestones Between FY19 and FY21 (Post Product Development Cost Policy changes) Long term TML 3-5% 5-7% JLR 4-7% 7-9% 52 Ratan Tata Chairman Emeritus Natarajan Chandrasekaran Non-Executive Director   and Chairman 2  6* Mr. Chandrasekaran is the Chairman of the Board  of Tata Sons, the holding company of the Tata  group.
He also chairs the Boards of the major  operating group companies and is an active  member of India’s bilateral business forums.
He  serves as a Director on the Board of Reserve Bank  of India (RBI).
He has served 30+ years with the  Tata Consulting Services rising through the ranks  to become its CEO and Managing Director, the  leading global IT solutions and consulting firm.
He is a post-graduate in Computer Applications  from Regional Engineering College, Tamil Nadu,  and is the recipient of several awards from various  industry bodies.
Mr. Tata was the Chairman of Tata Sons from  1991 till his retirement in December 2012.
He  also chaired the Boards of major operating  Tata Companies and the Tata Trusts.
Under his  stewardship, various group restructuring initiatives  were undertaken to leverage global opportunities  for the Tata Group which was in the business from  salt to software, growing Group revenues and  profitability by over 40 times.
He was on the Company’s Board for 32+ years  from 1981 till his retirement, including as Chairman  during the last 24 years.
During this exciting  phase, the Company transitioned from a domestic  truck company to a global automobile company  traversing milestones such as, the launch of the  wholly indigenous Indica, the peoples, car – Tata  Nano, the very successful series of small vehicles  – Tata Ace, acquisition of the iconic Jaguar Land  Rover, Daewoo Commercial Vehicles and joint  ventures with Fiat and Marcopolo.
In recognition  of his visionary leadership, strategic direction and  stewardship and with a view to continue receiving  his guidance, counsel and advice, the Board had  in December 2012 conferred to Mr. Tata the title of  Chairman Emeritus.
He is the Chairman of the Tata Trusts which are  amongst India’s oldest, non-sectarian philanthropic  organisations that work in several areas of  community development.
He is the Chairman of  The Council of Management of Tata Institute of  Fundamental Research and trustee of Cornell  University and the University of Southern  California.
Nasser Munjee Non-Executive,   Independent Director 1*  2  6 Mr. Munjee is on the Board of various  multinational companies and trusts.
He was a  Technical Advisor on the World Bank’s Public- Private Partnership Infrastructure and Advisory  Fund, and is the Chairman of Development Credit  Bank (DCB).
He has served with HDFC Bank for  20+ years, across various positions, including as  Executive Director.
He was the Managing Director  of Infrastructure Development Finance Co. Ltd.  (IDFC).
He holds graduate and post-graduate degrees  from the London School of Economics.
Board of Directors Governance framework Om Prakash Bhatt Non-Executive,   Independent Director 1  2*  4* Mr. Bhatt is on the Boards of several  multinational companies.
He was the Chairman  of the State Bank Group.
Under his leadership,  State Bank of India (SBI) rose on the global list  rankings of Fortune 500.
Besides chairing the  Indian Banks’ Association, he has also served as  the Indian diplomat on the India-US CEO Forum,  Indo-French CEO Forum and Indo-Russia CEO  Forum.
He was the National Science Talent Search  Scholar in Physics at DAV College, Dehradun,  and holds a post-graduate degree in English  Literature from Meerut University.
Hanne Sorensen Non-Executive,   Independent Director 3  5* Ms. Sorensen, a Danish national, is on the  Boards of various international companies.
Previously, she was engaged in various roles  within the A.P.
Moller – Maersk A/S Group in  Denmark between 1994 and 2016, including as  the CEO of Damco, the CEO of Maersk Tankers,  and the Senior Vice-President and Chief  Commercial Officer of Maersk Line.
She is a post-graduate in Economics and  Management from the University of Aarhus.
53 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Committees  * Chairperson of the committee  1 Audit 2 Nomination & Remuneration 3 Stakeholders’ Relationship 4 Corporate Social Responsibility 5 Risk Management 6 Executive Committee of the Board 7 Safety, Health and Sustainability Vinesh Kumar Jairath Non-Executive,   Independent Director 1  7 Mr. Jairath is on the Board of various Indian  companies.
He has served in numerous important  positions with the Government of India and the  State Government of Maharashtra.
He has 25+  years’ experience in public administration, rural  development, poverty alleviation, infrastructure,  finance, industry, urban development,  environmental management and the private sector  as part of the Indian Administrative Service.
He is a post-graduate in Economics from the  University of Manchester.
Satish Borwankar Executive Director   and COO 4  5  6  7 Mr. Borwankar started his career with Tata  Motors in 1974 as a Graduate Engineer Trainee  and has served in various operating functions like  manufacturing, quality, vendor development and  strategic sourcing, rising through the ranks   to become its Executive Director and Chief  Operating Officer.
He is a graduate in Mechanical Engineering from  Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur.
Guenter Butschek CEO and   Managing Director 3  4  5  6  7 Mr. Butschek has 25+ years’ global experience  in international automotive management,  across multiple functions such as production,  industrialisation and procurement.
Besides  Daimler AG, he has worked in the Airbus group as  its Chief Operating Officer (COO) and a member of  the Group Executive Committee.
He is a graduate in Business Administration and  Economics with a Diploma from the University of  Cooperative Education, Stuttgart.
Falguni Nayar Non-Executive,   Independent Director 1   3*  4 Ms. Nayar is, at present, the founder and  CEO of a promising e-commerce start-up,  Nykaa.com and is also on the Board of few  multinational companies.
She has spent 19+  years with Kotak Mahindra Bank, with the last  6 years as Managing Director and CEO of Kotak  Investment Bank.
She is a Commerce graduate from University  of Mumbai and is a post graduate from  Indian  Institute of Management (IIM)-Ahmedabad.
Ralf Speth Non-Executive Director Professor Dr. Ralf D. Speth (KBE, FREng) is on  the Board of Jaguar Land Rover Automobile  PLC, UK, and is its Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
He has worked with BMW for 20 years and  Ford Motor Company’s Premier Automotive  Group, where he was the Director of Production,  Quality and Product Planning.
He holds a Doctorate in Mechanical  Engineering and Business Administration from  Warwick University and an engineering degree  from Rosenheim University, Germany.
54 The criteria for the performance evaluation of our Board of Directors includes aspects  such as our Board of Directors’ composition and structure, and the effectiveness of  our Board of Directors’ processes, information flow and functioning.
The criteria for  the performance evaluation of the individual Directors includes aspects such as the  Director’s contribution to our Board of Directors and Committee meetings, including  preparation on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution and  input during meetings.
In addition, the Chairperson is evaluated on the key aspects of  his role.
Board’s key areas of focus • Direct, supervise and control the  performance of the Company • Provide leadership and guidance to the  Company’s management • Review the Company’s strategic and  business plan • Monitor the responsibilities delegated  to the Board Committees, to ensure  proper and effective governance and  control of the Company’s activities • Establish a framework for the risks to  be assessed and managed Board effectiveness evaluation  Governance framework 1 Audit Review of: • Quarterly/annual financial statements  • Adequacy of internal control systems • Review of internal audit reports  • Auditors’ independents, RPT and utilisation  of issue proceeds 7 Safety, Health and Sustainability Oversee implementation of: • Safety, health and environmental matters • Broad guidelines/policies  6 Executive Committee of the Board Review of: • Capital and revenue budget and long-term  business strategies and plans and • The organisational structure, borrowing and  investment transactions  • Legal cases, acquisitions, divestments, etc.
Committees of the Board and their responsibilities The Board of Directors carry out annual evaluation of its performance and the performance of its committees as well as individual  Directors.
This involves input from all the Directors.
A separate meeting of Independent Directors is held to review the performance of  Non-Independent Directors, the performance of our Board of Directors and the performance of the Chairperson of TML.
The Independent  Directors consider the views of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
6 7 5 Governance 4 3 2 1 2 Nomination & Remuneration Provide various recommendations to the  Board, including: • Set up and composition of the Board and its  Committees • Appointment/reappointment of Directors  and review and refresh of the Committees • Remuneration of Directors and Senior  Management 3 Stakeholders’ Relationship Review of: • Statutory compliances relating to security  holders and dividend payments • Performance of Registrar and Transfer agents • Grievance mechanism 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Formulate and recommend to the Board: • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy • Expenditure to be incurred • Monitor progress of projects 5 Risk Management Assist the Board in: • Overseeing the risk management process,  controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and  funding  • Review of Company’s risk governance  structure 55 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 Governance framework for TML and JLR Tata Motors   Shareholding Pattern Governance is ensured by the Board and the Committees – comprising two Executive,  two Non-Executive and five Independent members who are empowered to take the  right decisions for the Company.
The Board also brings in diverse and wide experiences  to the table in the areas of automobile engineering, business and economics; banking  and finance, and legal affairs, coupled with a global outlook.
More than half of the  members have spent over four years on the Board.
Although there are two different Boards for TML and JLR, there are four common Board  members, including the Chairman.
One of eight board meetings is held in the UK.
Mr Guenter Butschek Mr Vinesh K Jairath  Ms Falguni S Nayar  Mr O P Bhatt        Ms Hanne Sorensen                Mr Satish Borwankar  Mr N Chandrasekaran  Mr Nasser Munjee       Dr Ralf Speth               Mr P B Balaji * Mr Andrew M Robb  Tata Motors Limited Jaguar Land Rover  Automotive PLC * Group CFO and Director in Jaguar Land Rover Board  Ownership  Voting rights *DIM: Domestic Institutions & Mutual Funds 10.6% 14.9%   Promoters         ADR        Others 35.8% 18.0% 20.5% 20.7% 24.5% 12.9% 11.2% 30.9%     DIM*  FII            Total number of shareholders  10,13,524 56 Our people practices Our people are pivotal to all the initiatives that drive us to realising our future vision.
With a  dedicated focus on cost efficiency, at Tata Motors, we are providing our employees the right  opportunities to increase productivity, improve processes, develop future leaders and turn a  higher profit.
We are also driving an organisation-wide culture of innovation.
A high-quality talent pipeline enables the organisation to  bring operational excellence across the board.
TML partners with premier technology institutions  to develop technical talent at multiple levels in the  organisation.
‘T-talk’ is an initiative in which TML  employees interact with the student community about  the industry and areas of learning.
TML ’s employer  brand-building programme, titled Mind Rover, engages  with students through a case study competition that  invites solutions to challenging real-world problems  that the Company currently faces or has faced in  the past.
TML also invites eminent faculty members  from various institutes to participate in its research  programmes.
TML ’s ‘Talent on Demand’ initiative is a  pull-based strategy where employees, particularly from  the departments with high attrition, are trained to build  talent pipelines on demand.
JLR is driven by passionate people who design, develop  and manufacture cars that their customers love.
The  Company’s long-term success relies on attracting and  nurturing the next generation of bright minds.
To inspire  and attract a diverse range of talent, JLR is investing in  innovative recruitment strategies.
The Company found 15 new engineers through Tech  Quest, an online game that tests abilities through  puzzles and coding challenges.
5% of JLR’s September  2017 apprentices were recruited through its Gorillaz  programme.
This was an app-based code-breaking  challenge with the best-performing candidates fast  tracked through the recruitment process.
Strengthening the talent pipeline Total TML and JLR  employees 81,090 Employees 57 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 At Tata Motors, we constantly engage our employees on a multitude of programmes for improving their work  efficiency and build on their collective skills and intelligence.
JLR is a lead partner in the £150 Million National  Automotive Innovation Centre (NAIC) venture, which  will open at the University of Warwick towards the end  of 2018.
A state-of-the-art research and collaboration  hub for emerging automotive technologies, the NAIC will  develop the talent and skills needed for the future of the UK  automotive industry.
TML initiated the Organisation Effectiveness (OE) project  to create a leaner organisation and enhance process  efficiencies.
Town Halls are conducted every quarter by  the Executive Committee (ExCom) at different locations  to update the Company on business and OE exercise.
After each Town Hall, group discussions are held between  the ExCom and employees.
TML instituted a robust  performance management methodology i.e.
Balanced  Scorecard to measure both organisational and employee  performance.
This has enabled it to positively impact  the overall employee lifecycle, including assessment,  compensation and rewards management.
Additionally,  TML re-engineered its processes to further sharpen its  operational efficiencies.
This initiative has yielded multiple  benefits, which include organisational agility, process  orientation, standardised decision making and streamlined  governance.
52% Of permanent unionised workforce with which the  management engages frequently Accelerating changes with engagement TML is one of the first Tata group companies to  launch a long-term ESOP.
The underlying intent of  launching the ESOP was:  → To drive ongoing commitment towards the  Turnaround 2.0 strategy and to ensure that TML  achieves consistent, competitive and  cash-accretive growth over the medium-to-long  → To channelise management focus on sales  enhancement, rigorous cost reduction, supply   de bottlenecking and timely product launches,  which will lead to market share enhancement and  bottom-line growth   → To ring fence the TML leadership team, it motivates  and selects high-potential employees, ensuring to  create an ownership mindset that is aligned to the  interests of shareholders Incentive plans 58 TML built capacities across management tiers through  different modules as well as learning academies  that offer training programmes on knowledge and  capability enhancement, management development and  fundamental skills development.
With digital and online  skills assessment, the Company identifies the learning  priorities of each individual employee, with customised  exercises and course content.
By enhancing the skills of  its employees on future technologies, TML is ensuring a  smoother organisation-wide transition towards adoption  of newer technologies and development of   new products.
At JLR, efforts are made to continuously improve the  working conditions and promote safe working practices to  ensure the safety and wellbeing of its employees and the  wider communities the Company engages with.
Workplace  safety is an intrinsic part of working at JLR.
It is key to  ensuring the on-going success of the business and to  support JLR’s journey to zero harm.
Upskilling to drive product leadership JLR is in a unique position to answer the industry’s insatiable  call for a wide range of skills.
The Company is investing  more than £100 Million per year in the Jaguar Land Rover  Academy, offering lifelong learning for employees.
Around a  quarter of employees are actively working towards a formal  academic or professional qualification at all levels, from  apprenticeship to doctorate.
They have also upskilled 7,000  engineers with Master’s level education since 2010.
Total training (in person-hours) 5,87,137 TML For TML, workforce safety is of top priority and the  Company undertakes multiple initiatives across different  levels of the organisation to implement a culture of  wellbeing.
Initiatives such as safety drills and trainings, contractor  safety management prior to awarding contracts, audits and  rewards and recognitions on safety ensure better work  efficiency, increased value and better service delivery to  clients.
For TML ’s white-collared employees, the Company  engages in continuous communication and awareness drill  on lifestyle/wellness and health promotional activities.
TML  has also broadened its scope of safety awareness, building  campaigns (such as road safety week and national safety  month, among others) for engaging its channel partners and  supplier fraternity as well.
1,565 Female employees trained in safety Providing a safe work environment TML ’s safety performance  TML ’s Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTIFR) has  improved from 0.17 to 0.08 – an overall reduction of  52.9% compared to its FY17 safety performance.
59 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 TML believes that with diversity and inclusion on the  shop floor, it can leverage the multiplicity of skillsets  needed in all its operations.
The Company has established  policies and integrated capacity-building systems for  providing a supportive work environment, especially for  its female employees as well as employees from different  backgrounds and ethnicities.
The Company recruits  trainees from villages and small towns, especially from  economically disadvantaged regions.
Its ‘GearUp’ initiative  for mid-level women managers is designed to provide  management development inputs focussed on leadership  skills enhancement.
TML has in place a programme for  the employment of returning mothers.
Its comprehensive  Human Resource (HR) policy framework, including  maternity leave, sabbatical and half-day-half-pay policy  and flexible timings, helps employees establish a work-life  balance.
JLR  encourages its women employees across  the organisation in different types of roles and  responsibilities.
The Company is changing the  convention and reaching out to millions of young  women to attract them to a career in engineering  and design.
Some of the programmes for the female  employees at JLR include Top Flight and Leadership  Summit programmes to prepare the brightest and best  female employees for the highest leadership roles, in  addition to providing flexible working hours, on-site  childcare and a 52-week, fully paid maternity leave.
There has been a 24% increase in the proportion  of women in the Company’s workforce since 2014  and a 21% increase in the proportion of women in its  management grades in the same period.
In 2017, JLR  recruited more women than men (55% female) for  its Advanced Apprentice programme.
Women also  comprised 29% of the total hires joining the graduation  programme, in the year.
3% 100% 4.5% of TML workforce is women Assembly line manufactured by women  in Pune and JSR Mean pay gap The mean pay gap tells us the difference in the  average hourly pay rate for men and women.
A diverse workforce   60 For a sustainable future For Tata Motors, sustainable value creation is based on long-term  relationships, which we nurture with all our partners across the value  chain, including suppliers, vendors and dealers.
Some of the key  enablers for the Company to be ‘fit for future’ include a harmonious  co-existence with the communities where we operate, a consistent  performance in introducing environment-friendly technologies and  empowering our people while preparing them for future.
Total CSR spend K21.44 Crores TML £10.5 Millions JLR Contributing to sustainable community development Our CSR interventions are designed on the basis of local requirements and specific conditions.
We believe in  creating shared value with the communities we operate in and invest in long-term relationships with our large  vendor/dealer base.
Our community development related activities focus on some of the following key areas.
TML For years, health has remained a frontrunner of all  the programmes that TML has initiated for the society.
The Company has set up a community hospital in  Jamshedpur, India and also commenced several  community programmes to address the issues of  leprosy, malnutrition and others.
Through ‘Aarogya’, the health initiative under its CSR  programme, TML operates mobile health clinics for  remote tribal community outreach, offering last-mile  aid in Pune.
Aarogya also focusses on maternal and  child health, with a holistic and balanced approach  towards preventive healthcare and curative healthcare  interventions.
The Company has tied up with nutrition  rehabilitation centres across India to raise awareness   on the health of children, pregnant women and   lactating mothers.
JLR Since it was established jointly by JLR and the China  Soong Ching Ling Foundation (CSCLF) in May 2014, the  Jaguar Land Rover China Children and Youth Dream  Fund has invested RMB 50 Million (over £5.4 Million) in  projects to improve the health and wellbeing of young  people in China.
As of 2018, 254,000 children and  young people have benefitted from  Dream Fund programmes.
One Dream  Fund initiative, the Journey for Vision  project, has already provided vital eye  care to over 160,000 children across  remote areas of China.
Contribution made K2.90 Crores Impact created 376,310 lives touched 89% of the malnourished children in the target group  are now in the `healthy’ zone  Health  61 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 TML TML believes education is the cornerstone of one’s  cognitive, psychological and intellectual faculties.
Vidyadhanam, TML ’s CSR programme for education,  provides support to young learners by ensuring holistic  development in education infrastructure and services.
The programme focusses on the academic, physical  and social development of students, in conjunction  with value education.
It facilitates their mentoring  by professionals who are experts in their subjects of  interest.
The key projects under Vidyadhanam are: • Scholarships • Financial aid to students of IITs and government  engineering colleges • Coaching classes • Special coaching for IIT-JEE and other competitive  exams • School infrastructure improvement • Co-curricular activities JLR The ‘Inspiring Tomorrow’s Engineers’ programme  conducted by JLR saw participation of over 350,000  school children during 2017.
The programme provided  interactive learning and team challenges and facilitated  educational visits for encouraging active and ongoing  interest in engineering.
By 2020, the programme aims at engaging two Million  young people, nurturing talent for the business and the  wider automotive industry.
In addition, around 5,000 employees donated 100,000  hours annually to support JLR’s STEM education  programmes in schools.
Contribution made K10.43 Crores Education Students benefited The school drop-out rate, in target group, decreased from  40% two years ago to 0%.
The number of students passing the school curriculum  improved from 65% to 96%.
Impact created 101,420   62 TML Aadhar, TML ’s community development programme,  aims to serve the socio-economically disadvantaged  Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST)  communities.
Community development  K1 Crore On Aadhar 9,706 Employee volunteers 45,000 Volunteering hours Contribution made Impact created 18% hires from specific communities  93,715 people skilled JLR To make a positive global social impact, JLR has  established a network of interlinked projects around the  world.
In the last five years, JLR has delivered 40 global  social impact projects, fulfilling the commitment to  combine the talent of its people with technology to make  a unique contribution.
Every JLR employee is empowered to take two days  per year to volunteer their time and skills to work on a  project that will have a social impact.
During FY18, JLR’s employees committed over 70,000  hours through the Volunteer Changemakers programme.
During FY18, JLR has supported over  1.2 Million people through various  community development projects,  volunteering hours and gifts in kind,  totalling £10.5 Million.
Seva, TML ’s volunteering programme,   provides employees and their  families with varied opportunities to  meaningfully volunteer their time for  social causes.
TML employees also  offer pro bono services based on their  competencies to NGOs.
63 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 TML Without formal skills, the employability of a person  gets affected.
To address this issue, TML has partnered  with numerous skill development centres across India.
TML ’s skill development programme, Kaushalya, seeks  to empower unemployed youth by providing vocational  training in automotive and other industrial trades.
Additionally, TML also facilitates the following: • Train youth in vocational skills for employment areas  such as electrician, nursing assistant and so on • Engage in capacity building of community-based  groups, including women and farmers, in agriculture  and allied industries TML Given that environment is a global concern, any effort  at preserving local ecosystems would benefit local  communities and the society at large.
Through Vasundhara, TML ’s environment-related  programme, the Company contributes to enhance  environmental sustainability and aspires to promote  environmental consciousness among communities.
The initiative facilitates and encourages the protection,  conservation, judicious use and augmentation of natural  resources.
Employability and skills training Environment conservation K1.38 Crores 56,161 Lives touched  1,03,746  Saplings plantedContribution made K4.52 Crores Contribution made Impact created 98,661 Lives touched Impact created JLR Jaguar Land Rover is the biggest  provider of automotive apprenticeships  in the UK.
Over the last six years, the Company has invested £186.5  Million in young people through their apprenticeship  programme, with more apprenticeships than all the  other UK automotive manufacturers put together.
JLR JLR proactively balances the risks and opportunities associated with  biodiversity, protected species and habitats, both within its sites and  across the wider landscape.
At its Fen End Special Vehicle Operations  facility in the Weat Midlands, UK, there has been significant  ecology mitigation of ponds and badger tunnels.
The bunds at the  location reused the excavated soil from building excavation and  35% of the materials used for construction were from recognised  highly responsible manufacturers (BES 6001 Very Good, Forestry  Stewardship Council (FSC)).
Some of the key aspects of this ecological restoration project were: • 90% of construction waste was diverted from landfill.
• 78,000 m3 of soil was re-used during the construction of the new  vehicle operations building and the associated landscaping.
• A net gain in biodiversity was delivered through:  − Creation of 8.5 hectares of new high-value habitat features;  − Planting over 38,000 trees; and  −  Improvement of 8 hectares of existing habitat, including Runway  Woodland (a community woodland that was planted onsite next  to the entrance by local residents and a local school prior to our  ownership of the site).
TML has received the Golden Peacock  award for its training initiatives.
64 TML TML initiated the Amrutdhara programme for providing safe  drinking water across India.
While addressing the concerns  relating to safe drinking water, the programme also helps  in improving health and fostering a climate of gender and  social equality.
TML TML aspires to become water-neutral and   water-positive (particularly in green water), having  introduced rainwater harvesting and storage, water  pooling and water recycling, among others, in its  operations.
The Company is also one of the signatories  to RE100, a global collaboration that is working towards  converting to 100% renewable electricity by 2030.
4,08,221 tCO2e Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from manufacturing  operations in FY18 5,362.482 MT Hazardous waste generation in FY18 JLR JLR intends to be a zero-waste company and is committed  to reduce its dependence on plastic globally.
The need to  reduce tailpipe CO2 and NOx emissions, while minimising  the carbon footprint of its business, remains another key  objective.
Additionally, the Company has transitioned to cleaner,  sustainable sources of energy.
REALITY  Recycled Aluminium through Innovative Technology, a   £2 Million research project in partnership with Innovate UK,  demonstrates JLR’s commitment to the practical application  of sustainability.
The learnings from REALITY will help JLR  understand how it can use post-consumer aluminium in its  vehicles, giving a high-value second life to a valuable natural  resource.
Impact created • JLR has reduced CO2 from global vehicle manufacturing operations  by 46% per vehicle compared to 2007.
• 37% reduction in JLR’s European fleet average tailpipe CO2  emissions has been achieved in 10 years • The average energy required to build a Jagaur or Land Rover vehicle  is now 43% lower compared to 2007, down from 3.69 MWh  per car to 2.11 MWh Nurturing a safe environment We recognise that our manufacturing operations largely depend  on natural resources, including water, energy and sand, among  others.
Moreover, our operations have a significant effect on the  environment through emissions, effluents and solid waste.
At Tata Motors, we are trying to map, measure and manage  our dependencies and impacts on the natural capital through  numerous initiatives.
We are managing our resource utilisation  by optimising usage and minimising waste and at the same time,  approaching ‘design thinking’ with ways to leverage ‘circular  economy’.
K0.59 Crores Contribution made Impact created • 25 litres of water made  available per person per day • 1,01,454 beneficiaries • More than 40% beneficiaries  belong to the SC/ST category Providing safe drinking water  65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    185-353STATUTORY REPORTS  66-184 INTEGRATED REPORT   1-65 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 (Integrated) Chairman Emeritus  Mr Ratan N Tata Board of Directors  Mr N Chandrasekaran  Non-Executive Director and Chairman Mr Nasser Munjee  Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath  Non-Executive, Independent Director Dr Ralf Speth  Non-Executive Director Ms Falguni Nayar  Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Om Prakash Bhatt  Non-Executive, Independent Director Ms Hanne Sorensen  Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Guenter Butschek  CEO and Managing Director Mr Satish Borwankar   Executive Director and   Chief Operating Officer Registered Office  Bombay House,  24, Homi Mody Street Mumbai 400 001  Tel: +91 22 6665 8282  Fax: +91 22 6665 7799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com  Website: www.tatamotors.com Corporate Identity Number  L28920MH1945PLC004520 Executive Committee  Mr Guenter Butschek  CEO and Managing Director Mr Satish Borwankar   Executive Director and   Chief Operating Officer Mr P B Balaji  Group Chief Financial Officer Mr Girish Wagh  President - Commercial Vehicles   Business Unit Mr Mayank Pareek  President - Passenger Vehicles   Business Unit Mr Rajendra Petkar  Chief Technology Officer Mr Gajendra Chandel  Chief Human Resource Officer Mr Shailesh Chandra  President - Electric Mobility   Business & Corporate Strategy Mr Thomas Flack  Chief Purchasing Officer Company  Secretary  Mr H K Sethna Auditors  BSR & Co. LLP  (Registration No.
101248W/W–100022) Share Registrars  TSR Darashaw Limited  6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial  Estate, 20, Dr E Moses Road,  Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011  Tel: +91 22 6656 8484  Fax: +91 22 6656 8494  Email: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com  Website:  www.tsrdarashaw.com   Bankers Allahabad Bank   Andhra Bank   Bank of America   Bank of Baroda   Bank of India  Bank of Maharashtra   Central Bank of India   Citibank NA   Corporation Bank   Deutsche Bank   Federal Bank  HDFC Bank  Hongkong and Shanghai   Banking Corporation  ICICI Bank   IDBI Bank   Indian Bank  Kotak Mahindra Bank   Karur Vysya Bank   Punjab National Bank  Standard Chartered Bank   State Bank of India    Union Bank of India   United Bank of India   WORKS Jamshedpur   Pune   Lucknow   Pantnagar   Sanand   Dharwad Corporate information 66 BOARD’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED The Directors present their Seventy Third Annual Report along with the Audited Statement of Accounts for Fiscal 2018.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY ( ` in crores) Tata Motors (Standalone)* Tata Motors Group  (Consolidated) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 FINANCIAL RESULTS Revenue from operations 59,624.69 49,054.49 2,95,409.34 2,74,492.12 Total expenditure 55,824.11 47,242.28 2,58,536.37 2,37,579.76 Operating profit 3,800.58 1,812.21 36,872.97 36,912.36 Other Income 1,557.60 981.06 888.89 754.54 Profit before interest, foreign exchange, depreciation, amortization,  exceptional item and tax 5,358.18 2,793.27 37,761.86 37,666.90 Finance cost 1,744.43 1,569.01 4,681.79 4,238.01 Profit before depreciation, amortization, exceptional item, foreign  exchange and tax 3,613.75 1,224.26 33,080.07 33,428.89 Depreciation, amortization and product development/ engineering expenses 3,576.87 3,491.60 25,085.46 21,318.56 Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) 17.14 (252.78) (1,185.28) 3,910.10 Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax 19.74 (2,014.56) 9,179.89 8,200.23 Exceptional Items - (gain) / loss (net) 966.66 338.71 (1,975.14) (1,114.56) Profit/(loss) before tax (946.92) (2,353.27) 11,155.03 9,314.79 Tax expenses (net) 87.93 76.33 4,341.93 3,251.23 Profit/(loss) after tax (1,034.85) (2,429.60) 6,813.10 6,063.56 Share of profit of joint venture and associates (net) - - 2,278.26 1,493.00 Profit/(loss) for the year (1,034.85) (2,429.60) 9,091.36 7,556.56 Other comprehensive income/(loss) 43.22 94.21 29,562.51 (27,494.57) Total Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (991.63) (2,335.39) 38,653.87 (19,938.01) Attributable to:  Shareholders of the Company - - 38,524.52 (20,005.94)  Non-controlling interest - - 129.35 67.93 *  These include the Company’s proportionate share of income and expenditure in its two joint operations, namely, Tata Cummins Pvt.
Ltd. and Fiat India  Automobiles Pvt.
Ltd.
Effective April 30, 2018, the Company completed the merger of TML Drivelines Ltd. Fiscal 2017 has been restated for accounting the  said merger.
The appointed date of merger was April 1, 2017. DIVIDEND In view of the losses for Fiscal 2018, no dividend is permitted to be  paid to the Members as per the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules framed thereunder.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES  Due to losses in Fiscal 2018, resulting in debit balance in retained  earnings, no amount has been transferred to the Debenture  Redemption Reserve.
OPERATING RESULTS AND PROFITS The year 2017 for India was marked by a number of key structural  initiatives to build strength across macro-economic parameters  for sustainable growth in the future.
The growth in the first half of  the year suffered, despite global tailwinds.
However, the weakness  seen at the beginning of 2017 seems to have bottomed out with  the onset of 2018.
Currently, the Indian economy seems to be on  the path to recovery from the effects of demonetization, transition  into BS-IV emission norms  and the introduction of the Goods and  Service Tax, with indicators of industrial production, stock market  index, auto sales and exports having shown some uptick.
The year 2017 saw global economy accelerating although UK  economy evidently slowed down, while the US economy continued  to grow at a modest pace.
The Chinese economy continued to  grow strong, however, the Euro zone and Japan showed signs of  acceleration like many of the major emerging economies such  as Turkey and Russia.
The US economy grew at 2.7% in 2017,  supported by broad-based strength in domestic demand, especially  investment.
The Eurozone grew at a faster rate then in a decade, in  2017 by 2.4%, highest since 2007, reflecting the strong consumption,  investment, and exports.
The UK by contrast, was growing by 1.8% in  2017, down from 2016’s 1.9% rate and the weakest expansion since  67 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 2012, mainly reflecting the impact of higher inflation in the wake of  the 2016 Brexit vote and weaker investment from companies due to  uncertainty of future trade arrangements.
China registering growth  of 6.9% in 2017 and had remained solid this year.
Activity continued  to shift to consumption, while investment growth rates remain well  below those in recent years.
Industrial production has stabilized  following significant cuts in overcapacity sectors implemented over  the past 2 years.
During 2017, prices of base metal also strengthened, with the  strong growth in infrastructure sector in major countries around  the globe.
Crude prices remained range bound in major part of 2017  although it started to give a signal of upward breakout towards  fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Brent crude started sharp rally in the  middle of 2017 around US$44/bbl and has rallied all the way to  US$79/bbl.
The tensions in the Middle East and West Asia would  only add to the increase in oil prices.
The US shale output was also  expected to grow just by 1.1 million bpd and the year 2018 could be  the year of oil deficit to the tune of 7.5 lacs bpd.
The Tata Motors Group  registered a growth of 7.6% in income  from operations to `2,95,409 crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared  to `2,74,492 crores in Fiscal 2017.
This was due to growth in  the business in India, higher wholesale volumes in Jaguar and  Land Rover offset by negative translation impact from Great  Britain Pound (‘GB£’) to Indian Rupee (‘ `’) of `3,192 crores.
The  consolidated EBITDA margins for Fiscal 2018 stood at 10.6%.
EBIT  was lower due to non-recurrence of Tianjin recoveries offset by  favourable foreign currency revaluation and pension credit at  Jaguar Land Rover.
Consequently, Profit Before Tax and Profit After  Tax [post share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net)] were  `11,155 crores and `9,091 crores, respectively.
Tata Motors Limited recorded revenue from operations (including  joint operations) of `59,625 crores in Fiscal 2018, 21.6% higher  from `49,054 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Growth in demand of Medium  and Heavy Commercial Vehicle (M&HCV) and Light Commercial  Vehicle (LCV), new product offerings in passenger cars and Utility  Vehicles (UV), resulted in increase in EBITDA margins to 5.8% in  Fiscal 2018 as against 3.4% in Fiscal 2017.
Loss Before and After Tax  (including joint operations) for Fiscal 2018 were at `947 crores and  `1,035 crores, respectively as compared to Loss Before and After  Tax (including joint operations) of `2,353 crores and `2,430 crores,  respectively for Fiscal 2017.
There will be significant disruptions in  the Auto Industry necessitating a review of the Company’s tangible  and intangible assets to ensure “Fit for Future”.
Accordingly, an  exceptional provision for impairment of `963 crores has been  taken in Fiscal 2018.
Jaguar Land Rover  (‘ JLR’) (as per IFRS) recorded a 5.9% higher  revenue of GB £25.8 billion in Fiscal 2018 compared to GB £24.3  billion in Fiscal 2017 driven by higher sales volumes and favourable  mix.
Consolidated EBITDA for Fiscal 2018 was GB£3.3 billion, marginally  higher as compared to EBITDA of GB£3.0 billion for Fiscal 2017, as  the higher revenue was offset by higher marketing expense, higher  incentives and certain engineering charges.
EBIT was GB £974  million in Fiscal 2018 compared to GB £1.5 billion in Fiscal 2017,  due to higher depreciation and amortisation related to new product  launches which was partially offset by higher profits from our  China Joint Venture.
Profit Before Tax (‘PBT’) in Fiscal 2018 was GB£1.5 billion marginally  lower than PBT GB£1.6 billion in Fiscal 2017, due to lower EBIT and  the non-recurrence of Tianjin recoveries from Fiscal 2017 offset by  more favourable foreign currency revaluation of debt and hedges  as well as the GB£437 million pension credit realised in first quarter  of Fiscal 2018.
GB£437 million pension realised in first quarter of Fiscal 2018 was  partially offset by engineering charges (‘Fit for Future‘) in fourth  quarter of Fiscal 2018.
TMF Holdings Limited (‘TMFHL ’)  (earlier known as Tata Motors  Finance Limited) (consolidated) (as per Indian GAAP) the  Company’s captive financing subsidiary, reported revenues of  `2,876 crores (Fiscal 2017: `2,721 crores) and Profit After Tax  of `217 crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared to Loss After Tax of  `1,182 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (‘TDCV’) ,  (as per Korean GAAP) South Korea registered revenues of KRW  868.26 billion, a drop of 15.8% in Fiscal 2018 over the Fiscal  2017 mainly due to lower domestic sales.
The Profit After Tax  was KRW 33.66 billion compared to KRW 50.25 billion of Fiscal  2017.
Lower profitability was mainly due to the impact of lower  domestic sales which was partially set-off by material cost  reduction.
VEHICLE SALES AND MARKET SHARES  The Tata Motors Group  sales for the year stood at 12,21,124  vehicles, up by 11.9% as compared to Fiscal 2017.
Global sales of all  Commercial Vehicles (CV) were 4,56,552 vehicles, while sales of  Passenger Vehicles (PV) were at 7,64,572 vehicles.
TATA MOTORS  Tata Motors recorded sales of 584,564 vehicles, a growth of 21.9%  over Fiscal 2017, higher than the Indian Auto Industry grew by 10%.
The Company’s market share increased to 14.1% in Fiscal 2018 from  12.7% in Fiscal 2017.
The Company’s exports on standalone basis  were lower by 18.4% to 52,404 vehicles in Fiscal 2018 as compared  to 64,221 vehicles in Fiscal 2017.
Commercial Vehicles  The CV market after a turbulent start in the year 2017, as a result of  announcement of BS-III to BS-IV changeover and concerns over  Goods and Services Tax (GST), recovered strongly representing a  growth of 21.7% in Fiscal 2018.
The Company sold 399,821 vehicles  within the domestic market, representing a growth of 23.3% over  Fiscal 2017.
The market share of CVBU for Fiscal 2018 was 45.1%.
All  segments with the exception of buses showed strong growth in Fiscal  2018.
Some of the highlights for the year were: •  M&HCV volumes grew by 15.5% in Fiscal 2018.
Several  new products were launched across the SIGNA, PRIMA and  conventional platforms – SIGNA 4923.S with Bell Crank  suspension, SIGNA 3718, SIGNA 3718.TK, Prima 2530.K Scoop,  68 Prima Lx 3125.K 23cm, LPK 2523 ULTIMAAX, LPK 2518 7 Cum  RMC Bogie.
•  ILCV volumes registered a strong 35.6% growth in Fiscal 2018.
The introduction of the ULTRA 1518 marked the Company’s  entry in the 15T segment previously dominated by competition.
New products such as LPT 407/38, ILCV Tippers and ILCV CNG  products have helped grow volumes significantly.
•  SCV Volumes grew by 37.3%.
The XL series of SCVs, consisting  of the Zip XL, Mega XL and Ace XL models, was launched with  a 15% longer load body delivering improved Total Cost of  Ownership (‘TCO’) to our customers.
•  Volumes in the CV passenger segment marginally increased  by 0.2% from Fiscal 2017.
The Magic Express passenger SCV  was launched in second quarter of Fiscal 2018 and was well  received, helping this segment gain 9% market share in the  year.
The Net Promoter Score (‘NPS’) stood at positive (+57)  for Fiscal 2018.
•  Reiterating its commitment to greener fuel options, the Company  won orders for electric buses in 6 out of the 9 cities for which  tenders were released across the Country, garnering around  60% share.
The Company also supplied the country’s first diesel  hybrid buses for the city of Mumbai with 25 units being flagged  off by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra in March 2018.
•  The Company became the first Original Equipment Manufacturer  (OEM) in India to deploy Advanced Driver Assistance Systems  (ADAS) systems in its PRIMA and SIGNA range.
This package  included Electronic Stability Control (ESC), Automatic Traction  Control (ATC), Hill Start Aid (HSA), a Collision Mitigation System  (CMS) and a Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS).
•  The Company significantly improved the ability to provide  customers with end to end support and comfort through  enhancing the value added services under a common brand of  “Sampoorna Seva”.
The key elements include 6 Year 6 lakh km  warranty on the entire range of M&HCVs, Tata Alert breakdown  assistance service available across 3 million kilometers of Indian  roads and Tata Delight Loyalty Program.
•  Tie up with Indian Oil to launch Tata Motors Genuine Oil (TMGO),  a single brand of affordable lubricating oils that is guaranteed  by the Company for use across the range of CVs.
•  Sales Kraft – Value Selling and Negotiation  training module  was developed along with Mercuri Goldman to improve the  negotiation skills of the frontline sales team, aimed to improve  net sales realization.
Over the course of 3 phases, the entire  M&HCV sales team has been trained.
In the next phase of the  program, this module is being extended to the dealer sales  teams.
•  The Company participated in the SIAM Auto Expo 2018 where  15 vehicles and 1 new engine from the CV portfolio were  showcased.
Some of the key products displayed were:  –  The SIGNA 4323 – India’s first 6-axle rigid truck with a 30- ton payload, the highest in the market and 4.5 tons higher  than the nearest competitor.
–  The special PRIMA 4930.S technology demonstrator which  displayed some of our latest advanced safety features like  LDWS, Advanced Emergency Braking System (AEBS), HSA  and rear view cameras  –  The ULTRA T.7, an elegant 4.2 ton payload LCV with a  1.9-meter wide cabin for easier maneuverability on the  narrow roads of urban and rural India.
The Tata INTRA compact truck which is set to re-define the  SCV segment in the country  –  The MAGNA Bus – the first bus body code compliant two- axle OEM coach with world-class design and engineering  inputs from our partner Marcopolo, Brazil.
–  The Turbotronn Engine Family - a brand new next generation  state-of-the-art diesel engine family that offers best in class  fuel economy, excellent performance, better reliability, and  durability as well as lower TCO to our customers.
–  A range of Electric commercial vehicles including the  Starbus Electric, Magic EV and Iris EV.
•  CV won numerous awards for its various innovative products  and initiatives, some of which are mentioned below:  – At the prestigious Apollo CV Awards, CVBU won:   -  Small People Mover of the Year for the Tata Magic Express   -  M&HCV People Mover of the Year for the Tata Magna Bus   -  HCV Tractor Cargo Carrier of the Year for the Tata SIGNA  4923.S   -  Special Recognition award for the Tata Starbus Hybrid  –  Brand Equity YouTube Leader board  – No 1.
In Top 10 ads  on YouTube in India that resonate most with the audience -  February 2018.
–  World Digital Marketing Congress (WDMC)  - Best Digital  Integrated marketing campaign for Tata Ace - Keep Loading  campaign.
Global Digital marketing awards.
This is one of the  first industry awards in the year.
–  Abby’s  – Best use of Digital media – Bronze Award for Best  use of Digital display advertising   –  Digital Industry Awards 2017  - Best Use of Social Media  in a Digital Campaign for Tata T1 Prima Truck Racing  Championship 2017 for the year’s Digital Industry Awards  –  Use Dipper At Night Campaign  – an innovative campaign  to bring awareness amongst the truck driver community  of safe practices continues to be extremely well received  and acknowledged winning the Silver WARC Prize for Asian  Strategy and award for the Best Channel Thinking.
–  Tata Yodha – This media campaign won the Bronze award at  the prestigious Effies in India.
•  In order to promote various applications on the Company’s  products a series of campaigns were organized on Pan India: 69 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  –  M&HCV Truck World  - Organized 6 Truck World  Exhibitions with a full range of over 35 different models  displayed.
The events were also used to highlight new  product launches.
This has been backed up with 10,000+  market activations including 3100+ customer meets and  1600+ Fuel Trials.
–  ILCV Expos – 53 ILCV Expos, showcasing the complete ILCV  range of the Company, were conducted across 17 states with  18,500 customers in attendance.
–  XL Series Launch Activities – 44 large and 114 small format  XL Range launch events were conducted across 19 states,  attended by over 28,000 potential customers.
–  UP Yoddha Kabaddi Team – Tied up with the Pro Kabaddi  League team UP Yoddha to promote the Tata Yodha range  of pickups.
This association was amplified though a  concentrated promotion campaign including digital and  Below The Line (‘BTL ’) activities.
–  HAMARE BUS KI BAT HAI - a unique outreach program for  school staff, to upgrade their soft skills touched more than  1500 schools in Fiscal 2018 alone.
This meant touching  more than 46,000 school staff in 800+ locations.
–  Bandhan Key Customer Meets  – 7 large format key  customer meets were organized in strategic markets  across the country, with seniors CVBU leadership in  attendance.
–  During Fiscal 2018, the Lucknow and Pantnagar plants  were certified for Word Class Quality (WCQ) Level 3.
The  Incident Per Thousand Vehicles (‘IPTV’) has decreased  significantly over the last 3 years.
Passenger Vehicles The domestic PV industry grew by 7.3% during Fiscal 2018,  registering a volume of 3.25 million vehicles.
The growth in  industry was mainly driven by growth in overall economy of  India coupled with easing financing cost.
This growth was  driven by top 4 manufacturers only.
The Company’s PV business registered a growth of 19.0%  with total volumes of 184,743 vehicles.
The market share of  the Company for Fiscal 2018 was 5.7%.
The Company sold  134,860 cars with a marginal de-growth of 1.2%, and 49,883  Utility Vehicle (UV) with a growth of 165.6% as compared with  Fiscal 2017.
The growth in UV segment was driven by strong  demand for Nexon and Hexa.
The sharp increase in sales was  achieved despite a sharp decline in the Fleet Segment, in which  the Company has been traditionally a big player.
Focus on  individual customers helped in increasing share of individual  customers to over 85%.
In the field of customer service, the  Company ranked second in J D Power Customer Satisfaction  Index Survey, which is a significant improvement over last  few years.
Dealer Network upgradation and working capital  availability were prevailing constrains in PV sales and the  Company has been working with TMF Holdings Limited, its  financing arm and other banks to plug these gaps.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company launched two new products  namely Nexon and Tigor.
Apart from these two main launches  Tiago Wizz, Tiago AMT, Tigor AMT, Hexa Downtown and Zest  limited editions were launched.
All the newly launched cars  experienced strong demand and wide acceptance from the  market.
After almost 6 years, one of the Company’s products,  namely, Tiago figured among top 10 brands in car industry  becoming the second highest selling model in compact car  segment.
Apart from these regular models, the Company  made significant progress in electrical vehicles.
The Company  won the tender for supply of 10,000 electric cars to Energy  Efficiency Services Limited (‘EESL ’).
The PV business has seen a sharp transformation in NPS from a  negative score (-13) in Fiscal 2015 to positive score (14) in Fiscal  2018, significantly improving brand perception and pricing power  of the PVs.
During Fiscal 2018, the Pune and Sanand PV plants were certified  for WCQ Level 3 while UV plant certified for WCQ Level 2.
The  warranty IPTV is at all time lowest level.
Both these parameters  are indicators of continued focus on quality improvement.
Exports  The Company exported 52,404 vehicles (Fiscal 2017: 64,221  vehicles) comprising 50,106 units of CV and 2,298 units of PV  during Fiscal 2018.
Export of CV dropped by 16.7% in Fiscal 2018 with 50,106 units  exported compared to 60,184 units in Fiscal 2017.
The prime reason  for the drop in numbers was the drop in Total Industry Volumn (TIV)  in two of our key markets, Nepal (by 34% due to duty changes)  and Sri Lanka (by 39% due to liquidity crisis).
Export shipments to  Bangladesh achieved record shipments and retails.
Market Share  in all SAARC markets either improved or have been strong.
Political  distresses in the Middle East, Kenya and South Africa and economic  slowdown and currency devaluations in various markets in Africa  affected volumes in these regions in Fiscal 2018.
The shipments to  ASEAN doubled in Fiscal 2018 as compared to Fiscal 2017, making  it our fastest growing region.
In Fiscal 2018, the Company successfully bagged several  prestigious orders, including 250 units of Xenon pickups, 200  units of LPTA 715 from the Myanmar Armed forces [making  Myanmar Armed Forces the biggest customer of Xenon  globally (1950 units)], 540 units of buses from ILOC, Senegal,  209 units from GVK EMRI Sri Lanka.
Some of the key events in  Fiscal 2018 were the launch of Prima in Philippines, Signa in Sri  Lanka, Yodha in Nepal, Ultra buses in Tanzania, Ultra range in  South Africa and unveiling of Ultra in Thailand and Indonesia.
The complete CR range of ILCV was launched in Nepal.
Export of PV s tood at 2,298 units compared to 4,037 units in the  Fiscal 2017.
Two large markets remain non-operational, mainly Sri  Lanka due to high import duties, tight retail financing and South  Africa due to the closure of the distribution channel.
During Fiscal 2018, launch of new models in Nepal and  70 Bangladesh helped the Company to accrue 44% of its PV export  volumes from launches.
The Company successfully launched  the Hexa, Tigor and Nexon in Nepal, where the Tigor and Nexon  were both ‘Number One’ sedan and CUV respectively.
The Tata  Motors’ brand ranked ‘Number Three’ in the PV segment in  Nepal, despite being present only in a limited number of high  volume segments.
In Bangladesh the Tiago AMT was ranked as  ‘Number One’ hatchback.
JAGUAR LAND ROVER  Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) achieved record retail sales of 614,309  in Fiscal 2018, marginally higher by 1.7% compared to Fiscal 2017,  primarily driven by the introduction of the Range Rover Velar,  Jaguar E-PACE, the all new Land Rover Discovery coupled with  solid demand for the long-wheel base Jaguar XFL in China and  the award-winning Jaguar F-PACE.
Year-on-year the higher retail  sales volumes by 19.9% in China, 4.7% in North America and 3.4%  in overseas markets were offset by lower sales in the UK by 12.8%  and in Europe by 5.3% primarily driven by ongoing uncertainty  surrounding diesel.
The total wholesale volumes (excluding sales from the China  Joint Venture) were 545,298 in Fiscal 2018, up 2.0% compared  to the 534,746 units in Fiscal 2017.
The growth in wholesales  primarily reflected the introduction of new models offset by lower  wholesales of older models, notably the Jaguar XE and XF, Land  Rover Discovery Sport, Range Rover Evoque and other models  (including Range Rover and Range Rover Sport on account of the  model year changeover).
Some of the key highlights of Fiscal 2018: •  All new Land Rover Discovery launched in the US and China in  May 2017 •  The new Jaguar XF Sportbrake unveiled in June 2017 with sales  following shortly •  The Range Rover Velar commenced retail sales in July 2017  (Winner of World Car Design of the Year)  •  Jaguar’s new compact performance SUV, the E-PACE,  commenced sales from November 2017  •  Refreshed Range Rover and Range Rover Sport models (including  plug in hybrids) were launched at the end of calendar 2017  •  Production of the new long wheel base Jaguar XEL commenced  at our China Joint Venture and went on sale in December 2017  •  JLR announced that all models would offer an electrified option  from 2020 •  The Range Rover Velar, Jaguar F-PACE and E-PACE were all  awarded a 5 star Euro NCAP rating in Fiscal 2018  •  JLR’s first battery electric vehicle, the Jaguar I-PACE was  launched in March 2018 •  Production of JLR’s 4 cylinder 2 litre ingenium petrol engine  commenced production at our China joint venture in July 2017  for locally manufactured JLR vehicles in China •  Construction of the manufacturing plant in the city of Nitra in  Slovakia advanced during Fiscal 2018 and the all new Discovery  will be the first vehicle to be produced at the new plant from the  end of calendar year 2018 •  InMotion Ventures announced $25m investment in rideshare  company LYFT in June 2017 •  JLR is taking part in the UK’s first road tests for autonomous  vehicles  •  Long term strategic partnership with Waymo announced in  March to develop a self-driving I-PACE for Waymo’s driverless  transportation service, with 20,000 units joining Waymo’s fleet  over 2020 and 2021 •  JLR confirmed plans to open a software engineering centre and  create 150 jobs in Shannon, Republic of Ireland, in 2018  TATA DAEWOO COMMERCIAL VEHICLES COMPANY LIMITED Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Company Limited (TDCV) during  Fiscal 2018 sold 8,870 commercial vehicles, lower by 14.0% over  Fiscal 2017, mainly due to decrease in domestic sales.
TDCV sold  6,859 commercial vehicles in the domestic market  lower by 22.0%   as compared to sales in Fiscal 2017, primarily due to lower industry  volumes and aggressive discounting and marketing strategies of  importers considering their higher ordering level.
The market share for  both HCV and MCV segments put together was 26.5% as compared to  29.6% in Fiscal 2017.
The export market scenario continued to remain  challenging in Fiscal 2018 with factors like local currency depreciation  against the US Dollar, continuing statutory regulations to reduce  imports, the slowdown in Chinese economy impacting commodity  exporting countries and increased dealer inventory.
However, TDCV  could increase its export sales to 2,011 commercial vehicles, 32.1%  higher compared to 1,522 commercial vehicles in Fiscal 2017.
TATA MOTORS (THAILAND) LIMITED  Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited (TMTL) domestic retail sales in  Fiscal 2018 was 958 units as compared to 1,094 units in Fiscal  2017.
Offtake was 682 units in Fiscal 2018, as compared to 1,332  units in Fiscal 2017.
The Thai Automobile Industry has witnessed  a growth of 13.6% in Fiscal 2018 compared to flat growth last year,  the addressable segment of TMTL declined by 3% compared to 14%  growth last year.
Fiscal 2018 saw the launch of Ultra Truck models.
Super Ace was well received in the market resulting in market share  improvement to 8.9% compared to 4.6% in Fiscal 2017.
During the  year, TMTL received its first order from Royal Thai Army to supply  1.25 ton Tata Trucks.
TATA MOTORS (SA) (PTY) LIMITED Tata Motors (SA) (Pty) Ltd (TMSA) sold 773 chassis in the South  African market in Fiscal 2018 compared to 697 chassis in Fiscal 2017  and exported 42 chassis in Fiscal 2018 compared to 6 chassis to  Mozambique during Fiscal 2017.
TMSA commenced manufacturing  of the –Ultra 814 and is in the process of assembling new range of  TDCV models in South Africa in Fiscal 2019.
TMF HOLDINGS LIMITED  TMF Holdings Limited (TMFHL) – a wholly owned subsidiary  of the Company, is the vehicle financing arm under the brand  71 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 “TMF Holdings Limited”.
TMFHL ’s total disbursements (including  refinance) increased by 65.7% at `15,406 crores in Fiscal 2018 as  compared to `9,298 crores in Fiscal 2017.
TMFHL financed a total  1,75,128 vehicles reflecting an increase of 47.3% over 1,18,883  vehicles financed in Fiscal 2017.
Disbursements for CV increased  by 60.6% and were at `11,448 crores (115,689 units) as compared  to `7,127 crores (77,898 units) of Fiscal 2017 mainly due to higher  disbursements in the M&HCV segment.
Disbursements of PV  increased by 14.3% to `2,345 crores (42,619 units) from a level  of `1,542 crores (34,126 units).
Disbursements achieved under  refinance through Tata Motors Finance Services Limited (TMFSL), a  100% Subsidiary of TMFHL were at `1,614 crores (16,820 vehicles)  as compared to `628 crores (6,859 vehicles) during Fiscal 2017.
TMFHL has increased its reach by opening limited services  branches (called Spoke and Collections branches) exclusively in  Tier 2 and 3 towns, which has helped in reducing the turnaround  time to improve customer satisfaction.
TMFHL had 267 branches at  the end of Fiscal 2018.
The book size of TMFHL ’s corporate lending  business, which includes providing finance to the Company’s  dealers and vendors, increased by 179.6% from `1,150 crores in  Fiscal 2017 to `3,215 crores in Fiscal 2018.
The gross NPA has decresed from 17.9% to 4% from Fiscal 2017  to Fiscal 2018, showing the improvement in credit quality of its  portfolio.
MATERIAL CHANGES & COMMITMENT AFFECTING  THE FINANCIAL POSITION  There are no material changes affecting the financial position of the  Company subsequent to the close of the Fiscal 2018 till the date of  this report.
SIGNIFICANT & MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE  REGULATORS OR COURTS OR TRIBUNALS There are no significant material orders passed by the Regulators  or Courts or Tribunal, which would impact the going concern status  of the Company and its future operation.
However, Members  attention is drawn to the Statement on Contingent Liabilities and  Commitments in the Notes forming part of the Financial Statement.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk Management Committee (RMC) is entrusted with  responsibility to assist the Board in (a) overseeing the Company’s  risk management process and controls, risk tolerance and capital  liquidity and funding (b) setting strategic plans and objectives for  risk management and review of risk assessment of the Company  ( c ) review the Company’s risk appetite and strategy relating to key  risks, including credit risk, liquidity and funding risk, market risk,  product risk and reputational risk, as well as the guidelines, policies  and processes for monitoring and mitigating such risks.
The Committee operates as per its Charter approved by the Board and  within the broad guidelines laid down in it.
The Company has a Risk  Management Policy in accordance with the provisions of the Act and  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation,  2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
It establishes various levels of  accountability and overview within the Company, while vesting  identified managers with responsibility for each significant risk.
The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk  management in the organisation.
Through Enterprise Risk  Management Programme, business units and corporate  functions address opportunities and the attendant risks with an  institutionalized approach aligned to the Company’s objectives.
This  is facilitated by internal audit.
The business risk is managed through  cross functional involvement and communication across businesses.
The results of the risk assessment are thoroughly discussed with the  Senior Management before being presented to RMC.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH   REFERENCE TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT Details of internal financial control and its adequacy are included  in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report, which forms  part of this Report.
HUMAN RESOURCES The Tata Motors Group employed 81,090 permanent employees  as of Fiscal 2018 (Fiscal 2017: 79,558 employees).
The Company  employed 24,989 permanent employees as of Fiscal 2018 (Fiscal  2017: 26,035 employees).
The Tata Motors Group has generally  enjoyed cordial relations with its employees and workers.
The Company has labour unions for operative / worker grade  employees at all the plants across India, except the Dharwad Plant.
The  Company has generally enjoyed cordial relations with its employees  and unions at its factories and offices and have received union support  in the Company’s implementation of reforms that impact safety, quality,  cost and productivity improvements across all locations.
Employee  wages are being paid in accordance with wage agreements that have  varying terms (typically three to four years) at different locations.
With an objective of improving Organization Effectiveness, the Company  undertook a structure change exercise with key guiding principles  of Empowerment to the Business Units with clear accountability for  business results, strong functional leadership and oversight for an  effective maker-checker concept, improved and speedier decision  making, agility and quick responsiveness to market, and strong cross  functional alignment to drive quick issue resolution.
The exercise has  delayered the organization to 5 managerial levels below ExCom,  making the organization lean and agile while rationalizing the span of  control for key roles, increasing customer facing roles and providing  scope for merit and vacancy based career development.
The new  organization structure went live on April 01, 2017.
As part of the structure change, a new product line organization  has been created with complete P&L responsibility.
Transactional  roles have been identified across functions for transition to shared  services, and therefore focus on core activities.
Volumetric study  has been performed to identify optimum manpower at each level,  bringing the organizational spread closer to global standards.
This, combined with the Job Evaluation exercise and Management  Audit helped in establishing clear job description for each role and  identifying the right talent for the roles.
Placement of Individuals in these roles done through external  assessment (for mid and senior level roles) and internal assessments  (for junior level roles) were conducted by ExCom and respective  Senior Leadership teams.
Individuals, based on their performance  72 and the experience they bring to the role, have been given bands  within the levels.
This will help us provide an opportunity to  employees to progress from one band to another within the same  level, thus managing career aspiration of individuals in the long  run, in line with the promotion and progression policy.
Management is keen on ensuring smooth implementation of the  new vision, mission and structure.
Multiple FGDs were conducted  during Fiscal 2018 with different cross section of employees and few  course corrections, like providing level wise designation, concept of  personal levels, protection of benefits, etc.
was undertaken based  on feedback received from employees.
Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 2018 (“TML  ESOP Scheme 2018” / “the Scheme”) The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Nomination  and Remuneration Committee and pursuant to the provisions of the  Act and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, had at its meeting held on May  23, 2018, proposed adoption of Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock  Option Scheme 2018 (“TML ESOP Scheme 2018” / “the Scheme”),  in order to ring fence and incentivize key talent, approximately  aggregating to 200 employees, forming 2% of the white collar  population, for driving the long term objectives of the Company and  ensuring that employee payoffs match the long gestation period  of certain key initiatives and at the same time fostering ownership  behavior and collaboration amongst employees.
Members’ approval to the Scheme is sought, by way of Special  Resolution, at Item No.
7 of the Notice.
The salient features of the  Scheme are as provided in the explanatory statement of the Notice.
Safety & Health – Performance & Initiatives  The Company is committed to provide a safe and healthy working  environment for its employees and associates.
It was ensured that  none of our employees or workers are subjected to high incident or  high risk disease related to their individual occupation.
A company- wide occupational health and safety policy exist in order to ensure  increased vigilance and awareness on health and safety.
It was  recognised that to achieve the target in safety it was crucial to  internalize safety and engage with our employees.
The Indian operations achieved improved performance with Total  Recordable Case Frequency Rate (TRCFR) being 1.14 against the  target of 1.47 for the Fiscal 2018, the overall Safety Performance  improved but recorded one fatality during Fiscal 2018.
The manufacturing plants across the Country are certified to ISO  14001 - Environment Management Systems and OHSAS 18001  – Occupational Health & Safety Management System.
The CV  manufacturing plants of the Company across India are certified  to ISO 50001 - Energy Management System.
The Company has  undertaken several initiatives for resource conservation such as  re-cycling of treated effluents back to process, energy, material  recovery and co-processing from hazardous wastes through cradle  to grave waste management principles and rainwater harvesting.
Manufacturing plants generate in-house renewable power besides  sourcing off-site green power.
All the Company’s sites are certified  for GreenCo, except for the Sanand plant which is participating for  GreenCo in June 2018.
The Company places equal emphasis on safety processes, behavioral  safety and strives to create a positive safety culture towards achieving  the ultimate goal of ‘Zero Injury’.
Safety is a primary focus area in  daily management and safety parameters are part of the scorecard  for Senior Leaders.
Sessions on Road Safety were conducted at all  offices across India engaging 1,000+ employees along with mentoring  of Flexi Work Force under “MY BUDDY” program by Permanent Blue  Collar Work force / Group leaders.
In line with Safety and Health Policy, to enhance safety standards  of its business partners, the Company engaged it’s upstream and  downstream supply chain in the safety journey.
The objective of  such engagement is to raise the safety standards at Supplier and  Dealer workshops.
In addition to existing 16 safety standards, new  standards / guidelines like Cell Phone Policy, CCTV Policy, Lone  Working Standard, Industrial Hygiene Standard, Engineering  Standards, Vehicle Usage & Replacement Guidelines were  developed and rolled out to raise the level of safety.
The Company continued Campaign ‘i-drive safe’  – an initiative  on building a safe driving culture amongst its employee and  associates and have trained them in Defensive Driving.
‘My Road  My Discipline’  Road Safety Week campaign during April 23 to  29 included Road Safety Celebrations conducted in all location  including all Plants, Offices, Dealerships, Warehouses and Vendors.
‘senSHEtize’- A Company’s initiative on Women’s Safety Awareness:  more than 1800 women employees underwent training focused on  Women’s Safety and Self-defense in 60 session across offices & plants.
Jagruti – Safety Awareness Building Campaign for Workshop  Managers is a year-long campaign focused on building awareness  on safety and understanding of the Company’s expectations on  Dealers Workshop Safety.
Jagruti Safety Awareness campaign  was done for channel partners PV and CV dealers covering Pan- India level.
In health area, as per the age band, specific health check-up of  employees was organized and conducted.
Health & well-being  of aging workforce remained a prime concern and various health  awareness programs and exhibitions across all locations were  organized.
Jamshedpur, Lucknow and Pantnagar plants were certified for Food  Safety Management System ISO 22000:2005.
Remaining plants  i.e.
Dharwad and Sanand plants will be undergoing certification  process in Fiscal 2019.
The Company continued to drive a number of initiatives to reduce  its environmental footprint in Fiscal 2018.
Our GreenHouse Gas  (GHG) mitigation approach included driving energy conservation  in manufacturing operations and generation / procurement of  renewable energy.
The Company consumed 99 million units of  renewable electricity in its operations, which was 21% of total  power consumed.
This is 19% higher than renewable power  consumed in Fiscal 2017.
On Company’s efforts to achieve ‘Zero  Waste to Landfill’, the hazardous waste disposed to Common  Facilities (for landfill / incineration) was lower by 18% over Fiscal  2017.
The Company’s approach to lowering the water consumption  included driving water conservation in manufacturing operations,  re-cycling treated effluent for re-use in process and harvesting  73 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 seasonal rainwater.
The Company’s performance on effluent re- cycling improved by 15% over Fiscal 2017.
On Sustainability, supply chain sustainability was one of the major  initiatives undertaken during Fiscal 2018.
Over 50 suppliers have  been trained and provided handholding to improve sustainability  performance and assessed towards sustainability expectations.
Circular economy, natural capital evaluation of key dependencies,  design for environment, biodiversity assessment, life cycle  assessment of products, climate adaptation study were some  of the other initiatives the Company has taken in sustaining its  business and planet.
JLR continues to drive health and safety through Destination Zero – A  Journey to Zero Harm.
The Company’s commitment is reflected in JLR  commitment with the key statement being “Our most valuable asset is  our people, nothing is more important than their safety and wellbeing.
Our co-workers and families rely on this commitment.
There can be no  compromise”.
The concept of ‘Humanising’ safety metrics and ensuring  transparent reporting enables the journey to zero harm to continue to  be highly visible.
To support the wider ambition of zero harm as well  as focusing on incidents, JLR also continued to mature the approach  to wellbeing activities with a focus on mental health and the launch of  the ‘let’s have the conversation’ programme, designed to support open  discussions on matters of mental health.
The development of focused  plans has ensured that each functional area, aligned at Board level,  has a specific ‘Destination Zero’ Harm Plan.
These have assisted each  functional area to tailor their own plan of activities to lead improved  safety and wellbeing within their own area of responsibility.
Performance on Loss Time Injuries (LTI) continued to show improving  trend consistent with overall business improvement.
A notable  improvement was seen in manufacturing locations with around 47%  improvement against last Fiscal performance.
Many of the sites  continued to celebrate sustained zero lose time injuries.
The improved  performance on safety was resultant of various initiatives taken  throughout the year, such as improving quality of safety observations,  effective implementation of existing safety management programs,  robust safety training and defensive driving etc.
The business has gone through OHSAS 18001 - surveillance  visits in Fiscal 2018, within all the UK locations and maintained  its accreditation to this standard through a series of external  assessments.
Plans for migration to the new International Standard  ISO 45001 was underway.
TMSA sustained good performance, leadership commitment  and employee engagement in areas of Safety and Health  during Fiscal 2018.
TDCV Korea  and TMTL Thailand  continued  leadership commitment and engagement with focus in areas of  safety communication, risk assessment, improving capabilities of  employees for emergency situations.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment  The Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment at  workplace and has adopted a Policy on Prevention, Prohibition  and Redressal of sexual harassment at workplace in line with the  provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace  (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the  Rules thereunder for prevention and redressal of complaints  of sexual harassment at workplace.
The Company is committed  to providing equal opportunities without regard to their race,  caste, sex, religion, colour, nationality, disability, etc.
All women  associates (permanent, temporary, contractual and trainees)  as well as any women visiting the Company’s office premises  or women service providers are covered under this Policy.
All  employees are treated with dignity with a view to maintain a  work environment free of sexual harassment whether physical,  verbal or psychological.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company had received 13 complaints on  sexual harassments, 12 of which have been substantiated and  appropriate actions were taken.
The remaining 1 complaint was  received during mid March and is being investigated.
The Company  organized 148 workshops or awareness program against sexual  harassment.
There were no complaints pending for more than 90  days during the year.
Similar initiatives on Prevention of Sexual Harassment are in place  across the Tata Motors Group of companies.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  the Business Responsibility Report (BRR) initiatives taken from an  environmental, social and governance perspective, in the prescribed  format is available as a separate section of the Annual Report and  also hosted on the Company’s website www.tatamotors.com  FINANCE  During the year, the free cash flows for Tata Motors Group  were negative `11,183 crores, post spend on capex, design and  development of ( `35,039 crores).
Tata Motors Group’s borrowing  as at March 31, 2018 stood at `88,951 crores (as at March 31, 2017:  `78,604 crores).
Cash and bank balances and investments in mutual  funds stood at `48,974 crores (as at March 31, 2017: `51,119 crores).
The consolidated net automotive debt to equity ratio stood at 0.15 as  at March 31, 2018, as compared to 0.13 as at March 31, 2017.
Free cash flows were `1,339 crores for standalone operations of the  Company.
Spend on capex, design and development were `2,794  crores (net).
The borrowings of the Company as on March 31, 2018  stood at `18,464 crores (as at March 31, 2017: `19,357 crores).
Cash  and bank balances including mutual funds stood at `2,312 crores (as at  March 31, 2017: `2,764 crores).
During Fiscal 2018, the Company issued  rated, listed, unsecured NCDs of `1,500 crores.
At JLR, post spend on capex, design and development of GB£4,186  million (`35,776 crores), the free cash flows were negative GB£1,045  million (`8,931 crores) for Fiscal 2018.
The borrowings of the JLR as on  March 31, 2018, stood at GB£3,731 (`34,238 crore) [as at March 31, 2017:  GB£3,581 million (`28,977 crores)].
Cash and financial deposits stood  at GB£4,657million (`42,977 crores) [as at March 31, 2017: GB£5,487  million (`44,400 crores)].
Additionally, JLR has undrawn committed  long term bank lines of GB£1,935 million (JLR data as per IFRS).
During Fiscal 2018, JLR issued US$500 million senior notes due  in 2027 at a coupon of 4.50% per annum.
The proceeds were for  general corporate purposes, including support for JLR’s ongoing  growth and capital spending requirements.
74 During Fiscal 2018, TMFHL and its subsidiaries, Tata Motors  Finance Limited and TMFSL, raised `3,231 crores by issuing NCDs.
Bank borrowings through secured and unsecured term loans  continued to be a major source of funds for long-term borrowing  and raised `2,330 crores during Fiscal 2018.
In Fiscal 2018, TMFHL  Group short-term debt (net) increased by `5,008 crores and long- term debt (net) increased by `7 crores.
Tata Motors Group has undertaken and will continue to implement  suitable steps for raising long term resources to match fund  requirements and to optimise its loan maturity profile.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company’s rating for foreign currency  borrowings was retained to “Ba1”/Stable by Moody’s and to “BB+”/  Stable by Standard & Poor’s.
For borrowings in the local currency, the  ratings was retained by CRISIL at “AA/ Positive” and by ICRA at “AA/ Positive”.
The Non-Convertible debentures and long term bank facilities  i.e.
(Buyers Credit and Revolving Credit Facility) rating by CARE was  retained at “AA+/Stable”.
During the year, JLR’s rating was retained by  Moody’s at “Ba1” with a change in outlook to Stable and was retained by  Standard & Poor’s at “BB+/Stable”.
For TMFHL, CRISIL has maintained  its rating on long-term debt instruments and bank facilities to CRISIL  “AA/ A1+/Positive” and ICRA has maintained its rating at “AA/Positive” DEPOSITS  The Company has not accepted any public deposits during Fiscal 2018.
There were no over dues on account of principal or interest on public  deposits other than the unclaimed deposits as at the end of  Fiscal 2018.
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL REPORT As provided under Section 92(3) of the Act, the details forming part  of the extract of the Annual Return in Form MGT 9 is annexed as   Annexure - 1.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL  PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES a.
Information Technology Initiatives    The Company has been a pioneer in adopting Information  Technologies (IT) to enable the processes and create  efficiencies in its systems.
It has been working towards  implementing the components of its IT roadmap to create  a digital ready platform for transformation.
It leverages its  strong partnerships with product and services companies to  harness the potential of IT for ensuring execution of business  initiatives towards a competitive advantage.
The major highlights of IT at the Company are:  •  Executed IT Cost Optimization across strategic out  sourcing programs.
•  Implemented GST framework and IT enablement to  support business transactions.
•  Enabled World Class Quality initiative of the Company  through extending the implementation of Manufacturing  Execution System.
•  Digital initiatives like e-guru mobile app for dealers’ sales  force has helped create customer awareness about our  products   •  Focus on Supplier Relationship Transformation (SRT)  through implementation of Supplier systems and  inauguration of SRT training centre   •  Continued greater collaboration with subsidiaries  leveraging IT leadership   •  Strengthening information security through multiple  initiatives such as Network Access Control and  preparation for ISO27000 framework  •  IT team has led the Tata Group CIO Forum enabling  synergies across Tata companies in the areas of Digital,  Information Security and procurement   In the Company, IT was all about digital.
Right from conception  of programs such as high fidelity technology backends to  connected vehicle roadmaps, the span of technology has  never been this vast.
All of it was geared towards constant  evolution in the mobility (commute) space and providing the  best in class technology experience to our end customers.
Programs to enhance the sales executive interactions with  customers, capturing just in time information from the ground,  driving analytics decision making with cloud services and  preparing for the next generation of customer relationship  have been top focus areas.
Providing customized technology experience in the full  lifecycle of a product, at all stakeholder touchpoints, is a niche  which technology is aiming to achieve going forward.
Digital  platforms and services married to unique business use cases  was the way forward.
The technology team was in continuous  research process of evaluating the best use of state of the art  technologies for the benefit of our customers and providing a  delight to all stakeholders.
With the readiness of our systems on the digital front, the  Company is well equiped in its exciting phase of transformation  journey by using cutting edge technology to provide customer  centric products and services.
b.
Digital Product Development Systems Initiatives    Significant improvements in key processes for product design  and manufacturing planning domain had been accomplished  through modification of existing processes and identifying few  manual processes and converting them in digital engineering  domain for better agility.
Achievements through various initiatives are listed below:  •  35 new knowledge based engineering applications  were designed and implemented across various product  design and safety domains.
They were integrated with  various tools such as to predict problematic reflections  for driver and analyze different parameters for driver  comfort, defining datum strategy ensuring first time right  panel datum information for tooling and dimensional  variation analysis.
•  100+ new productivity tools were developed and  implemented across various product design and  75 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 validation domains.
These tools helped large number  of designers to increase their productivity significantly  through identified levers such as quality checks for  design, drawing automation and process automation.
CAE tools for load body analysis, NVH assembly model  creation, BIW static stiffness, structural connectivity,  frequency response and harmonic fatigue, spot-weld  failure prediction, axle bracket weld, etc, are few  such examples.
During concept evaluation phase of  the product, advanced concept evaluation tool had  been introduced and by this, various design concepts,  including sections, shapes and load paths had been  optimized.
•  Digital process of Requirements Management Design  Verification and Validation was implemented for various  product development functions, to keep check on product  validation status.
This process ensures conformance of  vehicle performance targets.
•  Tool for design of Mastics and Sealants is developed  and deployed for Body Engineering.
It’s inbuilt feature of  linking vehicle body panels with sealants helps designer  to quickly regenerate Mastics & Sealants for iterative  design modifications.
Application standardizes design  methodology across vehicle platforms and provides  more accurate weight and cost management of sealants  at vehicle level.
•  High Performance Computing (HPC) solution throughput  of CAE simulation using General Purpose Graphics  Processing Unit (GPGPU) computation technology  has resulted in significant improvement for non-linear  implicit simulations.
•  Smart review tools were deployed delivering insights  into engineering changes of vehicle data at each  design release milestones, enabling project teams  to review changes.
In this, integrated approach of  3D Visualization, issue management and change  comparison was helpful in accurate design reviews,  identifying critical areas to focus and facilitated  accurate decision making.
•  20 business processes were digitized by converting  either paper based or email based processes into  standardized online applications using homegrown  pFirst platform.
•  Implementation of MOST time analysis based tool  at all locations for MOP (Measure of Performance)  improvement by identifying VA (Value Added), ENVA  (Essential Non-value Added), NVA (Non-value Added)  activities and Lean Analytics.
•  For all new vehicle programs, simulation and validation  of critical manufacturing processes were carried out for  detection of a potential problem in the early stage.
•  Quality Application tools for mobility devices for  monitoring real time part Design and Commercial  information of BOTS & CHAT software engines.
(Productivity Improvement)  Subsidiaries   Jaguar Land Rover (JLR):    JLR continue to develop the use of the latest Product Lifecycle  Management (PLM) technologies to ensure JLR remains at  the cutting edge of engineering and drive efficiencies into the  process.
The application of leading visualisation and systems  engineering technologies enable full engagement in the  product creation process, all with the aim of producing cars  and SUVs that the customers will love for life.
Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles (TDCV):   TDCV continued the focus on quality and agility in its digital  product creation processes.
PLM software system was  upgraded to a higher version giving enhanced features.
The  PLM processes were also improved, considering various  business requirements and scenarios.
Tata Technologies Limited (TTL):    Tata Technologies Limited (TTL) has invested in state-of-the-art  software and hardware technologies in alignment with business  goals and customer needs, with the prime focus on delivering  world class business solutions to the stakeholders.
These  investments have stemmed from the pressing need of the hour  to keep the organization abreast with the latest technologies by  enhancing and upgrading the digital eco-system.
TTL continued to augment and enhance the Virtual Desktop  Infrastructure setup for engineering users to improve network  and information security.
It has also deployed Unified  Communication Technology as part of enhanced collaboration  platform.
The deployment of Hyper Converged Infrastructure  has resulted in better performance and high availability  computing for enterprise applications hosted on hybrid cloud.
As part of O2C (Opportunity to Cash) – a transformational  program to standardize, streamline and improve the core  processes and systems, TTL has invested on Salesforce for  Sales Excellence, IPMS for Delivery Excellence and SAP  Concur to refine travel and expense management.
Upgrade  to SAP HANA has resulted in better performance of SAP  platform.
TTL has defined an Information Security roadmap to  address latest threats and risks.
Deployment of NexGen  antivirus, virtual patching for servers, certifying a delivery  centre for ISO 27001:2013 and monthly governance for  critical accounts are some of the initiatives taken up last  year.
The end goal was to have an integrated security  enterprise architecture which can cut down on complexity  and, of course, increase security effectiveness.
Tata Motors European Technical Centre (TMETC):   TMETC continued the use of best in class hardware and  software systems to enhance quality and agility in its  product conceptualization, design and virtual validation  domain.
76 TECHNOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY  INITIATIVES The Company continued to develop alternate technologies for  sustainable mobility.
The fleet of diesel series hybrid buses for  Mumbai were delivered for operation.
Six fuel cell buses were built,  tested and one bus building was processed for demonstration  and four fuel cell buses were under testing.
Electric buses were  tested under several prototypes of 9m and 12m developed by  the Company, which would be ideal for passenger to commute in  ecologically sensitive areas and urban centre.
In addition, a fleet  of small commercial electric vehicles were being built for last- mile passenger transport.
The Company was working on several  electrification, hybridization and alternate fuel technologies, which  would be launched once the market is ready for them, in addition to  developing technologies that improve the footprint of conventional  powertrains.
Some of the key initiatives in this direction are  mentioned below : •  Development of LNG engines for city buses and medium duty  trucks.
•  Development of engine as well as engine calibrations for  various bio-fuel blends.
•  Development of semi-synthetic engine oil, which has  increased oil drain intervals and improved fuel economy  by 1-3%.
•  Reduction of real drive emissions and CO 2 emission by  incorporating 48 V Boost Recuperation System (BRS) in LCVs.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  The Company announces its consolidated financial statement  on a quarterly basis.
As required under the SEBI Listing  Regulations, consolidated financial statements of the Company  and its subsidiaries, prepared in accordance with IndAS 110  issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, form  part of the Annual Report and are reflected in the consolidated  financial statements of the Company.
Pursuant to Section  129(3) of the Act, a statement containing the salient features  of the financial statements of the subsidiary companies is  attached to the Financial Statements in Form AOC-1.
Pursuant  to the provisions of Section 136 of the Act,  the Company will  make available the said financial statements of the subsidiary  companies upon the request by any member of the Company  or its subsidiary companies.
These financial statements of the  Company and the subsidiary companies will also be kept open  for inspection by any member at the Registered Office of the  Company and could be available on the website of the Company.
SUBSIDIARY, JOINT ARRANGEMENTS AND  ASSOCIATE COMPANIES  The Company has 96 subsidiaries (14 direct and 82 indirect) as at  March 31, 2018, as disclosed in the accounts.
The Scheme of Amalgamation between one of the direct  subsidiaries viz TML Drivelines Limited with the Company was  approved by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal and  a certified true copy was received on April 26, 2018 and the  said scheme was operative from April 30, 2018.
The financial  statements of this subsidiary was merged with the standalone  financial statements of the Company from the Appointed Date  with effect from April 1, 2017.
During Fiscal 2018, the following changes have taken place in  subsidiary / associates / joint venture companies: Subsidiary companies formed/acquired: •  Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited was incorporated  with effect from July 28, 2017.
•  Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited was incorporated  with effect from November 17, 2017.
•  Servicios GDV Mexico S.A. de C.V. was incorporated on October  2, 2017.
•  GDV Imports Mexico SAPI de C.V.  was acquired on October 2,  2017.
•  Tata Technologies Europe Limited incorporated 100% stake in  Escenda Engineering AB with effect from May 1, 2017.
Companies ceasing to be subsidiary companies / ceased  operations: •  Cambric UK Limited dissolved with effect from May 23, 2017.
•  Midwest Managed Services Inc. merged into Tata Technologies  Inc with effect from February 28, 2018.
•  TML Drivelines Limited merged with the Company and the  Scheme of Merger and Arrangement was operative from  April 30, 2018.
Name changes •  Tata Motors Finance Limited was renamed TMF Holdings  Limited with effect from June 17, 2017.
•  Sheba Properties Limited was renamed Tata Motors Finance  Limited with effect from June 30, 2017.
•  Servicios GDV Mexico S.A. de C.V. was renamed Jaguar Land  Rover Servicios México, S.A. de C.V. with effect from December  11, 2017.
•  GDV Imports Mexico SAPI de C.V. was renamed Jaguar Land  Rover México, S.A.P.I.
de C.V. with effect from December 11,  2017.
•  Cambric Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited  was renamed Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai)  Co. Limited with effect from April 1, 2017.
Re-structuring Shareholding in Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited increased from  95.28% to 95.49% with effect from June 6, 2017.
Shareholding in  Spark44 (JV) Limited increased from 50% to 50.50% with effect  from August 31, 2017, making it and its 14 downstream companies  indirect subsidiaries of the Company.
Besides the above, JLR  continued to integrate / restructure legal entities for manufacturing  and for exporting globally as combined brand legal entities.
Other  than the above, there has been no material change in the nature of  the business of the subsidiary companies.
77 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Associate Companies As at March 31, 2018, the Company has 9 associate companies,   4 joint ventures and 2 joint operations.
The Company has adopted a Policy for determining Material  Subsidiaries in line with Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Policy, as approved by the Board, is uploaded on the Company’s  website (URL: http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf).
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY  ABSORPTION & FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING AND  OUTGOING  The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption  and foreign exchange earnings and outgo stipulated under Section  134(3)(m) of the Act, read along with Rule 8 of the Companies  (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is annexed as Annexure - 2.
DIRECTORS  Appointment / Re-appointment The Company has on the recommendation of NRC and in  accordance with provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations,  appointed Ms Hanne Sorensen (DIN: 08035439) as Additional and  Independent Director on the Board for a tenure of 5 years with  effect from January 03, 2018, subject to approval of Members  at the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
She shall hold office as  Additional Director upto the date of the forthcoming AGM and is  eligible for appointment as a Director.
As reported in the previous year, Mr Om Prakash Bhatt (DIN:  00548091) was appointed as Additional and Independent Director  on the Board for a tenure of 5 years with effect from May 9, 2017,  pursuant to Section 161 of the Act, read along with Rules framed  thereunder, the Members had vide Ordinary Resolution approved  at the AGM held on August 22, 2017, the appointment of Mr Bhatt  as an Independent Director.
In accordance with provisions of the Act and the Articles of  Association of the Company, Mr Guenter Butschek, Chief Executive  Officer and Managing Director (DIN: 07427375) is liable to retire by  rotation and is eligible for re-appointment.
The disclosures required pursuant to Regulation 36 of the SEBI  Listing Regulations, Clause 1.2.5 of the Secretarial Standard are  given in the Notice of AGM, forming part of the Annual Report  and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations are given in the  Corporate Governance Report, forming part of the Annual Report.
Attention of the Members is also  invited to the relevant items in the  Notice of the AGM.
Cessation Mr Ravindra Pisharody (DIN: 01875848) vide letter dated June 5,  2017, tendered his resignation as Executive Director (Commercial  Vehicles) of the Company, but continued to serve his term of office  for another 6 months in lieu of his contractual severance notice  period, ensuring seamless transition in the business operations of  the Company.
Mr Pisharody concluded his contractual severance  notice period on September 30, 2017.
Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, Independent Director (DIN:  00074119), on attaining the age of 75 years retired on December  31, 2017, in accordance with Governance Guidelines on Board  Effectiveness.
The Board of Directors places on record their appreciation for  contributions made by Mr Pisharody and Dr Mashelkar during their  tenure.
Independent Directors All Independent Directors of the Company have given declarations  under Section 149(7) of the Act, that they meet the criteria of  independence as laid down under Section 149(6) of the Act and  Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Key Managerial Personnel The Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) of the Company during  Fiscal 2018 are:  •  Mr Guenter Butschek, Chief Executive Officer and Managing  Director •  Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive Director and Chief Operating  Officer  •  Mr Pathamadai Balachandran Balaji, Group Chief Financial  Officer (with effect from November 14, 2017) •  Mr Hoshang Sethna, Company Secretary  •  Mr. Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director – Commercial  Vehicles (upto September 30, 2017) •  Mr C Ramakrishnan, Group Chief Financial Officer (upto  September 30, 2017) During the year, Mr C Ramakrishnan concluded his tenure as a  Group Chief Financial Officer and KMP with effect from September  30, 2017 and the Board of Directors, pursuant to the said cessation,  approved appointment of Mr P.B.
Balaji as Group Chief Financial  Officer and KMP of the Company with effect from November 14,  2017.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the Company, we ensure that we evolve and follow the  corporate governance guidelines and best practices sincerely, to  boost long-term shareholder value and to respect minority rights.
The Company considers it an inherent responsibility to disclose  timely and accurate information regarding its operations and  performance, as well as the leadership and governance of the  Company.
A separate section on Corporate Governance and the certificate  from the Practicing Company Secretary confirming compliance  of Corporate Governance norms as stipulated in Regulation 34  read along with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, giving  information pertaining to the Board, number of Board meetings  held, Committee of the Board and other details of relevance forms  part of this Report.
Governance Guidelines During the year under review, the Company adhered to the  Governance Guidelines on Board Effectiveness.
The Governance  78 Guidelines cover aspects related to composition and role of the  Board, Chairman and Directors, Board diversity, definition of  independence, Director term, retirement age and Committees of the  Board.
It also covers aspects relating to nomination, appointment,  induction and development of Directors, Director Remuneration,  Subsidiary oversight, Code of Conduct, Board Effectiveness Review  and Mandates of Board Committees.
Selection and procedure for nomination and appointment of  Directors The NRC is responsible for developing competency requirements  for the Board based on the industry and strategy of the Company.
The Board composition analysis reflects in-depth understanding  of the Company, including its strategies, environment, operations,  financial condition and compliance requirements.
The NRC conducts a gap analysis to refresh the Board on a  periodic basis, including each time a Director’s appointment or  re-appointment is required.
The Committee is also responsible  for reviewing and vetting the CVs of potential candidates vis-à- vis the required competencies, undertake a reference and due  diligence and meeting potential candidates, prior to making  recommendations of their nomination to the Board.
At the time  of appointment, specific requirements for the position, including  expert knowledge expected, is communicated to the appointee.
Criteria for Determining Qualifications, Positive Attributes and  Independence of a Director The NRC has formulated the criteria for determining qualifications,  positive attributes and independence of directors in terms of provisions  of Section 178 (3) of the Act and Regulation 19 read along with Schedule  II of SEBI Listing Regulations, which is annexed as Annexure - 3.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Company has in place a Remuneration Policy for the Directors,  Key Managerial Personnel and other employees, pursuant to the  provisions of the Act and Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations,  the same is annexed as Annexure - 4.
BOARD EVALUATION The annual evaluation process of the Board of Directors (“Board”),  Committees and individual Directors was carried out in the manner  prescribed in the provisions of the Act, Guidance Note on Board  Evaluation issued by Securities and Exchange Board of India on  January 5, 2017 and as per the Corporate Governance requirements  prescribed by SEBI Listing Regulations.
The performance of the Board, Committees and individual  Directors was evaluated by the Board seeking inputs from  all the Directors.
The performance of the Committees was  evaluated by the Board seeking inputs from the Committee  Members.
The NRC reviewed the performance of the individual  Directors, a separate meeting of Independent Directors was also  held to review the performance of Non-Independent Directors;  performance of the Board as a whole and performance of the  Chairperson of the Company, taking into account the views of  Managing Director / Executive Directors and Non-Executive  Directors.
This was followed by a Board meeting that discussed  the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual  Directors.
The criteria for performance evaluation of the Board included aspects  like Board composition and structure; effectiveness of Board processes,  information and functioning, etc.
The criteria for performance evaluation  of Committees of the Board included aspects like composition and  structure of the Committees, functioning of Committee meetings,  contribution to decision of the Board, etc.
The criteria for performance  evaluation of the individual Directors included aspects on contribution  to the Board and Committee meetings like preparedness on the issues  to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs in  meetings, integrity etc.
In addition, the Chairman was also evaluated on  the key aspects of his role.
Significant findings of the Fiscal 2018 Board effectiveness evaluation  included providing regular updates to the Board on projects  undertaken to support cost and productivity improvements along  with a monthly information report thereon, inclusion of educative  topics in the agenda on technology, governance, regulations which  could impact business and continuing efforts to balance the Board  agenda with focus on budgets, strategic issues.
Critical suggestions  to improve the Company’s business included, augmenting the  succession pipeline, harmonizing interactions and integrating  synergies that could be derived between the Company and JLR  Group.
The Board also monitors action taken on the findings and  suggestions made in the process of the Board evaluation.
Familiarisation programme for Independent Directors The details of the Familiarisation Programme for Independent  Directors with the Company in respect of their roles, rights,  responsibilities in the Company, nature of the industry in which  Company operates, business model of the Company and related  matters are put up on the website of the Company at (URL:   http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/familiarisation-programme- independent-directors.pdf).
VIGIL MECHANISM  The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy establishing  vigil mechanism, to provide a formal mechanism to the Directors  and employees to report their concerns about unethical behaviour,  actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code  of Conduct or ethics policy.
The Policy provides for adequate  safeguards against victimization of employees who avail of the  mechanism and also provides for direct access to the Chairman  of the Audit Committee.
It is affirmed that no personnel of the  Company has been denied access to the Audit Committee.
The  policy of vigil mechanism is available on the Company’s website at   (URL: http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf).
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES  Disclosure pertaining to remuneration and other details as required  under Section 197(12) of the Act read with rule 5(1) of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014  is annexed to the Report as Annexure - 5.
The statement containing particulars of top 10 employees  and the employees drawing remuneration in excess of limits  prescribed under Section 197 (12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2)  79 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 and (3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure  forming part of the Report.
In terms of proviso to Section  136(1) of the Act, the Report and Accounts are being sent to  the shareholders excluding the aforesaid Annexure.
The said  statement is also open for inspection at the Registered Office of  the Company.
Any member interested in obtaining a copy of the  same may write to the Company Secretary.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  The brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  Policy of the Company and the initiatives undertaken by  the Company on CSR activities during the year are set out in  Annexure - 6  of this Report in the format prescribed in the  Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014.
The Policy is available on  Company’s website at (URL: http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/ pdf/csr-policy.pdf ).
PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS  WITH RELATED PARTIES All contracts/ arrangements/ transactions entered by the Company  during the year with related parties were on an arm’s length basis,  in the ordinary course of business and were in compliance with the  applicable provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
The  prior approval of the Audit Committee was sought for all related  party transactions.
The Company has adopted a policy on Related  Party Transactions which even provides for the parameters to grant  omnibus approval(s) by the Audit Committee and is available on the  website at (URL: http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/rpt-policy.pdf).
A statement on related party transactions specifying the details of  the transactions, pursuant to each omnibus approval granted, have  been placed on a quarterly basis for review by the Audit Committee.
During the Fiscal 2018, there were no related party transactions  of the Company with its Directors and Key Managerial  Personnel or their relatives, its holding, subsidiary or associate  companies as prescribed under Section 188 of the Act and SEBI  Listing Regulations and therefore, the Company is not required  to report in the prescribed Form AOC-2 and does not form part  of the Report.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR  INVESTMENTS  The details of Loans, Guarantees or Investments made during  Fiscal 2018 are given below: (` in crores) Name of Companies Nature of  Transactions Loans Investment TMF Holdings Limited Investment in  shares -  300.00 Tata Steel Limited Investment in  shares - 41.63 JT Special Vehicle  Private Limited Investment in  shares - 2.50 Note: During Fiscal 2018, the Company has not given guarantee to any of its  subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates companies.
AUDIT  Statutory Audit In the 72nd Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on August 22, 2017  M/s B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (B S R LLP) (ICAI Firm  No.
101248W/W–100022) was appointed as Statutory Auditors of  the Company for a tenure of 5 years subject to ratification of their  appointment at every subsequent AGM.
The Ministry of Corporate  Affairs has vide notification dated May 7, 2018 obliterated the  requirement of seeking Member’s ratification at every AGM on  appointment of Statutory Auditor during their tenure of 5 years.
B S R LLP have under Section 139(1) of the Act and the Rules framed  thereunder furnished a certificate of their eligibility.
The report of the Statutory Auditor forming part of the Annual Report,  does not contain any qualification, reservation, adverse remark or  disclaimer.
The observations made in the Auditor’s Report are self- explanatory and therefore do not call for any further comments.
Cost Audit As per Section 148 of the Act, the Company is required to have the audit of  its cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant.
The Board of Directors  of the Company has on the recommendation of the Audit Committee,  approved the appointment of M/s Mani & Co., a firm of Cost Accountants in  Practice (Registration No.000004) as the Cost Auditors of the Company  to conduct cost audits pertaining to relevant products prescribed under  the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 for the year ending  March 31, 2019.
The Board of Director on recommendation of the Audit  Committee approved remuneration of `5 lakhs plus applicable taxes and  out of pocket expenses, subject to ratification of their remuneration by  the Members at the forthcoming AGM.
M/s Mani & Co. have, under Section 139(1) of the Act and the Rules  framed thereunder furnished a certificate of their eligibility and  consent for appointment.
M/s Mani & Co., have vast experience in the field of cost audit and  have conducted the audit of the cost records of the Company for the  past several years.
Secretarial Audit Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board of Director appointed M/s Parikh  & Associates, a firm of Company Secretaries in Practice to conduct  the Secretarial Audit of the Company for year ended March 31,  2018.
The Report of the Secretarial Audit is annexed herewith as  Annexure- 7.
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any qualification,  reservations, adverse remarks and disclaimer.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) have vide Order  dated March 6, 2018 issued directions for the Company to conduct  an internal inquiry within 3 months into the leakage of information  relating to its financial results for the quarter ended December 2015,  take appropriate actions against those responsible and to submit  its report witin 7 days thereafter.
The Company has appointed an  expert to conduct an independent investigation to submit its report  to the Audit Committee of the Company which will be submitted to  80 SEBI in a timely manner.
The Company has paid a penalty of `5.60 lakhs each levied by the  BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited in  respect of delay in filing of listing application for 266 Ordinary Share  and 80 ‘A’ Ordinary Shares allotted out of shares held in abeyance  on settlement of an inter-se dispute amongst the shareholders.
This penalty has been paid ‘under protest’ subsequent to various  representation made by the Company.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS  The Institute of Company Secretaries of India had revised the Secretarial  Standards on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial  Standards on General Meetings (SS-2) with effect from October 1, 2017.
The Company has devised proper systems to ensure compliance with  its provisions and is in compliance with the same.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY Pursuant to SEBI’s notification dated July 8, 2016, the Board  of Directors of the Company have formulated a Dividend  Distribution Policy (“the policy”).
The detailed policy is annexed  to this Report as Annexure-8 and is also available on our  website (URL: http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/dividend- distribution-policy.pdf ) DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Based on the framework of internal financial controls and  compliance systems established and maintained by the Company,  work performed by the internal, statutory, cost, external agencies  and secretarial auditors, including audit of internal financial controls  over financial reporting by the statutory auditors and the reviews  performed by Management and the relevant Board Committees,  including the Audit Committee, the Board is of the opinion that the  Company’s internal financial controls were adequate and effective  during Fiscal 2018.
Accordingly, pursuant to sub-section 3(c) ans 5 Section 134 of  the Act, the Board of Directors, to the best of their knowledge and  ability, confirm: (a)  that in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable  accounting standards have been followed and that there are  no material departures;  (b)  that we have selected such accounting policies and have  applied them consistently and made judgments and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a  true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at  the end of the financial year and of the loss of the Company  for that period; ( c )  that proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the  Act, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; (d)  that the annual accounts have been prepared on a going  concern basis; (e)  that proper internal financial controls were laid down and  that such internal financial controls are adequate and were  operating effectively*; and (f)  that proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions  of all applicable laws and such systems are adequate and  operating effectively.
*please refer to the Section “Internal Control Systems and their Adequacy in  the Management Discussion and Analysis”.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The Directors wish to convey their appreciation to all of the  Company’s employees for their enormous personal efforts as well  as their collective contribution to the Company’s performance.
The Directors would also like to thank the employee unions,  shareholders, customers, dealers, suppliers, bankers, Government  and all other business associates for their continuous support to  the Company and their confidence in its management.
On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 81 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 ANNEXURE – 1 Form No.
MGT – 9 Extract of Annual Return as on the financial year ended on 31st March, 2018 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i) CIN:- L28920MH1945PLC004520 vii)      Name, Address and contract details of Registrar and   Transfer Agent, if any:-   TSR Darashaw Limited  6-10 Haji Moosa Patrawala  Industrial Estate, Near Famous Studio,   20, E Moses Road, Mahalaxmi (W), Mumbai 400 001  Tel: 022-6656 8484; Fax: 022-66568494       Email: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com;   Website: www.tsrdarashaw.com  For Rights Issue 2015:  Link InTime India Private Limited  No.C-13, Pannalal Silk Mill Compound,   Lal Bahadur Sharstri Road, Bhanpud (W), Mumbai 400 078      Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.co.in;   Website: www.linkintime.com ii) Registration Date:- 1st September, 1945 iii) Name of the Company:- Tata Motors Limited iv)   Category / Sub-Category of the Company:   Public Company / Limited by shares v) Address of the Registered office and contact details:-                Address: Bombay House, 24 Homi Mody Street,   Mumbai 400 001    Tel: 022-6665 8282 Fax: 022-6665 7799    Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com  Website: www.tatamotors.com vi) Whether listed company:- Yes II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY:  All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:- Sr.  No Name and Description of main product/services NIC Code of the  Product / service % to total turnover of the company 1 Manufacturing of Motor Vehicles 2910 92.09% III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATE CO (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURE) Sl.
No.
Name of Subsidiary CIN of subsidiary company Percentage  of shares  held by  holding  company Subsidiary /  Associate /  Joint Venture Section Address 1 Concorde Motors (India) Limited U24110MH1972PLC015561 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street,  Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 2 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited U29100PN2000PLC130290 100 Subsidiary 2(87) PDO Building, Tata Motors Campus, Chinchwad, Pune  - 411033 3 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC 05551225 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 18, Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X7HS 4 Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory  Services Limited U50300MH1997PLC149349 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street,  Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 5 TML Holdings Pte Ltd 200802595C 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 9 Battery Road, #15-01, Straits Trading Building,  Singapore 049910 6 TML Distribution Company Limited U63000MH2008PLC180593 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street,  Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 7 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. A50089119 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Carretera de Castellon, Km.230,5 (poligono  Empresarium) Zaragoza, Spain 8 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb  SA 1004723 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Zone Industrial - Berrechid, Rue Al Adrisa, Berrechid  -26100, Morocco 9 TMF Holdings Limited (name changed from  Tata Motors Finance Limited w.e.f.
June 17,  2017) U65923MH2006PLC162503 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 10th floor, 106 A and B, Maker Chambers III, Nariman  Point, Mumbai 400 021 10 TML Drivelines Limited (Mergered with the  Company w.e.f.
April 30, 2018) U34100MH2000PLC124874 100 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o Tata Motors Limited, 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya,  18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai –  400001 11 Trilix S.r.l 1044707 80 Subsidiary 2(87) Via Teano 3, 10042 Nichelino, Torino, Italy 82 Sl.
No.
Name of Subsidiary CIN of subsidiary company Percentage  of shares  held by  holding  company Subsidiary /  Associate /  Joint Venture Section Address 12 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 197100574C 78.39 Subsidiary 2(87) 1 Robinson Road, #19-01, AIA Towers, Singapore 048  542 13 Tata Technologies Limited U72200PN1994PLC013313 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) Plot No.
25, Pune Infotechpark, MIDC Taluka - Mulshi  Hinjawadi, Pune - 27 14 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited U34101MH2006PLC164771 51 Subsidiary 2(87) Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody street, Mumbai-400001 15 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company  Limited 401-81-22865 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 172 Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Joellabuk-do, 54006,  Korea 16 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd 0105550023406 95.28 Subsidiary 2(87) 199 Column Tower 20th Floor, Ratchadapisek Road,  Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 Thailand 17 Tata Motors (SA)(Proprietary) Ltd 2007/034689/07 60 Subsidiary 2(87) 39 Ferguson Road, Illova 2196 18 PT Tata Motors Indonesia Tax Reg no.
03.188.148.5-013.000 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Pondok Indah Office Tower 3 Suite 801-A, Jl Sultan  Iskandar Muda Kav V-TA Pondok Pinang Kebayoran  Lama, Jakarta 12130 the Republic of Indonesia 19 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc 6477691 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 20 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited 1284940 100 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o Tata Africa Services (Nigeria) Limited, Plot C89,  Amuwo Odofin Industrial Layout, Lagos, Nigeria 21 Tata Technologies Pte Limited 198100504W 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) 8 Shenton Way, #19-05 AXA Tower, Singapore 068811 22 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited U65910MH1992PLC187184 100 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o Tata Motors Finance Ltd., 10th floor, 106 A & B, Maker  Chambers III, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 23 Tata Motors Finance Limited (name changed  from Sheba Properties Limited w.e.f June  30, 2017) U45200MH1989PLC050444 100 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o Tata Motors Finance Limited, 10th F 106 A & B,  Makers Chambers III, Nariman Point Mumbai 400 021 24 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and  Distribution Company Limited 104-86-27436 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 4th floor, 272 Yeongdeung-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul  150 033, Korea 25 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Tax Reg no.
03.286.323.5-013.000 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Pondok Indah Office Tower 3, Floor 8, Suite 801-B,  Jl.
Sultan Iskandar Muda Kav.
V-TA, Pondok Pinang,  Kebayoran Lama,  Jakarta Selatan 12310, the Republic  of Indonesia 26 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited 4019301 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF, England, UK 27 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited 10554812171 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) 889 Thai CC Tower, Room 108-9, 10th Floor, South  Sathorn Road, Kwhaeng Yannawa, Khet Sathorn,  Bangkok Metropolis 10120 28 Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai)  Co. Ltd 310000400732137 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) 11F,Aurora plaza,99 Fucheng Rd,Room 1131, Shangai  200120, China 29 INCAT International Plc 02377350 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) 2 Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6EG 30 Jaguar Land Rover Limited 1672070 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 31 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment  Company Limited 310115400245293 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Room 713, 7F No.
6 Jirong Road (Area C1, Plot 001),  Shanghai, China Free Trade Zone 32 Limited Liability Company “ Jaguar Land  Rover” (Russia) 1085047006549 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 28B, Building 2, Mezhdunarodnoe Shosse 141411,  Moscow, Russian Federation 33 INCAT GmbH HRB 18622 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) Breitwiesenstrasse 19, 70565 Stuttgart, Germany 34 Tata Technologies Europe Limited 02016440 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) 2 Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6EG 35 JLR Nominee Company Limited 1672065 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 36 Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited 2000/026853/07 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Simon Vermooten Road, Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South  Africa 37 The Jaguar Collection Limited 2018432 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 38 Jaguar Cars Limited 1672067 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 39 Land Rover Exports Limited 1596703 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 40 Land Rover Ireland Limited 318198 100 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o LK Shields Solicitors, 39/40 Upper Mount Street  Dublin 2, Ireland 41 The Diamler Motor Company Limited 112569 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 42 Diamler Transport Vehicles Limited 322903 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 43 S.S Cars Limited 333482 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 44 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited 551579 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 45 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited 4102133 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 46 Spark 44 (JV) Limited 07535151 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 47 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH FN84604v 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Fuerbergstrasse 51, Salzburg, A5020, Austria 83 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Sl.
No.
Name of Subsidiary CIN of subsidiary company Percentage  of shares  held by  holding  company Subsidiary /  Associate /  Joint Venture Section Address 48 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited 0104-01-075166 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 3-13 Toranomon 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan45 49 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH HRB2408 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Am Kronberger Hang 2a, 65824 Schwalbach/Ts,  Germany 50 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC 2075961 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 555 MacArthur Blvd., Mahwah, New Jersey 07430, USA 51 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV 23074977 100 Subsidiary 2(87) PO Box 40, 4153 ZG Bessd Stationsweg 8, Netherlands 52 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veiculose  Pecas, Lda 504998803 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Edificio Escritorios do Tejo, Rua do Polo Sul, Lote 1.10.1.1  – 3.
B-3, Parish of Santa Maria dos Olivais, Municipality  of Lisboa, Portugal 53 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Ltd 4352238 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 65 Epping Road, North Ryde, New South Wales, 2113,  Australia 54 Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA 6070621005 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Via Alessandro Marchetti, 105 - 00148, Roma, Italy 55 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited 110111-3977373 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 25F West Mirae Asset Center 1, Building, 67 Suha-dong,  Jung-gu, Seoul 100-210, Korea 56 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC 2013828088 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 75 Courtneypark Drive West, Unit 3, Mississauga, ON  L5W 0E3, Canada 57 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS 509016804 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 34 Rue de la Croix de Fer 78105 Saint Germain en Laye  Cedex, France 58 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited U34200MH2012FLC237194 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma  Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 59 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Industria e  Comercio de Veiculos LTDA 35.222.373.953 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Avenida Ibirapuera 2.332, Torre I -10º andar- Moema  04028-002, São Paulo-SP-Brazil 60 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings  Limited 7760130 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 61 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL B-82526757 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Torre Picasso, Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso, 1 – Planta 42,  23020 Madrid, SPAIN 62 Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V. 0456.612.553 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Generaal Lemanstraat 47, 2018 Antwerpen, Belgium 63 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o 48302392 99.99 Subsidiary 2(87) Vysoka 2B, 811 06, Bratislava, Slovakia 64 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte Ltd 201541482M 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Level 30, Singapore Land Rover, Raffles Place, 048623,  Singapore 65 Jaguar Racing Limited 9983877 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 66 InMotion Ventures Limited 10070632 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 67 Jaguar Land Rover Colombia S.A.S Tax Id no.
901.000.833-7 100 Subsidiary 2(87) CL 677735 OFE 1204 BOGOTAN CUDNDINAMARKA  13192900 68 Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited 608696 100 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o LK Sheilds Solicitors 39/40 Upper Mount Street  Dublin 2 Ireland 69 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited 55768890 100 Subsidiary 2(87) 12F, No.
40, Sec.1, Chengde Road, Datong Dist., Taipei City  103, Taiwan (R.O.C) 70 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios Mexcio S.A.  de C.V. SGM101223SU6 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Javier Barros, Sierra, 540 Piso 7 703 Santa Fe Alvaro  Obregon Distrito Federal 01210 71 Jaguar Land Rover Mexico S.A.P.I de CV JLR080418T9A 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Javier Barros, Sierra, 540 Piso 7 703 Santa Fe Alvaro  Obregon Distrito Federal 01211 72 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  Services Company Limited 310115400006268 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Room E16, Floor 2, 477, Fute West 1st Road, Shanghai  Free Trade Zone, PRC 73 Tata Technologies Inc 476-730+C9 72.35 Subsidiary 2(87) 41050, W Eleven Mile Road, Novi, Michigan 48375, USA 74 Escenda Engineering AB 556798-1286 72.29 Subsidiary 2(87) C/o S Wedin, Helenedalsvagen 14, 431 36 Molndal 75 Spark 44 (Pty) Ltd (Sydney, Australia) 56602084346 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Level 5, 65 Berry Street, North Sydney , NSW 2060 76 Spark 44 GmbH (Frankfurt, Germany) HRB90999 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Querstr.
7, 60322 Frankfurt am Main 77 Spark 44 LLC (LA & NYC, USA) 27-4287883 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) 5870 W. Jefferson Blvd, Studio H,Los Angeles, CA  90016, USA 78 Spark 44 Limited (Shanghai, China) 91310000088514160B 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Units 6401,6402,6501,6502, No.436 Ju Men Road,  Huangpu District, Shanghai 200023, China 79 Spark 44 DMCC (Dubai, UAE) DMCC34726 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Unit No: 1401 & 1404, Swiss Tower, Plot No: JLT-PH2-Y3A  Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai, UAE 80 Spark 44 Demand Creation Partners Private  Limited (Mumbai, India)  U74999MH2015FTC269125 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Block A, Level 1, Shiv Sagar Estate,   Dr. Annie Besent Road, Worli,Mumbai – 400018 84 Sl.
No.
Name of Subsidiary CIN of subsidiary company Percentage  of shares  held by  holding  company Subsidiary /  Associate /  Joint Venture Section Address 81 Spark 44 Limited (London & Birmingham, UK) 7535381 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) White Collar Factory, 1 Old Street Yard, London, England,  EC1Y 8AF 82 Spark 44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) 201523182E 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) 138 Market Street #36-01/02 CapitaGreen, Singapore  048946 83 Spark 44 Communications SL (Madrid, Spain) ESB8730486 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) Prim 19, 4th floor, 28004 Madrid 84 Spark 44 S.r.l (Rome, Italy) 11353340018 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) via Marcella, 4/6- 00153 Rome 85 Spark 44 Seoul Limited (Korea) 110114-0162252 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) F12, 11 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul - 03187,  Korea 86 Spark 44 Japan K.K.
(Tokyo, Japan) 5011101074299 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) 2-23-1-806, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 153-0042 87 Spark 44 Canada Inc (Toronto) 2467809 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) 1059 Spadina Road, Toronto, ON M5N 2M7, Canada 88 Spark 44 Pty.
Limtied (South Africa) 2015/300314/07 50.5 Subsidiary 2(87) 21 Forssman Close, Barbeque Downs, Kyalami 89 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. New Tax Regn No: TTM- 990127-V84-  72.35 Subsidiary 2(87) Blvd.
Independencia #1600 Ote., Local C-46 C.P.
27100  Torreon, Coahuila, Mexico 90 Cambric GmbH HRB 14269 72.35 Subsidiary 2(87) Service Kontor, Universitat Geb A1 1, D-66123  Saarbrucken, Stuhlsatzenhausweg 69, Raum 130, 66123  Saarbrücken 91 Cambric Limited 57500 72.32 Subsidiary 2(87) H & J Corporate Services, Ltd., Ocean Centre, Montagu  Foreshore, East Bay Street, P.O.
Box SS-19084, Nassau,  Bahamas 92 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty)  Limited 2001/027269/07 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Simon Vermooten Road, Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South  Africa 93 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited 10442527 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 94 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited 10444740 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 95 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited 10445040 100 Subsidiary 2(87) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 96 Tata Technologies SRL Romania B1766921 72.32 Subsidiary 2(87) Brasov Office: Str Branduselor, No 84 Brasov, 500397,  Romania; Craiova Office: Str Iaon Maiorescu, No 10 Etaj 4  cam 405 Craiova, 200760, Romania; Iasi Office: 23, Calea  Chisinau Street, First Floor, Tester Building, 700265 Iasi,  Romania 97 Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited L35911GA1980PLC000400 47.19 Associate 2(6) Plant I, Honda Sattari, Goa 403530 98 Nita Company Limited NA 40.00 Associate 2(6) 1703, Sky Bhaban, 195, Motljheel C/A, Dhaka - 1000,  Bangladesh 99 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery  Company Private Limited U85110KA1998PTC024588 39.99 Associate 2(6) Jubilee Building, 45, Museum Road, Bangalore,  Karnataka - 560025 100 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited U29120MP1995PLC009773 39.19 Associate 2(6) Industrial Area No.
2, A B Road, Dewas, Madhya Pradesh  - 455001 101 Tata AutoComp Systems Limited U34100PN1995PLC158999 26.00 Associate 2(6) TACO House, Plot No- 20/B FPN085, V.G.
Damle Path  Off Law College Road, Erandwane Pune 411004 102 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited 1731924 49.90 Associate 2(6) Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3UR 103 Cloud Car Inc 5052102 26.30 Associate 2(6) 2771, Centervilla Road, Suite-400, Wilmington, Country  of New Castle, Delaware, 19808, USA 104 Synaptiv Limited 10592914 33.33 Associate 2(6) Kirakland Avenue, Ilford, Essex, England, IG50th 105 DriveClubService Pte Ltd 201707581H 25.07 Associate 2(6) 22 Sin Ming Lane, #06-76, Midview City, Singapore  573969 106 Tata Cummins Private Limited U34101JH1993PTC005546 50.00 Joint  Operations 2(6) Telco Township, Jamshedpur 831004 107 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited U28900PN1997PTC130940 50.00 Joint  Operations 2(6) Plot No B-19, M. I. D. C. Ranjangaon Industrial Area,  Ranjangaon, Taluka Shirur, Pune 412210 108 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  Company Limited 91320581717885280B 50.00 Joint Venture 2(6) No.
1, Lu Hu Road, Changshu Economic and Technical  Development Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Provice, China 109 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Auto Sales  Company Limited 7535151 50.00 Joint Venure 2(6) 6F, Binjiang International Plaza, No.88, Tonggang Road,  Changshu Economic and Technical Development Zone,  Suzhou City, Jiangsu Provice, China 110 JT Special Vehicles Private Limited U34102TZ2016PTC027770 50.00 Joint Venture 2(6) Post Box No.
1840, No.
2, Ondipudur Road Singanallur,  Coimbatore 641005 111 Tata HAL Technologies Limited U93000KA2008PLC046588 36.16 Joint Venture 2(6) Unit 901-902, A Block, 8th Floor Laurel Building,  Bagmane Tech Park, CV Raman Nagar, Bangalore  560093 85 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 IV) Shareholding Pattern (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity)  i) Category-wise Share Holding Category of Shareholers No.of Shares held at the beginning of the year .i.e  01.04.2017 No.of Shares held at the end of the year .i.e  31.03.2018 % Change  during the  yearDemat Physical Total % of Total  Shares Demat Physical Total % of Total  Shares (A) Promoters (a) Individuals / Hindu Undivided Family 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (b) Central Government / State Governments(s) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (c) Bodies Corporate 1,001,370,950 0 1,001,370,950 29.49 1,050,644,727 0 1,050,644,727 30.94 1.45 (d) Financial Institutions / Banks 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Any Other (Trust) 1,774,880 0 1,774,880 0.05 106,720 0 106,720 0.00 -0.05 Sub-Total (A) (1) 1,003,145,830 0 1,003,145,830 29.54 1,050,751,447 0 1,050,751,447 30.94 1.40 (2) Foreign 0.00 0.00 (a) Individuals (Non-Resident Individuals / Foreign  Individuals) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (b) Bodies Corporate 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (c) Institutions 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (d) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Any Other (specify) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (A) (2) Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group (A) 1,003,145,830 0 1,003,145,830 29.54 1,050,751,447 0 1,050,751,447 30.94 1.40 (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions (a) Mutual Funds / UTI 279,632,280 88,730 279,721,010 8.24 379,105,423 72,340 379,177,763 11.17 2.93 (b) Financial Institutions / Banks 3,483,760 291,650 3,775,410 0.11 10,338,275 248,930 10,587,205 0.31 0.20 (c) Cental Government / State Governments(s) 5,181,711 2,013,905 7,195,616 0.21 6,742,762 2,013,905 8,756,667 0.26 0.05 (d) Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Alternate Investment Funds 0 0 0 0.00 3,772,751 0 3,772,751 0.11 0.11 (f) Insurance Companies 310,951,228 1,550 310,952,778 9.16 293,235,196 800 293,235,996 8.64 -0.52 (g) Foreign Institutional Investors 118,366,247 43,375 118,409,622 3.49 3,344,136 23,940 3,368,076 0.10 -3.39 (h) Foreign Venture Capital Investors 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (i) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (j) Any Other (specify) (j-i) Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corporate) 833,787,950 0 833,787,950 24.55 820,646,479 0 820,646,479 24.17 -0.39  (j-ii) Foreign Bodies - DR 6,231,611 0 6,231,611 0.18 6,215,251 0 6,215,251 0.18 -0.00 (j-iii) Foreign Nationals - DR 286,876 0 286,876 0.01 286,661 0 286,661 0.01 -0.00 (j-iv) Foreign Institutional Investors - DR 321,226 0 321,226 0.01 73,015 0 73,015 0.00 -0.01 (j-v) LLP -DR 750 0 750 0.00 750 0 750 0.00 -0.00 Sub-Total (B) (1) 1,558,243,639 2,439,210 1,560,682,849 45.96 1,523,760,699 2,359,915 1,526,120,614 44.94 -1.02 (2) Non-Institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 17,710,637 537,735 18,248,372 0.54 37,417,129 477,150 37,894,279 1.12 0.58 (b) Individuals - 0.00 0.00 i Individual shareholders holding nominal   share capital upto Rs.
1 lakh  184,406,963 24,606,744 209,013,707 6.15 244,339,196 20,151,115 264,490,311 7.79 1.63 ii Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital in excess of Rs.
1 lakh  24,996,328 450,240 25,446,568 0.75 17,382,047 410,975 17,793,022 0.52 -0.23 (c) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (d) Any Other  (d-i) NBFCs registered with RBI 0 0 0 0.00 126,674 0 126,674 0.00 0.00 (d-ii) Non Resident Indians 11,546,286 2,670,770 14,217,056 0.42 17,339,947 2,378,480 19,718,427 0.58 0.16 (d-iii) Clearing Member 16,248,035 0 16,248,035 0.48 12,524,514 0 12,524,514 0.37 -0.11 (d-iv) Trust 18,186,295 1,750 18,188,045 0.54 25,693,501 1,750 25,695,251 0.76 0.22 (d-v) OCBs/Foreign Cos 0 490 490 0.00 152,061 0 152,061 0.00 0.00 d-vi) Foreign Corporate Bodies  (including FDI) 163,487 0 163,487 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 -0.00 (d-vii) IEPF Suspense A/C 0 0 0 0.00 3,559,715 0 3,559,715 0.10 0.10 Sub-total (B) (2) 273,258,031 28,267,729 301,525,760 8.88 358,534,784 23,419,470 381,954,254 11.25 2.37 Total Public Shareholding (B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 1,831,501,670 30,706,939 1,862,208,609 54.84 1,882,295,483 25,779,385 1,908,074,868 56.19 1.35 TOTAL (A)+(B) 2,834,647,500 30,706,939 2,865,354,439 84.38 2,933,046,930 25,779,385 2,958,826,315 87.13 2.75 ( C) Shares held by Custodians and against which Depository Receipts have been issued (1) Promoter and Promoter Group (2) Public 530,475,530 20,750 530,496,280 15.62 437,004,000 20,750 437,024,750 12.87 -2.75 GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)+( C ) 3,365,123,030 30,727,689 3,395,850,719 100.00 3,370,050,930 25,800,135 3,395,851,065 100.00 0.00 86 ii) Share Holding of Promoters (including Promoter Group) Sr.  No Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning   of the year  01.04.2017 Shareholding at the end   of the year 31.03.2018 % change in  shareholding  during the  yearNo.of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company % of Shares  Pledged/ encumbered  to total shares No.of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company % of Shares  Pledged/ encumbered  to total shares 1 Tata Sons Limited - Promotor 828,970,378 24.41 1.73 961,381,852 28.31 1.73 3.90 2 Tata Industries Limited 72,203,630 2.13 0.00 72,203,630 2.13 0.00 -0.00 3 Tata Investment Corporation Ltd 10,600,000 0.31 0.00 11,000,000 0.32 0.00 0.01 4 Ewart Investments Limited 3,525,187 0.10 0.00 3,525,187 0.10 0.00 -0.00 5 Tata Chemicals Limited 1,966,294 0.06 0.00 1,966,294 0.06 0.00 -0.00 6 Af-Taab Investment Company Ltd 408,181 0.01 0.00 408,181 0.01 0.00 -0.00 7 Tata Steel Limited 83,637,697 2.46 0.00 100,000 0.00 0.00 -2.46 8 Simto Investment Company Ltd 59,583 0.00 0.00 59,583 0.00 0.00 -0.00 9 J R D Tata Trust 105,280 0.00 0.00 105,280 0.00 0.00 -0.00 10 Lady Tata Memorial Trust 1,440 0.00 0.00 1,440 0.00 0.00 -0.00 11 Sir Ratan Tata Trust 859,200 0.03 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 -0.03 12 Sir Dorabji Tata Trust 808,960 0.02 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 -0.02 1,003,145,830 29.54 1.73 1,050,751,447 30.94 1.73 1.40 Note: Entities listed from Sr. No.
2 to 12 above form part of the Promoter Group iii) Change in Promoter’s Shareholding  (please specify,if there is no change) Sr.  No  Name of the ShareHolder Shareholding at the beginning  of the year as on 01.04.2017 Date Reason Increase/Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year  No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of Shares % of total  shares of the  company 1 Tata Sons Limited 828,970,378 24.41 828,970,378 24.41 30.06.2017 Purchase of Shares 83,537,697 2.46 912,508,075 26.87 22.09.2017 Purchase of Shares 47,205,617 1.39 959,713,692 28.26 23.03.2018 Purchase of Shares 1,668,160 0.05 961,381,852 28.31 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 961,381,852 28.31 2 Tata Investment Corporation Ltd 10,600,000 0.33 - - 10,600,000 0.33 23.09.2016 Purchase of Shares 400,000 0.01 11,000,000 0.32 31.03.2018 At the end of the year - - 11,000,000 0.32 3 Tata Steel Limited 83,637,697 2.46 83,637,697 2.46 23.06.2017 Sale of Shares -3,990,222 -0.12 79,647,475 2.35 23.06.2017 Sale of Shares -79,547,475 -2.34 100,000 0.00 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 100,000 0.00 4 Sir Ratan Tata Trust 859,200 0.03 859,200 0.03 16.03.2018 Sale of Shares -859,200 -0.03 0 0.00 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 0 0.00 5 Sir Dorabji Tata Trust 808,960 0.02 808,960 0.02 16.03.2018 Sale of Shares -808,960 -0.02 0 0.00 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 0 0.00 Note:  i)  Except for the above there is no change in the holding of Tata Industries Ltd, Ewart Investment Ltd, Tata Chemicals Ltd, Af-taab Investment Co Ltd, Simto Investment Co Ltd,  JRD Tata Trust and Lady Tata Memorial Trust during this Fiscal 2018  ii) Entities listed from 2 to 5 above form part of the Promoter Group 87 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 iv) Shareholding Pattern of Top 10 Shareholders (Other than Director,Promoters and Holders of GDRS and ADRs): Sr   No Name of the ShareHolder Shareholding at the beginning   of the year as on 01.04.2017 Shareholding at the end   of the year as on 31.03.2018 No of Shares % of total Shares of  the Company No of Shares % of total Shares of  the Company 1  Life Insurance Corporation Of India 149,423,428 4.40 149,295,627 4.40 2  Government Of Singapore 67,367,492 1.98 84,997,140 2.50 3 ICICI Prudential Value Discovery Fund 39,088,564 1.15 73,921,224 2.18 4 Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund A/C Franklin India Prima Plus 42,938,549 1.26 59,959,475 1.77 5  ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd 46,398,243 1.37 52,206,965 1.54 6 HDFC Trustee Company Limited-Hdfc Prudence Fund 62,847,816 1.85 49,926,659 1.47 7 Reliance Capital Trustee Co. Ltd A/C Reliance equity Opportunities Fund# 9,353,053 0.28 48,603,527 1.43 8 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 39,647,214 1.17 42,930,633 1.26 9  SBI-Etf Nifty 50 37,847,939 1.11 34,094,397 1.00 10  UTI Nifty Index Fund# 12,578,096 0.37 32,146,194 0.95 11  Abu Dhabi Investment Authority* 50,686,594 1.49 22,273,860 0.66 12 Stichting Depositary Apg Emerging Markets Equity PooL * 26,522,500 0.78 21,309,717 0.63 * ceased to be in the list of Top 10 as on 31.03.2018.
The same is reflected above since the shareholder was one of the Top 10 shareholders as on 01.04.2017 # Not in the list of Top 10 shareholders as on 01.04.2017.
The same is reflected above since the it is in the Top 10 shareholder as on 31.03.2018.
Shareholding of Top 10 is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number of the shareholder.
The date wise increase or decrease in shareholding of the Top 10 shareholders  giving break-up of Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary shares bought and sold is available on the website of the Company www.tatamotors.com  v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel : Sr.   No  Name of the ShareHolder Shareholding at the  beginning of the year as on  01.04.2017 Date Reason Increase/Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year  No.
of  Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of  Shares % of total  shares of the  company No.
of  Shares† % of total  shares of the  company 1 Mr. Satish Borwankar, Executive Director & COO 500 0.00 500 0.00 - No Change - - 500 0.00 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 500 0.00 2 Mr. C Ramakrishnan, CFO @  8,312 0.00 5,274 (AOS) 3,038 0.00 - No Change - - 5,274 (AOS) 3,038 0.00 30.09.2017 As at Sept 30, 2017  -  - 5,274 (AOS) 3,038 0.00 3 Mr. P B Balaji, CFO ++   (w.e.f.
November 14, 2017) 0 0.00 - - 20,000 0.00 - No Change - - 20,000 0.00 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 20,000 0.00 4 Mr. Hoshang Keki Sethna      (Company Secretary) 3,766 0.00 2,953 (AOS) 813 0.00  - No change - - 2,953 (AOS) 813 0.00 31.03.2018 At the end of the year  -  - 2,953 (AOS) 813 0.00 Other than the above, none of the Directors and KMPs hold any shares.
Note:  @ Ceased to be the Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from September 30, 2017 ++ Appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from November 14, 2017 † Ordinary shares unless explictly stated as AOS for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares.
88 V INDEBTEDNESS  Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding /accrued but not due for payment (` in crores)  Secured loan  excluding  deposits   Unscured  Loan   Deposits  Total  Indebetness  Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year i) Principal Amount  2,403.71  15,957.68  -  18,361.39  ii)  Interest due but not paid  -  iii)  Interest accrued but not due  48.81  397.29  -  446.10  Total (i+ii+iii)  2,452.52  16,354.97  - 18,807.49  Change in Indebtedness during the financial year • Addition  6,746.69  10,583.21  -  17,989.65  • Reduction  (6,896.79)  (11,300.76)  -  (19,073.74) Net Change  (150.10)  (717.55)  -  (1,084.09) Indebtedness at the end of the financial year i) Principal Amount  2,253.61  15,240.13  -  17,493.74  ii) Interest due but not paid  -  iii) Interest accrued but not due  51.96  442.67  -  494.63  Total (i+ii+iii)  2,305.57  15,682.80  -  17,988.37  VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL A. Remuneration to Managing Directors, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager Sr.  No Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager Amount in (`)$ Mr Guenter  Butschek# Mr Ravindra  Pisharody* Mr Satish  Borwankar 1 Gross Salary a)  Salary as per provisions contained in Section  17(1) of the Income tax Act, 1961 192,212,608 17,190,250 20,180,370 229,583,228 b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act,  1961 8,903,948 3,516,258 1,320,194 13,740,400 c)  Profits in lieu of salary under - - - 0 2 Stock Options - - - 0 3 Sweat Equity - - - 0 4 Commission - - - 0 a) as % of profit - - - 0 b) others, specify - - - 0 5 Other, please specify  (LTA exemption) - (20,250) - (20,250) Total (A) 201,116,556 20,686,258 21,500,564 243,303,378 Ceiling as per Schedule V of the Act -  25,530,690  51,061,380 - * Ceased to be a Director w.e.f.
September 30, 2017 # Being a managerial person functioning in a professional capacity as per circular of the Ministry of Corporate Affiairs dated 12-9-2016, the ceiling under Schedule V is not applicable to him.
$ The above remuneration is as per Income Tax Act, 1961 and excludes contribution by the Company to Provident Fund, provisions for special retirement benefits etc.
Further these  amounts are paid to Managing Director and Whole Time Directors during the year.
89 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 VI.
B. Remuneration to other directors Sr.  No Particulars of   Remuneration  Name of Directors Total  amount in  (`)1 Independent Directors R Mashelkar# N Munjee V K Jairath F Nayar O P Bhatt* H Sorenson^ a)   Fee for attending board/ committee meetings 860,000 1,400,000 1,220,000 1,040,000 720,000 300,000 5,540,000 b) Commission - - - - - - 0 c) Others, please specify - - - - - - 0 Total (1) 860,000 1,400,000 1,220,000 1,040,000 720,000 300,000 5,540,000 2 Other Non-Executive Directors N Chandrasekaran R Speth a)     Fee for attending board/ committee meetings 780,000 - 780,000 b) Commission - - 0 c) Others, please specify - - 0 Total (2) 780,000 - 780,000 Total B = (1+2) 6,320,000 Total Managerial Remuneration Nil Overall Ceiling as per the Act Not applicable as only sitting fees paid # Dr Mashelkar retired on December 31, 2017 * Mr O P Bhatt was appointed as Additional and Independent Director on May 9, 2017 ^ Ms Hanne Sorensen was appointed as Additional and Independent Director on January 3, 2018 The figures are rounded to nearest thousand.
VI.
C. Remuenration to Key Managerial Personnel Other than MD / Manager / WTD Sr.  No Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Amount in (`)$ C Ramakrishnan^                   Group Chief  Financial Officer P B Balaji#                                 Group Chief  Financial Officer Hoshang Sethna                                   Company  Secretary 1 Gross Salary a)  Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the  Income tax Act, 1961 41,568,000 66,663,520 11,478,457 119,709,977 b)  Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 890,997 9,900 854,330 1,755,227 c)  Profits in lieu of salary under - - - 0 2 Stock Options - - - 0 3 Sweat Equity - - - 0 4 Commission - - - 0 a) as % of profit - - - 0 b) others, specify - - - 0 5 Other, please specify - - - 0 Total 42,458,997 66,673,420 12,332,787 121,465,204 ^ Ceased to be Group Chief Financial Officer on September 30, 2017  # Appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on November 14, 2017 $ The above remuneration is as per Income Tax Act, 1961 and excludes contribution by the Company to Provident Fund.
VII.
PENALTIES/PUNISHMENT/COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:  There were no penalties/punishment/compounding of offences for the breach of any sections of Companies Act against the Company  or its Directors or other officers in default, if any, during the year.
On behalf of the Board of Directors  N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman DIN - 00121863 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 90 A.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY The Company has always been conscious of the need for  energy conservation.
In Fiscal 2018, the Company has signed a  Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Energy Efficiency  Services Limited (EESL), Ministry of Power, Government of  India to achieve energy saving and resource conservation by  implementing various energy efficiency initiatives across the  Company’s manufacturing facilities in India.
Phase I of the project  is being rolled-out at the Pantnagar, Lucknow and Pune plants and  will be extended later to other plants.
Key Highlights of the MoU  include - diagnostic studies and pilot projects, implementation of  energy efficiency projects through innovative financial models and  capacity building & training.
The Energy Conservation (ENCON) projects have been  implemented at all plants and offices of the Company in a  planned and budgeted manner.
Some of the major ENCON  Projects in Fiscal 2018 include: (i) The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:   Pune plant optimized power consumption in ventilation  systems at engine shop, installed energy efficient LED  lighting systems, converted washing machines from electrical  to natural gas heating, provided interlocks and auto switch- off timers in engine shop, installed Intelligent Flow Control in  compressor for paint shop operations and integrated painting  operations into a single paint shop.
  Jamshedpur Plant optimized engine test bed utilization and  installed energy efficient LED lighting.
  Sanand Plant optimized use of Air Supply Plant (ASP), washing  process in head & block at engine shop, replaced Nd-YAG laser  with fiber laser, and provided interlocks and auto switch-off  timers for energy intensive machines and equipment.
  Lucknow Plant implemented empty skid storage facility in  paint shop and installed energy efficient LED lighting.
  Pantnagar Plant contributed by reduction in no-load losses in  transformers and installed energy efficient LED lighting.
These efforts have resulted into energy savings of 86,086  GJ (power + fuel), avoided 18,378 tCO 2e and cost savings of  `1,746 lakhs in Fiscal 2018.
(ii)  The steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate  sources of energy:   The Company has set up in-house Renewable Energy  generation capacity (solar and wind) which includes:   –  21.95 MW Captive Wind Power project at Supa and  Satara in Maharashtra;  –  2 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Sanand Works;   –  2.1 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Pune Works and  ANNEXURE - 2 Particulars of Conservation of energy, Technology absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo [Pursuant to Section 134 (3) (m) of the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014] work is ongoing for additional 2 MW installation;  –  2 MW Solar PV installation at Lucknow Works;   –  18.5 kWp Solar PV installation at Pantnagar Works; and   –  7.2 kW hybrid-wind and solar installation at Dharwad  Works.
  the Company sources off-site wind power at its Pune, Sanand  and Dharwad Works through Power Purchase Agreements  (PPA) with Third Party Wind Power Generators and will  continue to source renewable power from the grid in line with  regulatory policies / frameworks and tariffs in the States of  operations.
  the Company generated / sourced 99 million kWh of  renewable electricity for its manufacturing operations, which  contributed to financial saving of ` 666.3 lakhs and avoided  64,657 tCO2e.
  in addition, past wind power arrears of 20 million kWH (Fiscal  2015 & Fiscal 2017) were realized in Fiscal 2018, which is an  additional avoidance of 16,837 tCO2e.
  auction of 13,332 Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs)  resulted in revenue of `121 lakhs to the Company.
(iii) The capital investment on energy conservation equipments: In Fiscal 2018, the Company has invested `428 lakhs in various  energy conservation projects.
Awards / Recognition received during the year is as below,   the Company’s Jamshedpur Plant won First Prize in the  Automobile (Manufacturing) Sector at the National Energy  Conservation Awards-2017 by Bureau of Energy Efficiency  (BEE), Ministry of Power, Government of India.
The Award was  received from Shri Ram Nath Kovind, Hon’ble President of  India on December 14, 2017 - National Energy Conservation  Day, at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi.
  the Company’s CVBU Pune awarded “Certificate of Merit” at  the National Energy Conservation Awards-2017, in Automobile  (Manufacturing) Sector by Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE),  Ministry of Power, Government of India.
  the Company’s CVBU PUNE won the “Golden Peacock  Award for Energy Efficiency-2017”.
The award was received  on July 7, 2017 at the 19th World Congress on Environment  Management, at Hyderabad.
  the Company’s CVBU Pune won the “CII-National Award for  Excellence in Energy Management -2017” and declared as  “Excellent Energy Efficient Unit”   the Company’s CVBU Pune, was re-certified ‘GOLD’ under CII’s  GreenCo Rating system in 2017.
CV Pune received the original  ‘GOLD’ rating initially in 2014.
91 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 B.
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTATION AND INNOVATION (i)  Efforts made towards technology absorption, adaptation and  innovation   The Company used a three-horizon strategy for managing  its engineering and technology initiatives.
The first-horizon  involved products that the Company is working on currently, to  bring to the market.
The second-horizon involves researching  known technologies that the Company may not be entirely  familiar with at present, but are needed for our future products.
And the third-horizon is for ‘blue sky’ research projects and  there are a number of projects aimed at fostering a culture of  innovation in the Company.
The Company has its sights set on delivering well engineered,  safe, technology laden cars to the market continuously.
The Company’s future technology pipeline focuses on four  key pillars namely smart autonomous & connected vehicle,  clean vehicle, capable vehicle and desirable vehicle.
The  Company has set up lean and agile innovation hubs to kindle  innovation, by focusing on testing of solutions and go-to- market strategies.
The setting up of the first of these centers is  already underway in Silicon Valley (US) and the UK.
Key areas of technology engagement in line with global and  Indian trends:  •  Advanced HMI technologies for improved user experience  •   Advanced occupant safety and driving convenience  adapted to Indian driving conditions  •   Advanced connectivity architecture to support future  mobility driven features  •   Advanced vehicle with improved efficiency through  light-weighting of body and chassis structures and use  of higher efficiency aggregates   The Company believes in bringing academia and the industry  together for advancements in automotive research.
Recent  research with various leading technical institutes include:  •   Development of full vehicle multi-body dynamic model  for simulation of PAT targets for engine mounting system  •  Brake disc temperature rise simulation for multi-stop  applications  •  Tire component target cascading simulation for vehicle  ride and handling (ongoing) (Customer Delight)  •  Engine vibration frequency calculation and simulation in  ADAMS for improved NVH  •  A new approach for powertrain multi-attribute target  development & balancing for vehicle integration   •  To develop a mathematical model of powertrain for  the passenger vehicle with Front Wheel Drive(FWD) to  address torsional vibrations    The main endeavor of the Company has been to continuously  scan for innovative projects in the third and second horizon to  integrate the promising ones to the main stream projects in  the first horizon.
The forward-looking technology programs that the Company  is concentrating on are:   •   Soot emission reduction of 55% from light commercial  vehicle engine by combustion optimization through  simulation program executed with IIT Bombay.
•   Participation in a consortium led by a US research firm,  for thermal efficiency improvement of diesel engines.
(ii) Benefits derived as a result of the above efforts    The Company continued to strengthen its capabilities across  technology by careful selection of advanced engineering  and future technology portfolio, with intent to capitalize and  bookshelf the developed technology into the future products  for making them more exciting and more attractive to the end  customers.
The Company wishes to mitigate all future risks  related to technology by timely having appropriate emerging  technology on emissions, FE enhancement, powertrain,  safety, connectivity, infotainment, telematics, green initiatives  etc., to meet and exceed all future emissions and vehicular  safety norms.
The Company continued efforts have translated into  successful product launches and concept unveils.
Fiscal 2018  marked the launch of Tata Nexon and the first batch of Tigor  Electric Vehicles to state-run Energy Efficiency Services  Limited was delivered.
The Company future vehicle concepts  for the H5X,the 45X and the EVision at the Geneva International  Motor Show were lauded by automotive critics.
The Company  harnessed the talent in India’s reputed academic institutions  to realize state of the art and emerging concepts for current  and future vehicles.
(iii) a)  Major technology absorption undertaken during the last  year includes: Sr.  No.
Technology For Status 1 E-Viscous fan for cooling systems on  medium duty vehicles Implemented 2 Development of connected car Technol- ogy and Cyber Security Proof of Concept  Ready 3 Development of Advanced Driver Assis- tance with 360 degree surround sense,  surround view and parking assist Validation in  progress 4 Moflex MMS Structural Technology Proof of Concept  Ready 5 Development of domain controllers for  cockpit electronics Development in  Progress 6 Development of low cost Electronic  Parking Brake Proof of Concept  Ready 7 Light Weighting of BIW and Chassis  Structures Development in  Progress 8 Development of efficient HVAC system  with Coandavents and Electronically  variable displacement compressor Development in  Progress 92 Sr.  No.
Technology For Status 9 Fuel cell vehicle based on small com- mercial vehicle Development in  progress 10 Hydrogen recirculation blower system  for Fuel cell system Under implemen- tation 11 Battery management system for EV  bus/car and car hybrids  Development in  progress 12 Brake blending systems for improving  regenerative brake energy capture in  electric and hybrid vehicles  Development in  progress 13 In-house patented hybrid powertrain  development  Development in  progress 14 Exhaust energy recovery through Va- pour-ejector refrigeration systems Development in  progress 15 Electric Trolley Bus system Development in  progress 16 Ultra capacitor based energy storage  system for hybrid vehicles  Development in  progress 17 Development of induction motor with  copper rotor Development in  progress 18 Development of DC-DC converter for  fuel cell vehicles  Development in  progress 19 Traction motor control algorithm devel- opment for xEVs  Development in  progress 20 In-house development of battery packs  for electric and hybrid vehicles  Development in  progress 21 Development of Fuel Cell/Battery EV  controller for fuel cell / Battery Electric  vehicles  Development in  progress 22 Design and development of Automotive  fuel cell Stack  Development in  progress 23 Design and development of Traction  motor controller hardware  Development in  progress 24 Design and development of DC-DC  converters and On-board chargers  Development in  progress 25 Design and development of Induction  Traction motors based  Development in  progress 26 Light-weight material for Acoustic Insu- lation of Trimmed Body of Tiago Implemented 27 In house development and demonstra- tion of parallel PHEV technology  Development in  progress 28 Development of Advanced Driver Assis- tance Safety Systems LDWS, AEBS  Testing in Progress (iii) b)      Major Technology Imports includes (preceding 3  financial years): Sr.  No.
Technology for Year of  Import Status 1 A door seal pressure  measurement rig 2014-15 Commissioned  and being  used for new  passenger  vehicles Sr.  No.
Technology for Year of  Import Status 2 Synthetic road shells on a  chassis dynamometer 2015-16 Implemented 3 A Noise Test Cell for engine and  drivelines 2015-16 Implemented 4 Combustion analyser and  knock sensors 2015-16 Implemented 5 Miniature shakers [from USA]— needed for Accurate Transfer  Path Analysis of vibrations of  engine To vehicle-body 2016-17 Implemented 6 Master air flow calibration rig 2016-17 Implemented 7 Climatic chamber with gasoline  emission facility 2016-17 Implemented 8 Upgrade of test facilities for  BS-6 compliance including  particle number counter,  ammonia analyzer, urea  measurement system  2017-18 Implemented 9 Diesel Particulate Filter oven  and weighing balance  2017-18 Implemented 10 A single channel Digital Signal  Processer from M/s Silentium,  Israel as a low cost Active Noise  cancellation  2017-18 Implemented (iv) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT  Particulars (` in crores) Expenditure incurred on research and  development: 2017-18 2016-17 (a)  Revenue Expenditure - charged  to Profit & Loss Statement 923.10 508.26 (b)  Revenue Expenditure –  capitalized 1,362.51 1,526.34 ( c )  Capital Expenditure 111.91 65.59 Total 2,397.52 2,100.19 Income from Operations 57,258.60 48,273.97 R&D cost as a % to Revenue from  Operations 4.2% 4.4% Specific areas in which R & D carried out by the Company The Company commitment to our customers ensures that our  products remains fresh, exciting and class leading.
The main focus  on specific areas of R&D and engineering are to strengthen its  HorizonNext philosophy, likewise, the PV R&D portfolio is aligned  towards developing technologies, core competence and skill  sets in specific domains to secure impactful and timely delivery  of envisaged future products with leading product attributes.
In  CV R&D portfolio the main focus areas are total cost ownership,  pursue market leadership in application specific fuel efficiency  and deliver high performance and reliable products.
Focus  areas of the Company R&D evolves around R&D infrastructure  development and being timely future ready for emission and  vehicular safety norms.
93 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The Company commitment to its customers ensures that  its products remain fresh, exciting and class leading.
The  next generation ConnectNext platform, adapted the Android  automotive operating systems to bring consumer world into  the car infotainment system.
In line with connected mobility  and smart city initiatives, the Company was working with on  connected infrastructure with Microsoft and mobility provider  offering affordable telematics solutions to target vehicle  segment.
The Company strengthened its commitment on  occupant safety by investing in Advanced Driver Assistance  Systems (ADAS).
Visual and audible alerts were provided to  the drivers to warn them of an imminent hazard and so on.
Intelligent start stop systems, intelligent alternator controllers  and low-drag outsider rear view mirrors are few of the areas  under focus.
The Company has been constantly striving  to increase the efficiency of its products, in a bid to create a  sustainable future.
Some of the forward-looking R&D programs that the Company is  concentrating on are:  •  Robust control system for hybrid and electric buses and  electric cars  • Electrification of vehicle accessories for electric buses  •  Development of indigenous Li-Ion battery packs for hybrid  and electric buses and electric cars  •  Enhancing the effectiveness of regenerative braking by  optimally blending it with conventional brake systems  •  Indigenous development of fuel cell systems and accessories  •  Development of high efficiency motors and inverters  •  Development of electric thermostat control on M&HCV trucks  which improve fuel economy by optimizing fan duty and  controlling coolant temperature  Benefits derived as a result of the above R&D  In PV, the Company continued efforts have translated into  successful product launches and concept unveils.
Recently  launched Tata Nexon, was critically acclaimed and went on to win  multiple awards, notable among which was winning the prestigious  Autocar “Best Design and Styling Award 2018” and “Best Value for  Money Car of the Year 2018” and the NDTV Car & bike “Subcompact  SUV of the year 2018”, “Design of the year 2018”.
The Nexon offers  cutting edge features such as an automated manual transmission  (AMT), a freestanding infotainment display, keyless entry/ignition,  intelligent start/stop systems, intelligent alternator controller’s  application integration in upcoming premium hatch and a wearable  key, a market first.
The Company launched special edition of the  lifestyle SUV Hexa, which was displayed with power-packed  and adrenalin filled driving experience.
Promotion of green and  sustainable transport solution, the Company recently launched  Tiago EV & Tigor EV to begun it’s journey in boosting e-mobility and  offering full range of electrical vehicle.
The Company showcased  two new innovative products - H5X concept for 5 seater luxury  USV which set to re-define the SUV benchmarks in the country &  another one ‘45X concept’, the premium hatchback.
In CV developments include, new Tata INTRA - the stylish, feature  loaded, compact truck that is set to re-define the SCV segment in the  country was unveiled.
Demonstrating it’s capability in promoting  smart and safe public transportation, the Company displayed the  12-m Electric Bus and passenger carriers- the Magic EV and the Iris  EV in Auto Expo 2018.
SIGNA 4323 – Highest tonnage rigid trucks  with 6-axle and 30-ton payload, the Prima 3718 with advanced  rubber Suspension system and the Prima 4930.S with latest,  advanced safety and driving features.
In addition to the dynamic showcase of products, the Company  displayed its New Generation Diesel Turbotron Engines of 3L and  5L capacities for its commercial vehicle applications.
These state- of-the-art engines offer best-in-class fuel economy, excellent  performance (flat torque curve & high low-end torque), lower TCO,  better reliability and durability.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company filed 50 Patent Applications and  25 Design applications.
In respect of applications filed in earlier  years, 80 Patents were granted and 23 Designs were registered.
Both filing and grant details include national and international  jurisdictions.
Future Plan of Action The Company planned to continue it’s endeavor in the research  and development space to develop vehicles with reduced cost, time  to market and shorter product life cycles.
One of the main future  initiatives in this direction would be a platform approach of creating  bills of material and bills of process that have a high degree of  commonality to reduce complexity and enhance ability to the scale.
Also, the Company aims for timely and successful conclusion of  technology projects so as to begin their induction into mainstream  products, which will lead to a promising future.
Some exciting new innovative projects have been kicked off in the  areas of Digital Assistance, Augmented Reality, IoT based solutions,  Innovative In-Cab experience, Safety and even Dealership  experience.
The Company would continue to invest in in-house R&D as well  as collaborative projects which will enhance the competitiveness  of the Company’s future products.
The Company would also start  active research in upcoming areas of automotive technology like  autonomous driving, connected cars, and others.
The Company plans to focus in the following areas to meet future  product portfolio needs.
• Customer facing and monetizable connected solutions •  Redefining cockpit experience with reconfigurable HMI  content  • Vehicle efficiency improvements • Driving convenience and occupant safety 94 C. FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO  Activities relating to exports   The Company exported during the year 52,404 vehicles  consisting of 50,106 units of Commercial Vehicles and 2,298  units of Passenger Vehicles.
Export initiatives such as goods, products and services  exported include: Commercial Vehicles •  The Company participated in key motor shows and conclaves  around the world such as the Futuroad Expo, Bangkok Motor  Show, Dhaka Automotive Show, Thailand Defence Expo.
•  Tata Prima successfully launched in Philippines, Signa  launched in Sri Lanka and Yodha in Nepal.
Launched the  Ultra buses in Tanzania, Ultra range in South Africa, Ultra was  unveiled in Thailand and Indonesia as well.
CR range launched  in ILCV in Nepal.
•  CVIB conducted ‘Global Service Campaign’ in more than 40  countries from 21 st to 23 rd November, 2017 as a part of the  enhancing the Customer Connect.
The service campaign saw  more than 31,000 vehicles serviced in 3 days.
•  Bagged the order for 250 units Xenon pickups and 200 units  of LPTA 715 from the Myanmar Armed forces; and 209 units of  Winger (135 units) and Xenon (75 units) to GVK Sri Lanka •  Supplied 99 school buses to STS in UAE and 100 buses to FTC  Mozambique.
• Bagged order for 540 units of buses from ILOC, Senegal •  The 4 th edition of the Company One World - International CV  Distributor meet was held in Jaipur from 25th to 27th February,  2018.
This year’s event saw attendance by the Company  Senior Management and over 250 guests from across 26  countries.
Passenger Vehicles •  In Nepal, the Tata Motors’ brand elevated to position  ‘Three’ after competing with 26 Passenger Vehicle brands,  augmenting market share from 10.2% to 12.18% during Fiscal  2018 due to highest market share in the Utility Vehicles  segment at 59%, Sedan segment at 32% coupled with surged  sales and deliveries.
•  246 Sumo Ambulances were supplied including supply of  60 ambulances to Embassy of India and 20 ambulances to  Government of Nepal.
The Company thus contributed towards  the well-being of the society by enabling assessibility of  ambulances services to a wider section of the community.
•  In Bangladesh, the Company secured ‘Market Leader Position’  in cars segment.
The vehicle deliveries increased by 43% in  Fiscal 2018 than over Fiscal 2017.
The Tiago was successfully  launched in January 2018.
•  The Company participated in the prestigious Geneva Motor  Show in Switzerland for the 21st successive year where the  Tata eVision electric sedan concept was displayed for the first  time in an international arena.
The Company also participated  in Nepal Automobile Dealers’ Association (NADA) Auto Show  and the Dhaka Automobile show.
•  The Company initiated the 1st Annual Kathmandu Walkathon  the promote awareness of a healthy lifestyle and witnessed  attendance by nearly 700 enthusiastic participants.
Development of export markets The new markets in ASEAN are the Company’s focus region for  future growth – Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia are  steadily picking up as the Tata Motors’ brand is becoming more  visible in these markets.
Our shipments to ASEAN doubled in  Fiscal 2018 as compared to the Fiscal 2017, making it the fastest  growing region.
Vehicle assembly, in Vietnam saw steady growth  of numbers in Fiscal 2018.
The Company has been expanding its relevance in the markets it  is present in, with the introduction of new products such as Tata  Prima, Ultra trucks and buses in the key markets to further grow  volumes.
In Nepal, the Company bagged prestigious orders of 60 Sumo  Ambulances from the Embassy of India, 20 Ambulances from  Ministry of Health, 24 units of Tiago and Sumo by Supreme  Court of Nepal, 26 units from the Rastriya Banijya Bank and 4  Safari Stormes to the Embassy of Switzerland at Kathmandu.
The Company delivered 138 units of Indigo CS to various Taxi  fleets including Uber at Dhaka, Bangladesh and 15 Storme  were supplied to the fleet of the Narcotics Control Bureau in  the Seychelles.
Export Plans The Company plans to focus on growing the export business  aggressively in identified geographies by offering customer centric  products and strong after sales support.
Foreign Earning Exchange and Outgoings in  Fiscal 2018 (` in crores) Earning in foreign currency 5,422.47 Expenditure in foreign currency (including  dividend remittance) 3,079.76 On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 95 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Definition of Independence  •  A director will be considered as an “Independent Director” if  the person meets with the criteria for ‘Independent Director’  as laid down in the Act and Regulation 16 of the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
•  The definition of Independence as provided in the Act and  Regulation 16 of SEBI Listing Regulations is as follows:  “An independent director in relation to a company, means a director  other than a managing director or a whole-time director or a  nominee director, —  (a)  who, in the opinion of the Board, is a person of integrity and  possesses relevant expertise and experience;  (b) (i)  who is or was not a promoter of the company or its  holding, subsidiary or associate company;   (ii)  who is not related to promoters or directors in the  company, its holding, subsidiary or associate company;  ( c )  who has or had no pecuniary relationship with the company, its  holding, subsidiary or associate company, or their promoters,  or directors, during the two immediately preceding financial  years or during the current financial year;  (d)  none of whose relatives has or had pecuniary relationship  or transaction with the company, its holding, subsidiary or  associate company, or their promoters, or directors, amounting  to two per cent or more of its gross turnover or total income or  fifty lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be prescribed,  whichever is lower, during the two immediately preceding  financial years or during the current financial year;  (e) who, neither himself nor any of his relatives—   (i)  holds or has held the position of a key managerial  personnel or is or has been employee of the company or  its holding, subsidiary or associate company in any of the  three financial years immediately preceding the financial  year in which he is proposed to be appointed;   (ii)  is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in  any of the three financial years immediately preceding  the financial year in which he is proposed to be appointed,  of—    (a)  a firm of auditors or company secretaries in practice  or cost auditors of the company or its holding,  subsidiary or associate company; or    (b)  any legal or a consulting firm that has or had  any transaction with the company, its holding,  subsidiary or associate company amounting to ten  per cent or more of the gross turnover of such firm;  ANNEXURE - 3 Criteria for Determining Qualifications, Positive Attributes and Independence of a Director   [Pursuant to Section 178 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16 read along with Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations]  (iii)  holds together with his relatives two per cent or more of  the total voting power of the company; or   (iv)  is a Chief Executive or director, by whatever name called,  of any non-profit organisation that receives twenty-five  percent or more of its receipts from the company, any  of its promoters, directors or its holding, subsidiary or  associate company or that holds two per cent.
or more of  the total voting power of the company;   (v)  is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a  lessor or lessee of the company;  (vi) who is not less than 21 years of age.
•  Current and ex-employees of a Tata company may be  considered as independent only if he/ she has or had no  pecuniary relationship with any Tata company (due to  employment/ receipt of monthly pension by way of Special  Retirement Benefits/ holding consultant or advisor positions)  during the two immediately preceding financial years or  during the current financial year.
2.
Qualifications of Directors  •  Boards will ensure that a transparent board nomination  process is in place that encourages diversity of thought,  experience, knowledge, perspective, age and gender.
•  It is expected that boards have an appropriate blend of  functional and industry expertise.
•  While recommending appointment of a director, it is expected  that the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)  consider the manner in which the function and domain  expertise of the individual contributes to the overall skill- domain mix of the Board.
•  Independent Directors (“ID”) ideally should be thought/  practice leaders in their respective functions/ domains.
3.
Positive attributes of Directors  Directors are expected to comply with duties as provided in the Act.
For reference, the duties of the Directors as provided by the Act are  as follows:  1)  “Act in accordance with the articles of the company.
2)  Act in good faith in order to promote the objects of the company  for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in the best  interests of the company, its employees, the shareholders, the  community and for the protection of environment.
3)  Exercise duties with due and reasonable care, skill and  diligence and exercise independent judgment.
4)   Not be involved in a situation in which he may have a direct  or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with  the interest of the company.
96 5)  Not achieve or attempt to achieve any undue gain or advantage  either to himself or to his relatives, partners, or associates.
6) Not assign his office.”  Additionally, the Directors on the Board of a Tata Company are  also expected to demonstrate high standards of ethical behaviour,  strong interpersonal and communication skills and soundness of  judgment.
IDs are also expected to abide by the ‘Code for Independent  Directors’ as outlined in Schedule IV to section 149(8) of the Act.
The Code specifies the guidelines of professional conduct, role and  function and duties of Independent Directors.
The guidelines of  professional conduct specified in the Code are as follows:  “An independent director shall:  1)  uphold ethical standards of integrity and probity;  2)  act objectively and constructively while exercising his duties;  3)  exercise his responsibilities in a bona fide manner in the  interest of the company;  4)  devote sufficient time and attention to his professional  obligations for informed and balanced decision making;  5)  not allow any extraneous considerations that will vitiate his  exercise of objective independent judgment in the paramount  interest of the company as a whole, while concurring in or  dissenting from the collective judgment of the Board in its  decision making;  6)  not abuse his position to the detriment of the company or its  shareholders or for the purpose of gaining direct or indirect  personal advantage or advantage for any associated person;  7)  refrain from any action that would lead to loss of his  independence;  8)  where circumstances arise which make an independent  director lose his independence, the independent director must  immediately inform the Board accordingly;  9)  assist the company in implementing the best corporate  governance practices.”  On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 97 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The philosophy for remuneration of directors, Key Managerial  Personnel (“KMP”) and all other employees of Tata Motors Limited  (“the Company”) is based on the commitment of fostering a culture  of Leadership with Trust.
The remuneration policy is aligned to this  philosophy.
This remuneration policy has been prepared pursuant to the  provisions of Section 178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”)  and Regulation 19 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations).
In case  of any inconsistency between the provisions of law and this  remuneration policy, the provisions of the law shall prevail and the  Company shall abide by the applicable law.
While formulating this  policy, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) has  considered the factors laid down under Section 178(4) of the Act,  which are as under: “(a)  the level and composition of remuneration is reasonable and  sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality  required to run the company successfully; (b)  relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and  meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and ( c )  remuneration to directors, key managerial personnel and  senior management involves a balance between fixed and  incentive pay reflecting short and long-term performance  objectives appropriate to the working of the company and its  goals” Key principles governing this remuneration policy are as follows: –  Remuneration for independent directors and non- independent non- executive directors  •  Independent directors (“ID”) and non-independent non- executive directors (“NED”) may be paid sitting fees (for  attending the meetings of the Board and of committees  of which they may be members) and commission within  regulatory limits.
•  Within the parameters prescribed by law, the payment  of sitting fees and commission will be recommended by  the NRC and approved by the Board.
•  Overall remuneration (sitting fees and commission)  should be reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain  and motivate directors aligned to the requirements  of the Company (taking into consideration the  challenges faced by the Company and its future  growth imperatives).
•  Overall remuneration should be reflective of size of the  Company, complexity of the sector/industry/Company’s  operations and the Company’s capacity to pay the  remuneration.
•  Overall remuneration practices should be consistent  with recognized best practices.
•  Quantum of sitting fees may be subject to review on a  periodic basis, as required.
•  The aggregate commission payable to all the NEDs and  IDs will be recommended by the NRC to the Board based  on Company performance, profits, return to investors,  shareholder value creation and any other significant  qualitative parameters as may be decided by the Board.
•  The NRC will recommend to the Board the quantum of  commission for each director based upon the outcome  of the evaluation process which is driven by various  factors including attendance and time spent in the Board  and committee meetings, individual contributions at the  meetings and contributions made by directors other than in  meetings.
•  In addition to the sitting fees and commission, the  Company may pay to any director such fair and  reasonable expenditure, as may have been incurred  by the director while performing his/her role as a  director of the Company.
This could include reasonable  expenditure incurred by the director for attending  Board/Board committee meetings, general meetings,  court convened meetings, meetings with shareholders/ creditors/management, site visits, induction and training  (organized by the Company for directors) and in  obtaining professional advice from independent advisors  in the furtherance of his/her duties as a director.
–  Remuneration for managing director (“MD”)/executive  directors (“ED”)/KMP/ rest of the employees1   The extent of overall remuneration should be suffcient to  attract and retain talented and qualified individuals suitable  for every role.
Hence remuneration should be  •  Market competitive (market for every role is defined as  companies from which the Company attracts talent or  companies to which the Company loses talent)  • Driven by the role played by the individual,  •  Reflective of size of the Company, complexity of  the sector/industry/Company’s operations and the  Company’s capacity to pay,  • Consistent with recognized best practices and  • Aligned to any regulatory requirements.
1  Excludes employees covered by any long term settlements or specific term contracts.
The remuneration for these employees would be driven by the respective long term  settlements or contracts.
ANNEXURE - 4 Remuneration policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees  [Pursuant to Section 178(3) of the Companies Act,2013 and Regulation 19 read along with Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations] 98  • In terms of remuneration mix or composition,   -  The remuneration mix for the MD/EDs is as per the  contract approved by the shareholders.
In case of  any change, the same would require the approval of  the shareholders.
-  Basic/ fixed salary is provided to all employees to  ensure that there is a steady income in line with  their skills and experience.
-  In addition to the basic/ fixed salary, the Company  provides employees with certain perquisites,  allowances and benefits to enable a certain level  of lifestyle and to offer scope for savings and  tax optimization, where possible.
The Company  also provides all employees with a social security  net (subject to limits) by covering medical expenses  and hospitalization through re-imbursements  or insurance cover and accidental death and  dismemberment through personal accident  insurance.
-  The Company provides retirement benefits as  applicable.
-  In addition to the basic/ fixed salary, benefits,  perquisites and allowances as provided above, the  Company provides MD/EDs such remuneration by  way of commission, calculated with reference to the  net profits of the Company in a particular financial  year, as may be determined by the Board, subject  to the overall ceilings stipulated in Section 197 of  the Act.
The specific amount payable to the MD/EDs  would be based on performance as evaluated by  the Board or the NRC and approved by the Board.
-  In addition to the basic/ fixed salary, benefits,  perquisites and allowances as provided above, the  Company provides MD/EDs such remuneration  by way of an annual incentive remuneration/  performance linked bonus subject to the  achievement of certain performance criteria and  such other parameters as may be considered  appropriate from time to time by the Board.
An  indicative list of factors that may be considered for  determination of the extent of this component are:    -  Company performance on certain defined  qualitative and quantitative parameters as  may be decided by the Board from time to time,  Industry benchmarks of remuneration,    - Performance of the individual.
-  The Company provides the rest of the employees  a performance linked bonus.
The performance  linked bonus would be driven by the outcome  of the performance appraisal process and the  performance of the Company.
–  Remuneration payable to Director for services rendered in  other capacity   The remuneration payable to the Directors shall be inclusive  of any remuneration payable for services rendered by  such director in any other capacity, unless:  a)  The services rendered are of a professional nature; and  b)  The NRC is of the opinion that the director possesses  requisite qualification for the practice of the profession.
– Policy implementation   The NRC is responsible for recommending the remuneration  policy to the Board.
The Board is responsible for approving  and overseeing implementation of the remuneration policy.
On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 99 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 ANNEXURE - 5 Details of Remuneration of Directors, KMPs and Employees and comparatives  [Pursuant to Section 197 and Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]  1. a.
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and the  percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company  Secretary in the Fiscal 2018: Sr No.
Names of Directors Designation Remuneration Ratio of  remuneration   to median  remuneration % increase in the  remuneration(` in lakhs) I Non-Executive Directors 1 Mr N Chandrasekaran(1) Chairman- NED 7.80 * * 2 Dr R A Mashelkar(2) Independent Director 8.60 * * 3 Mr N Munjee Independent Director 14.00 1.94 -2.78 4 Mr V K Jairath Independent Director 12.20 1.69 -22.78 5 Ms Falguni Nayar Independent Director 10.40 1.44 -27.78 6 Dr Ralf Speth(3) Non-Executive  Director -- -- -- 7 Mr Om Prakash Bhatt(4) Independent Director 7.20 * * 8 Ms Hanne Sorenson(5) Independent Director 3.00 * * II Whole-time Directors 8 Mr Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director 2,641.95 366.43 17.15 9 Mr Ravindra Pisharody(6) Executive Director 198.14 * * 10 Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director and Chief Operating  Officer 224.57 31.15 4.62 III Key Managerial Personnel 1 Mr C Ramakrishnan(7) Chief Financial Officer 167.78 * * 2 Mr P B Balaji(8) Chief Financial Officer 809.33 * * 3 Mr Hoshang Sethna Company Secretary 128.88 17.88 5.22 *since the remuneration of these Directors/KMPs is only for part of the year/previous year the ratio of their remuneration to median and increase in remuneration is not comparable.
Notes: (1) Appointed with effect from January 17, 2017.
(2)  Retired on attaining the age of 75 years under the Board Effectiveness Policy with effect from December 31, 2017.
(3)  Is not paid any commission or sitting fees for attending Board meeting of the Company in view of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and Director  of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC (4)  Appointed as Additional and Independent Director with effect from May 9, 2017.
(5)  Appointed as Additional and Independent Director with effect from January 3, 2018.
(6) Ceased to be a Director with effect from September 30, 2017.
(7) Ceased to be the Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from September 30, 2017.
(8) Appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from November 14, 2017. b.
A break-up of median remuneration for employees is given below: Employee Group Median Remuneration   (` in lakh) Increase in the median  remuneration (%) White Collar  10.35 4.02% Level 1  125.00 - Level 2  80.27 - Level 3  47.34 - Level 4  24.87 - Level 5  10.82 - Level 6  7.39 - Blue Collar  5.75 -1.03% 100  Note – Effective April 01, 2017 white collar employees have moved into levels.
Hence, percentage increase in the median remuneration of white collar  employees is not comparable.
The Median Remuneration of employees for the Fiscal 2018 is `7.21 lakhs 2.
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company as at March 31, 2018: 24,989 3.
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial  year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there  are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: Employee group Average percentage increase / (decrease)   in salaries for Fiscal 2018 (in %) All permanent (Blue Collar and White Collar permanent) 3.04% White Collar 5.71% Blue collar 3.94% Executive Directors/Managerial Remuneration Mr Guenter Butschek 17.15% Mr Satish Borwankar 4.62%  Note:   Salaries for blue collar includes only TFP (as they are not given any performance linked bonus but have plant-wise wage revision at a set frequency).
The annual variable/performance pay and the salary increment of managers is linked to the Company’s performance in general and their individual  performance for the relevant year is measured against major performance areas which are closely aligned to Company’s objectives.
4.
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:   The remuneration for MD/ED/KMP/rest of the employees is as per the remuneration policy of the Company On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, 23, 2018 101 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 1.
A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy, including  an overview of projects or programmes proposed to be  undertaking and a reference to the web-link to the CSR  Policy and projects or programmes:  I. Overview:   (i)  Outline of CSR Policy - As an integral part of  the Company’s commitment to good corporate  citizenship, the Company believes in actively assisting  in improvement of the quality of life of people in  communities, giving preference to local areas around  the Company’s business operations.
Towards achieving  long-term stakeholder value creation, the Company  shall always continue to respect the interests of and  be responsive towards its key stakeholders - the  communities, especially those from socially and  economically backward groups, the underprivileged  and marginalized; focused on inter alia the Scheduled  Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and the society at  large.
In order to leverage the demographic dividend  of its country, Company’s CSR efforts shall focus on  Health, Education, Environment and Employability  interventions for relevant target groups, ensuring  diversity and giving preference to needy and deserving  communities inhabiting urban India.
CSR at the  Company shall be underpinned by ‘More from Less  for More People’ philosophy which implies striving to  achieve greater impacts, outcomes and outputs of its  CSR projects and programmes by judicious investment  and utilization of financial and human resources,  engaging in like-minded stakeholder partnerships for  higher outreach benefitting more lives.
Weblink for Tata Motors India CSR Policy: http:/ /investor.
tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy.pdf  (ii)  CSR Projects : 1.
Aarogya (Health): Addressing child  malnutrition; health awareness for females; preventive  and curative health services, drinking water projects;  2.
Vidyadhanam (Education): Scholarships; Special  coaching classes for secondary school students; IIT-JEE  and competitive exams coaching, school infrastructure  improvement; co-curricular activities; financial aid to  engineering students; 3.
Kaushalya (Employability):  Divers training – novice and refresher; ITI partnership  and allied-auto trades; Motor Mechanic Vehicle  (MMV); training in retail, hospitality, white goods  repair, agriculture and allied trades; 4.
Vasundhara  (Environment): Tree plantation, environmental awareness  for school students.
2.
Composition of CSR Committee: The CSR Committee  of the Board of Tata Motors comprises (i) Om Prakash  Bhatt, Non-Executive, Independent Director [Chairman of  the Committee]; (ii) Ms Falguni S. Nayar, Non-Executive,  Independent Director; (iii) Mr Guenter Butschek, CEO &  Managing Director, (iv) Mr Satish B. Borwankar, Executive  Director and Chief Operating Officer.
3.
Average Net Profit of the Company for last three financial  years:   Loss ` 2,336.56 crores  4.
*Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent.
Of the amount as  in item 3 above):   Not applicable in view of the loss.
5.
*Details of CSR Spend during the financial year:    ` 21.44 crores was spent towards various schemes of CSR as  prescribed under Section 135 of the Act.
The prescribed CSR  expenditure required to be spend in Fiscal 2018 as per the Act  was Nil, in view of net profit of the Company being negative  under Section 198 of the Act.
(a)  Total amount to be spent for the financial year: Not  applicable  (b) Amount unspent, if any: Not applicable  ( c )  Manner in which the amount spent during the financial  year: Refer Table in Annexure-A 6.
In case the company has failed to spend the two per cent of  the average net profit of the last three financial years or any  part thereof, the company shall provide the reasons for not  spending the amount: Not Applicable 7.
Responsibility Statement of CSR Committee of Board:  The  CSR Committee of the Company’s Board states that the  implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy, is in compliance  with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.
The Company  had engaged M/s KPMG India (Registered) for assurance on  CSR spend by the Company under Section 135 of the Act,  Schedule VII.
sd/- Guenter Butschek  CEO & Managing Director (DIN 07427375) sd/- Om Prakash Bhatt,  Non-Executive, Independent Director  (Chairman CSR Committee) (DIN 00548091) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 ANNEXURE - 6 Annual Report on CSR Activities [Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014]  102 Annexure A Sr.  No.# CSR project /  activity identified Sector in which  the Project is  covered Projects / Programmes 1.
Local area / others  2.Specify the state and district where projects  or programs were undertaken Amount  outlay  (budget)  project /  programs  wise Amount spent on the project  / programme subheads Cumulative  spend upto  the reporting  period Amount spent:  Direct/through  implementing  agency*Direct Overhead* (` in crores)  1 Skill  Development  and vocational  skills in  Automotive  and Non- Automotive  Sector Employability  Enhancing Skill  Development 2.
Karnataka- Dharwad Maharashtra-  Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, Pune Gujarat-  Ahmedabad Jharkhand- East Singhbhum  Uttar Pradesh- Bara Banki and Lucknow  Uttarakhand- Udham Singh Nagar 5.41 4.28 0.24 4.52 Direct = 0.32  Implementation  Agency = 4.20 2 Promoting  primary and  secondary  education  in Rural and  Socially/  Economically  Backward  communities Promoting  Education 2.
Karnataka- Bangalore and Dharwad  Maharashtra- Mumbai, Thane, Navi  Mumbai, Pune Gujarat- Ahmedabad  Jharkhand- East Singhbhum Uttar  Pradesh- Bara Banki and Lucknow Uttarakhand- Udham Singh Nagar 11.89 9.92 0.51 10.43 Direct = 0.10  Implementation  Agency = 10.27 3 Preventive and  curative health  services in  Communities Eradicating  Hunger,  Promoting  preventive  healthcare,  Malnutrition,  Promoting  Preventive  healthcare and  sanitation and  safe drinking  water 2.
Maharashtra- Mumbai, Palghar, Pune Gujarat- Ahmedabad Jharkhand- East  Singhbhum Uttar Pradesh- Bara Banki  and Lucknow Uttarakhand- Udham Singh Nagar 3.64 2.72 0.18 2.90 Direct = 0.07  Implementation  Agency = 2.83 4 Ensuring  environmental  sustainability  through  awareness and  protection of  natural habitats Ensuring  environmental  sustainability 2.
Maharashtra- Mumbai, Palghar, Pune Gujarat- Ahmedabad Jharkhand- East  Singhbhum Uttar Pradesh- Bara Banki  and Lucknow Uttarakhand- Udham Singh Nagar 1.71 1.30 0.08 1.38 Direct = 0.00  Implementation  Agency = 1.38 5 Rural  Development Rural  development  projects 2.
Maharashtra- Mumbai, Palghar, 1.00 1.00 0.00 1.00 Direct = 0.00  Implementation   Agency = 1.00 6 Drinking water  project under  SMDF Safe drinking  water 2.
Maharashtra- Mumbai, Palghar, Pune Gujarat- Ahmedabad Jharkhand- East Singhbhum Uttar  Pradesh- Bara Banki and Lucknow Uttarakhand- Udham Singh Nagar 0.00 0.60 0.00 0.60 7 Administrative Overheads And Capacity Building Cost 0.70 0.60 0.01 0.61    Total 24.35 20.42 1.02 21.44   #1 :  Employability: Institute of Driving Training & Research, Ahmedabad Dist Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd, Ambika Motor Driving School, Center for Youth  Development & Activities, Centre for Civil Society, CII, College of Engg Pune, Gram Vikas Kendra, Hubert Ebner (I) Pvt Ltd., Laurus Edutech life Skills Pvt Ltd., MITCON  Foundation, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Pratham Education Foundation, Prolife, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar, Sambhav Foundation,  Shiksha Prasar Kendra, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sanand Education Trust, Shashwat, Skill For Progress, Suvidha, Vedanta Foundation, Vikas Samities, Vruksha #2 :  Education: Action Aid, Agastya International Foundation, Avanti Fellows, Govt.
Block Resource Centre Education Dept.
SSA, Cathedral Church Sanand, Center for Youth  Development & Activities, Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness, College of Engineering Pune, Foundation for Academic Excellence, GANATAR, Global Education Trust, Gram  Vikas Kendra, IIT Bombay Alumni Association, Manav Seva Education Trust, Moinee Foundation, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Samata Shikshan  Sanstha, Sambhav Foundation, Sanand Lions Foundation Trust, Sarvodhaya Mahasangh, Seva Sahyog Foundation, Shanti Seva Nidhi Trust, Shiksha Prasar Kendra, Shri Shakti  Kelavni Uttejak Trust, Society for Human Environmental Development, Suprabhat Mahila Mandal, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, Swaroopwardhinee, Tata Institute of  Social Sciences, Tata Motors Gruhini Social Welfare Society, The Jai Narayan Charitable Trust, Urmee Charitable Trust, Vidya Poshak, Vikas Samities #3 :  Health: Action Aid, Chetna, Family Planning Association of India, Jan Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Manav Seva Education Trust, Namaste Life, Nav Jagrat Manav  Samaj, Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Seth G S Medical College and KEM Hospital, SDM college of Medical  Science, Sneh Foundation, Snehdeep Jankalyan Foundation, Sumant Moolgaokar Development Foundation, Sterling Hospital, Swadhar, Vikas Samities #4 :  Environment: Bansilal Ramntath Agarwal Charitable Trust, Bombay Natural History Society, College of Social Work Nirmala Niketan Institute, Ganatar, Gram Vikas  Kendra, Green Thumb, Manav Seva Education Trust, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sarvodhaya Maha Sangh, Terre Policy Center, Tree  Public Foundation, Vikas Samities, Wildlife Research and Conservation Society sd/- Guenter Butschek  CEO & Managing Director (DIN 07427375) sd/- Om Prakash Bhatt,  Non-Executive, Independent Director  (DIN 00548091) (Chairman CSR Committee) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 103 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 ANNEXURE - 7 Secretarial Audit Report for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2018  [Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.
9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] To, The Members, Tata Motors Limited We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of  applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate  practices by Tata MotorsLimited (hereinafter called the Company).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a  reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory  compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute  books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the  Company, the information provided by the Company, its officers,  agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given to us  and the representations made by the Management, we hereby  report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period  covering the financial year ended on 31 st March, 2018, generally  complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also  that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance  mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the  reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and  returns filed and other records made available to us and maintained  by the Company for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2018  according to the provisions of: (i)  The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made  thereunder; (ii)  The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and  the rules made thereunder; (iii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws  framed  thereunder; (iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings; (v)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under  the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI  Act’)  (a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial  Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  (b)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition  of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  ( c )  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009  and amendments from time to time;  (d)   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;(Not applicable to  the Company during the audit period)  (e)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and  Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;  (f)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars  to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;  (Not applicable to the Company during the audit period)  (g)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of  Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not applicable to the  Company during the audit period) and  (h)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback  of Securities) Regulations, 1998; (Not applicable to the  Company during the audit period) (vi)  Other laws applicable specifically to the Company namely:  1.
The Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 and the Rules made  thereunder.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of  the following: (i)  Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India with respect to board and general  meetings.
(ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with  BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited  read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with  the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, standards  etc.
mentioned above.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India have vide Order dated  March 6, 2018 issued directions for the Company to conduct an  internal inquiry within 3 months into the leakage of information  relating to its financial results for the quarter ended December  2015, take appropriate actions against those responsible and to  submit its report within 7 days thereafter.
The Company has paid a penalty of Rs.
5.60 lakhs each levied by  the BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited in  respect of delay in filing of listing application for 266 Ordinary Share  and 80 ‘A’ Ordinary Shares allotted out of shares held in abeyance  on settlement of an interse dispute amongst the shareholders.
We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with  proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors  and Independent Directors subject to what is stated above.
The  changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place  104 during the period under review were carried out in compliance with  the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board  Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at  least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at  shorter notice for which necessary consents have been sought at  the meeting, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further  information and clarifications on the agenda items before the  meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’  views are captured and recorded as part of the Minutes of the  Meetings.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes  in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the  Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws,  rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company had  following events which had bearing on the Company’s affairs in  pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines,  standards etc.
a.
The Company held NCLT convened meeting of the  Shareholders on November 15, 2017 for merger of TML  Drivelines Limited, its wholly-owned subsidiary with the  Company.
b.
The decision of the Supreme Court vide order dated 29-03- 2017 which was to ban sale of BS3 vehicles with effect from  April 1, 2017 impacted the automobile industry including the  Company, mainly in the context of the BS3 inventory lying  unsold as on that date.
c.  Issue of 266 Ordinary shares and 80 ‘A’ Ordinary shares  earlier kept in abeyance.
d.  The Company redeemed unsecured Non-Convertible  Debentures aggregating Rs.
250 crores during the year has  complied with the applicable laws.
e.  The Company made Private placement of Non-Convertible  Debentures aggregating Rs.
1500 crores and complied with  the applicable provisions of laws.
For Parikh & Associates Company Secretaries P. N. Parikh Partner FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 Place: Mumbai Date : May 23, 2018 This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and  Forms an integral part of this report.
‘Annexure A’ To, The Members, Tata Motors Limited Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the  management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express  an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were  appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the  correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
The  verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct  facts are reflected in secretarial records.
We believe that the  process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable  basis for our opinion.
3.
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of  financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management  Representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other  applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the  responsibility of management.
Our examination was limited to  the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to  the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or  effectiveness with which the ma nagement has conducted the  affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates Company Secretaries P. N. Parikh Partner FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 Place: Mumbai Date : May 23, 2018 105 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 1.
Preamble   The Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide its  notification dated July 08, 2016 has amended the SEBI (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 ( “SEBI LODR” ), by inserting Regulation 43A, making it  mandatory for the top 500 listed Companies based on the  market capitalization (calculated as on March 31 of every  financial year) to formulate a Dividend Distribution Policy,  which will be disclosed in their annual report and on their  website.
Tata Motors Limited being one of the top 500 listed companies  as per the criteria mentioned above, has framed a Dividend  Distribution Policy (“Policy”).
This policy has been adopted by  the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on  May 23, 2017, being the effective date of this Policy.
2.
Scope and Objective    This Policy seeks to lay down a broad framework for the  distribution of dividend by the Company whilst appropriately  balancing the need of the Company to retain resources for the  Company’s growth & sustainability.
Through this policy, the  Company also endeavors to maintain fairness and consistency  while considering distributing dividend to the shareholders.
The Policy sets out the circumstances and different factors for  consideration by the Board at the time of taking a decision on  distribution or retention of profits, in the interest of providing  transparency to the shareholders.
The Policy is not an alternative to the decision of the Board for  recommending dividend, which is made every year after taking  into consideration all the relevant circumstances enumerated  hereunder or other factors as may be considered relevant by  the Board.
The Policy is being recommended for adoption by the Board  of Directors of all the Companies in the Tata Motors Group  ie.
by all its subsidiaries and to the extent possible, the joint  ventures after discussions with its partners  3.
Statutory Requirements   This policy on dividend distribution shall be in accordance  with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with  applicable rules framed thereunder, as may be in force for the  time being (“ Act”), SEBI ( Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“ SEBI LODR”), such other  applicable provisions of law.
4.
Definitions  i.
“Act” shall mean the Companies Act, 2013 including the  Companies (Declaration and Payment of Dividend) Rules,  2014, as amended from time to time.
ANNEXURE - 8 Dividend Distribution Policy   [Pursuant to Regulation 43A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]  ii.
“Applicable Laws” shall mean the Companies Act, 2013  and Rules made thereunder, the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 together with the  circulars issued thereunder; as amended from time to  time and such other act, rules or regulations which deals  with the distribution of dividend.
iii.
“Board” or “Board of Directors” shall mean Board of  Directors of the Company.
iv.
“Company” shall mean “Tata Motors Limited” or “TML ”.
v.  “Dividend” includes any interim dividend as defined  under the Companies Act, 2013.   vi.
“Free Reserves” shall means such reserves which, as  per the latest audited balance sheet of a Company, are  available for distribution as dividend:   Provided that -   i.  any amount representing unrealized gains, notional  gains or revaluation of assets, whether shown as  reserves or otherwise, or   ii.
any change in carrying amount of an asset or of  a liability recognized in equity, including surplus  in profit and loss account on measurement of the  asset or the liability at fair value,    shall not be treated as free reserves.”  vii.
“SEBI LODR” shall mean Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 together with the circulars issued  thereunder; as amended from time to time.
viii.
“Policy” or “this Policy” shall mean the Dividend  Distribution Policy.
5.
Statutory Provisions Relating to Distribution Of Dividend   In accordance with the provisions of the Act, dividend shall be  declared or paid only:   A.
Out of distributable profits of current year or previous  financial years:   i.
Current financial year’s profit after tax of standalone  financial statement as per applicable Accounting  Standards:    (a)  after providing for depreciation in accordance  with Applicable laws and regulations; and    (b)  after transferring to reserves such amount as  may be prescribed or as may be otherwise  considered appropriate by the Board at its  discretion; OR 106   ii.
Profits for any previous financial year(s):    (a)  after providing for depreciation in accordance  with Applicable Laws and regulations; and     (b) remaining undistributed; OR    iii.
A combination of (i) & (ii) above;  B.
Out of free reserves – in the event of inadequacy/ absence of profits    In the event of inadequacy or absence of profits in any  year, Company may declare dividend out of free reserves,  subject to fulfilment of conditions specified under the Act,  as amended from time to time.
C.  Company may, in certain cases, declare dividend using a  combination of A and B above.
6.
Parameters to be considered while Recommending/Declaring  Dividend   The Board while determining quantum of the dividend payout  to the shareholders, will consider following internal and  external factors:  Internal Factors:  •  Profits earned and available for distribution during the  financial year  •  Accumulated reserves, including retained earnings  •  Mandatory transfer of Profits earned to specific reserves,  such as Debenture Redemption Reserve, etc.
•  Past dividend trends – rate of dividend, EPS and payout  ratio, etc.
•  Earning Stability  •  Future Capital Expenditure requirement of the Company  •  Growth plans, both organic and inorganic  •  Capital restructuring, Debt reduction, Capitalisation of  shares  •  Crystallization of contingent liabilities of the Company  •  Profit earned under the Consolidated Financial Statement  •  Cash Flows  •  Current and projected Cash Balance and Company’s  working capital requirements.
•  Covenants in loan agreements, Debt servicing obligations  and Debt maturity profile.
External Factors:  •  Economic environment, both domestic and global.
•  Unfavorable market conditions  •  Changes in Government policies and regulatory provisions  •  Cost of raising funds from alternate sources  •  Inflation rates  •  Sense of shareholders’ expectations  •  Cost of external financing 7.
Circumstances under which the shareholders of the Company  may or may not expect Dividend   The decision regarding dividend payout is a crucial decision  as it determines the amount of profit to be distributed among  shareholders and amount of profit to be retained in business.
Hence, the shareholders of the Company may expect dividend  only if the Company is having surplus funds after providing for  all the expenses, depreciation, etc., and after complying with  the statutory requirements under the Applicable Laws.
The shareholders of the Company may not expect dividend in  the following circumstances, subject to the discretion of the  Board of Directors:  •  the Company has inadequacy of profits or incurs losses  for the Financial Year;  •  the Company undertakes /proposes to undertake a  significant expansion project requiring higher allocation  of capital;  •  the Company undertakes /proposes to undertake any  acquisitions or joint arrangements requiring significant  allocation of capital.
•  the Company has significantly higher working capital  requirement affecting free cash flow.
•  the Company proposes to utilize surplus cash for buy-  back of securities;   •  the Company is prohibited to recommend/declare  dividend by any regulatory body.
The Board may also not recommend a dividend on considering  any compelling factors/parameters mentioned in point 6 above.
8.
Quantum, Manner and Timelines for Dividend Payout   Quantum:   The dividend history of the Company over the past 10 years is  as follows: FY 08-09 FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY  15-16 FY 16-17 FY  17-18 Dividend paid per share on Ordinary shares 6 15 20* 4 2 2 - .20 - - Dividend payout (as a % to Standalone PAT) 35 44 81* 118 240 199 - 31 - - Dividend Payout (as % to Consolidated PAT) -15 39 16* 11 8 5 - 1 - - * subdivision of shares on September 13, 2011 (record date) from face value of `10/- each to face value of `2/- each.
The ‘A’ Ordinary Shares issued in 2008 are paid a higher dividend of 5% i.e `0.10 per share of `2/- each as per the terms of Issue.
107 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353   Considering the aforementioned dividend payment track  record of the Company, the Company shall endeavor to  maintain a total dividend pay-out ratio in the range of 25%  to 40% of the annual standalone profits after tax (PAT) of  the Company.
Under the applicable provisions of the Act, the  Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends is based on  the standalone Financial Statements only.
In future should  the regulations be amended permitting the Company to pay  dividend based on its Consolidated Profits, the Board would  consider such a payout ratio on its Consolidated Profits.
Till  such time, the Company will endeavor to have a policy on  dividend distribution with a similar payout ratio across its  subsidiaries and to the extent possible, in its joint ventures  after discussions with its partners.
Manner and timelines:   The Company may declare dividends for a year, usually  payable for a financial year at the time when the Board  considers and recommends the Annual Financial  Statements, which is called final dividend.
The Board  of Directors shall have the power to recommend final  dividend to the shareholders for their approval in the  Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Board of Directors shall also have the absolute power to  declare interim dividend during the financial year, between  two Annual General Meetings as and when they consider it fit.
9.
Specific Clause with regard to Dividend on Shares with  Differential Voting Rights   The payment of dividend shall be based on the respective  rights attached to each class of shares as per their terms of  issue.
The Company has two classes of shares- the Ordinary shares  and ‘A’ Ordinary shares.
The holders of “A” Ordinary shares  shall as per the terms of its issue be entitled to receive  dividend for each financial year at five percentage points more  than the aggregate rate of dividend on Ordinary shares for  that financial year.
10 Policy Review and Amendments   The Policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board.
Any changes in the policy will be communicated to the  shareholders, alongwith the rationale for carrying out said  changes in timely manner.
11.
Disclosures   The Policy shall be disclosed in the Annual report and on the  website of the Company i.e.
at http:/ /investor.tatamotors.com/ pdf/dividend-distribution-policy.pdf.
12.
Disclaimer  a.
The Policy does not constitute a commitment regarding  the future dividends of the Company, but only represents  a general guidance regarding dividend policy.
The  statement of the Policy does not in any way restrict  the right of the Board to use its discretion in the  recommendation of the Dividend to be distributed in the  year and the Board reserves the right to depart from the  policy as and when circumstances so warrant.
b.
Given the aforementioned uncertainties, prospective  or present investors are cautioned not to place undue  reliance on any of the forward- looking statements in the  Policy.
On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 108 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS ECONOMY OVERVIEW INDIA The year 2017, for India was marked by a number of key structural  initiatives to build strength across macro-economic parameters  for sustainable growth in the future.
The growth in the first half of  the year suffered despite global tailwinds.
However, the weakness  seen at the beginning of 2017, seems to have bottomed out as 2018  set in.
Currently, the economy seems to be on the path to recovery,  with indicators of industrial production, stock market index, auto  sales and exports having shown some uptick.
India has recovered  from the effects of demonetization and the introduction of the  Goods and Service Tax.
As per the advance estimates, in Fiscal 2018, India’s GDP  increased to 6.7% as compared to an increase of 7.1% in  Fiscal 2017.
India’s GDP growth bottomed out in the middle  of 2017 after slowing for five consecutive quarters, and has  since improved significantly, with momentum carrying over  into 2018 on the back of a recovery in investment.
Although  investment growth was still moderately lower in 2017 than in  2016, high-frequency indicators suggest that it accelerated  into 2018.
The temporary disruptions caused by the  implementation of the Goods and Services Tax dissipated by  mid-2017, and manufacturing output and industrial production  have continued to firm since then.
Currently, India is the world’s seventh-largest economy at USD  2.2 trillion, sitting between France and Italy.
India has emerged as  the fastest growing major economy in the world as per the Central  Statistics Organization and International Monetary Fund (IMF)  and  it is expected to be one of the top three economic powers of the  world over the next 10-15 years, backed by strong democracy and  partnerships.
WORLD 2017 is the year which saw global economy accelerating  although UK economy is evidently slowing, while the US  economy continues to grow at a modest pace.
The Chinese  economy continues to grow strong.
However, the Euro zone  and Japan shows sign of acceleration, as do many of the  major emerging economies such as Turkey and Russia.
The  US economy grew at 2.7% in Fiscal 2018, supported by broad- based strength in domestic demand, especially investment.
The  economy may be near its productive potential, as both capacity  utilisation and the employment rate are moving toward peaks  attained prior to the financial crisis.
During 2017, prices of base metal also strengthened, with the  strong growth in infrastructure sector in major countries around  the globe.
Crude prices remained range bound in major part of 2017  although it started to give a signal of upward breakout towards  fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Brent crude started sharp rally in the  middle of 2017 around $44/bbl and has rallied all the way to $79/ bbl.
The tensions in the Middle East and West Asia will only add to  the increase in oil prices.
The Eurozone grew at its faster rate in a decade in 2017, by 2%  highest since 2007, reflecting the strong consumption, investment,  and exports.
Amid continued monetary policy stimulus, growth is  projected to be 2.1% in 2018.
The Eurozone is in the midst of a broad  cyclical expansion, after years of economic stagnation and rolling  crisis, fueled by recovery confidence and monetary stimulus from  the European Central Bank.
The UK by contrast, has grown by 1.8%  in 2017, down from 2016’s 1.9% rate and the weakest expansion  since 2012, mainly reflecting the impact of higher inflation in  the wake of the 2016 Brexit vote and weaker investment from  Companies due to uncertainty of future trade arrangements.
The  United Kingdom is expected to grow at 1.4% in 2018.
The economies  in Spain, Italy and France has shown better prospects with GDP  rate.
Germany accounted for 28% of the Euro area economy with  steady growth of 2% GDP.
China registering growth of 6.9% in 2017 and had remained  solid this year.
Activity continues to shift to consumption, while  investment growth rates remain well below those in recent  years.
Industrial production has stabilized following significant  cuts in overcapacity sectors implemented over the past two  years.
However, according to International Monetary Fund (IMF),  China’s debt has ballooned to 234% of the total output.
Supported  by deepening macro-economic stability and gradual monetary  loosening, Russia’s economy continued its recovery in 2017, mainly  driven by non-tradable sectors.
Growth momentum towards the  end of 2017 slowed down but picked up in Fiscal 2018.
Russia’s  growth prospect remain modest.
Growth in Japan reached 1.7% in 2017, underpinned by supportive  financial conditions and strong exports, but contracted at the  beginning of this year.
Nonetheless, unemployment is falling to  levels not seen since the 1990s.
South Africa had GDP increase.
This is mainly due to change in the political leadership, which has  demonstrated strong commitment to strengthening institutional  integrity-especially state owned enterprises- reaching out both to  business and labor, and pronouncing the intention to build a new  social compact in the country.
(Source : Global Economic Prospects, Wold Bank) Business Summary The Company primarily operates in the automotive segment  which include all activities relating to the development, design,  manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles including vehicle  financing, as well as sale of related parts and accessories.
Through  Jaguar Land Rover business, the Company operates in the premium  car market segment wholesaling vehicles in developed markets  such as the United Kingdom, the United States, Europe and China  as well as several emerging markets such as Russia, Brazil and  South Africa amongst others.
The Company expects to focus on  profitable growth opportunities in its global automotive business  through new products and market expansion.
Within automotive  operations, the Company continues to focus on integration and  synergy through sharing of resources, platforms, facilities for  product development and manufacturing, sourcing strategy and  mutual sharing of best practices.
109 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The Company’s business segments are (i) automotive operations  and (ii) all other operations.
The Company provide financing for  vehicles sold by dealers in India.
The vehicle financing is intended  to encourage sales of vehicles by providing financing to the  dealers’ customers and as such is an integral part of the Company’s  automotive business.
The Company’s automotive operations are  further subdivided into Tata and other brand vehicles (including  vehicle financing) and Jaguar Land Rover.
Tata and other brand  vehicles consist of vehicles manufactured under Tata, Daewoo and  Fiat brands, and exclude vehicles manufactured under Jaguar Land  Rover brands.
The Company’s other operations business segment mainly  includes information technology services, and machine tools and  factory automation services.
The Company has decided to sell stake of the various non- core investments to ensure that it wins decisively in the future.
Slump sale of value added Segment of Defence vehicles  business and specialized Defence projects (excluding FICV)  to Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL).
Sale of Aerospace  business unit of TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd (TAL) via  100% Share sale to TASL.
The Company has also classified its  investment in Tata Technologies Ltd, Tata Hitachi Construction  Machinery Company Private Ltd, Tata Steel Ltd and Tata  Chemicals as held for sale / current investments.
Automotive Operations Automotive operations is the Company’s most significant segment,   which include: o activities relating to the development, design, manufacture,  assembly and sale of vehicles as well as related spare parts  and accessories; o distribution and service of vehicles; and o financing of the Company’s vehicles in certain markets.
The Company’s consolidated total sales (including international  business sales and Jaguar Land Rover sales, excluding Chery  Jaguar Land Rover) for Fiscal 2018 and 2017 are set forth in the  table below: Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Units % Units % Passenger cars 3,19,492 26.2% 3,10,171 28.4% Utility vehicles 4,45,080 36.4% 3,85,480 35.3% Light Commercial  Vehicles 2,85,857 23.4% 2,16,222 19.8% Medium and Heavy  Commercial Vehicles 1,70,695 14.0% 1,79,875 16.5% Total 12,21,124 100.0% 10,91,748 100.0% The automotive operations segment is further divided into (i) Tata  and other brand vehicles (including vehicle financing) and (ii)  Jaguar Land Rover.
Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle financing) India is the primary market for Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle financing).
During Fiscal 2018, there was a  robust and steady pace of economic growth in the geographic  markets in which the Tata and other brand vehicles segment  has operations.
Fiscal 2018 was a milestone year for the Indian automotive  industry, as it overtook Germany to become the 4th largest global  automotive market.
The sales volume built upon last year’s  momentum to register a double-digit growth - first time since  Fiscal 2012 - helped by improvement in the rural economy and  partly due to demonetization-influenced low base in the second  half of Fiscal 2017.
The following table sets forth the Company consolidated total  sales of Tata and other brand vehicles: Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Units % Units % Passenger cars 1,69,008 25.0% 1,40,887 25.3% Utility vehicles 50,266 7.4% 20,018 3.6% Light Commercial  Vehicles 2,85,857 42.3% 2,16,222 38.8% Medium and  Heavy Commer- cial Vehicles 1,70,695 25.3% 1,79,875 32.3% Total 6,75,826 100.0% 5,57,002 100.0% The Company’s overall sales of Tata and other brand vehicles  increased by 21.3% to 6,75,826 units in Fiscal 2018 from  5,57,002 units in Fiscal 2017, and the revenue (before inter- segment elimination) increased by 18.0% to ` 66,620.38  crores during Fiscal 2018, compared to `56,448.48 crores in   Fiscal 2017.
Vehicle Sales in India Automobile sales across categories domestically rose by  10.1% in Fiscal 2018.
Sale of passenger vehicles grew by 7.3%  in Fiscal 2018, as compared to Fiscal 2017, being increase in all  categories- passenger cars and UV’s.
The following table sets forth the Company‘s (on standalone  basis) sales, industry sales and relative market share in vehicle  sales in India.
Passenger vehicles includes passenger cars and  utility vehicles.
Commercial vehicles include Medium & Heavy  Commercial Vehicles, Light Commercial Vehicles, Intermediate  & Small commercial vehicles & Pickups and CV Passenger  vehicles.
110 Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Growth Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Growth Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Units % Units % % Commercial  Vehicles1 8,87,316 7,29,360 21.7% 3,99,821 3,24,175 23.3% 45.1% 44.4% Passenger  Vehicles2 32,55,010 30,32,910 7.3% 1,84,743 1,55,260 19.0% 5.7% 5.1% Total 41,42,326 37,62,270 10.1% 5,84,564 4,79,435 21.9% 14.1% 12.7% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 Commercial vehicles include V2 van sales.
2 Passenger vehicles does not include Jaguar Land Rover-branded cars.
Passenger Vehicles in India Sales in the passenger vehicles industry in India increased by 7.3% in Fiscal 2018.
Utility Vehicles sales witnessed significant growth  during Fiscal 2018 due to continued consumption demand and strong rural growth.
Reflecting the growth in the Indian passenger vehicle sector, the Company’s passenger vehicle sales in India increased by 19.0% to 184,743  units in Fiscal 2018 from 155,260 units in Fiscal 2017, due to new product offerings by the Company viz.
Nexon, Tigor, Hexa, Tiago etc.
Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Growth Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Growth Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Units % Units % % % Passenger Cars 21,73,380 2,104,976 3.2% 1,34,860 1,36,479 (1.2%) 6.2% 6.5% UV & Vans1 10,81,630 9,27,934 16.6% 49,883 18,781 165.6% 4.6% 2.0% Total2 32,55,010 30,32,910 7.3% 1,84,743 1,55,260 19.0% 5.7% 5.1% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 Excludes V2 van sales.
2 Total industry numbers includes sale in other segments.
The Company’s passenger vehicles category consists of: (i) passenger cars and (ii) utility vehicles.
The Company sold 134,860 units in  the passenger car category in Fiscal 2018, representing a marginal decrease of 1.2% compared to 136,479 units in Fiscal 2017.
However,  in the utility vehicles category, the Company sold 49,883 units in Fiscal 2018, representing an increase of 165.6% from 18,781 units in  Fiscal 2017.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company launched, Nexon, a compact SUV and sold 27,111 units.
The Tata Tiago, Hexa and Tata Tigor  were launched in Fiscal 2017.
All these new product launches has helped Company increasing its market share and volumes in passenger  vehicles category.
Dealer network upgradation and working capital availability were prevailing constrains in passenger vehicle sales and  the Company has been working with THF Holding Limited, its financing arm and other banks to plug these gaps.
Commercial Vehicles in India The following table sets forth the Company’s commercial vehicle sales, industry sales and relative market share in commercial vehicle  sales in India.
Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Growth Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Growth Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Units % Units % % % M&HCV 247,659 211,198 17.3% 134,455 116,403 15.5% 54.3% 55.1% ILCV1 103,131 80,625 27.9% 46,343 34,166 35.6% 44.9% 42.4% SCV & Pickups 421,084 324,090 29.9% 166,746 121,411 37.3% 39.6% 37.5% CV Passenger 115,442 113,447 1.8% 52,277 52,195 0.2% 45.3% 46.0% Total 887,316 729,360 21.7% 399,821 324,175 23.3% 45.1% 44.4% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 LCVs include V2 van sales 111 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Industry sales of commercial vehicles increased by 21.7% to 887,316  units in Fiscal 2018 from 729,360 units in Fiscal 2017.
Industry sales  in the medium and heavy commercial vehicle segment has grown by  17.3% at 247,659 units in Fiscal 2018, as compared to 211,198 in Fiscal  2017.
The M&HCV industry has shown signs of recovery since July  2017.
The implementation of GST, restrictions on overloading and  infrastructure growth supported by the Government has boosted the  demand.
Industry sales of ILCV reported an increase of 27.9% to 103,131  units in Fiscal 2018, from 80,625 units in Fiscal 2017.
Industry sales of  SCV & Pickups reported an increase of 29.9% to 421,084 units in Fiscal  2018, from 324,090 units in Fiscal 2017.
The ILCV & SCV industry  growth is mainly due to high investments in e-commerce segments  which is driving demand for last mile transportation requirements,  growth in replacement demand, improved financing and recovery in  rural demand.
Industry sales of CV Passenger reported a marginal  increase of 1.8% to 115,442 units in Fiscal 2018, from 113,447 units in  Fiscal 2017 due to muted demand from STUs.
The sales of the Company’s commercial vehicles in India  outperformed the industry with a growth rate of 23.3% to 399,821  units in Fiscal 2018 from 324,175 units in Fiscal 2017.
The Company’s  sales in the M&HCV category increased by 15.5% to 134,455 units in  Fiscal 2018, as compared to sales of 116,403 units in Fiscal 2017.
The  Company’s sales in the ILCV segment increased by 35.6% to 46,343  units in Fiscal 2018, from 34,166 units in Fiscal 2017.
The sales in SCV  & Pickups segment increased by 37.3% to 166,746 units in Fiscal 2018  from 121,411 units in Fiscal 2017.
However, the CV Passenger segment  remained flat with a growth of 0.2% to 52,277 units in Fiscal 2018  from 52,195 units in Fiscal 2017.
There has been positive customer  response to the superior range of BS4 vehicles complemented by  the success of the Company’s innovative SCR technology led to this  growth.
The new products introduced like the Ultra range trucks,  ACE XL range have seen very strong response.
Tata and other brand vehicles — International Markets The Company’s exports (on standalone basis) de-grew by 18.4% to  52,404 units in Fiscal 2018 as compared to 64,221 units in Fiscal  2017.
The reduction was on account of contraction in TIV (Total  Industry Volume) in few key markets.
The increase of exports  to Nepal provided an opportunity for the Company.
The launch  of new models in the Middle East and Africa region, along with  the opening of new markets in these regions, contributed to an  increase in international sales volumes.
The Company’s top five  (quantity terms) export destinations for vehicles manufactured in  India - Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, South Africa and Indonesia  accounted for approximately 81% of the exports of commercial  vehicles and passenger vehicles.
In Fiscal 2018, Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd or TDCV’s  overall vehicles sales were 8,870 units compared to 10,317 units  in fiscal 2017, a drop of 14.0%.
The domestic sales in South Korea  at 6,859 units in Fiscal 2018, reduced by 22.0% as compared to  8,795 units of Fiscal 2017, primarily due to lower industry volumes  and aggressive discounting and marketing strategies of importers  considering their higher ordering level.
The combined market  share was 26.5% as compared to 29.6% in Fiscal 2017.
The export  market scenario continued to remain challenging in Fiscal 2018  with factors like local currency depreciation against the US Dollar,  continuing statutory regulations to reduce imports, the slowdown  in Chinese economy impacting commodity exporting countries  and increased dealer inventory.
However, TDCV could increase its  export sales to 2,011 units, 32.1% higher compared to 1,522 units  in Fiscal 2017 primarily due to better sales in key markets such as  Algeria & Vietnam through new distributors and higher focus on KD  shipments to counter CBU import regulations.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Sales, Distribution and Support The Company’s sales and distribution network in India as at March 2018  comprised approximately 4,931 contact points for sales and service  for its passenger and commercial vehicle business.
The Company’s  subsidiary, TML Distribution Company Limited, or TDCL, acts as a  dedicated distribution and logistics management Company to support  the sales and distribution operations of its vehicles in India and has  set up  stocking points at some of Company’s plants and at different  places throughout India.
The Company believes this has improved the  efficiency of its selling and distribution operations and processes.
The  Company uses a network of service centers on highways and a toll-free  customer assistance center to provide 24-hour roadside assistance,  including replacement of parts, to vehicle owners.
TDCL helps the Company improve its planning, inventory management,  transport management and timing of delivery.
The Company  has customer relations management system, or CRM, at all of its  dealerships and offices across the country, which supports users both  at its Company and among its distributors in India and abroad.
The  Company believes that the reach of its sales, service and maintenance  network provides it with a significant advantage over its competitors.
The Company markets its commercial and passenger vehicles in  several countries in Africa, the Middle East, South East Asia, South  Asia, Australia, Latin America, Russia and the Commonwealth of  Independent States countries.
The Company has a network of  distributors in all such countries, where it exports its vehicles.
Such  distributors have created a network of dealers and branch offices  and facilities for sales and after-sales servicing of the Company’s  products in their respective markets.
The Company has also stationed  overseas resident sales and service representatives in various  countries to oversee its operations in the respective territories.
TML has a 100% subsidiary TMF Holdings Ltd which in turn has  two operating Companies Tata Motors Finance Ltd and Tata  Motors Finance Solutions Ltd.
Through Tata Motors Finance  Ltd, it provides financing services to purchasers of its vehicles  through independent dealers, who act as the Company’s agents  for financing transactions, and through the Company’s branch  network.
Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd provides funding  in the Used Vehicle Finance space and is also in the Business of  extending loans to TML Dealers and Vendors.
Revenue from the  Company’s vehicle financing operations (on consolidated basis as  per Ind AS) increased by 8.4% to `2,632.18 crores in Fiscal 2018  as compared to `2,429.23 crores in Fiscal 2017, which was mainly  driven by growth in the commercial vehicle segment.
TMFL disbursed `15,406 crores and `9,298 crores in vehicle  financing during Fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During Fiscal  2018 and 2017, approximately 25% and 22%, respectively, of the  Company’s vehicle unit sales in India were made by the dealers  112 through financing arrangements where the Company’s captive  vehicle financing divisions provided the support.
As at March 31,  2018 and 2017, the Company’s customer finance receivable portfolio  comprised 488,456 and 552,991 contracts, respectively.
The  Company follow specified internal procedures, including quantitative  guidelines, for selection of its finance customers and assist in  managing default and repayment risk in the Company’s portfolio.
The Company originate all of the contracts through its authorized  dealers and direct marketing agents with whom the Company have  agreements.
All the Company’s marketing, sales and collection  activities are undertaken through dealers or by TMFL.
Total vehicle  finance receivables outstanding as at March 31, 2018 and 2017  amounted to `23,881.18 crores and `17,563.25 crores, respectively.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Spare Parts and After-sales  Activity The Company’s consolidated spare parts and after-sales activity  revenue was `4,993.28 crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to  `4,895.75 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The Company’s spare parts and  after-sales activity experienced limited growth due to weak sales of  both commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles in recent years.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Competition The Company faces competition from various domestic and foreign  automotive manufacturers in the Indian automotive market.
Improving infrastructure and robust growth prospects compared  to other mature markets has attracted a number of international  companies to India that have either formed joint ventures  with local partners or have established independently owned  operations in India.
Global competitors bring with them decades  of international experience, global scale, advanced technology  and significant financial resources, and, as a result, competition is  likely to further intensify in the future.
The Company has designed  its products to suit the requirements of the Indian market based  on specific customer needs such as safety, driving comfort, fuel- efficiency and durability.
The Company believes that its vehicles  are suited to the general conditions of Indian roads and the local  climate.
Its vehicles have also been designed to comply with  applicable environmental regulations currently in effect.
The  Company also offers a wide range of optional configurations to  meet the specific needs of its customers and intends to develop  and is developing products to strengthen its product portfolio in  order to meet the increasing customer expectations of owning  world-class products.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Seasonality Demand for the Company’s vehicles in the Indian market is subject  to seasonal variations.
Demand for the Company’s vehicles  generally peaks between January and March, although there is a  decrease in demand in February just before release of the Indian  fiscal budget.
Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks  up again in the festival season from September onwards, with a  decline in December due to year-end.
Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) Total wholesales of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles (excluding Chery  Jaguar Land Rover) with a breakdown between Jaguar and Land  Rover brand vehicles, in Fiscal 2018 and 2017 are set forth in the  table below: Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Units % Units % Jaguar 1,50,484 27.6% 1,69,284 31.7% Land Rover 3,94,814 72.4% 3,65,462 68.3% Total 5,45,298 100.0% 5,34,746 100.0% In Fiscal 2018, Jaguar Land Rover wholesale volumes were  545,298 units, up 2.0% compared to Fiscal 2017.
Lower sales of  more established models partially offset the rise in sales driven  by the introduction of new models.
Wholesale volumes were up  in China (11.0%), Overseas markets (13.0%) and in North America  (3.4%) but down in the United Kingdom (1.1%) and in Europe (7.2%),  reflecting continuing uncertainty over diesel.
Jaguar wholesale volumes were 150,484 units, down 11.1%  compared to Fiscal 2017, reflecting the introduction of E-PACE  offset by lower sales of XE, F-PACE, XF and all other models of  Jaguar.
Land Rover wholesale volumes were 394,814 units, up 8.0%  compared to the prior year led by the introduction of the Range  Rover Velar and the all new Land Rover Discovery, partially  offset by lower sales of Evoque and Discovery Sport.
Sales of  Range Rover and Range Rover Sport were also lower year on  year on account of the model year change over, including the  launch of our first Plug in Hybrid models, during the third and  fourth quarter.
The wholesale volumes of Chery Jaguar Land Rover (China Joint  venture) were 88,212 units from 66,060 units, reflecting a growth  of 33.5% in Fiscal 2018 compared to 2017.
This is mainly due to  introduction of the long wheel base Jaguar XEL during Fiscal 2018   as well as the sales ramp up of the long wheel base Jaguar XFL at  China joint venture.
Jaguar Land Rover’s performance in key geographical markets on  a retail basis Retail volumes (including retail sales from the China Joint  Venture) in Fiscal 2018 increased by 1.7% to 614,309 units  from 604,009 units in Fiscal 2017 led by the introduction of  the Range Rover Velar, the all new Land Rover Discovery and  the Jaguar E-PACE as well as continued demand for F-PACE  and the long wheel base XFL from China Joint Venture.
This  increase was partially offset by lower sales of XE (long wheel  base XEL launched in December 2017 with sales still ramping  up), XJ, Discovery Sport and Evoque.
Retail sales of Range  Rover and Range Rover Sport were also lower year on year  on account of the model year change over during the third and  fourth quarter.
TML has a 100% subsidiary TMF Holdings Ltd which in  turn has 2 operating Companies Tata Motors Finance  Ltd and Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd.
Through  Tata Motors Finance Ltd, it provides financing services  to purchasers of its vehicles through independent  dealers, who act as the Company’s agents for financ- ing transactions, and through the Company’s branch  network.
Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd provides  funding in the Used Vehicle Finance space and is also  in the Business of extending loans to TML Dealers and  Vendors.
113 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 United Kingdom Industry vehicle sales fell 11.0% in Fiscal 2018 in the United Kingdom  due to the weaker automotive cycle, Brexit and the continuing  uncertainty around diesel (diesel sales down 26.2% year on year).
Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes decreased by 12.8% to 108,759  units in Fiscal 2018 from 124,755 units in Fiscal 2017, which was  broadly inline with the decline in industry volumes.
The introduction  of Velar and E-PACE as well as continuing demand for F-PACE  in the United Kingdom were not enough to offset lower sales of  more established models, including the model year changeover  impacting sales of Range Rover and Range Rover Sport, and the  lower demand for diesel powered vehicles.
North America Economic performance in North America was generally favourable  in Fiscal 2018 with solid GDP growth and strong labour market  conditions.
Industry sales in North America were down slightly  (1.1%) in Fiscal 2018 whilst Jaguar Land Rover retails increased  by 4.7% year on year to 129,319 units from 123,527 units in Fiscal  2017.
Jaguar retail sales were down 1.7% in North America as  continued demand for F-PACE and the introduction of E-PACE were  offset by lower sales of XE and other models.
Land Rover retailed  88,464units in Fiscal 2018, up 8.0%, from 81,949 units last year  led by the introduction of Velar and the all new Discovery partially  offset by lower sales of Evoque, Discovery Sport and Range Rover  Sport, primarily reflecting the model year changeover.
Europe Economic performance in Europe has been improving during Fiscal  2018 with consistent GDP growth of around 2.5%.
Industry volumes  in Europe were up 3.4% but Jaguar Land Rover retail sales in  Europe were down 5.3% to 133,592 in Fiscal 2018 from 141,043 last  year, primarily driven by uncertainty over diesel.
Jaguar volumes  decreased by 10.1% to 36,248 units in Fiscal 2018 compared to  40,332 units in Fiscal 2017 as the introduction of E-PACE was  more than offset by lower sales of XE, XF and F-PACE.
Land Rover  retails were 97,344 units in Fiscal 2018, down 3.3% compared to  the 100,711 units in Fiscal 2017 as the introduction of Velar and the  all new Discovery solid sales were offset by lower sales of other  models, including lower sales of Range Rover and Range Rover  Sport which were impacted by the model year change over in the  third and fourth quarter.
China Passenger car sales in China increased by 1.3% in Fiscal 2018  supported by GDP growth of around 6.8%, broadly in-line with the  government’s target.
Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes (including  sales from the China Joint Venture) increased by 19.9% to 150,116  units in Fiscal 2018 from 125,207 units in Fiscal 2017.
Jaguar retail  sales in Fiscal 2018 were 44,705 units, up 52.3% compared to the  29,351 units in Fiscal 2017 primarily reflecting the introduction of  the long wheel base XFL from China joint venture and continued  demand for F-PACE.
Furthermore sales of the long wheelbase  Jaguar XEL from China joint venture started in December 2017 and  are still ramping up.
Land Rover retail sales were 105,411 units in  Fiscal 2018, up 10.0% compared to the 95,856 units sold in Fiscal  2017 led by the introduction of Velar and continued demand for the  Discovery Sport and Evoque from China Joint Venture.
Retail sales  of Discovery were somewhat lower year on year due to the launch  phasing of the all new Discovery in China during Fiscal 2018.
Other Overseas markets Jaguar Land Rover’s retail volumes in the other overseas markets  increased by 3.4% to 92,523 units in Fiscal 2018 compared to 89,477  units in the prior year.
Jaguar retail volumes were 20,674 units,  down 7.9% compared to the 22,455 units last year the introduction  of E-PACE and solid demand for F-PACE was more than offset by  lower sales of XE, XF and XJ.
Land Rover retail volumes were 71,849  units, down 7.2% compared to the 67,022 units in Fiscal 2017 led by  the introduction of Velar and the all new Discovery, partially offset  by lower sales of Range Rover and Range Rover Sport, which were  impacted by the model year changeover in quarters three and four.
Jaguar Land Rover’s Sales & Distribution As at March 31, 2018, Jaguar Land Rover distribute its vehicles in 120  markets for Jaguar and 129 markets for Land Rover globally.
Sales  locations for vehicles are operated as independent franchises.
Jaguar Land Rover are represented in its key markets through  its National Sales Companies (“NSC’s”) as well as thirdparty  importers.
Jaguar and Land Rover have regional offices in certain  select countries that manage customer relationships and vehicle  supplies and provide marketing and sales support to their regional  importer markets.
The remaining importer markets are managed  from the United Kingdom.
Jaguar Land Rover products are sold through a variety of sales  channels: through its dealerships for retail sales; for sale to fleet  customers, including daily rental car companies; commercial  fleet customers; leasing companies; and governments.
Jaguar  Land Rover do not depend on a single customer or small group of  customers to the extent that the loss of such a customer or group  of customers would have a material adverse effect on its business.
As at March 31, 2018, Jaguar Land Rover global sales and  distribution network comprised 22 NSCs, 79 importers, 2 export  partners and 1,571 franchise sales dealers, of which 1,226 are joint  Jaguar and Land Rover dealers.
Jaguar Land Rover — Competition Jaguar Land Rover operates in a globally competitive environment  and faces competition from established premium and other vehicle  manufacturers who aspire to move into the premium performance  car and premium SUV markets, some of which are much larger  than they are.
Jaguar vehicles compete primarily against other  European brands such as Audi, Porsche, BMW and Mercedes Benz.
Land Rover and Range Rover vehicles compete largely against  SUVs from companies such as Audi, BMW, Infiniti, Lexus, Mercedes  Benz, Porsche, Volvo and Volkswagen.
Jaguar Land Rover — Seasonality Jaguar Land Rover volumes are impacted by the biannual change  in age-related registration plates of vehicles in the United Kingdom,  where new age-related plate registrations take effect in March and  114 September.
This has an impact on the resale value of the vehicles  because sales are clustered around the time of the year when the  vehicle registration number change occurs.
Seasonality in most  other markets is driven by introduction of new model year vehicles  and derivatives.
Furthermore, Western European markets tend  to be impacted by summer and winter holidays, and the Chinese  market tends to be affected by the Lunar New Year holiday in either  January or February, the PRC National Day holiday and the Golden  Week holiday in October.
The resulting sales profile influences  operating results on a quartertoquarter basis.
Other Operations Overview The Company’s other operations business segment mainly  includes information technology services, machine tools and  factory automation services.
The Company’s revenue from other  operations before inter-segment eliminations was `3,252.36  crores in Fiscal 2018, an increase of 2.1% from `3,184.06 crores in  Fiscal 2017.
Revenues from other operations represented 1.1% and  1.2% of total revenues, before inter-segment eliminations, in Fiscal  2018 and 2017.
OPPORTUNITIES: In the Budget 2018, Government of India has plans to complete  9,000 km of national highways by Fiscal 2019 and 35,000 km  under the Bharatmala project at `5.35 lac crore.
With the allocation  of funds to improve national highways; people will see value  in personal transportation and increase in sentiments towards  purchasing new vehicles.
Even the commercial vehicle industry  will benefit from this increased connectivity.
The Automotive Mission Plan 2016-26 aims at 13% share of  automotive industry in GDP, along with implementation of BS6  vehicles effective April 1, 2020 and increase in Value added  services.
National Electric Mobility Mission, aims at providing 7  million electric cars 2020, along with concession in manufacturing  of selected parts for electric cars.
Use of Block chain in Supply  chain; augmented reality in designing and manufacturing; 3D  printing and Four-cylinder supercar.
At a global level, increasing  levels of environmental regulations adds up the complexity  quotient in design, marked by diverging behavior.
Jaguar Land Rover intends to grow its business by diversifying  its product range to compete in new segments, for example the  Range Rover Velar (on sale since July 2017), the Jaguar E-PACE (on  sale since November 2017) and Jaguar Land Rover’s first battery  electric vehicle, the I-PACE (now available to order with deliveries  commencing this summer) ensures that Jaguar Land Rover  competes in new premium segments with class-leading products  that further supports their growth plans.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ON A CONSOLIDATED BASIS The financial information discussed in this section is derived from  the Company’s Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.
Overview The Company income from operations including finance revenues  increased by 7.6% to `295,409.34 crores in Fiscal 2018 from  `274,492.12 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The increase is attributable to  better sales volumes of the Company’s India business and Jaguar  Land Rover, offset by `3,192 crores due to unfavorable currency  translation from GB£ to INR.
Overall, earnings before other income,  interest and tax, were `11,787.51 crores in Fiscal 2018 compared to  `15,593.80 crores in Fiscal 2017, a decrease of 24.4%.
The decrease  in net income was primarily driven by higher depreciation and  amortization, fixed marketing expenses/selling costs at Jaguar  Land Rover business.
The Company’s net income (attributable to  shareholders of the Company) was `8,988.91 crores in Fiscal 2018  as compared to `7,454.36 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The Company has pursued a strategy of increasing exports of Tata  and other brand vehicles to new and existing markets.
However,  in Fiscal 2018, the revenue of the Company’s subsidiary in South  Korea, TDCV, has been lower due to lower industry volumes and  aggressive marketing strategy from the competitors.
Similarly  for TTL, its specialized subsidiary engaged in engineering, design  and information technology services, had reported lower revenue  and profits due to adverse movement in exchange rates of major  currencies as average rate of US$/INR declined by 3.9% in Fiscal  2018 compared to Fiscal 2017, while average rate of GBP/INR  declined by 2.5% during the above period.
TTL also suffered decline  in revenue in Europe and North America mainly due to completion  of vehicle programs with its key clients and delayed start of new  programs due to client plan changes.
The decline in Europe and  North America were partially offset by growth in revenue in Asia  Pacific region.
Improved market sentiment in certain countries to  which the Company exports and the strong sales performance of  Jaguar Land Rover has enabled the Company to increase its sales  in these international markets in Fiscal 2018.
However, due to  unfavorable currency translation from GB£ to INR and also growth  in revenue in India in Fiscal 2018, the proportion of the Company’s  net sales earned from markets outside of India decreased to 79.8%  in Fiscal 2018 from 82.5% in Fiscal 2017.
The following table sets  forth the Company’s revenues from its key geographical markets  and the percentage of total revenues that each key geographical  market contributes for the periods indicated: Revenue Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 (` in crores) % (` in crores) % India 59,593.18 20.2% 47,101.21 17.2% China 43,394.13 14.7% 41,369.40 15.1% UK 51,356.29 17.4% 50,588.18 18.4% United States 44,991.88 15.2% 42,935.31 15.6% Rest of Europe* 46,393.27 15.7% 47,122.48 17.2% Rest of World* 49,680.59 16.8% 45,375.54 16.5% Total 295,409.34 274,492.12 * The Rest of Europe market is geographic Europe, excluding the United Kingdom  and Russia.
The rest of The World market is any region not included above.
The Company’s operations is divided into automotive operations  and other operations as described further below.
The table below  sets forth the breakdown in revenues between the Company  automotive operations and other operations in Fiscal 2018 and  2017 and the percentage change from period to period.
115 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) % Automotive  operations 293,453.33 272,692.41 7.6% Others 3,252.36 3,184.06 2.1% Inter-segment  elimination (1,296.35) (1,384.35) (6.4)% Total 295,409.34 274,492.12 7.6% Automotive operations Automotive operations is the Company’s most significant segment,  accounting for 99.3% of the Company’s total revenues in Fiscal  2018 and Fiscal 2017.
In Fiscal 2018, revenue from automotive  operations before inter-segment eliminations was `293,453.33  crores as compared to `272,692.41 crores in Fiscal 2017, an  increase of 7.6%.
The following table sets forth selected data regarding the  Company’s automotive operations for the periods indicated, and  the percentage change from period to period (before inter-segment  eliminations).
Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change % Total revenue (` in  crores) 293,453.33 272,692.41 7.6% Earning before  other income,  interest and tax ( `  in crores) 11,512.38 15,324.12 (24.9)% Earning before  other income,  interest and tax (%  to total revenue) 3.9% 5.6% The Company’s automotive operations segment is further divided  into Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle financing) and  Jaguar Land Rover.
In Fiscal 2018, Jaguar Land Rover contributed  77.3% of the Company’s total automotive revenue compared to  79.4% in Fiscal 2017 and the remaining 22.7% was contributed by  Tata and other brand vehicles in Fiscal 2018 compared to 20.6% in  Fiscal 2017.
The Company’s revenue from Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle financing) and Jaguar Land Rover in Fiscals 2018  and 2017 and the percentage change from period to period (before  intra-segment eliminations) is set forth in the table below.
Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) % Tata and other  brand vehicles 66,620.38 56,448.78 18.0% Jaguar Land Rover 226,964.86 216,388.82 4.9% Intra-segment  elimination (131.91) (145.19) (9.1)% Total 293,453.33 272,692.41 7.6% Earning before other income, interest and tax  Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) % Tata and other  brand vehicles 2,103.58 207.05 916% Jaguar Land Rover 9,408.80 15,117.05 (37.8)% Total 11,512.38 15,324.11 (24.9)% Earning before other income, interest and tax (% to total revenue) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change % Tata and other  brand vehicles 3.2% 0.4% 2.8% Jaguar Land Rover 4.1% 7.0% (2.9)% Total 3.9% 5.6% (1.7)% Other operations The following table sets forth selected data regarding the Company’s  other operations for the periods indicated and the percentage change  from period to period (before inter-segment eliminations).
Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (%) Total revenue ( ` in  crores) 3,252.36 3,184.06 2.1% Earning before  other income,  interest and tax ( `  in crores) 422.32 471.90 (10.5%) Earning before  other income,  interest and tax (%  to total revenue) 13.0% 14.8% The other operations business segment includes information  technology, machine tools and factory automation solutions.
The  reduction in Earning before other income, interest and tax is mainly  due to Tata Technologies Ltd.
Results of Operations Revenue from operations of the Company for Fiscal 2018, stood at  ` 295, 409.34 crores, as compared to ` 274,492.12 crores, increased  by 7.6%.
Total number of vehicles sold were 12,21,124 units in Fiscal  2018 as compared to 10,91,748 units in Fiscal 2017, a growth of 11.9%.
Revenue from operations (net of excise duty) stood at ` 294, 242.57  crores as compared to ` 269,849.66 crores, increase of 9.0%.
The following table sets forth selected items from the Company’s  consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated and  shows these items as a percentage of total revenues: 116 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 (%) (%) Revenue from operations (net of  excise duty) 100.0 100.0 Expenditure: Cost of material consumed  (including change in stock) 63.2 61.5 Excise Duty  (refer below  explanation) (0.1) 0.1 Employee Cost 10.3 10.5 Product development/ Engineering 1.2 1.3 Other expenses (net) 20.5 20.5 Amount Capitalized (6.3) (6.3) Total Expenditure 88.7 87.6 Profit before interest, tax,  depreciation and amortisation 11.3 12.4 Other Income 0.3 0.3 Profit before Exceptional Items,  Depreciation and Amortization,  Interest, Foreign exchange and  Tax 11.6 12.7 Depreciation and Amortization 7.3 6.6 Finance costs 1.6 1.6 Foreign exchange loss (net) (0.4) 1.4 Exceptional Item (gain)/loss (net) (0.7) (0.4) Profit before Tax 3.8 3.5 Tax expense 1.5 1.2 Profit after Tax 2.3 2.2 Share of profits/(loss) of equity  accounted investees (net) 0.8 0.6 Minority Interest 0.0 0.0 Profit for the year 3.1 2.8 Cost of materials consumed (including change in stock) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 (` in crores) Consumption of raw materials  and components 173,371.19 160,147.12 Basis adjustment on hedge  accounted derivatives (1,378.60) (777.57) Purchase of product for sale 15,903.99 13,924.53 Change in inventories of finished  goods, Work-in-progress and  products for sale (2,046.58) (7,399.92) Total 185,850.00 165,894.16 Cost of material consumed increased to 63.2% of total revenue  (excluding income from vehicle financing) in Fiscal 2018 from  61.5% in Fiscal 2017.
For Tata Motors Standalone (including  Joint Operations), costs of materials consumed was 73.0% of net  revenue in Fiscal 2018 of total revenue as compared to 70.5% in  Fiscal 2017, representing an increase of 250 bps, which was mainly  attributable to a change in product mix.
For Jaguar Land Rover,  costs of materials consumed was 65.9% of total revenue in Fiscal  2018 compared to 66.3% in Fiscal 2017, representing a decrease of  40 bps, mainly driven by product mix.
Excise duty for the Fiscal 2018 represents the reversal of excise duty  on closing inventories as at July 1, 2017.
Consequent to the introduction  of Goods and Service Tax (GST) with effect from July 1, 2017, Central  Excise, Value Added Tax (VAT) etc have been replaced by GST.
Excise  duty for Fiscal 2018 was `790.16 crores as compared to `4,799.61  crores in Fiscal 2017.
Of this recovery from sales was `1,166.77 crores  for Fiscal 2018 as compared to `4,642.46 crores for Fiscal 2017.
The  same has been netted off in the discussion under this section against  Revenue from operations to be comparable.
Employee Costs  were `30,300.09 crores in Fiscal 2018 as  compared to `28,332.89 crores in Fiscal 2017, an increase of  6.9%.
There was favourable translation impact of GB£ to INR of  Jaguar Land Rover operation of `462.49 crores.
At Jaguar Land  Rover the increase in employee cost is by 9.3% to GB£ 2,726  million ( `23,392.69 crores) in Fiscal 2018 as compared to GBP  2,495 million ( `21,829.15 crores) in Fiscal 2017, primarily reflects  the increase in the employee head count all across functions and  impact of consolidating Spark 44 since August 31, 2017.
For Tata  Motors Standalone (including joint operations), the employee  cost increased by 5.4% to `3,966.73 crores as compared   to `3,764.35 crores in Fiscal 2017, mainly due to annual increments,  higher performance payment accruals and wage revisions.
Employee costs at TDCV were `828.65 crores in Fiscal 2018, as  compared to `775.83 crores in Fiscal 2017, an increase of 6.8%, due  to annual increments.
Other Expenses  includes all works operations, indirect  manufacturing expenses, freight cost, fixed marketing costs and  other administrative costs.
These expenses have increased to  `60,184.21 crores in Fiscal 2018 from `55,430.06 crores in Fiscal  2017.
The breakdown is provided below: Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Processing  charges 1,339.08   1,172.03 167.05 Consumption of  stores and spare  parts 2,210.56   2,419.11 (208.55) Freight,  transportation,  port charges, etc.
10,742.12   9,754.71 987.41 Power and fuel 1,308.08   1,159.82 148.26 Warranty and  product liability  expenses 7,700.07 8,106.37 (406.30) Publicity 8,968.59   8,698.68 269.91 Information  technology/ computer  expenses 2,143.18   2,202.51 (59.33) Allowance for  finance, trade and  other receivables 57.87 104.78 (46.91) 117 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Engineering  expenses 5,278.84   4,273.72 1,005.12 MTM (gain)/loss  on commodity  derivatives 214.63 918.40 (703.77) Works operation  and other  expenses 20,221.19  16,619.93 3,601.26 Other Expenses 60,184.21  55,430.06 4,754.15 The changes are mainly driven by volumes and the size of  operations.
i.
Processing charges were mainly incurred by Tata and other  brand vehicles (including vehicle financing) which, due to  higher volumes, led to higher expenditures.
ii.
Freight, transportation, port charges etc.
have increased,  for Jaguar Land Rover, predominantly due to increased  sales in certain geographies and for India business due to  increased volumes.
As a percentage to total revenue, Freight,  transportation and port charges etc.
were flat at 3.6% in Fiscal  2018. iii.
Publicity expenses increased by 3.1% mainly due to increase  in JLR and represented 3.0% of total revenues in Fiscal 2018  and 3.2% in Fiscal 2017.
In addition to routine product and  brand campaigns, the Company incurred expenses relating  to new product introduction campaigns for the I-Pace,  E-Pace, Velar and the all new Jaguar XF, the Nexon at Tata  Motors.
Further, during the year the amount was spent on  certain Auto / Motor shows, viz.
Delhi Auto expo, Geneva  Motor show etc.
iv.
Warranty and product liability expenses represented 2.6%  and 2.9% of the Company’s revenues in Fiscal 2018 and 2017,  respectively.
The warranty expenses at Jaguar Land Rover  represented 2.6% of the revenue as compared to 2.9% last  year, whereas Tata Motors India operations these represent  1.3% and 1% of revenue for Fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
v.  Works operation and other expenses have increased to 6.9%  of net revenue in Fiscal 2018 from 6.4% in Fiscal 2017. vi.
Engineering expenses at Jaguar Land Rover have increased,  reflecting its increased investment in the development of new  vehicles.
A significant portion of these costs are capitalized  and shown under the line item “Amount capitalized”.
vii.
The provision of various debtors, vehicle loans and advances  (net), has decreased to `57.87 crores in Fiscal 2018 as  compared to `104.78 crores in Fiscal 2017, mainly reflect  provisions for finance receivables, where the collections  have improved in Fiscal 2018.
Further there is reversal of  certain provisions in Trade receivables due to favourable  litigation awards.
Amount capitalized represents expenditure transferred to capital  and other accounts allocated out of employee cost and other  expenses, incurred in connection with product development  projects and other capital items.
The expenditure transferred to  capital and other accounts has increased by 10.1% to `18,588.09  crores in Fiscal 2018 from `16,876.96 crores in Fiscal 2017, mainly  due to various product development projects undertaken by the  Company for the introduction of new products and the development  of engine and products variants.
Other Income increased by 17.8% to `888.89 crores in Fiscal 2018  from `754.54 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Interest income increased to  `711.81 crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to `562.21 crores in Fiscal  2017, whereas profit on sale of investment decreased to `129.26  crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to `176.14 crores in Fiscal 2017,  primarily on the sale of mutual funds, at Tata and other brand  vehicles (including vehicle financing).
Profit before Interest, Depreciation, Foreign Exchange (gain)/ loss, Exceptional Items and Tax  is `37,761.86 crores in Fiscal  2018, representing 12.8% of revenue in Fiscal 2018 compared to  `37,666.90 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Depreciation and Amortization: During Fiscal 2018, expenditures  increased by 20.4% to `21,553.59 crores from `17,904.99 crores in  Fiscal 2017.
The depreciation has increased by 20.2% to `10,874.34  crores as compared to `9,048.63 crores in Fiscal 2017 and is due  to new product launches both at Jaguar Land Rover and Tata and  other brand vehicles (including vehicle financing).
The amortization  expenses have also increased by 20.6% to `10,679.25 crores  in Fiscal 2018 from `8,856.37 crores in Fiscal 2017, and are  attributable to new products introduced during the year.
Expenditure on product development / engineering expenses  charged off increased by 3.5% to `3,531.87 crores in Fiscal 2018  from `3,413.57 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Finance Cost increased by 10.5% to `4,681.79 crores in Fiscal 2018  from `4,238.01 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The increase was mainly due  to increased borrowing & interest rates.
Foreign exchange gain of `1,185.28 crores in Fiscal 2018 as  compared to a loss of `3,910.10 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The gain was  mainly due to appreciation of GBP as compared to USD.
Exceptional items (gain)/loss Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Employee  separation cost 3.68 67.61 (63.93) Defined benefit  pension plan  amendment (3,609.01) - (3,609.01) Provision for  impairment of  intangible under  development and  capital work in  progress 1,641.38 - 1,641.38 Provision for BSIII  vehicles - 147.93 (147.93) Others (11.19) (1,330.10) 1,318.91 Total (1,975.14)  (1,114.56) (860.58) 118 •  The credit of `3,609.01 crores (GB£ 437 million) during the Fiscal 2018, relates to the amendment of the Defined Benefit scheme of Jaguar  Land Rover Automotive Plc.
•  There has been significant disruptions in the Auto industry necessitating a review of the Company’s product development cost  capitalization policy.
The new capitalization gateway introduced the factor “affordability” of investments w.e.f April 1, 2018.
Thus the  Company reviewed its tangible and intangible assets to ensure “fit for future” and taken a charge of `1,641.38 crores in Fiscal 2018.
Earnings Before Interest Tax (EBIT) increased to `13,478 crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to `11,846 crores in Fiscal 2017.
EBIT is defined to  include the revaluation of current assets and liabilities and realized foreign exchange and commodity hedges as well as profits from equity  accounted investees but excludes the revaluation of foreign currency debt, mark to market (MTM) on foreign exchange and commodity  hedges, other income and exceptional items.
Consolidated Profit Before Tax (PBT) increased to `11,155.03 crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to `9,314.79 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The increase in  PBT is primarily driven by improvement in the Tata Motors Ltd Standalone business in India, mainly favourable model mix and better management  of other operating costs.
The increase in PBT was also due to exceptional gain of `3,609.01 crores of pension cost.
However, the profitability  at Jaguar Land Rover operations were lower due to product mix, higher manufacturing expenses and other operating costs including higher  marketing expenses, higher depreciation and amortization expenses related to significant capital expenditure incurred in prior periods.
In Fiscal  2017 there were exceptional credit of ` 1,330.10 crores, which relates to receipt of insurance proceeds, recovery of import duties and taxes for the  explosion at the port of Tianjin (China) in August 2015.
Further, there was a decrease due to translation impact from GB£ to INR of `273 crores.
Tax Expense represents a net charge of `4,341.93 crores in Fiscal 2018, as compared to `3,251.23 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The effective tax rate  in Fiscal 2018 was 32.3% as compared to 30.0% in Fiscal 2017 (PBT includes share of profit of Joint Venture and associates).
For Tata Motors  Ltd and certain subsidiaries, the Company has not recognized deferred tax assets due to uncertainty of future taxable profits.
In Fiscal 2018,  there was a reduction in the US Federal rate from 35% to 21% and in the UK Corporation tax from 19% to 17% resulting in a deferred tax charge.
Consolidated Profit after tax increased by 20.6% to `8,988.91 crores in Fiscal 2018 from `7,454.36 crores in Fiscal 2017, after considering  the profit from associate companies and shares of minority investees.
The increase was mainly attributable to improvement in Company’s  standalone business and credit of pension plan amendment, China Joint Venture performance offset by provision for impairment of certain  assets and JLR performance.
Consolidated Balance Sheet (` in crores) As at  March 31, Change  Translation   of JLR  Net Change 2018 2017 ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment and intangible  assets  161,331  128,970    32,361     16,486    15,875 (b) Goodwill    116    673    (557)     1   (558) (c ) Investment in equity accounted investees   5,385    4,606    779    554   225 (d) Financial assets  104,184   89,380   14,804   8,188   6,616 (e) Deferred tax assets (net)    4,159    4,457    (298)    477   (775) (f) Current tax assets (net)    1,109    1,196   (87)     11   (98) (g) Other assets   10,344    9,387    957    811   146 (h) Inventories   42,138   35,085   7,053    4,245  2,808 (i) Assets classified as held-for-sale    2,585     -   2,585      -   2,585 TOTAL ASSETS  331,351  273,754   57,597   30,773  26,824 LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities  188,941  174,066   14,875   14,544   331 (b) Provisions   18,902   14,812   4,090   2,057  2,033 (c ) Deferred tax liabilities (net)    6,126    1,174   4,952    664   4,288 (d) Other liabilities   18,800   23,794   (4,994)    2,010  (7,004) (d) Current tax liabilities (net)    1,559    1,393    166    182   (16) (e) Liabilities directly associated with Assets  held-for-sale    1,070     -  1,070     -  1,070 TOTAL LIABILITIES  235,398  215,239   20,159   19,457   702 119 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Property, plant  and equipment  (including capital  work-in-progress) 90,010.78 69,781.39 20,229.39 Other intangible  assets (including  assets under  development) 71,320.13 59,188.21 12,131.92 Total 1,61,330.91 1,28,969.60 32,361.31 There is increase (net of depreciation and amortization) in the  intangible and tangible assets in Fiscal 2018, due to favourable  currency translation impact from GB£ to INR of `16,486 crores.
Further, the increase is driven by Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia plant  and tooling and facilities for new products like E-Pace, Velar, I-Pace,  XF.
At Tata Motors Ltd, the additions were mainly in tooling’s, and  product development cost for new products.
Investments in equity accounted investees were `5,385.24 crores  as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `4,606.01 crores as at March  31, 2017.
The increase was mainly due to profits at the Company’s  Joint Venture at China of GB£252 million (`2,138.92 crores).
Financial Assets (Current + Non-current) Investments (Current + Non-current) were `15,427.51 crores as at  March 31, 2018, as compared to `15,731.91 crores as at March 31,  2017.
The details are as follows: As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Mutual Funds 14,360.47  15,065.84 (705.37) Quoted Equity  shares 339.92    260.29 79.63 Unquoted Equity  shares 609.08    369.98 239.10 Others 118.04 35.80 82.24 Total 15,427.51  15,731.91 (304.40) The decrease in mutual fund investments was mainly at Tata  Motors Limited.
Finance receivables (current + non-current) were `23,881.18  crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `17,563.25 crores as  at March 31, 2017, an increase of 36%, primarily due to increased  vehicle financing business.
The Gross finance receivables were  `25,070.75 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `21,160.76  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Loans and Advances As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Non-current loans  and advances 495.41 753.66 (258.25) Current loans and  advances 2,279.66 710.45 1,569.21 Total 2,775.07 1,464.11 1,310.96 Loans and advances include advance and other recoveries  from suppliers, contractors amounting to ` 2,260.50 crores and   ` 684.35 crores in Fiscal 2018 and 2017 respectively.
Other Financial Assets As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Other financial  assets - non  current 4,563.87  2,911.12 1,652.75 Other financial  assets – current 3,029.12 1,555.94 1,473.18 Total 7,592.99   4,467.06 3,125.93 These included `5,323.03 crores of derivative financial instruments,  mainly attributable to Jaguar Land Rover as at March 31, 2018  compared to `4,285.52 crores as at March 31, 2017, reflecting  notional asset due to the valuation of derivative contracts.
Deferred tax assets / liability: Deferred tax assets represent timing  differences for which there will be future current tax benefits due  to unabsorbed tax losses and expenses allowable on a payment  basis in future years.
Deferred tax liabilities represent timing  differences where current benefit in tax will be offset by a debit in  the statement of profit and loss.
As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Deferred tax  assets 4,158.70   4,457.34 (298.64) Deferred tax  liability 6,125.80   1,174.00 4,951.80 A deferred tax liability (net) of `1,038.47 crores was recorded in the  income statement and `4,394.71 crores in other comprehensive  income, which mainly includes post-retirement benefits and cash flow  hedges in Fiscal 2018.
The major movement is due to deferred tax  liability in respect of gains on derivatives and post-retirement benefits.
Inventories as at March 31, 2018, were `42,137.63 crores as  compared to `35,085.31 crores as at March 31, 2017, an increase of  120 20%.
Inventory at Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle  financing) was `7,318.87 crores as at March 31, 2018 as compared  to `6,923.42 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Inventory at Jaguar Land  Rover was `34,805.01 crores as at March 31, 2018, an increase of  24%, as compared to `28,079.40 crores as at March 31, 2017.
In  terms of number of days of sales, finished goods represented 42  inventory days in Fiscal 2018 as compared to 38 days in Fiscal  2017.
The increase is mainly due to inventory held for new models  (E-Pace, I-Pace and Velar) at Jaguar Land Rover.
Trade Receivables  (net of allowance for doubtful debts) were  `19,893.30 crores as at March 31, 2018, representing an increase  of 41.3% compared to `14,075.55 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Trade Receivables have increased at Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle financing) to `5,492.78 crores as at March 31, 2018  as compared to `3,471.93 crores as at March 31, 2017.
The increase  was mainly due to higher sales at year end.
Trade receivables at  Jaguar Land Rover was `14,374.03 crores as at March 31, 2018,  as compared to `10,006.21 crores as at March 31, 2017, due to  introduction of new models.
The allowances for doubtful debts  were `1,261.67 crores as at March 31, 2018 compared to `1,377.44  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Cash and cash equivalents  were `14,716.75 crores, as at March  31, 2018, compared to `13,986.76 crores as at March 31, 2017.
The  Company holds cash and bank balances in Indian rupees, GB£,  Chinese Renminbi, etc.
Other bank balances were `19,897.15 crores, as at March 31, 2018,  compared to `22,091.12 crores as at March 31, 2017.
These include  bank deposits maturing within one year of `19,361.58 crores as  at March 31, 2018, compared to `21,852.76 crores as at March 31,  2017.
Current tax assets (net) (current + non-current)  were `1,108.81  crores, as at March 31, 2018, compared to `1,195.67 crores as at  March 31, 2017.
Other assets As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Other assets - non  current 2,681.25   2,847.36 (166.11) Other assets –  current 7,662.37   6,539.99 1,122.38 Total 10,343.62   9,387.35 956.27 These mainly includes prepaid expenses, including rentals  on operating lease of `2,584.66 crores as at March 31, 2018,  as compared to `2,063.55 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Taxes  recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government were  `6,724.43 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `6,030.06  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Shareholders’ fund was `95,427.91 crores and `58,061.89 crores  as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, an increase of 64.4%.
Reserves increased by 65.1% from `57,382.67 crores as at March  31, 2017 to `94,748.69 crores as at March 31, 2018.
Though, the  profit for Fiscal 2018 was `8,988.91 crores, increase in Reserves of  `37,366.02 crores was primarily attributable to following reasons: • Credits for remeasurement of employee benefit plans was  `3,909.10 in Fiscal 2018.
• Translation gain of `9,921.36 crores recognized in Translation  Reserve on consolidation of subsidiaries further contributed to  an increase in Reserves and Surplus.
• Further increase in Hedging Reserves by `14,285.59 crores,  primarily due to mark-to-market gains on forwards and options  in Jaguar Land Rover, primarily due to the Strengthening in  the US$-GB£ forward rates.
Borrowings As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Long term  borrowings 61,199.50 60,629.18 570.32 Short term  borrowings 16,794.85 13,859.94 2,934.91 Current maturities  of long term  borrowings 10,956.12 4,114.86 6,841.26 Total 88,950.47 78,603.98 10,346.49 • Current maturities of long-term borrowings represent the  amount of loan repayable within one year.
• During Fiscal 2018, o the Company raised `1,500 crores through unsecured non- convertible debentures with a tenor ranging from 3 years to 5  years.
o Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc, issued USD 500 million  (`3,156.93 crores) Senior Notes maturing in October 2027 at  a coupon of 4.5%.
o TML Holdings Pte.
Singapore, a wholly owned subsidiary of  Tata Motors Ltd, had refinanced its existing syndicate loan of  USD 850 million with a new syndicated loan facility of GBP  640 million.
Other financial liabilities As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 Other financial  liabilities - non  current 2,739.14 11,409.58 (8,670.44) Other financial  liabilities – current 31,267.49 25,634.83 5,632.66 Total 34,006.63 37,044.41 (3,037.78) 121 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 These included `8,657.86 crores of derivative financial instruments,  mainly attributable to Jaguar Land Rover as at March 31, 2018  compared to `25,517.52 crores as at March 31, 2017, reflecting  favourable foreign exchange movement between USD and GBP.
However, current maturities of long-term borrowings were  `10,956.12 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `4,114.86  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Trade payables were `72,038.41 crores as at March 31, 2018, as  compared to `57,698.33 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Acceptances were `4,901.42 crores as at March 31, 2018, as  compared to `4,834.24 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Provisions (current and non-current) were made towards warranty  and employee benefit schemes.
Short-term provisions are those,  which are expected to be settled during next financial year.
The  details are as follows: As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Long term  provisions - non- current 10,948.44 9,004.46 1,943.98 Short term  provisions –  current 7,953.50 5,807.76 2,145.74 Total 18,901.94 14,812.22 4,089.72 i.
Provision for warranty increased to `15,935.10 crores as at  March 31, 2018, as compared to `12,031.33 crores as at March  31, 2017, an increase of `3,903.77 crores.
ii.
The provision for employee benefits obligations increased to  `844.64 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `801.90  crores as at March 31, 2017. iii.
Provision for legal and product liability increased to `1,319.87  crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `1,266.00 crores  as at March 31, 2017.
Other liabilities As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Other liabilities -  non current 11,165.19  17,392.56 (6,227.37) Other liabilities –  current 7,634.55  6,401.84 1,232.71 Total 18,799.74  23,794.40 (4,994.66) These mainly includes liabilities towards employee benefits  obligations of `4,100.76 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared  to `11,984.03 crores as at March 31, 2017, decrease mainly at  Jaguar Land Rover.
Deferred revenue were `9,413.29 crores as  at March 31, 2018, as compared to `6,926.35 crores as at March  31, 2017.
Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc.)
were  `3,176.86 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `2,658.93  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Consolidated Cash Flow The following table sets forth selected items from consolidated  cash flow statement: Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Cash from  operating activity 23,857.42  30,199.25 (6,341.83) Profit for the year 9,091.36   7,556.56 Adjustments for  cash flow from  operations 24,220.92  21,283.55 Changes in  working capital (6,433.70)   3,254.24 Direct taxes paid (3,021.16)  (1,895.10) Cash from  investing activity (26,201.61)    (38,079.88)   11,878.27 Payment for  property, plant  and equipment  and other  intangible assets  (net) (35,048.62)  (30,413.49) Net investments,  short term deposit,  margin money and  loans given 6,359.13  (8,924.27) Dividend and  interest received 2,487.88   1,257.88 Net Cash  from / (used  in) Financing  Activities 2,011.71   6,205.30  (4,153.59) Proceeds from  issue of shares -     4.55 Dividend Paid  (including paid  to minority  shareholders) (55.97)   (121.22) Interest paid (5,410.64)  (5,336.34) Net Borrowings  (net of issue  expenses) 7,478.32  11,658.31 Net increase /  (decrease) in  cash and cash  equivalent (332.48)  (1,675.28) 1,342.80 122 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Cash and cash  equivalent,  beginning of the  year 13,986.76  17,153.61 Effect of exchange  fluctuation on  cash flows 1,306.41  (1,491.52) Classified as held  for sale (243.94) - Cash and cash  equivalent, end of  the year 14,716.75  13,986.76 a) Cash generated from operations before working capital  changes was `33,312.28 crores in Fiscal 2018, as compared to  `28,840.11 crores in the previous year, representing an increase  in cash from generated from consolidated operations.
After  considering the impact of working capital changes including  the net movement of vehicle financing portfolio, the net cash  generated from operations was `23,857.42 crores in Fiscal  2018, as compared to `30,199.25 crores in the previous year.
The  increase in trade receivables, finance receivables, inventories  and other assets amounting to `17,440.36 crores mainly due  to increase in sales was offset by increase in trade and other  payables and provisions amounting to `11,006.66 crores.
b) The net cash outflow from investing activity decreased to  `26,201.61 crores in Fiscal 2018 from `38,079.88 crores in  Fiscal 2017.
• Capital expenditure (net) was at `35,048.62 crores in  Fiscal 2018, compared to `30,413.49 crores, related  mainly to capacity/ expansion of facilities, quality and  reliability projects and product development projects.
• Net investments, short-term deposits, margin money and  loans given was an inflow of `6,359.13 crores in Fiscal  2018 as compared to outflow of `8,924.27 crores in Fiscal  2017, mainly at Jaguar Land Rover.
c) The net change in financing activity was an inflow of `2,011.71  crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared to `6,205.30 crores in  Fiscal 2017.
• In Fiscal 2018, `4,559.81 crores were raised from long- term borrowings (net) as compared to `9,172.39 crores  (net) in Fiscal 2017 as described in further detail below  • Net increase in short-term borrowings of `2,960.35  crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared to `2,485.30 crores  in Fiscal 2017, mainly at Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle financing).
d) Free cash flows of (a non-GAAP measure, measured at cash  flow from operating activities, less payment for property, plant  and equipment and intangible assets) were negative of `7,322  crores due to lower growth and higher investments in Jaguar  Land Rover.
As at March 31, 2018, the Company’s borrowings (including short- term debt) were `88,950.47 crores, compared to `78,603.98  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Principal Sources of Funding Liquidity The Company finances its capital expenditures and research and  development investments through cash generated from operations,  cash and cash equivalents, debt and equity funding.
The Company  also raises funds through sale of investments, including divestment  in stakes of subsidiaries on a selective basis.
The Company’s cash and bank balances on a consolidated basis  were `34,613.91 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to  `36,077.88 crores as at March 31, 2017.
These enable the Company  to cater to business needs in the event of changes in market  conditions.
The Company’s capital expenditures were `42,672.28 crores  and `31,750.74 crores for Fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, and  it currently plans to invest approximately `461 billion in Fiscal  2019 in new products and technologies.
The Company intends  to continue to invest in new products and technologies to meet  consumer and regulatory requirements.
These investments  are intended to enable the Company to pursue further  growth opportunities and improve the Company’s competitive  positioning.
In December 2015, Jaguar Land Rover announced  the initial investment of GB£1 billion to build a manufacturing  facility in Slovakia with annual capacity of 150,000 units and  production scheduled to begin in 2018 (construction of the plant  commenced in September 2016) and in November 2016 confirmed  that the all new Land Rover Discovery would be the first model  manufactured at the plant.
In November 2015, Jaguar Land Rover  announced additional investment of GB£450 million to double  capacity at the engine manufacturing facility in Wolverhampton  and production of the 2.0l Ingenium petrol engine recently began.
The manufacturing partnership with Magna Steyr, an operating  unit of Magna International Inc, to build vehicles in Graz, Austria  was announced in July 2015.
Jaguar E Pace was the first vehicle  to be produced as a part of Jaguar Land Rover’s contract  manufacturing agreement with Magna Steyr, Austria in late 2017  and it will be joined by Jaguar I Pace from 2018.
The Company  expects to meet most of its investments out of operating cash  flows and cash liquidity available.
In order to meet the remaining  funding requirements, the Company may be required to raise  funds through additional loans and by accessing capital markets  from time to time, as deemed necessary.
With the ongoing need for investments in products and  technologies, the Company on a standalone basis (Including joint  operations) was free cash flow (a non-GAAP measure, measured  at cash flow from operating activities, less payment for property,  plant and equipment and intangible assets) positive in Fiscal 2018,  of `1,310.99 crores.
The following table provides information for the credit rating of  Tata Motors Limited for short-term borrowing and long-term  borrowing from the following rating agencies as at March 31, 2018:  123 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Credit Analysis and Research Ltd Ratings, or CARE, Information and  Credit Rating Agency of India Ltd, or ICRA, Credit Rating Information  Services of India Limited, or CRISIL Ltd, Standard & Poor’s Ratings  Group, or S&P, and Moody’s Investor Services, or Moody’s.
A credit  rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities.
A  credit rating may be subject to withdrawal or revision at any time.
Each rating should be evaluated separately of any other rating: CARE ICRA CRISIL S&P Moody’s Long-term borrowings AA+ AA AA BB+ Ba1 Short-term borrowings A1+ A1+ A1+ — — The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity available to  meet its planned capital requirements.
However, the Company’s  sources of funding could be materially and adversely affected by  an economic slowdown, as was witnessed in Fiscal 2009, or other  macroeconomic factors in India and abroad, such as in the United  Kingdom, the United States, Europe, Russia and China, all of which  are beyond the Company’s control.
A decrease in the demand for  the Company’s vehicles could affect its ability to obtain funds from  external sources on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
The Company’s cash is located at various subsidiaries within the  Tata Motors Group.
There may be legal, contractual or economic  restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the  Company in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.
Brazil,  Russia, South Africa and other jurisdictions have regulatory  restrictions, disincentives or costs on pooling or transferring  of cash.
However, such restrictions have not had and are not  estimated to have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to  meet its cash obligations.
In order to refinance the Company’s borrowings and for supporting  long-term fund needs, the Company continued to raise funds  in Fiscal 2017 and 2018, through issue of various debt securities  described below.
During Fiscal 2017, the Company raised `2,700 crores through  unsecured NCDs with a tenor ranging from 2 years to 5 years.
The proceeds have been used for refinancing and supporting the  funding requirements of the Company.
In January 2017, Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc issued EUR  650 million senior notes due 2024 at a coupon of 2.200% per  annum and GBP 300 million senior notes due 2021 at a coupon  of 2.750% per annum.
The proceeds were for general corporate  purposes, including support for Jaguar Land Rover’s ongoing  growth and capital spending requirements.
In March 2017 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc completed  consent transactions to align the terms of its US$ 500 million  5.625% senior notes due 2023, its US$ 700 million 4.125% senior  notes due 2018 and its GB£ 400 million 5.000% senior notes due  2022 to bonds it issued after January 2014.
During Fiscal 2017, Tata Motors Limited issued rated, listed,  unsecured NCDs of `2,700 crores.
The proceeds have been utilized  for general corporate purpose.
Tata Motors Limited prepaid `300  crores of its Unsecured 8.60% NCD due 2018 in February 2017.
During Fiscal 2017, Tata Motors Finance Limited through its  subsidiary Sheba Properties Ltd., issued 22,500,000 privately  placed, cumulative non-participating compulsory convertible  preference shares of `100 each convertible after seven years,  which qualifies as tier 1 capital.
In Fiscal 2017, Tata Motors  Finance Limited, and its subsidiaries, Sheba Properties Ltd and  Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd, issued NCDs and raised `316  crores.
Bank borrowings through secured and unsecured term  loans continued to remain as the major source of funds for long- term borrowing, and during, Fiscal 2017 `2,625 crores were  raised.
In October 2017, Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc issued US$500  million senior notes due 2027 at a coupon of 4.50% per annum.
The  proceeds were for general corporate purposes, including support  for Jaguar Land Rover’s ongoing growth and capital spending  requirements.
During Fiscal 2018, Tata Motors Limited issued rated, listed,  unsecured NCDs of `1,500 crores.
The proceeds have been utilized  for general corporate purpose.
In Fiscal 2018, TMF Holdings Ltd (TMFHL), and its subsidiaries,  TMFL & TMFSL, issued NCDs and raised `3,231 crores.
Bank  borrowings through secured and unsecured term loans continued  to remain as the major source of funds for long-term borrowing,  and during, Fiscal 2018 `2,330 crores was raised.
Overall during  Fiscal 2018 for the TMFL group, the short-term debt (net) increased  by `50,079 million and long-term debt (net) increased by `72  million.
During Fiscal 2016, TML Holdings Pte.
Ltd., a subsidiary of the  Company, has • refinanced an existing unsecured multi-currency loan of  US$600 million (US$250 million and SG$62.8 million  maturing in November 2017 and US$210 million and SG$114  million maturing in November 2019) with a new unsecured  loan of US$600 million (US$300 million maturing in October  2020 and US$300 million maturing in October 2022); and • refinanced the existing SG$350 million 4.25% Senior notes  due in May 2018 with a new syndicated loan of US$250  million maturing in March 2020.
During Fiscal 2018, TML Holdings Pte Ltd, has refinanced an existing  unsecured loan of US$ 600 million (US$ 300 million maturing in  October 2020 and US$ 300 million maturing in October 2022)  and a syndicated loan of US$ 250 million maturing in March 2020  with a new unsecured loan of GB£ 640 million (GB£ 190 million  maturing in July 2020, GB£ 225 million in July 2022 and GB£ 225  million in July 2023).
The Tata Motors Group funds its short-term working capital  requirements with cash generated from operations, overdraft  facilities with banks, short-and medium-term borrowings from  lending institutions, banks and commercial paper.
The maturities  of these short-and medium-term borrowings and debentures  are generally matched to particular cash flow requirements.
The  working capital limits are `14,000 crores from various banks in  India as at March 31, 2018.
The working capital limits are secured  by hypothecation of certain existing current assets of the Company.
The working capital limits are renewed annually.
124 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc currently has a GB£1.94 billion  revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 31 banks, maturing in 2022.
The revolving credit facility remained undrawn as at March 31, 2018.
Tata Motors Limited currently has `500 crores revolving credit  facility which remained undrawn as at March 31, 2018.
Short-term borrowings as ast March 31, 2018 and 2017 is  `16,794.85 crores and `13,859.94 crores respectively.
Some of the Company’s financing agreements and debt arrangements  set limits on and/or require prior lender consent for, among other  things, undertaking new projects, issuing new securities, changes  in management, mergers, sales of undertakings and investment in  subsidiaries.
In addition, certain negative covenants may limit the  Company’s ability to borrow additional funds or to incur additional  liens, and/or provide for increased costs in case of breach.
Certain of the  Company’s financing arrangements also include financial covenants to  maintain certain debt- to-equity ratios, debt-to-earnings ratios, liquidity  ratios, capital expenditure ratios and debt coverage ratios.
The Company monitors compliance with its financial covenants  on an ongoing basis.
The Company also reviews its refinancing  strategy and continues to plan for deployment of long-term funds  to address any potential non-compliance.
As at March 31, 2018, GB£542 million of cash was held by Jaguar  Land Rover subsidiaries outside of the UK.
The cash in some of  these jurisdictions is subject to certain restrictions on cash pooling,  intercompany loan arrangements or interim dividends.
However,  annual dividends are generally permitted and JLR do not believe  that these restrictions have, or are expected to have, any impact on  Jaguar Land Rover’s ability to meet it’s cash obligations.
Certain debt issued by Jaguar Land Rover is subject to customary  covenants and events of default, which include, among other  things, restrictions or limitations on the amount of cash, which may  be transferred outside the Jaguar Land Rover group of companies  in the form of dividends, loans or investments to the Company  and its subsidiaries.
These are referred to as restricted payments  in the relevant Jaguar Land Rover financing documentation.
In  general, the amount of cash which may be transferred as restricted  payments from the Jaguar Land Rover group to the Company and  its subsidiaries is limited to 50% of its cumulative consolidated net  income (as defined in the relevant financing documentation) from  January 2011.
As at March 31, 2018, the estimated amount that is  available for dividend payments, other distributions and restricted  payments was approximately GB£ 4,941 million.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ON A STANDALONE BASIS The financial information discussed in this section is derived  from the Company’s Audited Standalone Financial Statements.
These include the Company’s proportionate share of income and  expenditure in its two Joint Operations, namely Tata Cummins Pvt  Ltd and Fiat India Automobiles Pvt Ltd.
Effective April 30, 2018, the Company completed the merger of TML  Drivelines Ltd (appointed date April 01, 2017) pursuant to scheme of  arrangement of merger.
Comparative numbers have been restated  for the accounting impact of the merger.
Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 (%) (%) Revenue from operations (net  of excise duty) 100 100 Expenditure: Cost of material consumed  (including change in stock) 73.0 70.5 Excise Duty (0.6) 0.3 Employee cost 6.8 8.5 Product development / Engineering 0.8 1.0 Other expenses (net) 15.8 18.8 Amount capitalised (1.5) (2.1) Profit before interest, tax,  depreciation and amortisation 5.7 3.1 Other income 2.7 2.2 Profit before exceptional items,  depreciation and amortisation,  foreign exchange (gain)/loss  interest and tax 8.4 5.3 Depreciation and amortisation  (including product  development / engineering  expenses written off) 5.3 6.8 Finance costs 3.0 3.5 Foreign exchange (gain)/loss - (0.6) Exceptional items – loss 1.7 0.8 Profit before tax (1.6) (5.3) Tax expenses 0.2 0.2 Profit after tax (1.8) (5.5) Fiscal 2018 has been a good year, followed a period of high demand  in the automotive sector in India.
Revenue from operations of the Company for Fiscal 2018, stood  at `59,624.69 crores as compared to `49,054.49 crores, increased  by 21.5%.
Total number of vehicles sold were 636,968 units in  Fiscal 2018, as compared to 543,656 units in Fiscal 2017, a growth  of 17.2%.
Revenue from operations (net of excise duty) stood at  `58,456.55 crores as compared to `44,430.95 crores, increase of  31.6%.
Cost of materials consumed (including change in stock) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 (` in crores) Consumption of raw materials  and components 37,080.45 27,651.65 Purchase of product for sale 4,762.41 3,945.97 Change in inventories of  finished goods, Work-in- progress and products for sale 842.05 (252.14) Total 42,684.91 31,345.48 Cost of material consumed increased to 73.0% of total revenue  from 70.5% in Fiscal 2017, representing an increase of 250 bps,  mainly due to product mix.
125 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Excise duty for the Fiscal 2018 represents the reversal of excise  duty on closing inventories as at July 1, 2017.
Consequent to the  introduction of Goods and Service Tax (GST) with effect from  July 1, 2017, Central Excise, Value Added Tax (VAT) etc.
have been  replaced by GST.
Excise duty for Fiscal 2018 was `793.28 crores  in Fiscal 2018 as compared to `4,738.15 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Of  this recovery from sales was `1,168.14 crores for Fiscal 2018 as  compared to `4,623.54 crores for Fiscal 2017.
The same has been  netted off against Revenue from operations to be comparable for  discussion of performance.
Employee Costs were `3,966.73 crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared  to `3,764.35 crores in Fiscal 2017, an increase by 5.4%, mainly  due to higher volumes, annual increments, higher performance  payment provisions for Fiscal 2018 and wage revisions at some  plant locations.
Other Expenses includes all works operations, indirect  manufacturing expenses, freight cost, fixed marketing costs and  other administrative costs.
These expenses have increased by  10.8%to `9,234.27 crores in Fiscal 2018 from `8,335.90 crores in  Fiscal 2017.
The breakdown is provided below: Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Processing  charges 1,240.88 1,004.45 236.43 Consumption of  stores & spare  parts 639.35 653.61 (14.26) Freight,  transportation,  port charges, etc.
1,703.15 1,536.77 166.38 Power and fuel 545.12 483.48 61.64 Warranty  expenses 766.18 493.33 272.85 Information  technology/ computer  expenses 711.95 762.39 (50.44) Publicity 720.18 848.36 (128.18) Allowances made/ (reversed) for  trade and other  receivables (109.19) 133.72 (242.91) Assets scrapped/ written off 995.47 141.45 854.02 Works operation  and other  expenses 2,021.18 2,278.34 (257.16) Other Expenses 9,234.27 8,335.90 898.37 The changes are mainly driven by volumes and the size of  operations.
i.
Freight, transportation, port charges etc., as a percentage to  total revenue, were 2.9% in Fiscal 2018, as compared to 3.1% in  Fiscal 2017. ii.
Publicity expenses represented 1.2% of total revenues in Fiscal  2018 and 1.7% in Fiscal 2017.
In addition to routine product and  brand campaigns, the Company incurred expenses relating  to new product introduction campaigns for the Nexon etc.
Further, expenses were incurred for the Auto Expo and Geneva  Motor Show.
iii.
Warranty expenses represented 1.3% and 1%, of the Company’s  revenues in Fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increase  was due to volumes of M&HCV.
Further, the Company has  increased product warranty period for certain vehicles from  four years to six years.
iv.
Information technology/computer expenses represented 1.2%  and 1.6% of the Company’s revenues in Fiscal 2018 and 2017,  respectively.
v.  Assets written off of `995.47 crores in Fiscal 2018 represents  1.7% of the Company’s revenues.
vi There was reversal in allowances for trade and other  receivables of `109.19 crores in Fiscal 2018, due to favorable  litigation orders.
vii.
Works operation and other expenses have decreased to  3.4% of net revenue in Fiscal 2018 from 4.9% in Fiscal 2017.
Decrease is due to charge off of certain projects discontinued.
The Company has run certain Imp ACT projects thereby  reducing its fixed costs.
Amount capitalized represents expenditure transferred to capital  and other accounts allocated out of employee cost and other  expenses, incurred in connection with product development  projects and other capital items.
The expenditure transferred to  capital and other accounts has decreased by 9.2% to `855.08  crores in Fiscal 2018 from `941.60 crores in Fiscal 2017, mainly  due to various product development projects undertaken by the  Company for the introduction of new products and the development  of engine and products variants.
Other Income increased by 58.8% to `1,557.60 crores in Fiscal 2018  from `981.06 crores in Fiscal 2017.
This includes interest income of  `397.71 crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to `187.90 crores in Fiscal  2017. Dividend income increased to `1,054.69 crores in Fiscal  2018 from `672.65 crores in Fiscal 2017, whereas profit on sale of  investment decreased marginally to `103.17 crores in Fiscal 2018,  compared to `116.76 crores in Fiscal 2017,  primarily profit on sale  of mutual funds.
Profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortization,  interest, foreign exchange (gain)/loss and tax is `5,358.18 crores in  Fiscal 2018, representing 9.0% of revenue, compared to `2,793.27  crores in Fiscal 2017.
Depreciation and amortization: During Fiscal 2018, expenditures  increased by 2.1% to `3,101.89 crores from `3,037.12 crores in Fiscal  2017.
The depreciation has increased by 1.8% to `1,973.94 crores  as compared to `1,939.77 in Fiscal 2017 is due to new product  launches.
The amortization expenses have increased by 2.8% to  `1,127.95 crores in Fiscal 2018 from `1,097.35 crores in Fiscal 2017,  and are attributable to new products introduced during the year.
Expenditure on product development / engineering expenses  written off increased by 4.5% to `474.98 crores in Fiscal 2018 from  `454.48 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Finance Cost  has increased by 11.2% to `1,744.43 crores in  Fiscal 2018 from `1,569.01 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The increase is  attributable to higher interest rates and borrowings.
126 Foreign exchange loss of `17.14 crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared  to gain of `252.78 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The loss was due to  depreciation on INR as compared to USD.
Exceptional items Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores) Employee  separation cost 3.68 67.61 (63.93) Provision for  impairment of  investment in a  subsidiary - 123.17 (123.17) Impairment of  capitalized fixed  assets 962.98 - 962.98 Provision for BSIII  vehicles - 147.93 (147.93) Total 966.66 338.71 627.95 i.
Employee separation cost: The Company has given early  retirement to various employees resulting in an expense both  in Fiscal 2018 and 2017. ii.
In order to make the Company fit for future certain product  development programs were reviewed and accordingly an  impairment charge of `962.98 crores were taken during Fiscal  2018. iii.
`147.93 crores for Fiscal 2017, relates to provision for inventory  of BS III vehicles as at March 31, 2017.
Loss before tax was `946.92 crores in Fiscal 2018, compared to  `2,353.27 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Though the Company performed  well in terms of sales and revenue and reducing the costs, the  losses were due to certain one-time charges to make the Company  “fit for future”.
Tax Expense represents a net charge of `87.93 crores in Fiscal  2018, as compared to `76.33 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Loss after tax was `1,034.85 crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared to  `2,429.60 crores in Fiscal 2017.
Standalone Balance Sheet Property, plant and equipment and Other Intangible assets.
As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Property, plant  and equipment  (including  capital work - in-  progress) 19,563.97   19,799.73 (235.76) Other intangible  assets (including  assets under  development) 7,137.29 8,145.09   (1,007.80) Total 26,701.26 27,944.82   (1,243.56) There is decrease (net of depreciation and amortization) in the  intangible and tangible assets in Fiscal 2018.
The decrease is  mainly due to higher depreciation and amortization and certain  write offs / provision for impairment  during the year.
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates  were  `14,632.51 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `14,330.02  crores as at March 31, 2017.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company made  additional investments of `300 crores in Tata Motors Finance  Holdings Ltd. Investments (Current + Non-current)  were `2,131.06 crores as at  March 31, 2018, as compared to `2,965.79 crores as at March 31,  2017.
The details are as follows: As at March 31, Change 2018 2017  (` in crores) Mutual Funds 1,517.03    2,437.42   (920.39) Quoted Equity  shares 303.84    218.18    85.66 Unquoted Equity  shares    310.19    310.19      - Total 2,131.06    2,965.79   (834.73)   There was decrease in mutual fund investments in Fiscal 2018.
Increase in quoted equity shares were due to increase in market  value as at March 31, 2018, and also due to investments in the  Rights issue of Tata Steel Ltd. Loans and Advances (Current + Non-current) As at March 31, Change2018 2017 (` in crores) Non-Current loans  and advances 143.96    391.46   (247.50) Current loans and  advances 140.27    215.96  (75.69) Total 284.23    607.42  (323.19) Loans and advances include advance to suppliers, contractors etc.
Advance and other receivables increased to `68.03 crores as at  March 31, 2018, as compared to `82.59 crores as at March 31, 2017,  offset by reduction in inter-corporate deposits by `60 crores.
Other Financial Assets (Current + Non-current) As at March 31, Change 2018 2017  (` in crores) Other financial  assets - non  current 793.40  196.32 597.08 Other financial  assets – current 646.31   141.54 504.77 Total 1,439.71  337.86   1,101.85 127 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The above includes `878.54 crores on account of accrual of  Government grants receivable.
Further, it also consists of  `242.34 crores of derivative financial instruments, as at March  31, 2018 compared to `291.10 crores as at March 31, 2017,  reflecting notional liability due to the valuation of derivative  contracts.
Inventories as at March 31, 2018, were `5,670.13 crores as  compared to `5,553.01 crores as at March 31, 2017, an increase  of 2.1%.
In terms of number of days of sales, finished goods  represented 13 inventory days in Fiscal 2018 as compared to 23  days in Fiscal 2017.
Trade Receivables  (net of allowance for doubtful debts)  were `3,479.81 crores as at March 31, 2018, representing an  increase of 63.5% compared to `2,128.00 crores as at March  31, 2017.
The allowances for doubtful debts were `543.50  crores as at March 31, 2018 compared to `693.17 crores as at  March 31, 2017.
The increase in Trade receivable is due to year  end billings both at Tata Motors Ltd and Fiat India Automobiles  Private Ltd. Cash and cash equivalents  were `546.82 crores, as at March  31, 2018, compared to `228.94 crores as at March 31, 2017.
The  increase was mainly attributable to balances with banks and  cheques on hand, offset by deposit with banks.
Other bank balances  were `248.60 crores, as at March 31, 2018,  compared to `97.67 crores as at March 31, 2017.
These include  earmarked balances with banks of `248.53 crores as at March  31, 2018, compared to `86.60 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Current tax assets (net) (current + non-current) were `769.63  crores, as at March 31, 2018, compared to `902.16 crores as at  March 31, 2017.
Other assets (Current + Non-current) As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Other assets - non  current 1,546.39   1,858.45 (312.06) Other assets –  current 1,439.73   1,825.05 (385.32) Total 2,986.12   3,683.50 (697.38) These mainly includes prepaid expenses, including rentals  on operating lease of `221.74 crores as at March 31, 2018,  as compared to `234.02 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Taxes  recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government were  `1.978.74 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `2,444.36  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Capital advances were `285.54  crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `561.01 crores as  at March 31, 2017.
Recoverable form insurance companies were  `212.96 crores as at March 31, 2018 as compared to `170.84  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Shareholders’ fund was `20,170.98 crores and `21,162.61 crores as  at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, a decrease of 4.7%.
Reserves decreased by 4.8% from `20,483.39 crores as at March  31, 2017 to `19,491.76 crores as at March 31, 2018, mainly due to  losses for Fiscal 2018.
Borrowings As at March 31, Change 2018 2017  (` in crores) Long term  borrowings 13,155.91   13,686.09  (530.18) Short term  borrowings 3,099.87   5,158.52  (2,058.65) Current maturities  of long term  borrowings 2,208.06    512.37 1,695.69 Total 18,463.84   19,356.98  (893.14) Current maturities of long-term borrowings represent the amount  of loan repayable within one year.
Other financial liabilities As at March 31, Change 2018 2017  (` in crores) Other financial  liabilities - non  current 211.28   1,130.23 (918.95) Other financial  liabilities – current 4,091.16   2,485.94 1,605.22 Total 4,302.44   3,616.17 686.27 These included `977.26 crores of financial guarantee contracts  as at March 31, 2018 compared to `2,045.08 crores as at March  31, 2017.
The reduction is due to payments of `905 crores and  reduction in provision by `163 crores in Fiscal 2018.
Current  maturities of long-term borrowings were `2,208.06 crores as at  March 31, 2018 as compared to `512.37 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Further, interest accrued but not due on borrowings were `500.06  crores as at March 31, 2018 as compared to `449.73 crores as at  March 31, 2017.
Trade payables were `9,411.05 crores as at March 31, 2018, as  compared to `7,082.95 crores as at March 31, 2017, mainly due to  creditors for goods supplied and services received, liabilities for  variable marketing expenses, wage revisions etc.
Acceptances were `4,814.58 crores as at March 31, 2018, as  compared to `4,379.29 crores as at March 31, 2017.
128 Provisions (current and non-current) were made towards warranty  and employee benefit schemes.
Short-term provisions are those,  which are expected to be settled during next financial year.
The  details are as follows: As at March 31, Change 2018 2017 (` in crores) Long term  provisions (Non- current) 1,009.48 892.18 117.30 Short term  provisions  (Current) 862.92 477.17 385.75 Total 1,872.40 1,369.35 503.05 i.
Provision for warranty increased to `1,103.47 crores as at  March 31, 2018, as compared to `666.82 crores as at March  31, 2017, an increase of `436.65 crores, mainly due to increase  in volumes, higher warranty cost for BS IV models and also  increase of warranty period for certain vehicle models.
ii.
The provision for employee benefits obligations were flat at  `655.05 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `652.14  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Other liabilities As at March 31, 2018 2017 Change  (` in crores) Other liabilities -  non current 291.09   321.24   (30.15) Other liabilities –  current 1,917.60 1,870.80   46.80 Total 2,208.69   2,192.04 16.65 These mainly includes liability for advance received from customers  of `896.35 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `850.40  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Deferred revenue were `441.32 crores  as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `428.05 crores as at March  31, 2017.
Statutory dues (GST, VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc.)
were `781.12 crores as at March 31, 2018, as compared to `803.11  crores as at March 31, 2017.
Deferred tax liability represent timing differences where current  benefit in tax will be offset by a debit in the statement of profit and  loss.
The amount increased to `154.61 crores as at March 31, 2018,  as compared to `147.58 crores as at March 31, 2017.
Standalone Cash Flow Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores ) Net cash from  operating  activities   4,133.94   1,453.45  2,680.49 Profit/(Loss) for  the year  (1,034.85)   (2,429.60) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Change (` in crores ) Adjustments for  cash flow from  operations   5,125.70 4,091.24 Changes in  working capital 51.50 (93.09) Direct taxes paid (8.41)    (115.10) Net cash used in  investing activities  (710.27)  (2,859.00) 2,148.73 Payment for  property, plant and  equipment and  other intangible  assets (net)  (2,794.80)  (3,496.49) Net investments,  short term deposit,  margin money and  loans given   630.50  (294.03) Dividend and  interest received    1,454.03   931.52 Net Cash from/ (used in) financing  activities   (3,105.63)   1,208.80   (4,314.43) Proceeds from  issue of shares -   4.55 Dividend Paid  (including paid  to minority  shareholders    (2.75)    (73.00) Interest paid  (2,098.44)  (1,936.45) Net Borrowings  (net of issue  expenses)   (1,004.44)  3,213.70 Net increase /  (decrease) in  cash and cash  equivalent   318.04   (196.75) 514.79 Cash and cash  equivalent,  beginning of the  year    228.94 427.07 Effect of exchange  fluctuation on cash  flows (0.16) (1.38) Cash and cash  equivalent, end of  the year 546.82 228.94 a) Increase in net cash from operations reflects better  performance in Fiscal 2018.
The cash from operations before  working capital changes was `4,090.85 crores in Fiscal  2018 compared to `1,661.64 crores in Fiscal 2017.
There was  129 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 marginal net inflow of `51.50 crores in Fiscal 2018 towards  working capital changes.
b) The net cash used in investing activities was `710.27 crores  in Fiscal 2018 compared to `2,859.00 crores in Fiscal 2017,  mainly attributable to:  • Decrease in Investments in mutual funds in Fiscal  2018 was `1,025.59 crores as compared to increase in  investments by `537.40 crores in Fiscal 2017.
• The cash used for payments for fixed assets was  `2,794.80 crores (net) in Fiscal 2018 compared to  `3,496.49 crores in Fiscal 2017.
• Outflow by way of investments in subsidiary companies  resulting of `300 crores in Fiscal 2018 as compared to  `139.08 crores.
• Inflow due to dividends and interest in Fiscal 2018 was  `1,454.03 crores as compared to `931.52 crores in Fiscal  2017.
• There was an outflow (net) of `110.96 crores in Fiscal  2018 compared to an inflow of `229.28 crores for Fiscal  2017 towards Fixed / restricted deposits.
c) The net change in financing activity was an outflow of  `3,105.63 in Fiscal 2018 against inflow of `1,208.80 crores in  Fiscal 2017.
The outflow is attributable to:  • Long-term borrowings (net) – inflow of `1,034.70 crores  in Fiscal 2018 as compared to `1,474.30 crores.
• Short-term borrowings (net) – outflow of `2,039.14 crores  in Fiscal 2018 as compared to inflow of `1,739.40 crores.
• In Fiscal 2017, the Company paid dividend of `73.00  crores.
• In Fiscal 2018, interest payment was `2,098.44 crores as  compared to `1,936.45 crores in Fiscal 2017. d) There has been positive Free cash flows of `1,339 crores in  Fiscal 2018 due to improved performance.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF JAGUAR LAND ROVER (AS PER  IFRS) The financial statements of Jaguar Land Rover are prepared in  accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards  (IFRS) applicable in the United Kingdom.
This information is given  to enable the readers to understand the performance of Jaguar  Land Rover on a consolidated basis for the Jaguar Land Rover  group.
Revenues for Jaguar Land Rover for Fiscal 2018 were GB£25,786  million, an increase of 5.9% compared to the GB£24,339 million  in Fiscal 2017, driven primarily by increased wholesale volumes  and favourable mix, reflecting the introduction of the Range Rover  Velar.
Material and other cost of sales in Fiscal 2018 were of GB£16,328  million, up 8.3% compared to the GB£15,071 million in Fiscal 2017  (and increased as a proportion of revenue to 63.3% in Fiscal 2018  compared to 61.9% in Fiscal 2017) primarily driven by the increase  in sales volumes and a generally stronger Euro vs the Pound  Sterling.
Employee costs increased by 9.3% to GB£2,722 million in Fiscal  2018 compared to GB£2,490 million in Fiscal 2017, primarily  reflecting increase in employees to support increased product  development activities and increased production related to the  launch of new models and increasing sales.
Other expenses (net of income) increased by 8.6% to GB£5,426  million in Fiscal 2018 compared to GB£4,997 million in Fiscal 2017  primarily reflecting an increase in fixed marketing costs, primarily  related to the launch of new models, and higher engineering,  related to increased R&D activities, and an increase in freight costs  related to the increase in volumes.
Product development costs capitalized increased by 12.9% to  GB£1,610 million in Fiscal 2018 compared to GB£1,426 million in  Fiscal 2017 primarily related to the development of future models,  technologies and production facilities.
EBITDA was GB£3,271 million (10.9% margin) in Fiscal 2018, up  10.7% compared to the EBITDA of GB£2,955 million (12.1% margin)  in Fiscal 2017 due to the factors described above.
EBIT was GB£974 million (3.8% margin) in Fiscal 2018, down  32.6% compared to the EBIT of GB£1,445 million (6.0% margin)  in Fiscal 2017 due to the lower EBITDA as well as an increase in  depreciation and amortization, partially offset by higher profits  from the company’s China joint venture.
Profit before tax (“PBT”) decreased by 4.6% to GB£1,536 million in  Fiscal 2018 compared to GB£1,610 million in Fiscal 2017, reflecting  the lower EBIT and favourable revaluation of unrealized foreign  currency debt and hedges in Fiscal 2018 compared to unfavourable  revaluation of foreign currency debt and the non-recurrence of  favourable revaluation of unrealized commodity hedges in the prior  year, partially offset by higher net finance expense.
The exceptional  items primarily include the pension credit of £437 million in Fiscal  2018 compared to the non-recurrence of £151 million of Tianjin  recoveries in Fiscal 2017.
Profit after tax (“PAT”) decreased by 10.9% to GB£1,133 million  in Fiscal 2018 compared to GB£1,272 million in Fiscal 2017.
The  effective tax rate of 26.2% in Fiscal 2018 compared to the 21.0% in  Fiscal 2017 primarily reflects a £54 million charge for the impact  of the change in the US Federal rate from 35% to 21% on deferred  tax assets.
Net cash generated from operating activities was GB£2,958  million in Fiscal 2018 compared to GB£3,160 million in Fiscal 2017,  primarily reflecting lower profits in Fiscal 2018 compared the  prior year and working capital inflows of £81 million compared to  £467 million in Fiscal 2017, and Dividends received from the China  joint venture of £206 million up from the GB£68 million dividend  received in Fiscal 2017, however GB£312 million was paid in tax this  fiscal year compared to £199 million in the prior year.
After GB£3,780 million of investment spending (excluding £406  million of expensed R&D), £125 million of net interest expense  and £98 million of other outflows, free cash flow was negative  130 GB£1,045 million.
Increases in debt of GB£370 million primarily  reflects the US$500 million bond issued in October 2017 GB£150  million of dividends were paid to parent Company and £5 million  of other distributions to non-controlling interests were paid during  the year.
As a result Jaguar Land Rover had a total cash balance of  GB£4,657 million (comprising GB£2,626 million of cash and cash  equivalents and GB£2,031 million of financial deposits) at March 31,  2018 compared to GB£5,487 million of total cash at March 31, 2017  (comprising GB£2,878 million of cash and cash equivalents and  GB£2,609 million of financial deposits).
With total cash of GB£4,657  million and an undrawn revolving credit facility of GB£1,935 million  (amended and extended in July 2017) maturing in July 2022, total  liquidity available to Jaguar Land Rover was GB£6,592 million at  March 31, 2018, compared to GB£7,357 million at March 31, 2017.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TATA MOTORS FINANCE LTD (AS  PER INDIAN GAAP) Consolidated revenue for TMF Holdings during Fiscal 2018  increased 5.7% to `2,875.53 crores, compared to `2,720.51 crores  in Fiscal 2017.
The Profit before tax was `290.28 crores in Fiscal  2018, compared to a loss before tax of `698.56 crores in Fiscal  2017.
The Profit after tax was `217.41 crores in Fiscal 2018, as  compared to a Loss of `1,182.29 crores in previous year.
The GNPA  reduced by 1,390 bps to 4% (measured on 90 days basis).
NNPA  at 3%.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TATA DAEWOO COMMERCIAL  VEHICLES (AS PER KOREAN GAAP) During Fiscal 2018, TDCV, registered revenues of KRW 868.26  billion ( `5,035 crores), a drop of 15.8% over the previous year  revenues of KRW 1,031.77 billion ( `5,986 crores), mainly due to  lower domestic sales.
The Profit After Tax was KRW 33.66 billion  (`203 crores) compared to KRW 50.25 billion ( `290 crores) of  Fiscal 2017.
Lower profitability was mainly due to the impact of  lower sales which was partially set off by material cost reduction FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TATA TECHNOLOGIES LTD The consolidated revenue of TTL in Fiscal 2018 decreased by 3.9%  to `2,691.48 crores, compared to `2,801.95 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The profit before tax decreased by 25.7% to `336.43 crores in  Fiscal 2018, compared to `452.77 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The profit  after tax decreased by 30.5% to `245.71 crores in Fiscal 2018, as  compared to `353.59 crores in Fiscal 2017.
The Company suffered  decline in revenue in Europe and North America primarily due  to completion of vehicle programs and delay in the start of new  programs due to client product plan changes, budgetary approval  delays and softness in staffing deployments.
This was partially  offset by 6.8% growth in Asia Pacific regions.
There has been  increase in purchase of traded products, employee costs and other  expenses partially offset by outsourcing and consultancy charges,  leading to a decrease in profits.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY The Company has an adequate system of internal controls in place.
It has documented policies and procedures covering all financial  and operating functions.
These controls have been designed to  provide a reasonable assurance with regard to maintaining of  proper accounting controls for ensuring reliability of financial  reporting, monitoring of operations, and protecting assets from  unauthorized use or losses, compliances with regulations.
The  Company has continued its efforts to align all its processes and  controls with global best practices.
Some significant features of the internal control of systems are: • The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, comprising  of independent directors and functional since August 1988,  regularly reviews the audit plans, significant audit findings,  adequacy of internal controls, compliance with accounting  standards as well as reasons for changes in accounting  policies and practices, if any; • Documentation of major business processes and testing  thereof including financial closing, computer controls and  entity level controls, as part of compliance programme towards  Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as required by the listing requirements at  New York Stock Exchange; • An ongoing programme, for the reinforcement of the Tata  Code of Conduct is prevalent across the organization.
The  Code covers integrity of financial reporting, ethical conduct,  regulatory compliance, conflicts of interest’s review and  reporting of concerns.
• State-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning, supplier  relations management and customer relations management  connect the Company’s different locations, dealers and  vendors for efficient and seamless information exchange.
The Company also maintains a comprehensive information  security policy and undertakes continuous upgrades to its IT  systems; • Detailed business plans for each segment, investment  strategies, year-on-year reviews, annual financial and  operating plans and monthly monitoring are part of the  established practices for all operating and service functions; • A well-established, independent, multi-disciplinary Internal  Audit team operates in line with governance best practices and  based on its Internal Audit Charter.
It reviews and discusses,  with the management  and reports directly to Audit Committee  about compliance with internal controls.
The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk  management throughout the organization.
Through an Enterprise  Risk Management programme, the Company’s business units and  corporate functions address risks through an institutionalized  approach aligned to the Company’s objectives.
This is facilitated  by internal audit.
The Business risk is managed through cross- functional involvement and communication across businesses.
The results of the risk assessment are presented to the senior  management.
The Risk Management Committee reviews business  risk areas covering operational, financial, strategic and regulatory  risks.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company conducted an assessment of  the effectiveness of the Internal Control over Financial Reporting  and has determined that the Company’s Internal Control over  131 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Financial Reporting for Tata Motors Limited, its subsidiary  companies, its joint operation companies, its associates and joint  ventures, which are companies incorporated in India as at March  31, 2018, is effective.
The Company identified certain control weaknesses in its  subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover during Fiscal 2018.
The management  has performed additional procedures and confirmed that there are  no material misstatements in the financial statement.
However,  the Company’s annual report in Form 20-F to be submitted to  Securities Exchange Commission, USA is being finalized and  hence the final assessment and reporting of Internal Controls over  Financial Reporting, for the Company’s subsidiaries incorporated  outside India is pending.
HUMAN RESOURCES / INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS The Company considers its human capital a critical factor to its  success.
Under the aegis of Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted  entities, the Company has drawn up a comprehensive human  resource strategy, which addresses key aspects of human resource  development such as: • The code of conduct and fair business practices; • A fair and objective performance management system linked  to the performance of the businesses which identifies and  differentiates employees by performance level; • Creation of a common pool of talented managers across  Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted entities with a view  to increasing their mobility through job rotation among the  entities; • Evolution of performance based compensation packages to  attract and retain talent within Tata Sons and the Tata Sons  promoted entities; and • Development and delivery of comprehensive training  programs to impact and improve industry- and/or function- specific skills as well as managerial competence.
• In line with the Company human resource strategy, it has  implemented various initiatives in order to build better  organizational capabilities that the Company believe will  enable it to sustain competitiveness in the global marketplace.
The Company’s focus is to attract talent, retain the better and  advance the best.
Some of the initiatives to meet this objective  include: • Development of an agile organization through process  modification, delayering and structure alignment and increase  in customer facing roles; • Changed organization structure has empowered teams, across  each product lines, which will manage the product lifecycle  and be accountable for the Profit and Loss; • Extensive process mapping exercises to benchmark and align  the human resource processes with global best practices; • Outsource transactional activities to an in house back office  (Global Delivery Center), thereby reducing cost and time of  transaction; • Talent management process redesigned with a stronger  emphasis on identifying future leaders; • Build strategic partnerships with educational institutions of  repute to foster academia based research and provide avenues  for employees to further their educational studies; • Enhance company’s image and desirability amongst the target  engineering and management schools, to enable it to attract  the best; • Functional academies setup for functional skills development; • Skill development of all Blue collared workforce to enable them  to effectively meet the productivity and quality deliverables.
• Training youth under Government of India’s National  Employment Enhancement Mission in our skill development  centers in all the plants.
These trainees are given Automotive  Skill Development Council certification, helping them get  gainful employment in the industry.
Engaging trainees benefit  the company to meet the cyclicity of demand as well.
The Company employed approximately 81,090 and 80,389  permanent employees as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The average number of flexible (temporary, trainee and contractual)  employees for Fiscal 2018, was approximately 38,017 (including  joint operations) compared to 38,120 in Fiscal 2017.
The following table set forth a breakdown of persons employed by  the Company’s business segments and by geographic location as  at March 31, 2018 and 2017.
As at March 31, 2018 2017 Segment No.
of Employees Automotive 72,683 72,259 Other 8,407 8,130 Total 81,090 80,389 Location No.
of Employees India 41,295 42,992 Abroad 39,795 37,397 Total 81,090 80,389 Training and Development: The Company has committed to the  development of its employees to strengthen their functional,  managerial and leadership capabilities.
The Company has a  focused approach with the objective of addressing all capability  gaps and preparing its employees to adopt to fast changing  external environment in order to meet its strategic objectives.
To achieve this, the Company has established the Tata Motors  Academy, which addresses development needs of various  segments of its workforce through a structured approach.
The Tata  Motors Academy focuses on three functional pillars – customer  excellence, product leadership, and operational excellence – and  one pillar on management education, all of which are aligned with  the Company-level strategic objectives.
The emphasis of functional  academies is to strengthen knowledge, skills and expertise with an  132 in depth approach, within respective function, and the emphasis of  management education is developing general management and  leadership skills.
Tata Motors Academy also provides executive  education opportunities in the areas of B.Tech, M.Tech, Executive  MBA.
As an integral part of the Tata Motors Academy, the Company’s  Learning Advisory Council, which includes senior leaders from  different parts of organization, aims to align its learning and  development efforts, more closely with its business needs  and priorities.
The Learning Advisory Council is responsible for  providing guidance and strategic direction to the Academies to  design, implement and review the learning agenda.
The Company is now migrating from a trade-based training  approach to a process-based training approach, which emphasizes  team members’ knowledge as related to their actual work, in  addition to the general trade-based skills, which are learned at  training institutes.
These skills are very specific and not currently  taught at the training institutes.
To accomplish this, the Company  is implementing a fundamental skills training initiative throughout  organization.
Its objective is to address key employee performance  issues, such as inconsistent quality, poor craftsmanship, high  frequencies of repair reworking and low productivity levels through  training of front-line team members.
Union Wage Settlements:  The Company has labour unions for  operative grade employees at all its plant across India, except  Dharwad plant.
The Company has generally enjoyed cordial  relations with its employees at its factories and offices and have  received union support in the implementation of reforms that  impact safety, quality, cost erosion and productivity improvements  across all locations.
Employee wages are paid in accordance with wage agreements  that have varying terms (typically three to five years) at different  locations.
The expiration dates of the wage agreements with  respect to various locations/subsidiaries are as follows: Location/subsidiaries Wage Agreement valid until Pune commercial vehicles August 31, 2018 Pune passenger vehicles March 31, 2019 Jamshedpur March 31, 2019 Mumbai December 31, 2018 Lucknow March 31, 2020 Pantnagar March 31, 2019 Sanand September 30, 2020 Jaguar Land Rover – UK Plants November 30, 2018 The Company’s wage agreements link an employee’s  compensation to certain performance criteria that are based  on various factors such as quality, productivity, operating profit  and an individual’s performance and attendance.
The Company  has generally received union support in its implementation  of reforms that impact quality, cost erosion and productivity  improvements across all locations.
In addition to this the  Company have signed settlement with a variable as part of wage  cost and stagger payment instead of one time pay to be bring  more cost effectiveness on account of fixed pay.
JAGUAR LAND ROVER Jaguar Land Rover has always focused on the safety, security,  wellbeing and development of the people.
The Company nurture  and retain talent through the Jaguar Land Rover Academy, an  environment offering accredited learning for the employees at every  stage of their career.
Actively shaping education and contributing  to the skills development available to our communities is part  of our long-term recruitment strategy.
So too is continuing our  successful apprentice and graduate programme, working closely  with academic partners such as the Warwick Manufacturing Group.
The Company has been investing £100 million per year in the  Jaguar Land Rover Academy for lifelong learning of employees.
Around a quarter of the employees are actively working towards  a formal academic or professional qualification at all levels from  apprenticeship to doctorate.
The Company has also up-skilled  7,000 engineers with Master-level education since our Academy  technical accreditation scheme began in 2010.
Closing the gender gap and a digital call for the worlds brightest  and best Jaguar Land Rover has focused on attracting women into  engineering and advanced manufacturing through programmes  such as our Young Women in the Know initiative for female students  aged 15 to 18.
With fewer women than men in senior roles and a  majority of men in production operations in factories, the gender  gap can be hard to close.
Traditionally, a lower number of women  coming into the industry and flourishing within it has made this  even harder.
However, the Company is committed both to equality  and encouraging a diverse workforce, and things are changing for  the better.
There has been a 21% increase in proportion of women  in our management grades since 2014.
In 2017, Jaguar Land Rover  recruited more women than men (55% female) onto their Advanced  Apprentice Programme.
The Company has also developed new  ways to seek out tomorrow’s innovators, partnering with virtual  band Gorillaz to find the next generation of software engineering  brilliance, through code-breaking puzzles that test curiosity,  persistence, lateral thinking and problem-solving.
Those who have  cracked them were interviewed by Jaguar Land Rover and the best  were hired.
Human Rights The Human Rights Policy sets out the commitment to respect and  comply will all relevant laws, rules and regulations in the territories  in which Jaguar Land Rover operates.
These include provisions  addressing slavery, human trafficking, forced labour, child labour  and upholding each employee’s right to freedom of association.
The Company has refreshed the assessment of slavery and human  trafficking risk risks and continue to deem the risk to be low.
OUTLOOK The Indian automotive sector has the potential to generate upto  US$300 billion in annual revenue by 2026, create 65 million  additional jobs and contribute over 13% to India’s GDP.
Increased  urbanization is firmly placed in the centre of this progress.
As per  World Bank study, by 2031, some 600 million people are expected  to live in India’s cities.
Therefore, automakers are slated to be one  133 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 of the greatest contributors to this futuristic plan of 100 smart  cities by 2020.
The Company has recently supplied Hybrid electric  buses, which runs both on diesel and electric, and is economically  viable, safe and environment-friendly.
A revival of the economy post-demonetization and implementation  of GST are putting the country back on track.
The Company is  looking to be the major beneficiary for the increased infrastructure  spending on roads, airports and expected high GDP.
In Passenger  vehicle, there has been a shift in the trend of buying from small  passenger vehicles towards Utility Vehicles (UV).
This shift will lead  to more profitable growth for the Automobile sector.
The passenger  vehicle sector is expected to grow at 8%-10% in Fiscal 2019.
The Commercial Vehicles segment is expected to grow at low double  digits.
The continued government spending on infrastructure,  robust rural economy and strong private consumption will be  supporting the growth in this segment.
Pre-buying is expected  before implementation of BS VI in Fiscal 2020.
The privatization  of select State Transport undertakings bodes well for the bus  segment.
This can result in both the volumes and profitability.
There is an increasing buzz for e-mobility by 2030.
The Company  acknowledges the importance to environment risk and is prepared  for the electric vehicles which is visible from the recent orders  received from EESL and Government of Maharashtra.
The  Company has already started delivery of the vehicles to EESL.
In  addition to Electric vehicles, the Company is preparing itself to be  efficient in not only BSVI emission norms, but also plans to take a  holistic approach towards environment regulations and stay ahead  in Industry.
The global premium auto industry is expected to grow at a CAGR  of 2.6% between Fiscal 2018-24.
Continued investment, by Jaguar  Land Rover, in new products and technologies as well as expanding  its production capacity in appropriate strategic locations, while  balancing production with sales, is key for the success of the  Company.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing  the Company’s objective, projections, estimates and expectations  may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of  applicable securities laws and regulations.
Actual results could  differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Important factors  that could make a difference to the Company operations include,  among others, economic conditions affecting demand/supply and  price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the  Company operates, changes in government regulations, tax laws  and other statutes and incidental factors.
134 Risks associated with the Company’s Business and the Automotive  Industry.
Deterioration in global economic conditions could have a material  adverse impact on the Company sales and results of operations.
The Indian automotive industry could be affected materially by  the general economic conditions in India and around the world.
The automotive industry, in general, is cyclical, and economic  slowdowns in the recent past have affected the manufacturing  sector in India, including the automotive and related industries.
Further deterioration in key economic metrics, such as the growth  rate, interest rates and inflation, as well as reduced availability of  financing for vehicles at competitive rates, environment policies, tax  policies, increase in freight rates and fuel prices could materially  and adversely affect the Company’s automotive sales and results  of operations.
In addition, investors’ reactions to economic developments or a loss  of investor confidence in the financial systems of other countries  may cause volatility in Indian financial markets and indirectly, in  the Indian economy in general.
Any worldwide financial instability,  including increased protectionist measures and withdrawal from  trade pacts by countries in which the Company operate, could  also have a negative impact on the Indian economy, including the  movement of exchange rates and interest rates in India.
In the event  global economic recovery is slower than expected, or if there is any  significant financial disruption, this could have a material adverse  effect on the Company’s cost of funding, portfolio of financing loans,  business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and  the trading price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs.
Jaguar Land Rover business has significant operations in the  United Kingdom, North America, continental Europe and China  as well as sales operations in other overseas markets across  the globe.
Conditions in automotive markets were generally  more challenging in Fiscal 2018 with industry volumes down  significantly year-on-year in the UK (11.0%), primarily because of a  sharp decline in diesel-based vehicle sales (26.2%), down slightly in  the US (1.1%), but up modestly in China (1.3%) and in Europe (3.8%).
Although conditions remained challenging in emerging markets  such as Brazil, Russia and South Africa, stabilizing economic  growth improved automotive industry sales during Fiscal 2018.
Jaguar Land Rover’s growth plans may not quite materialize as  expected which could have a significant adverse impact on the  Company’s financial performance.
If automotive demand softens  because of lower or negative economic growth in key markets or  due to other factors, Jaguar Land Rover’s operations and financial  condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result.
Deterioration in key economic factors, such as GDP growth rates,  interest rates and inflation, as well as the reduced availability of  financing for vehicles at competitive rates in countries where  Jaguar Land Rover has sales operations may result in a decrease  in demand for automobiles.
A decrease in demand would, in turn,  cause automobile prices and manufacturing capacity utilization  rates to fall.
Such circumstances have in the past materially  affected, and could in the future, materially affect, the Company’s  business, results of operations and financial condition.
The United Kingdom’s contemplated exit from the European  Union may adversely impact Jaguar Land Rover business, results  of operations and financial condition.
In a non-binding referendum on the United Kingdom’s membership  in the European Union in June 2016, a majority of the electorate  voted for the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European  Union.
Pursuant to its invocation of Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty,  the United Kingdom is currently negotiating its exit from the  European Union.
Substantial uncertainty remains regarding the  outcome of the negotiations, United Kingdom’s future relationship  with the European Union, the economic and political future of  the United Kingdom, the legal structure applicable to companies  doing business in the United Kingdom as well as the scope and  duration of a transitionary period, if any, following the expiration  of the Article 50 period on December 2020.
This uncertainty, along  with any real or perceived impact of Brexit, could have a material  adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations  and financial condition.
Depending on the outcome of the negotiations, the United Kingdom  could lose its present rights or terms of access to the single EU  market and EU customs area and to the global trade deals  negotiated by the European Union on behalf of its members.
New  or modified trading arrangements between the United Kingdom  and other countries may have a material adverse effect on Jaguar  Land Rover’s business.
A decline in trade could also affect the  attractiveness of the United Kingdom as a global investment center  and, as a result, could have a detrimental impact on the level of  investment in UK companies, including the Company’s Jaguar  Land Rover business.
Customer behaviour may change as a result  of global economic uncertainty, which may cause Jaguar Land  Rover’s customers to re-evaluate when and to the extent they  are willing to spend on its products and services.
The uncertainty  concerning the terms of Brexit could also have a negative impact  on the growth of the UK economy and cause greater volatility in  the British pound against foreign currencies in which Jaguar Land  Rover conducts business, particularly the U.S. dollar, the euro and  the Chinese yuan.
There also exists significant uncertainty with respect to the laws  and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines  which European Union-derived laws to replace or replicate.
This  uncertainty may adversely affect business activity and economic  conditions in the United Kingdom and the Eurozone.
In particular,  changes in taxes, tariffs and other fiscal policies could have a  significant impact on Jaguar Land Rover business; 22% of its  retail sales volume in Fiscal 2018 was to customers based in the  European Union (excluding the United Kingdom) and a substantial  portion of its suppliers are situated there.
The economic outlook  could be further adversely affected by the risk of a greater push for  independence by Scotland or Northern Ireland or the risk that the  Risk Factors 135 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 euro as the single currency of the European Union could cease to  exist.
Changes to UK border and immigration policy could likewise  occur as result of Brexit, affecting the Company’s business’s ability  to recruit and retain employees from outside the United Kingdom.
Any of the foregoing factors and other factors relating to Brexit that  Jaguar Land Rover cannot predict may have a material adverse  effect on Jaguar Land Rover’s business, results of operations and  financial condition.
Intensifying competition could materially and adversely affect the  Company’s sales, financial condition and results of operations.
The global automotive industry is highly competitive and  competition is likely to further intensify in light of continuing  globalization and consolidation.
Competition is especially likely  to increase in the premium automotive categories as each market  participant intensifies the Company’s efforts to retain its position  in established markets while also expanding in emerging markets,  such as China, India, Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia.
Factors  affecting competition include product quality and features,  innovation and the development time for introduction of new  products, cost control, pricing, reliability, safety, fuel economy,  environmental impact and perception thereof, customer service  and financing terms.
Some of the Company’s competitors based  in the European Union may gain a competitive advantage that  would enable them to benefit from their access to the European  Union single market post-Brexit.
There can be no assurance that  the Company will be able to compete successfully in the global  automotive industry in the future.
The Company also face strong competition in the Indian market  from domestic, as well as foreign automobile manufacturers.
Improving infrastructure and growth prospects, compared to those  of other mature markets, has attracted a number of international  companies to India either through joint ventures with local  partners or through independently owned operations in India.
International competitors bring with them decades of international  experience, global scale, advanced technology and significant  financial resources.
Consequently, domestic competition is likely  to further intensify in the future.
There can be no assurance that  the Company will be able to implement its future strategies in a  way that will mitigate the effects of increased competition on the  Indian automotive industry.
Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive  and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery,  research and development, product design, engineering, technology  and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and  regulatory requirements.
If the Company’s competitors consolidate  or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they  may be able to take better advantage of economies of scale.
The  Company believe that competitors may be able to benefit from  the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could  adversely affect the Company’s competitiveness with respect  to those competitors.
Competitors could use consolidation or  alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness (including  through the acquisition of technology), which could also materially  adversely affect the Company’s business.
Further, the Company’s  growth strategy relies on the expansion of its operations in less  mature markets abroad, where it may face significant competition  and higher than expected costs to enter and establish itself.
The electric vehicle market may not evolve as anticipated.
The Company intends to develop electric vehicles as more car  manufacturers consider various opportunities to expand their  electric vehicle product range and stringent emissions norms make  it push OEMs increasingly in the direction of adopting zero emission  technology.
However, sales of electric vehicles are hard to predict  as consumer demand may fail to shift in favour of electric vehicles  and this market segment may remain small relative to the overall  market for years to come.
Consumers may remain reluctant to  adopt electric vehicles due to the lack of fully developed charging  infrastructure or long charging times.
If it takes longer for the long- term value proposition of electric vehicles to fully materialize, this  could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial  condition or results of operations.
If the Company is unable to effectively implement or manage  its growth strategy, its operating results and financial condition  could be materially and adversely affected.
As part of the Company’s growth strategy, it may open new  manufacturing, research or engineering facilities, expand existing  facilities, add additional product lines or expand its businesses  into new geographical markets.
There is a range of risks inherent  in such a strategy that could adversely affect the Company’s  ability to achieve these objectives, including, but not limited to,  the following: the potential disruption of the Company’s business;  the uncertainty that new product lines will generate anticipated  sales; the uncertainty that it may not be able to meet or anticipate  consumer demand; the uncertainty that a new business will achieve  anticipated operating results; the diversion of resources and  management’s time;the Company’s cost reduction efforts, which  may not be successful; the difficulty of managing the operations  of a larger company; and the difficulty of competing for growth  opportunities with companies having greater financial resources  than the Company have.
More specifically, the Company’s international businesses faces  a range of risks and challenges, including, but not limited to, the  following: language barriers, cultural differences, difficulties in  staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties  and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of  receivables under the legal systems of foreign countries, the risk  of non-tariff barriers, regulatory and legal requirements affecting  the Company’s ability to enter new markets through joint ventures  with local entities, difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals,  environmental permits and other similar types of governmental  consents, difficulties in negotiating effective contracts, obtaining  the necessary facility sites or marketing outlets or securing  essential local financing, liquidity, trade financing or cash  management facilities, export and import restrictions, multiple  tax regimes (including regulations relating to transfer pricing and  withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments  from subsidiaries), foreign investment restrictions, foreign  exchange controls and restrictions on repatriation of funds, other  restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions, and the  burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and  136 regulations.
Furthermore, as part of the Company’s global activities,  it may engage with third-party dealers and distributors, which it  does not control but which, nevertheless, take actions that could  have a material adverse impact on its reputation and business; the  Company cannot assure you that it will not be held responsible for  any activities undertaken by such dealers and distributors.
If the  Company is unable to manage risks related to its expansion and  growth in other parts of the world and therefore fail to establish  a strong presence in those higher growth markets, its business,  results of operations and financial condition could be adversely  affected or its investments could be lost.
Furthermore, the Company is subject to risks associated with  growing its business through mergers and acquisitions.
The  Company believes that its acquisitions provides it opportunities  to grow significantly in the global automobile markets by offering  premium brands and products.
The Company’s acquisitions have  provided it with access to technology and additional capabilities  while also offering potential synergies.
However, the scale,  scope and nature of the integration required in connection with  its acquisitions present significant challenges, and the Company  may be unable to integrate the relevant subsidiaries, divisions and  facilities effectively within its expected schedule.
An acquisition  may not meet the Company’s expectations and the realization of  the anticipated benefits may be blocked, delayed or reduced as a  result of numerous factors, some of which are outside its control.
For example, the Company acquired the Jaguar Land Rover  business from Ford in June 2008, and since then Jaguar Land  Rover has become a significant part of its business, accounting for  approximately 77% of its total revenues in Fiscal 2018.
As a result  of the acquisition, the Company is responsible for, among other  things, the obligations and liabilities associated with the legacy  business of Jaguar Land Rover.
There can be no assurances that  any legacy issues at Jaguar Land Rover or any other acquisition  we have undertaken in the past or will undertake in the future  would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s  business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as  its reputation and prospects.
The Company will continue to evaluate growth opportunities  through suitable mergers and acquisitions in the future.
Growth  through mergers and acquisitions involves business risks,  including unforeseen contingent risks or latent business liabilities  that may only become apparent after the merger or acquisition  is completed.
The key success factors are seamless integration,  effective management of the merged and/or acquired entity,  retention of key personnel, cash flow generation from synergies  in engineering and sourcing, joint sales and marketing efforts,  and management of a larger business.
If any of these factors fails  to materialize or if the Company is unable to manage any of the  associated risks successfully, its business, financial condition and  results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
The Company’s future success depends on the Company’s ability  to satisfy changing customer demands by offering innovative  products in a timely manner and maintaining such products’  competitiveness and quality.
Customer preferences, especially in many of the more mature  markets, have trended towards smaller and more fuel-efficient  and environmentally friendly vehicles.
Climate change concerns,  increases in fuel prices, certain government regulations (such as  CO2 emissions limits and higher taxes on SUVs) and the promotion  of new technologies encourages customers to look beyond  standard purchasing factors (such as price, design, performance,  brand image and features) to differentiation of the technology used  in the vehicle or the manufacturer or provider of this technology.
Such consumer preferences could materially affect the Company’s  ability to sell premium passenger cars and large or medium-sized  all-terrain vehicles at current or targeted volume levels, and could  have a material adverse effect on the Company’s general business  activity, net assets, financial position and results of operations.
The Company’s operations may be significantly impacted if it  fail to develop, or experience delays in developing, fuel-efficient  vehicles that reflect changing customer preferences and meet the  specific requirements of government regulations.
The Company’s  competitors may gain significant advantages if they are able to  offer products satisfying customer needs earlier than we are able  to, which could adversely impact its sales, results of operations  and financial condition.
Delays or cost overruns in implementing  new product launches, expansion plans or capacity enhancements  could also materially and adversely impact its financial condition  and results of operations.
As a result of the public discourse on climate change and volatile  fuel prices, the Company faces more stringent government  regulations, imposition of speed limits and higher taxes on sports  utility vehicles or premium automobiles.
The Company endeavours  to take account these factors, and it is focused on researching,  developing and producing new drive technologies, such as  hybrid engines and electric cars.
The Company also investing in  development programs to reduce fuel consumption through the  use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses through the  driveline and improving aerodynamics.
Coupled with consumer  preferences, a failure to achieve its planned objectives or delays  in developing fuel efficient products could have a material adverse  effect on its general business activity, net assets, financial position  and results of operations.
In addition, deterioration in the quality  of the Company’s vehicles could force it to incur substantial costs  and damage its reputation.
There is a risk that competitors or joint  ventures set up by competitors will develop better solutions and  will be able to manufacture the resulting products more rapidly,  in larger quantities, with a higher quality and/or at a lower cost.
It is possible that the Company could then be compelled to make  new investments in researching and developing other technologies  to maintain its existing market share or to win back the market  share lost to competitors.
Finally, the Company’s manufacturing  operations and sales may be subject to potential physical impacts  of climate change, including changes in weather patterns and an  increased potential for extreme weather events, which could affect  the manufacture and distribution of its products and the cost and  availability of raw materials and components.
Private and commercial users of transportation increasingly use  modes of transportation other than the automobile, The reasons  for this include the rising costs related to automotive transport  137 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 of people and goods, increasing traffic density in major cities  and environmental awareness.
In addition, the increased use of  car sharing concepts and other innovative mobility initiatives  facilitates access to other methods of transport, thereby  reducing dependency on private automobiles.
Furthermore, non- traditional market participants may cut dependency on the private  automobile altogether.
A shift in consumer preferences away from  private automobiles would have a material adverse effect on the  Company’s general business activity and on its sales, prospects,  financial condition and results of operations.
To stimulate demand, competitors in the automotive industry have  offered customers and dealers price reductions on vehicles and  services, which has led to increased price pressures and sharpened  competition within the industry.
As a provider of numerous high- volume models, the Company’s profitability and cash flows  are significantly affected by the risk of rising competitive price  pressures.
Special sales incentives and increased price pressures  in the new car business also influence price levels in the used car  market, with a negative effect on vehicle resale values.
This could  have a negative impact on the profitability of the used car business  in the Company’s dealer organization.
There can be no assurance that the Company’s new models will  meet its sales expectations, in which case it may be unable to  realize the intended economic benefits of its investments, which  would in turn materially affect the Company’s business, results of  operations and financial condition.
In addition, there is a risk that its  quality standards can be maintained only by incurring substantial  costs for monitoring and quality assurance.
For the Company’s  customers, one of the determining factors in purchasing its vehicles  is the high quality of the products.
A decrease in the quality of the  Company’s vehicles (or if the public were to have the impression  that such a decrease in quality had occurred) could damage its  image and reputation as a premium automobile manufacturer  and in turn materially affect the Company’s business, results of  operations and financial condition.
In addition, product development cycles can be lengthy, and there  is no assurance that new designs will lead to revenues from vehicle  sales, or that the Company will be able to accurately forecast  demand for its vehicles, potentially leading to inefficient use of its  production capacity.
Additionally, the Company’s high proportion  of fixed costs, due to its significant investment in property, plant  and equipment, further exacerbates the risks associated with  incorrectly assessing demand for the Company’s vehicles.
The Company are more vulnerable to reduced demand for premium  performance cars and all-terrain vehicles than automobile  manufacturers with a more diversified product range.
The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover operates in the premium  performance car and all-terrain vehicle segments, which are very  specific segments of the premium passenger car market, and it  has a more limited range of models than some of the Company’s  competitors.
Accordingly, its performance is linked to market  conditions and consumer demand in those market segments in  which it operates.
Furthermore, some other premium performance  vehicle manufacturers operate in a relatively broader spectrum  of market segments, which makes them comparatively less  vulnerable to reduced demand for any specific segment.
Any  downturn or reduction in the demand for premium passenger cars  and all-terrain vehicles, or any reduced demand for Jaguar Land  Rover’s most popular models in the geographic markets in which it  operates, could have a more pronounced effect on its performance  and earnings.
The Company is subject to risks associated with product liability,  warranty and recall.
The Company is subject to risks and costs associated with product  liability, warranties and recalls in connection with performance,  compliance or safety-related issues affecting the Company’s  products which may, in turn, cause its customers to question the  safety or reliability of the Company’s vehicles and thus result in  a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, impacting  its reputation, results from operations and financial condition.
Such  events could also require us to expend considerable resources  to remediate, and the Company may also be subject to class  actions or other large-scale product liability or other lawsuits in  various jurisdictions where the Company conduct business.
In  May 2016, an industry-wide passenger airbag safety recall was  announced in the United States by the National Highway Traffic  System Administration or NHTSA, in respect of airbags from  Takata Corporation or Takata, a supplier of airbags.
Certain front- passenger airbags supplied by Takata were installed in vehicles  sold by Jaguar Land Rover.
The Company considered the cost  associated with the recall and recognized a provision of GBP 67.4  million for the estimated cost of repairs in the Company’s income  statement for Fiscal 2016.
As at March 31, 2018 the provision was  GB£ 61 million.
We expect to utilize such provision over the next  one to four years.
Furthermore, the Company may also be subject to class actions  or other large-scale product liability or other lawsuits in various  jurisdictions in which the Company has a significant presence.
The  use of shared components in vehicle production increases this  risk because individual components are deployed in a number of  different models across the Company’s brands.
Any costs incurred  or lost sales caused by product liability, warranties and recalls  could materially adversely affect the Company’s business.
The Company is exposed to the risks of new drive and other  technologies being developed and the resulting effects on the  automobile market.
Over the past few years, the global market for automobiles,  particularly in established markets, has been characterized by  increasing demand for more environmentally friendly vehicles  and technologies.
This is related, in particular, to the public debate  on global warming and climate protection.
Jaguar Land Rover  endeavours to take account of climate protection and the ever  more-stringent laws and regulations that have been and are likely  to be adopted.
Jaguar Land Rover is focusing on researching,  developing and producing new drive technologies, such as hybrid  engines and electric cars.
Jaguar Land Rover is also investing in  development programmes to reduce fuel consumption through the  use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses through the  driveline and improvements in aerodynamics.
Recently, several  jurisdictions, such as Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom,  France, the Netherlands, India and China, have announced the  138 intention to eliminate the sale of conventionally fueled vehicles in  their markets in the coming decades.
Diesel technologies have also become the focus of legislators in  the United States and European Union as a result of emissions  levels.
This has led various carmakers to announce programs to  retrofit diesel vehicles with software that will allow them to reduce  emissions which may require us to undertake increased R&D  spending.
There is a risk that these R&D activities, including retrofit  software upgrades, will not achieve their planned objectives or that  competitors or joint ventures set up by competitors will develop  better solutions and will be able to manufacture the resulting  products more rapidly, in larger quantities, with a higher quality  and/or at a lower cost.
This could lead to increased demand for  the products of such competitors and result in a loss of market  share for the Company.
There is also a risk that the money invested  in researching and developing new technologies, including  autonomous, connected and electrification technologies, or money  invested in mobility solutions to overcome and address future travel  and transport challenges, will, to a considerable extent, have been  spent in vain, because the technologies developed or the products  derived therefrom are unsuccessful in the market or because  competitors have developed better or less expensive products.
It is  possible that Jaguar Land Rover could then be compelled to make  new investments in researching and developing other technologies  to maintain its existing market share or to win back the market  share lost to competitors.
In addition, climate change concerns and the promotion of new  technologies encourages customers to look beyond standard  factors (such as price, design, performance, brand image or  comfort/features) to differentiation of the technology used in the  vehicle or the manufacturer or provider of this technology.
This  could lead to shifts in demand and the value-added parameters in  the automotive industry at the expense of the Company’s products.
The Company’s competitors may be able to benefit from the cost  savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances.
As part of the Company’s growth strategy, it may open new  manufacturing, research or engineering facilities, expand existing  facilities, add additional product lines or expand the Company’s  businesses into new geographical markets.
There is a range of  risks inherent in such a strategy that could adversely affect the  Company’s ability to achieve these objectives, including, but not  limited to, the following: the potential disruption of the Company’s  business; the uncertainty that new product lines will generate  anticipated sales; the uncertainty that it may not be able to meet  or anticipate consumer demand; the uncertainty that a new  business will achieve anticipated operating results; the diversion of  resources and management’s time; the Company’s cost reduction  efforts, which may not be successful; the difficulty of managing  the operations of a larger company; and the difficulty of competing  for growth opportunities with companies having greater financial  resources than the Company have.
More specifically, the Company’s international businesses face  a range of risks and challenges, including, but not limited to, the  following: language barriers, cultural differences, difficulties in  staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties  and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of  receivables under the legal systems of foreign countries, the risk  of non-tariff barriers, regulatory and legal requirements affecting  the Company’s ability to enter new markets through joint ventures  with local entities, difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals,  environmental permits and other similar types of governmental  consents, difficulties in negotiating effective contracts, obtaining  the necessary facility sites or marketing outlets or securing  essential local financing, liquidity, trade financing or cash  management facilities, export and import restrictions, multiple  tax regimes (including regulations relating to transfer pricing  and withholding and other taxes on remittances and other  payments from subsidiaries), foreign investment restrictions,  foreign exchange controls and restrictions on repatriation of  funds, other restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions,  and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws  and regulations.
Furthermore, as part of the Company’s global  activities, it may engage with third-party dealers and distributors,  which it do not control but which, nevertheless, take actions that  could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reputation  and business; the Company cannot assure that it will not be held  responsible for any activities undertaken by such dealers and  distributors.
If the Company is unable to manage risks related to its  expansion and growth in other parts of the world and therefore fail  to establish a strong presence in those higher growth markets, the  Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition  could be adversely affected or its investments could be lost.
Furthermore, the Company is subject to risks associated with  growing its business through mergers and acquisitions.
The  Company believe that its acquisitions provide opportunities to  grow significantly in the global automobile markets by offering  premium brands and products.
The Company’s acquisitions have  provided it with access to technology and additional capabilities  while also offering potential synergies.
However, the scale,  scope and nature of the integration required in connection with  the Company’s acquisitions present significant challenges, and  it may be unable to integrate the relevant subsidiaries, divisions  and facilities effectively within the Company’s expected schedule.
An acquisition may not meet the Company’s expectations and the  realization of the anticipated benefits may be blocked, delayed or  reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside  the Company’s control.
Any disruption in the supply of automobile components could  have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of  operations Adverse economic conditions, a decline in automobile demand  and lack of access to sufficient financing arrangements, among  others, could have a negative financial impact on the Company’s  suppliers, thereby impairing timely availability of components to  us or causing increase in the costs of components.
In addition, if  one or more of the other global automotive manufacturers were  to become insolvent, this would have an adverse effect on the  Company’s supply chains and may have a material adverse effect  on the Company’s results of operations.
139 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The Company has also entered into supply agreements with  Ford and certain other third parties for critical components and  remain reliant upon Ford and the Ford-PSA joint venture for a  portion of its engines.
However, following the launch of the Engine  Manufacturing Centre (EMC) in Wolverhampton, the Company  now also manufacture its own ‘‘in-house’’ engines.
The Company  may not be able to manufacture certain types of engines or find  a suitable replacement supplier in a timely manner in the event of  any disruption in the supply of engines, or parts of engines, and  other hardware or services provided to us by Ford or the Ford-PSA  joint venture and such disruption could have a material adverse  impact on the Company’s operations, business and/or financial  condition.
A change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements  committing Jaguar Land Rover to purchase minimum or fixed  quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the  seller, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s  financial condition or results of operations.
The Company have  entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require  Jaguar Land Rover to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used  in the production of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles (e.g., ‘‘take-or-pay’’  contracts).
If the need for any of these parts were to lessen, Jaguar  Land Rover could still be required to purchase a specified quantity  of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the  take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect  on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
Increases in input prices may have a material adverse effect on  the Company’s results of operations.
In Fiscal 2018 and 2017, the consumption of raw materials,  components and aggregates and purchase of products for sale  (including changes in inventory) constituted approximately 63.2%  and 61.5%, respectively, of the Company’s revenues.
Prices of  commodity items used in manufacturing automobiles, including  steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, rubber, platinum, palladium and  rhodium, have become increasingly volatile in recent years.
Further  price movements would closely depend on the evolving economic  scenarios across the globe.
Most of these inputs are priced in US  dollars on international markets.
While the Company continue  to pursue cost reduction initiatives, an increase in price of input  materials could severely impact the Company’s profitability to the  extent such increase cannot be absorbed by the market through  price increases and/or could have a negative impact on demand.
In addition, an increased price and supply risk could arise from the  need for rare and frequently sought-after raw materials for which  demand is high, such as rare earths, which are predominantly  found in China.
Rare earth metal prices and supply remain  uncertain.
In the past, China has limited the export of rare earths  from time to time.
Due to intense price competition and the  Company’s high level of fixed costs, the Company may not be able  to adequately address changes in commodity prices even if they  are foreseeable.
Increases in fuel costs also pose a significant  challenge, especially in the commercial and premium vehicle  categories where increased fuel prices have an impact on demand.
If we are unable to find substitutes for supplies of raw materials or  pass price increases on to customers, or to safeguard the supply of  scarce raw materials, the Company’s vehicle production, business,  financial condition and results of operations could be materially  and adversely affected.
The Company is also exposed to supply  chain risks relating to lithium-ion cells which are critical for its  electric vehicle production.
Any disruption in the supply of battery  cells from such suppliers could disrupt production of its vehicles.
The severity of this risk is likely to increase as the Company and  other manufacturers increase electric vehicle production.
The Company presently manage the risks for some of these  commodities through the use of fixed price supply contracts with  tenors of up to 12 months and the use of financial derivatives  pursuant to a defined hedging policy.
The Company enters into a  variety of foreign currency, interest rates and commodity forward  contracts and options to manage the Company’s exposure  to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and  commodity price risk.
These financial exposures are managed in  accordance with its risk management policies and procedures.
The  Company uses foreign currency forward and option contracts to  hedge risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating  to highly probable forecast transactions.
The Company also  enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate currency swap  agreements, mainly to manage exposure on its fixed rate or variable  rate debt.
The Company further uses interest rate derivatives or  currency swaps to hedge exposure to exchange rate fluctuations  on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated  in foreign currencies.
Specific transactional risks include risks  like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate  fluctuation risks, volatility risks, counterparty risks, settlement  risks and gearing risks.
However, the hedging transactions may not  adequately protect us against these risks.
In addition, if markets  move adversely, the Company may incur financial losses on  such hedging transactions, the financial condition and results of  operations may be adversely impacted.
Any inability to implement the Company’s growth strategy  by entering new markets may adversely affect its results of  operations.
The Company’s growth strategy relies on the expansion of its  operations in emerging markets such as ASEAN, SAARC and  Latin American countries and North and West Africa and other  parts of the world which feature higher growth potential than  many of the more mature automotive markets in developed  countries.
The costs associated with entering and establishing  the Company in new markets, and expanding such operations  may, however, be higher than expected, it may face significant  competition in those regions.
In addition, the Company’s  international business faces a range of risks and challenges,  including language barriers, cultural differences, difficulties in  staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties  and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of  receivables under the legal systems of foreign countries, the  risk of non-tariff barriers, regulatory and legal requirements  affecting the Company’s ability to enter new markets through  joint ventures with local entities, difficulties in obtaining  regulatory approvals, environmental permits and other similar  types of governmental consents, difficulties in negotiating  effective contracts, obtaining the necessary facility sites or  marketing outlets or securing essential local financing, liquidity,  trade financing or cash management facilities, export and  140 import restrictions, multiple tax regimes (including regulations  relating to transfer pricing and withholding and other taxes  on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries), foreign  investment restrictions (including restrictions on incentives  offered by foreign governments for investment in their  jurisdictions), foreign exchange controls and restrictions on  repatriation of funds, other restrictions on foreign trade or  investment sanctions, and the burdens of complying with a  wide variety of foreign laws and regulations.
If the Company is  unable to manage risks related to its expansion and growth in  other parts of the world and therefore fail to establish a strong  presence in those higher growth markets, its business, results of  operations and financial condition could be adversely affected  or the Company’s investments could be lost.
A significant reliance on key markets by both TML and Jaguar Land  Rover increases the risk of negative impact of reduced customer  demand in those countries.
TML and Jaguar Land Rover rely on the United Kingdom,  Chinese, North American, continental European and Indian  markets.
Although demand remains relatively solid, a decline in  demand for the Company’s vehicles in these major markets may  in the future significantly impair its business, financial position  and results of operations.
Softening of the UK economy would  be expected to impact the Company’s growth opportunities in  that country, which is an important market for us.
Any decline  in demand for the Company’s vehicles in these major markets  may in the future significantly impair its business, financial  position and results of operations.
Further, decreased demand  for the Company’s and Jaguar Land Rover’s products may not be  sufficiently mitigated by new product launches and expansion  into growing markets, which could have a significant adverse  impact on the Company’s financial performance.
In addition, the  Company’s strategy, which includes new product launches and  expansion into growing markets may not be sufficient to mitigate  a decrease in demand for its products in mature markets in the  future, which could have a significant adverse impact on the  Company’s financial performance.
The Company is exposed to liquidity risks.
The Company’s main sources of liquidity are cash generated from  operations, existing notes, external debt in the form of factoring  discount facilities and other revolving credit facilities.
However,  adverse changes in the global economic and financial environment  may result in lower consumer demand for vehicles, and prevailing  conditions in credit markets may adversely affect both consumer  demand and the cost and availability of finance for the Company’s  business and operations.
If the global economy goes back into  recession and consumer demand for the Company’s vehicles  drops, as a result of higher oil prices, excessive public debt or for  any other reasons, and the supply of external financing becomes  limited, the Company may again face significant liquidity risks.
The Company is also subject to various types of restrictions or  impediments on the ability of the companies in certain countries  to transfer cash across the companies through loans or interim  dividends.
These restrictions or impediments are caused by  exchange controls, withholding taxes on dividends and distributions  and other similar restrictions in the markets in which the Company  operate.
The cash in some of these jurisdictions is subject to certain  restrictions on cash pooling, intercompany loan arrangements or  interim dividends.
Exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations could materially and  adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of  operations.
The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover operations are also subject to  fluctuations in exchange rates with reference to countries in which  it operates.
Jaguar Land Rover purchases capital equipment, raw  materials and components from, manufacture vehicles in, and  sell vehicles into, various countries, and therefore, the Company’s  revenues and costs have significant exposure to the relative  movements of the GBP, the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Russian  Ruble, the Chinese Renminbi, the Singapore dollar, the Japanese  Yen, the Australian dollar, the South African rand, the Thai baht,  the Korean won and the Indian rupee.
The United Kingdom’s  exit from the European Union could cause greater volatility in the  pound sterling.
This could directly impact Jaguar Land Rover’s  sales volumes and financial results, as Jaguar Land Rover derives  the majority of its revenues from overseas markets and sources  significant levels of raw materials and components from Europe,  which may result in a decrease in profits to the extent non-GBP  costs are not fully mitigated by non-GBP sales.
The GBP declined  significantly relative to the Indian rupee and U.S. dollar in 2017.
As  published by Bloomberg L.P., the exchange rate as at June 23, 2016  expressed in Indian rupees per GBP1.00, was Rs.100.2 compared to  Rs.
79.88 as at March 14, 2017 and the rate expressed in US$ per  GBP1.00, was US$149 as at June 23, 2016 compared to US$1.20 as  at January 16, 2017.
Moreover, the Company has outstanding foreign currency- denominated debt and are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign  currency exchange rates.
The Company has experienced and could  in the future experience foreign exchange losses on obligations  denominated in foreign currencies in respect of its borrowings and  foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations.
The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates, as it has both  interest-bearing assets (including cash balances) and interest- bearing liabilities, which bear interest at variable rates.
Although the  Company engages in managing its interest and foreign exchange  exposure through use of financial hedging instruments, such as  forward contracts, swap agreements and option contracts, higher  interest rates and a weakening of the Indian rupee against major  foreign currencies could significantly increase the Company’s cost  of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on its  financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
Appropriate hedging lines for the type of risk exposures the  Company are subject to may not be available at a reasonable  cost, particularly during volatile rate movements, or at all.
Moreover, there are risks associated with the use of such hedging  instruments.
While hedging instruments may mitigate the  Company’s exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates  to a certain extent, it potentially forego benefits that might result  141 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 from market fluctuations in currency exposures.
These hedging  transactions can also result in substantial losses.
Such losses  could occur under various circumstances, including, without  limitation, any circumstances in which a counterparty does not  perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement  (despite having International Swaps and Derivatives Association  (ISDA) agreements in place with each of the Company’s hedging  counterparties), there are currency fluctuations, the arrangement is  imperfect or ineffective, or the Company’s internal hedging policies  and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned.
In  addition, because the Company’s potential obligations under the  financial hedging instruments are marked to market, the Company  may experience quarterly and annual volatility in its operating  results and cash flows attributable to its financial hedging activities.
A decline in retail customers’ purchasing power or consumer  confidence or in corporate customers’ financial condition and  willingness to invest could materially and adversely affect the  Company’s business.
Demand for vehicles for personal use generally depends on  consumers’ net purchasing power, their confidence in future  economic developments and changes in fashion and trends, while  demand for vehicles for commercial use by corporate customers  (including fleet customers) primarily depends on the customers’  financial condition, their willingness to invest (motivated by  expected future business prospects) and available financing.
A decrease in potential customers’ disposable income or their  financial flexibility or an increase in the cost of financing will  generally have a negative impact on demand for the Company’s  products.
A weak macroeconomic environment, combined with restrictive  lending and a low level of consumer sentiment generally, may  reduce consumers’ net purchasing power and lead existing and  potential customers to refrain from purchasing a new vehicle,  to defer a purchase further or to purchase a smaller model with  less equipment at a lower price.
A deteriorating macroeconomic  environment may disproportionately reduce demand for luxury  vehicles.
It also leads to reluctance by corporate customers to  invest in vehicles for commercial use and/or to lease vehicles,  resulting in a postponement of fleet renewal contracts.
To stimulate demand, the automotive industry has offered  customers and dealers price reductions on vehicles and services,  which has led to increased price pressures and sharpened  competition within the industry.
As a provider of numerous high- volume models, the Company’s profitability and cash flows are  significantly affected by the risk of rising competitive and price  pressures.
Special sales incentives and increased price pressures in the new  car business also influence price levels in the used car market,  with a negative effect on vehicle resale values.
This may have a  negative impact on the profitability of the used car business in the  Company’s dealer organization.
The Company is subject to risks associated with the automobile  financing business.
The sale of the Company’s commercial and passenger vehicles is  heavily dependent on funding availability for its customers.
Rising  delinquencies and early defaults have contributed to a reduction  in automobile financing, which, in turn, has had an adverse effect  on funding availability for potential customers.
This reduction in  available financing may continue in the future and have a material  adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and  results of operations.
In India, default by the Company’s customers or inability to repay  installments as due could materially and adversely affect its  business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
In addition, any downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings may  increase its borrowing costs and restrict its access to the debt  markets.
Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit  rating downgrade, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory  changes or otherwise, the Company may need to reduce the  amount of financing receivables originated, which could severely  disrupt the Company’s ability to support the sale of its vehicles.
Jaguar Land Rover has consumer finance arrangements in place  with Lloyds Black Horse in the United Kingdom, FCA Bank S.p.A. in  European markets and Chase Auto Finance in North America and  has similar arrangements with local providers in a number of other  key markets.
Any reduction in the supply of available consumer  financing for the purchase of new vehicles or an increase in the  cost thereof would make it more difficult for some of its customers  to purchase its vehicles, which could put Jaguar Land Rover under  commercial pressure to offer new (or expand existing) retail or  dealer incentives to maintain demand for its vehicles, thereby  materially and adversely affecting the Company’s sales and  results of operations.
For example, during the global financial  crisis, several providers of customer finance reduced their supply of  consumer financing for the purchase of new vehicles.
Additionally,  base interest rates in developed economies are at historic lows.
An  increase in interest rates due to tightening monetary policy or for  any other reason would result in increased costs for consumers.
Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover offers residual value guarantees  on the purchase of certain leases in some markets.
The value of  these guarantees is dependent on used car valuations in those  markets at the end of the lease, which is subject to change.
Consequently, the Company may be adversely affected by  movements in used car valuations in these markets.
Underperformance of the Company’s distribution channels could  have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales and results  of operations.
The Company relies on third parties for sourcing raw materials,  parts and components used in the manufacture of its products.
At the local level, the Company is exposed to reliance on smaller  enterprises where the risk of insolvency is greater.
Furthermore,  for some parts and components, it is dependent on a single source.
The Company’s ability to procure supplies in a cost-effective  and timely manner or at all is subject to various factors, some of  which are not within its control.
For instance, the outcome of the  142 Brexit negotiations could lead to reduced access to the European  Union single market and to the global trade deals negotiated by  the European Union on behalf of its members, which could affect  the imports of raw materials, parts and components and disrupt  Jaguar Land Rover supplies.
Furthermore, there is the risk that  manufacturing capacity does not meet, or exceeds, sales demand  thereby compromising business performance and without any  near term remedy given the time frames and investments required  for any change.
While the Company manages its supply chain as  part of its supplier management process, any significant problems  with its supply chain or shortages of essential raw materials in  the future could affect the Company’s results of operations in an  adverse manner.
The Company’s products are sold and serviced through a network  of authorized dealers and service centers across India and  through a network of distributors and local dealers in international  markets.
The Company monitor the performance of its dealers  and distributors and provide them with support to enable them  to perform to its expectations.
There can be no assurance,  however, that the Company’s expectations will be met.
Any  underperformance by or a deterioration in the financial condition  of the Company’s dealers or distributors could materially and  adversely affect the Company’s sales and results of operations.
If dealers or importers encounter financial difficulties and the  Company’s products and services cannot be sold or can be sold  only in limited numbers, this would have a direct effect on the sales  of such dealers and importers.
Additionally, if the Company cannot  replace the affected dealers or importers with other franchises,  the financial difficulties experienced by such dealers or importers  could have an indirect effect on the Company’s vehicle deliveries.
Consequently, the Company could be compelled to provide  additional support for dealers and importers and, under certain  circumstances, may even take over their obligations to customers,  which would adversely affect the Company’s financial position and  results of operations in the short term.
Deterioration in the performance of any of the Company’s  subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates could materially and  adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.
The Company have made and may continue to make capital  commitments to the Company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures  and affiliates, and if the business or operations of any of these  subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates deteriorates, the value of  the Company’s investments may decline substantially.
Operating a  business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational  formalities and a requirement of information sharing.
The  Company is also subject to risks associated with joint ventures and  affiliates wherein the Company retain only partial or joint control.
Investments in projects over which the Company has partial or  joint control are subject to the risk that the other shareholders of  the joint venture, who may have different business or investment  strategies than the Company does or with whom the Company  may have a disagreement or dispute, may have the ability to block  business, financial or management decisions, such as the decision  to distribute dividends or appoint members of management, which  may be crucial to the success of the project or its investment in the  project, or otherwise implement initiatives which may be contrary  to its interests.
Moreover, the Company’s partners may be unable,  or unwilling, to fulfill their obligations, or the strategies of the  Company’s joint ventures or affiliates may not be implemented  successfully, any of which may significantly reduce the value of  the Company’s investments or relationship with the co-owner may  be deteriorated, and, which could, in turn, have a material adverse  effect on the Company’s reputation, business, financial position or  results of operations.
The Company may be adversely impacted by political instability,  wars, terrorism, multinational conflicts, and countries resorting to  protectionism, natural disasters, fuel shortages/prices, epidemics  and labor strikes.
The Company’s products are exported to a number of geographical  markets and it plans to further expand the international operations  in the future.
For example, the Company has manufacturing facilities  and design and engineering centers in India, the United Kingdom,  China, South Korea, Thailand, South Africa, Brazil and Indonesia.
Consequently, the Company’s operations in markets abroad  may be subject to political instability, wars, terrorism, regional or  multinational conflicts, natural disasters and extreme weather,  fuel shortages, epidemics and labour strikes.
Any disruption of the  operations of the Company’s manufacturing, design, engineering,  sales, corporate and other facilities could materially and adversely  affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.
If any of these events were to occur, there can be no assurance  that the Company would be able to shift its manufacturing, design,  engineering, sales, corporate and other operations to alternate  sites in a timely manner or at all.
In addition, conducting business  internationally, especially in emerging markets, exposes us to  additional risks, including adverse changes in economic and  government policies, unpredictable shifts in regulation, inconsistent  application of existing laws, applicability of retrospective taxes,  sanctions programs, unclear regulatory and taxation systems and  divergent commercial and employment practices and procedures.
Any deterioration in international relations, especially between  India and its neighbouring countries, may result in investor concern  regarding regional stability.
Any significant or prolonged disruption  or delay in the Company’s operations related to these risks could  materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and  results of operations.
Terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional conflicts and other  acts of violence, particularly in India, may disrupt or otherwise  adversely affect the markets in which the Company operate, the  Company’s business and the Company’s profitability.
India has  from time to time experienced social and civil unrest and hostilities  and adverse social, economic or political events, including terrorist  attacks and local civil disturbances, riots and armed conflict with  neighboring countries.
Events of this nature in the future could  influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse  effect on the Company’s business, as well as the market for  securities of Indian companies, including the Company’s Shares  and ADSs.
Such incidents could also create a greater perception  143 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of  risk and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s  business, results of operations and financial condition, and also the  market price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs.
The Company is vulnerable to supply chain disruptions resulting  from natural disasters or man-made accidents.
For example, on  August 12, 2015, there was an explosion in the city port of Tianjin,  one of three major ports in China through which the Company import  its vehicles.
Approximately 5,800 of the Company’s vehicles were  stored at various locations in Tianjin at the time of the explosion,  and, as a result, the Company recognized an exceptional charge  of GBP245 million in September 2015.
Subsequently, GBP275  million of net insurance proceeds and other recoveries have been  received till March 31, 2018, including GBP35 million related to  other costs associated with Tianjin including lost and discounted  vehicle revenue.
A significant delay or sustained interruption in  the supply of key inputs sourced from areas affected by disasters  or accidents could materially and adversely affect the Company’s  ability to maintain its current and expected levels of production,  and therefore negatively affect its revenues and increase the  Company’s operating expenses.
The Company is a global organization, and is therefore vulnerable  to shifts in global trade and economic policies and outlook.
Policies  that result in countries withdrawing from trade pacts, increasing  protectionism and undermining free trade could substantially  affect the Company’s ability to operate as a global business.
Additionally, negative sentiments towards foreign companies  among the Company’s overseas customers and employees could  adversely affect its sales as well as its ability to hire and retain  talented people.
A negative shift in either policies or sentiment  with respect to global trade and foreign businesses could have  a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of  operations and financial condition.
The Company’s business is seasonal in nature and a substantial  decrease in its sales during certain quarters could have a material  adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance.
The sales volumes and prices for the Company’s vehicles are  influenced by the cyclicality and seasonality of demand for these  products.
The automotive industry has been cyclical in the past,  and the Company expect this cyclicality to continue.
In the Indian market, demand for the Company’s vehicles generally  peaks between January and March, although there is a decrease in  demand in February just before release of the Indian fiscal budget.
Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up again in  the festival season from September onwards, with a decline in  December due to year-end as customers defer purchases to the  new year.
The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover business is impacted by the bi- annual registration of vehicles in the United Kingdom where the  vehicle registration number changes every March and September,  which leads to an increase in sales during these months, and, in  turn, has an impact on the resale value of vehicles.
This leads to  an increase in sales during the period when the aforementioned  change occurs.
Most other markets, such as the United States,  are influenced by the introduction of new-model-year products,  which typically occurs in the autumn of each year.
Furthermore,  in the United States, there is some seasonality in the purchasing  pattern of vehicles in the northern states for Jaguar when there is  a concentration of vehicle sales in the spring and summer months  and for Land Rover, where the trend for purchasing 4x4 vehicles  is concentrated in the autumn and winter months.
Markets in  China tend to experience higher demand for vehicles around the  Lunar New Year holiday in either January or February, the Chinese  National Day holiday and the Golden Week holiday in October.
Furthermore, Western European markets tends to be softer  during the summer and winter holidays.
Jaguar Land Rover’s cash  flows are impacted by the temporary shutdown of four of their  manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom (including the Engine  Manufacturing Centre at Wolverhampton) during the summer  and winter holidays.
Sales in the automotive industry have been  cyclical in the past and we expect this cyclicality to continue.
Restrictive covenants in the Company’s financing agreements  could limit the Company’s operations and financial flexibility  and materially and adversely impact the Company’s financial  condition, results of operations and prospects.
Some of the Company’s financing agreements and debt  arrangements set limits on and/or require us to obtain lender  consent before, among other things, pledging assets as security.
In addition, certain financial covenants may limit the Company’s  ability to borrow additional funds or to incur additional liens.
In the event the Company breach these covenants, the outstanding  amounts due under such financing agreements could become  due and payable immediately and/or result in increased costs.
A  default under one of these financing agreements may also result  in cross-defaults under other financing agreements and result in  the outstanding amounts under such other financing agreements  becoming due and payable immediately.
Defaults under one or  more of the Company’s financing agreements could have a material  adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.
The Company rely on licensing arrangements with Tata Sons  Limited to use the “Tata” brand.
Any improper use of the associated  trademarks by the Company’s licensor or any other third parties  could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business,  financial condition and results of operations.
The Company’s rights to the Company’s trade names and trademarks  are a crucial factor in marketing its products.
Establishment of the  “Tata” word mark and logo mark in and outside India is material  to the Company’s operations.
The Company has licensed the use  of the “Tata” brand from its Promoter, Tata Sons Limited, or Tata  Sons.
If Tata Sons, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or  any third party uses the trade name “Tata” in ways that adversely  affect such trade name or trademark, its reputation could suffer  damage, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the  Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
144 Inability to protect or preserve the Company’s intellectual  property could materially and adversely affect its business,  financial condition and results of operations.
The Company own or otherwise have rights in respect of a number  of patents relating to the products it manufacture.
In connection  with the design and engineering of new vehicles and the  enhancement of existing models, the Company seek to regularly  develop new intellectual property.
The Company also use technical  designs, which are the intellectual property of third parties with  their consent.
These patents and trademarks have been of value in  the growth of the Company’s business and may continue to be of  value in the future.
Although the Company do not regard any of its  businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or related  group of patents, an inability to protect this intellectual property  generally, or the illegal breach of some or a large group of the  Company’s intellectual property rights, would have a materially  adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of  operations.
The Company may also be affected by restrictions on  the use of intellectual property rights held by third parties and the  Company may be held legally liable for the infringement of the  intellectual property rights of others in the Company’s products.
Impairment of intangible assets may have a material adverse  effect on the Company’s results of operations.
Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive  and requires substantial investments in intangible assets such  as research and development, product design and engineering  technology.
The Company review the value of its intangible  assets to assess on an annual basis whether the carrying amount  matches the recoverable amount for the asset concerned based  on underlying cash-generating units.
The Company may have  to take an impairment loss as at a current balance sheet date or  future balance sheet date, if the carrying amount exceeds the  recoverable amount, which could have a material adverse effect  on the Company’s financial condition and the results of operations.
The Company may be adversely affected by labour unrest.
All of the Company’s permanent employees in India, other than  officers and managers, and most of the Company’s permanent  employees in South Korea and the United Kingdom, including  certain officers and managers, in relation to the Company’s  automotive business, are members of labour unions and are  covered by the Company’s wage agreements, where applicable,  with those labour unions.
In general, the Company consider its labour relations with all its  employees to be good.
However, in the future the Company may be  subject to labour unrest, which may delay or disrupt its operations in  the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and  parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the  provision of services.
If work stoppages or lock-outs at the Company’s  facilities or at the facilities of its major vendors occur or continue for  a long period of time, the Company’s business, financial condition  and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.
During Fiscal 2018, the Company faced two standalone incidents of  labour unrest in India, one at the Company’s Jamshedpur plant in  Jharkhand and the other at the Company’s Sanand plant in Gujarat.
Although these particular issues were amicably resolved, there is no  assurance that additional labour issues could not occur, or that any  future labour issues will be amicably resolved.
The Company’s business and prospects could suffer if the  Company lose one or more key personnel or if the Company is  unable to attract and retain its employees.
The Company’s business and future growth depend largely on  the skills of its workforce, including executives and officers, and  automotive designers and engineers.
The loss of the services of  one or more of the Company’s personnel could impair its ability  to implement the Company’s business strategy.
In view of intense  competition, any inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate  its workforce could materially and adversely affect the Company’s  business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Future pension obligations may prove more costly than currently  anticipated and the market value of assets in the Company’s  pension plans could decline.
The Company provide post-retirement and pension benefits to  its employees, including defined benefit plans.
However, lower  returns on pension fund assets, changes in market conditions,  interest rates or inflation rates, and adverse changes in other  critical actuarial assumptions, may impact its pension liabilities or  assets and consequently increase funding requirements, which  could materially decrease the Company’s net income and cash  flows.
Jaguar Land Rover provides post-retirement and pension benefits  to its employees, some of which are defined benefit plans.
As  part of Jaguar Land Rover’s Strategic Business Review process, it  closed the Jaguar Land Rover defined benefit pension plan to new  joiners as at April 19, 2010.
All new Jaguar Land Rover employees  from April 19, 2010 joined a new defined contribution pension plan.
Under the arrangements with the trustees of the defined benefit  pension schemes, an actuarial valuation of the assets and liabilities  of the schemes is undertaken every three years following the most  recent valuation, as at April 05, 2015.
Jaguar Land Rover agreed to  a schedule of contributions with the trustee of the schemes which,  together with the expected investment performance of the assets  of the schemes, is expected to eliminate the deficit by  2025.
In line  with the schedule of contributions, the current ongoing contribution  rate to the defined benefits scheme  is 31% of pensionable salaries  in the UK.
Deficit reduction payments also continue to be paid in  line with this schedule of contributions.
The funding deficit and  on going contribution rates are expected to reduce following the  completion of the 2018 statutory valuation during 2019.
Following  consultation with employees earlier in the year, on April 03, 2017,  Jaguar Land Rover approved and communicated  to its defined   benefit schemes’ members that the defined benefit schemes’  rule were to be amended with effect from April 06, 2017.
As a  result, among other changes, future retirement benefits would be  calculated each year and revalued until retirement in line with a  prescribed rate rather than based upon a member’s final salary  at retirement.
As a result of the remeasurement of the schemes’  liabilities, a past service credit of £437 million has arisen and  145 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 was recognized in Fiscal 2018 with a corresponding decrease in  the net shortfall of assets of the schemes versus the actuarially  determined liabilities.
The net shortfall fell to £438 million as at  March 31, 2018 compared to £1,461 million as at March 31, 2017.
Lower return on pension fund assets, changes in market conditions,  changes in interest rates, changes in inflation rates and adverse  changes in other critical actuarial assumptions, may impact its  pension liabilities or assets and consequently increase funding  requirements, which will adversely affect the Company’s financial  condition and results of operations.
The Company is exposed to operational risks, including  cybersecurity risks in connection with the Company’s use of  information technology.
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or  failed internal processes, people and systems or from external  events.
This includes, among other things, losses that are caused  by a lack of controls within internal procedures, violation of internal  policies by employees, disruption or malfunction of IT systems,  computer networks and telecommunications systems, mechanical  or equipment failures, human error, natural disasters, security  breaches or malicious acts by third parties (including, for example,  hackers).
The Company is generally exposed to risks in the field  of information technology, since unauthorized access to or misuse  of data processed on the Company’s IT systems, human errors  associated therewith or technological failures of any kind could  disrupt the Company’s operations, including the manufacturing,  design and engineering processes.
In particular, as vehicles  become more technologically advanced and connected to the  internet, the Company’s vehicles may become more susceptible  to unauthorized access to their systems.
Like any other business  with complex manufacturing, research, procurement, sales and  marketing and financing operations, the Company is exposed to  a variety of operational risks and, if the protection measures put  in place prove insufficient, the Company’s results of operations  and financial condition can be materially adversely affected.
In  addition, the Company would likely experience negative press and  reputational impacts.
Some of the Company’s vehicles will make use of lithium-ion  battery cells, which have been observed in some non-automotive  applications to catch fire or vent smoke and flames, and such events  have raised concerns, and future events may lead to additional  concerns, about the batteries used in automotive applications.
The battery packs that the Company will use in its electric vehicles  make use of lithium-ion cells.
On rare occasions, lithium-ion cells  can rapidly release the energy they contain by venting smoke and  flames in a manner that can ignite nearby materials as well as  other lithium-ion cells.
While the Company have designed the battery pack to passively  contain any single cell’s release of energy without spreading to  neighbouring cells, there can be no assurance that a field or testing  failure of the Company’s vehicles will not occur, which could  subject company to lawsuits, product recalls, or redesign efforts,  all of which would be time consuming and expensive.
Negative  public perceptions regarding the suitability of lithium-ion cells for  automotive applications, or any future incident involving lithium- ion cells such as a vehicle fire, even if such incident does not  involve the Company’s vehicles, could seriously harm its business.
In addition, the Company stores a significant number of lithium- ion cells at its manufacturing facilities.
Any mishandling of battery  cells may cause disruption to the operation of its facilities.
While  the Company has implemented safety procedures related to the  handling of the cells, there can be no assurance that a safety  issue or fire related to the cells would not disrupt the Company’s  operations.
Such damage or injury could lead to adverse publicity  and potentially a safety recall.
Moreover, any failure of a  competitor’s electric vehicle may cause indirect adverse publicity  for the company and the Company’s products.
Such adverse  publicity could harm the Company’s business, prospects, financial  condition and operating results.
The Company may be materially and adversely affected by the  divulgence of confidential information.
Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures  to protect confidential information, such as key contractual  provisions, future projects, and customer records, such information  may be divulged, including as a result of hacking or other threats  from cyberspace.
If this occurs, the Company could be subject to  claims by affected parties, negative publicity and loss of proprietary  information, all of which could have an adverse and material impact  on the Company’s reputation, business, financial condition, results  of operations and cash flows.
The Company’s insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect  against all potential losses to which it may be subject to, and  this may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial  condition and results of operations.
While the Company believe that the insurance coverage that  it maintain is reasonably adequate to cover all normal risks  associated with the operation of the Company’s business, there can  be no assurance that the Company’s insurance coverage will be  sufficient, that any claim under the Company’s insurance policies  will be honoured fully or in a timely manner, or that the Company’s  insurance premiums will not increase substantially.
There can be no  assurance that any claim under the Company’s insurance policies  will be honoured fully or timely, its insurance coverage will be  sufficient in any respect or the insurance premiums will not change  substantially.
Accordingly, to the extent that the Company suffer  loss or damage that is not covered by insurance or that exceeds  its insurance coverage, or are required to pay higher insurance  premiums, the Company’s business, financial condition and results  of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
The Company’s business could be negatively affected by the  actions of activist shareholders.
Certain of the Company’s shareholders may from time to time  advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect  changes at the Company, influence elections of directors or acquire  control over its business.
The Company’s success largely depends  on the ability of its current management team to operate and manage  146 effectively.
Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly  listed companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase  short-term shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such  as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends,  stock repurchases or even sales of assets or the entire company, or  by voting against proposals put forward by the board of directors  and management of the company.
If faced with actions by activist  shareholders, the Company may not be able to respond effectively to  such actions, which could be disruptive to the Company’s business.
Political and Regulatory Risks India’s obligations under the World Trade Organization Agreement  could materially affect the Company’s business.
India’s obligations under its World Trade Organization agreement  could reduce the present level of tariffs on imports of components  and vehicles.
Reductions of import tariffs could result in increased  competition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect  the Company’s sales, business, financial condition and results of  operations.
New or changing laws, regulations and government policies  regarding increased fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gas and  other emissions, vehicle safety and taxes, tariffs or fiscal policies  may have significant impact on the Company’s business.
As an automobile company, the Company is subject to extensive  governmental regulations regarding vehicle emission levels, noise,  safety and levels of pollutants generated by its production facilities.
In particular, the United States and Europe have stringent regulations  relating to vehicle emissions.
The contemplated tightening of  vehicle emissions regulations by the European Union will require  significant costs for compliance.
In China, further regulations are  being introduced in the short to medium-term future relating to  greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental concerns.
While the Company is pursuing various technologies in order to  meet the required standards in the various countries in which the  Company sell its vehicles, these regulations are likely to become  more stringent and the resulting higher compliance costs may be  significant to the Company’s operations and may adversely impact  its business, financial condition and results of operations.
They may  also limit the type of vehicles the Company sell and where it sell  them, which could affect the Company’s revenues.
Recently, several  jurisdictions, such as Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom, France,  the Netherlands, India and China, have announced the intention to  eliminate the sale of conventionally fueled vehicles in their markets  in the coming decades.
Diesel technologies have also become the  focus of legislators in the United States and European Union as a  result of emissions levels.
This has led various carmakers to announce  programs to retrofit diesel vehicles with software that will allow them  to reduce emissions.
To maintain the Company’s competitiveness and  compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the Company may  be required to undertake increased R&D spending as well as other  capital expenditures.
There is a risk that these R&D activities, including  retrofit software upgrades, will not achieve their planned objectives or  that the Company’s competitors will develop better solutions and will  be able to manufacture the resulting products more rapidly, in larger  quantities, with a higher quality and/or at a lower cost.
This could  lead to increased demand for the products of such competitors and  result in a loss of market share for the Company .
There is also a risk  that investments in research and development of new technologies,  including autonomous, connected and electrification technologies,  and solutions to address future travel and transport challenges, may  fail to generate sufficient returns because the technologies developed  or the products derived therefrom are unsuccessful in the market and/ or because the Company’s competitors have developed better and/or  less expensive products.
In order to comply with current and future safety and environmental  norms, the Company may have to incur additional capital expenditure  and R&D expenditure to (i) operate and maintain the Company’s  production facilities, (ii) install new emissions controls or reduction  technologies, (iii) purchase or otherwise obtain allowances to emit  greenhouse gases, (iv) administer and manage the Company’s  greenhouse gas emissions program, and (v) invest in research and  development to upgrade products and manufacturing facilities.
If the  Company is unable to develop commercially viable technologies or  otherwise unable to attain compliance within the time frames set by  the new standards, the Company could face significant civil penalties  or be forced to restrict product offerings significantly.
For example,  in the United States, manufacturers are subject to substantial civil  penalties if they fail to meet federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy,  or CAFE, standards.
These penalties are calculated at US$5.50 for  each tenth of a mile below the required fuel efficiency level for each  vehicle sold in a model year in the U.S. market.
As with many European  manufacturers, since 2010, Jaguar Land Rover has paid total penalties  of US$46 million for its failure to meet CAFE standards.
Jaguar Land  Rover could incur a substantial increase in these penalties, as a result  of announced increases in CAFE civil penalties to adjust for inflation.
Moreover, safety and environmental standards may at times impose  conflicting imperatives, which pose engineering challenges and  would, among other things, increase the Company’s costs.
The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, 2017 was passed in the  Lok Sabha on April 10, 2017, and is currently being debated in  the Rajya Sabha.
This Bill addresses vehicle recalls, road safety,  traffic management and accident insurance, among other matters.
In its current draft, the Bill imposes civil and criminal liability on  manufacturers selling vehicles in contravention of the standards  specified in the Bill, or required by the government to recall their  vehicles.
The Bill also proposes the creation of the National Road  Safety Board to provide advice to the central and state governments  on all aspects of road safety and traffic management.
Commencing July 1, 2017, the Indian tax regime underwent a  systemic change.
The Government of India, in conjunction with the  state governments, implemented a comprehensive national goods  and services tax, or GST regime to subsume large number of Central  & State taxes  into one unified tax structure.
It is a dual GST with  Centre & States simultaneously levying it on the common base.
The  tax is called Central GST (CGST), if levied by Centre; State/Union  Territory GST (SGST/UTGST), in instances where the State or Union  Territory levy the tax; and Integrated GST (IGST), in instances where  the GST is levied on the inter-state supply of goods and services.
While both the Central and State Governments have publicly  announced that all committed incentives will be protected following  the implementation of the GST, given the limited availability of  147 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 information or alignment of Industrial Policy of various States  to cover GST  or to protect the quantum of incentive available to  Industries in pre-GST regime, the company is unable to provide  any assurance as to this or any other aspect of the tax regime, or  guarantee that the implementation of GST will not materially or  adversely affect the company’s business or financial condition.
Further, GST portal has not yet settled and Govt.
has not yet started  reconciliation of ITC availed in GST regime with the supply reported  by the suppliers of TML and hence, possibility of mismatch in ITC and  consequent financial/compliance risk on TML cannot be ruled out.
Imposition of any additional taxes and levies designed to limit the  use of automobiles and changes in corporate and other taxation  policies as well as changes in export and other incentives given by  various governments or import or tariff policies, could adversely  affect the demand for its vehicles and its results of operations.
For  instance, Brexit may result in material changes to the UK’s tax,  tariff and fiscal policies.
In addition, the United States presidential  administration could seek to introduce changes to laws and  policies governing international trade and impose additional  tariffs and duties on foreign vehicle imports, as evidenced by the  ongoing renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Act [and a  contemplate rise in tariffs for automobiles imported into the U.S.],  which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales  in the United States.
Furthermore, in recent years, the Brazilian  government has implemented increased import duty on foreign  vehicles, along with related exemptions provided certain criteria  are met.
The Company continues its discussions with the Brazilian  government to manage the impact on the Company’s business  and are seeking to reduce the impact of increased tariffs.
Finally,  the European Commission opened an investigation into whether  certain tax and other incentives granted by the government of  Slovakia in connection with the construction of the Company’s  Slovakian manufacturing facility complied with European Union  rules on state aid.
Such government actions may be unpredictable  and beyond the Company’s control, and any adverse changes in  government policy could have a material adverse effect on its  business prospects, results of operations and financial condition.
Evaluating and estimating the Company’s provision and accruals for  its taxes requires significant judgment.
As the Company conduct its  business, the final tax determination may be uncertain.
The Company  operate in multiple geographical markets and its operations in each  market are susceptible to additional tax assessments and audits.
The Company’s collaborations with business partners are similarly  susceptible to such tax assessments.
Authorities may engage in additional reviews, inquiries and  audits that disrupt the Company’s operations or challenge its  conclusions regarding tax matters.
Any resulting tax assessment  may be accompanied by a penalty or additional fee for failing to  make the initial payment.
The Company’s tax rates may be affected  by earnings estimation errors, losses in jurisdictions that do not  grant a related tax benefit, changes in currency rates, acquisitions,  investments, or changes in laws, regulations or practices.
Additionally, government fiscal pressures may increase the  likelihood of adverse or aggressive interpretations of tax laws or  regulations or the imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes, interest  charges and penalties.
Tax assessments may be levied even where  the Company consider its practices to be in compliance with tax  laws and regulations.
Should the Company challenge such taxes  or believe them to be without merit, it may nonetheless be required  to pay them.
These amounts may be materially different from the  Company’s expected tax assessments and could additionally result  in expropriation of assets, attachment of additional securities, liens,  imposition of royalties or new taxes and requirements for local  ownership or beneficiation.
Regulations in the areas of investments, taxes and levies may  also have an impact on Indian securities, including the Company’s  Shares and ADSs.
In 2014, the antitrust regulator in China, the Bureau of Price  Supervision and Anti-Monopoly of the National Development and  Reform Commission (the ‘‘NDRC’’), launched an investigation into  the pricing practices of more than 1,000 Chinese and international  companies in the automotive industry, including Jaguar Land  Rover and many of the Company’s competitors.
The NDRC has  reportedly imposed fines on certain of the Company’s international  competitors as a result of anti-competitive practices pertaining to  vehicle and spare-part pricing.
In response to this investigation, the  Company established a process to review the Company’s pricing in  China and announced reductions in the manufacturer’s suggested  retail price for the 5.0-liter V8 models, which include the Range  Rover, Range Rover Sport and F-Type and the price of certain of  the Company’s spare parts.
Further imposition of price reductions  and other actions taken in relation to the Company’s products  may significantly reduce its revenues and profits generated by  operations in China and have a material adverse effect on the  Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
As a result,  the Company’s attempts to offset the potential decline in revenue  and profits by increasing operational efficiencies and leveraging  economies of scale (for example, through local production in  China) may fail or not be as successful as expected.
Furthermore,  any regulatory action taken or penalties imposed by regulatory  authorities may have significant adverse financial and reputational  consequences on the Company’s business and have a material  adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
On March 29, 2017, the Supreme Court of India prohibited the sale  and registration of Bharat Stage III vehicles from April  1, 2017.
Bharat Stage emission standards are emission standards instituted  by the Government of India to regulate the output of air pollutants  from internal combustion engines and Spark-ignition engines  equipment, including motor vehicles.
These regulations are similar  to European emission standards, and seeks to curb emission  levels from motor vehicles.
Bharat Stage III similar to European  standards (Euro III) which was in place between 2000 and 2005 in  most western nations.
The Supreme Court’s judgment overturned  a government regulation, and was unexpected.
The Petroleum  Ministry of India in consultation with Public Oil Marketing  Companies brought forward the date of BS-VI grade auto fuels in  NCT of Delhi with effect from April 1, 2018 instead of April 1, 2020.
The Government has announced its intention to leapfrog to BS-VI  from April 1, 2020.
Any future potential or real unexpected change  in law could have could have a material adverse effect on the  company’s business prospects, results of operations and financial  condition.
148 The Company may be affected by competition law in India and any  adverse application or interpretation of the Competition Act could  adversely affect the Company’s business.
The Indian Competition Act oversees practices having an  appreciable adverse effect on competition, or AAEC, in a given  relevant market in India.
Under the Competition Act, any formal  or informal arrangement, understanding or action in concert,  which causes or is likely to cause an AAEC, is considered void and  results in imposition of substantial penalties.
Consequently, all  agreements entered into by us could be within the purview of the  Competition Act.
Furthermore, any agreement among competitors  which directly or indirectly involves determination of purchase or  sale prices, limits or controls production, sharing the market by  way of geographical area or number of subscribers in the relevant  market or which directly or indirectly results in bid-rigging or  collusive bidding is presumed to have an AAEC in the relevant  market in India and is considered void.
The Competition Act also  prohibits abuse of a dominant position by any enterprise.
The  Company cannot predict with certainty the impact of the provisions  of the Competition Act on the Company’s agreements at this stage.
On March 4, 2011, the Government of India issued and brought  into force the combination regulation (merger control) provisions  under the Competition Act with effect from June 1, 2011.
These  provisions require acquisitions of shares, voting rights, assets or  control or mergers or amalgamations that cross the prescribed  asset- and turnover-based thresholds to be mandatorily notified  to and pre-approved by the Competition Commission of India, or  CCI.
Additionally, on May 11, 2011, the CCI issued the Competition  Commission of India (Procedure for Transaction of Business  Relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 (as amended), which  sets out the mechanism for the implementation of the merger  control regime in India.
Furthermore, the CCI has extraterritorial powers and can investigate  any agreements, abusive conduct or combination occurring outside  India if such agreement, conduct or combination has an AAEC in  India.
The CCI has initiated an inquiry against us and other car  manufacturers, collectively referred to hereinafter as the OEMs,  pursuant to an allegation that genuine spare parts of automobiles  manufactured by the OEMs were not made freely available in the  open market in India and, accordingly, anti-competitive practices  were carried out by the OEMs.
If the Company are adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by the  application or interpretation of any provision of the Competition  Act, or any enforcement proceedings initiated by the CCI, or  any adverse publicity that may be generated due to scrutiny or  prosecution by the CCI or if any prohibition or substantial penalties  are levied under the Competition Act, it could adversely affect the  Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Compliance with new or changing corporate governance and  public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to the Company’s  compliance policies and increases the Company’s costs of  compliance.
The Company is subject to a complex and continuously changing  regime of laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to  accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including  the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission, or SEC, regulations, Securities and Exchange  Board of India, or SEBI, regulations, New York Stock Exchange,  or NYSE, listing rules, and the Companies Act, as well as Indian  stock market listing regulations.
New or changed laws, rules,  regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to  varying interpretations.
Under applicable Indian laws, for example,  remuneration packages may, in certain circumstances, require  shareholders’ approval.
New guidance and revisions may be  provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result  in continuing uncertainty and higher costs of compliance.
The  Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate  governance and public disclosure.
However, the Company’s efforts  to comply with evolving regulations have resulted in, and are  likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative  expenses and a diversion of management resources and time.
The Companies Act has effected significant changes to the existing  Indian company law framework, such as in the provisions related  to the issue of capital, disclosures in offering documents, corporate  governance norms, accounting policies and audit matters, related  party transactions, class action suits against companies by  shareholders or depositors, prohibitions on loans to directors and  insider trading, including restrictions on derivative transactions  concerning a company’s securities by directors and key managerial  personnel.
The Companies Act may subject the Company to higher  compliance requirements, increase its compliance costs and divert  management’s attention.
The Company is also required to spend,  in each financial year, at least 2% of the company’s average net  profits during the three immediately preceding financial years,  calculated for Tata Motors Limited on a standalone basis under Ind  AS, toward corporate social responsibility activities.
Furthermore,  the Companies Act imposes greater monetary and other liability  on the Company and its directors for any non-compliance.
Due  to limited relevant jurisprudence, in the event that the Company’s  interpretation of the Companies Act differs from, or contradicts  with, any judicial pronouncements or clarifications issued by the  Government of India in the future, the Company may face regulatory  actions or be required to undertake remedial steps.
In addition, some  of the provisions of the Companies Act overlap with other existing  laws and regulations (such as corporate governance provisions  and insider trading regulations issued by SEBI).
SEBI promulgated  the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, or the Listing Regulations, which are applicable  to all Indian companies with listed securities or companies  intending to list its securities on an Indian stock exchange, and  the Listing Regulations became effective on December 1, 2015.
Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, the Company is required to  establish and maintain a vigilance mechanism for directors and  employees to report their concerns about unethical behaviour,  actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of  Conduct or ethics policy under the Company’s whistleblower  policy, to implement increased disclosure requirements for price  sensitive information, to conduct elaborate directors familiarization  programs and comprehensive disclosures thereof, in accordance  with the Listing Regulations.
The Company may face difficulties in  complying with any such overlapping requirements.
Furthermore,  the Company cannot currently determine the impact of certain  provisions of the Companies Act and the revised SEBI corporate  governance norms.
Any increase in the Company’s compliance  149 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 requirements or in the Company’s compliance costs may have a  material and adverse effect on its business, financial condition and  results of operations.
The Company is subject to risks associated with legal proceedings  and governmental investigations, including potential adverse  publicity as a result thereof.
The Company are and may be involved from time to time in civil,  labour, administrative or tax proceedings arising in the ordinary  course of business.
It is not possible to predict the potential for, or  the ultimate outcomes of, such proceedings, some of which may  be unfavorable to the Company.
In such cases, the Company may  incur costs and any mitigating measures (including provisions taken  on the Company’s balance sheet) adopted to protect against the  impact of such costs may not be adequate or sufficient.
In addition,  adverse publicity surrounding legal proceedings, government  investigations or allegations may also harm the Company’s  reputation and brands.
In any of the geographical markets in which the Company operate,  the Company could be subject to additional tax liabilities.
Evaluating and estimating the Company’s provision and accruals for  its taxes requires significant judgement.
As the Company conduct its  business, the final tax determination may be uncertain.
The Company  operate in multiple geographical markets and its operations in  each market are susceptible to additional tax assessments and  audits.
The Company’s collaborations with business partners are  similarly susceptible to such tax assessments.
Authorities may  engage in additional reviews, inquiries and audits that disrupt the  Company’s operations or challenge its conclusions regarding tax  matters.
Any resulting tax assessment may be accompanied by a  penalty (including revocation of a benefit or exemption from tax) or  additional fee for failing to make the initial payment.
The Company’s tax rates may be affected by earnings estimation  errors, losses in jurisdictions that do not grant a related tax benefit,  changes in currency rates, acquisitions, investments, or changes  in laws, regulations, or practices.
Additionally, government fiscal  or political pressures may increase the likelihood of adverse  or aggressive interpretations of tax laws or regulations or the  imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes, interest charges and  penalties.
Tax assessments may be levied even where the  Company consider its practices to be in compliance with tax laws  and regulations.
Should the Company challenge such taxes or  believe them to be without merit, it may nonetheless be required  to pay them.
These amounts may be materially different from the  Company’s expected tax assessments and could additionally result  in expropriation of assets, attachment of additional securities, liens,  imposition of royalties or new taxes and requirements for local  ownership or beneficiation.
The Company may have to comply with more stringent foreign  investment regulations in India in the event of an increase in  shareholding of non-residents or if the Company is considered as  engaged in a sector in which foreign investment is restricted.
Indian companies, which are owned or controlled by non-resident  persons, are subject to investment restrictions specified in the  Consolidated FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) Policy.
Under the  Consolidated FDI Policy, an Indian company is considered to be  “owned” by non-resident persons if more than 50% of its equity  interest is beneficially owned by non-resident persons.
The non- resident equity shareholding in the Company may, in the near future,  exceed 50%, thereby resulting in the Company being considered  as being “owned” by non-resident entities under the Consolidated  FDI Policy.
In such an event, any investment by us in existing  subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and new subsidiaries,  associates or joint ventures will be considered as indirect foreign  investment and shall be subject to various requirements specified  under the Consolidated FDI Policy, including sectoral limits,  approval requirements and pricing guidelines, as may be applicable.
Furthermore, as part of the Company’s automotive business, its  supply and have in the past supplied, vehicles to Indian military  and paramilitary forces and in the course of such activities have  obtained an industrial license from the Department of Industrial  Policy.
The Consolidated FDI policy applies different foreign  investment restrictions to companies based upon the sector  in which they operate.
While the Company believe that it is an  automobile company by virtue of the significance of the Company’s  automobile operations, in the event that foreign investment  regulations applicable to the defense sector (including under the  Consolidated FDI Policy) are made applicable to us, the Company  may face more stringent foreign investment restrictions and other  compliance requirements compared to those applicable to us  presently, which, in turn, could materially affect the Company’s  business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Company require certain approvals or licenses in the ordinary  course of business, and the failure to obtain or retain them in a  timely manner, or at all, could materially and adversely affect the  Company’s operations.
The Company require certain statutory and regulatory permits,  licenses and approvals to carry out its business operations and  applications for their renewal need to be made within certain  time frames.
For some of the approvals which may have expired,  the Company have either made, or are in the process of making,  an application for obtaining the approval or its renewal.
While the  Company have applied for renewal for such approvals, registrations  and permits, it cannot assure you that the Company will receive them  in a timely manner or at all.
The Company can make no assurances  that the approvals, licenses, registrations and permits issued to us  would not be suspended or revoked in the event of non-compliance  or alleged non-compliance with any terms or conditions thereof,  or pursuant to any regulatory action.
Furthermore, if the Company  are unable to renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and  approvals on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all, the  Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations  could be materially and adversely affected.
Any downgrading of India’s debt rating by a domestic or  international rating agency could negatively impact the  Company’s business.
Any adverse revisions to India’s credit ratings for domestic and  international debt by domestic or international rating agencies  could adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise additional  financing, as well as the interest rates and other commercial terms  at which such additional financing is available.
This could have a  material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results, business  prospects, ability to obtain financing for capital expenditures and  the price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs.
150 Report on Corporate Governance COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE As a Tata Company, the Company’s philosophy on Corporate  Governance is founded upon a rich legacy of fair, ethical  and transparent governance practices, many of which were  in place even before they were mandated by adopting the  highest standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity and  ethical behavior.
As a global organization, the Corporate  Governance practices followed by the Company and its  subsidiaries are compatible with international standards and  best practices.
Through the Governance mechanism in the  Company, the Board along with its Committees undertakes its  fiduciary responsibilities to all its stakeholders by ensuring  transparency, fairplay and independence in its decision   making.
The Corporate Governance mechanism is further strengthened  with the adherence to the Tata Business Excellence Model  as a means to drive excellence and the Balanced Scorecard  methodology for tracking progress on long-term strategic  objectives.
The Tata Code of Conduct, which articulates the  values, ethics and business principles, serves as a guide to the  Company, its directors and employees and is supplemented  with an appropriate mechanism to report any concerns  pertaining to non-adherence to the said Code.
The Company  has adopted the Governance Guidelines on Board Effectiveness  based on current and emerging best practices from both within  and outside the Tata Group of companies.
The Company is in  full compliance with the requirements of Corporate Governance  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations,  2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
The Company’s Depositary  Programme is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the  Company also complies with US regulations as applicable to  Foreign Private Issuers (non-US companies listed on a US  Exchange) which cast upon the Board of Directors and the Audit  Committee, onerous responsibilities to ensure higher standards  of the Company’s operating efficiencies.
Risk management and  the internal control process are focus areas that continue to  meet the progressive governance standards.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  The Board of Directors is the apex body constituted by  shareholders for overseeing the Company’s overall functioning.
It provides strategic direction, leadership and guidance to the  Company’s management as also monitors the performance of  the Company with the objectives of creating long term value for  the Company’s stakeholders.
The Board currently comprises of  9 Directors, out of which 7 Directors (78%) are Non-Executive  Directors, including 2 women directors.
The Company has  a Non-Executive Chairman and 5 Independent Directors,  comprising more than half of the total strength of the Board.
All the Independent Directors have confirmed that they meet  the ‘independence’ criteria as mentioned under Regulation 16(1) (b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 149(6) of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and the Rules framed thereunder.
All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding their  directorships and other interests as required under Section 184  of the Act and on the Committee positions held by them in other  companies.
None of the Directors on the Company’s Board hold  the office of Director in more than 20 companies, including not  more than 10 public companies and none of the Directors of the  Company are related to each other.
In accordance with Regulation  26 of the SEBI Listing Regulations none of the Directors are  members in more than 10 committees or act as chairperson of  more than 5 committees [the committees being, Audit Committee  and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee] across all pulic limited  companies in which he/she is a Director.
All Non-Executive Non- Independent Directors, are liable to retire by rotation.
The required information, including information as enumerated  in Regulation 17(7) read together with Part A of Schedule II of  the SEBI Listing Regulations is made available to the Board  of Directors, for discussions and consideration at Board  Meetings.
The Board reviews the declaration made by the CEO  & Managing Director and the Group Chief Financial Officer  (“CFO”) regarding compliance with all applicable laws on a  quarterly basis, as also steps taken to remediate instances of  non-compliance, if any.
Pursuant to Regulation 27(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  the Company also submits a quarterly compliance report on  Corporate Governance to the Indian Stock Exchanges, including  details on all material transactions with related parties, within  15 days from the close of every quarter.
The CEO & Managing  Director and the CFO have certified to the Board on inter alia , the  accuracy of the financial statements and adequacy of internal  controls for financial reporting, in accordance with Regulation  17(8) read together with Part B of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing  Regulations, pertaining to CEO and CFO certification for the  Financial Year ended March 31, 2018.
During the year under review, 9 Board Meetings were held on  April 4, 2017, May 23, 2017, May 31, 2017, July 5, 2017, August  9, 2017, November 9, 2017, January 16, 2018, February 5, 2018  and March 22, 2018.
All the agenda papers for the Board and  Committee meetings are disseminated electronically on a real- time basis, by uploading them on a secured online application,  specifically designed for this purpose, thereby eliminating  circulation of printed agenda papers.
The composition of the  Board, attendance at Board Meetings held during the Financial  Year under review and at the last Annual General Meeting,  number of directorships (including Tata Motors), memberships/ chairmanships of the Board and Committees of public  companies and their shareholding as at March 31, 2018 in the  Company are as follows: 151 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Name of the  Director Director Identification  Number Director   Category No.
of  Board Meetings attended in the year Attendance  % Attendance at the last AGM Directorships(1) Committee positions(2) Holding  in shares  and other  convertible  instruments Chairman Member Chairman Member Mr Natarajan  Chandrasekaran  00121863 Non-Executive,  Chairman 9 100 Yes 7 - - - - Dr R A Mashelkar(3)(4) 00074119 Non-Executive,  Independent 6 100 Yes - 6 - 3 - Mr Nasser Munjee 00010180 Non-Executive,  Independent 9 100 Yes 2 6 5 1 - Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath 00391684 Non-Executive,  Independent 9 100 Yes - 9 2 7 - Ms Falguni Nayar 00003633 Non-Executive,  Independent 7 78 Yes - 7 4 1 - Mr Om Prakash Bhatt (5) 00548091 Non-Executive,  Independent 8 100 Yes - 4 2 4 - Ms Hanne Sorensen(6) 08035439 Non-Executive,  Independent 3 100 N.A.
- 1 - 1 - Dr Ralf Speth 03318908 Non-Executive 8 89 Yes - 2 - - - Mr Guenter Butschek 07427375 CEO and Managing  Director  8 89 Yes - 3 - 1 - Mr Ravindra Pisharody (7) 01875848 Executive Director  (Commercial  Vehicles) 1 20 - - 5 - - - Mr Satish Borwankar (8) 01793948 Executive Director  & COO  8 89 Yes - 3 - 1 500  Ordinary  Shares (1) Excludes Directorships in private companies, foreign companies, Section 8 companies and alternate directorships.
(2) Includes only Audit and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committees.
(3) In accordance with the Company’s retirement age policy, retired on December 31, 2017, upon attaining the age of 75 years.
(4) Number of Directorships, Committee positions and shareholding details are as on the date of cessation as director.
(5) Appointed as an Independent Director of the Company with effect from May 9, 2017.
(6) Appointed as an Additional and Independent Director of the Company with effect from January 3, 2018.
(7)  Tendered his resignation as Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) vide letter dated June 5, 2017, but continued to serve his term of office upto  September 30, 2017 to ensure seamless transition in business operations.
(8) Designated as Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Company with effect from June 5, 2017.
The Company actively uses the facility of video conferencing,  permitted under Section 173(2) of the Act read together with  Rule 3 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers)  Rules, 2014.
Independent Directors’ Meeting: As per Regulation 25(1) of the  SEBI Listing Regulations, none of the Independent Directors serve  as Independent Directors in more than 7 listed entities and in case  they are whole-time directors in any listed entity, then they do  not serve as Independent Directors in more than 3 listed entities.
During the year, 1 Meeting of Independent Directors was held on  March 22, 2018 the attendance whereat is as follows: Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Dr R A Mashelkar (1) NA NA Mr Nasser Munjee 1 100 Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath 1 100 Ms Falguni Nayar 1 100 Mr Om Prakash Bhatt (2) 1 100 Ms Hanne Sorensen (3) 1 100 (1) In accordance with the Company’s retirement age policy, retired on  December 31, 2017, upon attaining the age of 75 years.
(2) Appointed as an Independent Director of the Company with effect from  May 9, 2017.
(3) Appointed as an Additional and Independent Director of the Company  with effect from January 3, 2018.
An Independent Directors meeting in accordance with the  provisions of Section 149(8) read with Schedule IV of the Act  and Regulation 25(3) and 25(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations  was convened on March 22, 2018, to review the performance  of Non-Independent Directors and the Board as a whole,  the  performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of  Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The quality, quality and  timeliness of flow of information between the management and  the Board is also assessed.
Board Effectiveness Evaluation:  Pursuant to provisions of  Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the  provisions of the Act, Board evaluation involving evaluation of  the Board of Directors, its Committees and individual Directors,  152 including the role of the Board Chairman, was conducted during  the year.
For details pertaining to the same, kindly refer to the   Board’s Report.
Board Diversity: To ensure that a transparent Board  nomination  process is in place that encourages diversity of thought, experience,  knowledge, perspective, age and gender, the Board has adopted a  Diversity Policy, formulated by the Nomination & Remuneration  Committee (“NRC”), wherein it is expected that the Board has an  appropriate blend of functional and industry expertise.
Whilst  recommending the appointment of a Director, the NRC considers  the manner in which the function and domain expertise of the  individual contributes to the overall skill-mix of the Board and is  supported by the Group Human Resources in this regard.
Familiarisation Programme: Kindly refer to the Company’s website  for details of the familiarisation programme for Independent  Directors on their roles, rights, responsibilities in the Company,  nature of the industry in which the Company operates, business  model of the Company and related matters.
THE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD  The Board has constituted a set of Committees with specific terms  of reference/scope, to focus effectively on the issues and ensure  expedient resolution of diverse matters.
The Committees operate  as empowered agents of the Board as per their Charter/terms of  reference.
Targets set / actions directed by them, as agreed with the  management are reviewed periodically and mid-course corrections  are also carried out.
The Board of Directors and the Committees  also take decisions by circular resolutions which are noted at the  next meeting.
The minutes of the meetings of all Committees of  the Board are placed before the Board for discussions/noting.
An  Organisation Chart depicting the relationship between the Board of  Directors, the Committees and the senior management functions is  illustrated below: AUDIT COMMITTEE  The Audit Committee functions according to its Charter that defines  its composition, authority, responsibility and reporting functions  in accordance with Section 177 of the Act, Regulation 18(3) read  with Part C of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations and US  regulations applicable to the Company and is reviewed from time to  time.
Whilst, the full Charter is available on the Company’s website,  given below is a gist of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee: i.
Reviewing with the management, quarterly/annual financial  statements before submission to the Board, focusing  primarily on:   - The Company’s financial reporting process and the  disclosure of its financial information, including earnings,  press release, to ensure that the financial statements are  correct, sufficient and credible;                          SHAREHOLDERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO & MANAGING DIRECTOR (MD) BUSINESS COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE - ExCom (1) BOARD COMMITTEES (2) CV & PV Business Unit Steering Committee (3) Chief Operating Officer Audit Committee CV & PV Product Review Committee Commercial Vehicles Executive Committee of the Board Investment Review Committee (3) Passenger Vehicles Nomination & Remuneration Committee Risk Oversight Committee Group Chief Financial Officer Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Sourcing Council (3) Chief Human Resource Officer Safety, Health & Sustainability Committee IT Governance Committee Chief Technology Officer Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Chief Purchasing Officer Risk Management Committee E-Mobility Business & Corporate Strategy Special Need based Committees Corporate Communications (4) OTHER DIRECT REPORTS TO MD Chief Internal Auditor Company Secretary Government Affairs Corporate Legal Chief Information Officer (1) The CEO & MD chairs the ExCom (2) The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary for all Board constituted Committees (3)   Business Committees are chaired by related ExCom member  where indicated, otherwise by the CEO & MD (4) Associated member of the ExCom 153 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  - Reports on the Management Discussion and Analysis  of financial condition, results of operations and the  Directors’ Responsibility Statement;   - Major accounting entries involving estimates based on  exercise of judgment by Management;   - Compliance with accounting standards and changes in  accounting policies and practices as well as reasons  thereof;   - Draft Audit Report, qualifications, if any and significant  adjustments arising out of audit;   - Scrutinise inter corporate loans and investments;   - Disclosures made under the CEO and CFO certification;  and   - Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions  with related parties, including omnibus related party  transactions.
ii.
Reviewing with the management, external auditor and  internal auditor, adequacy of internal control systems and  recommending improvements to the management.
iii.
Review Management letters/Letters of internal control  weakness issued by the statutory auditors.
iv.
Recommending the appointment/removal of the statutory  auditor, cost auditor, fixing audit fees and approving non- audit/consulting services provided by the statutory auditors’  firms to the Company and its subsidiaries; evaluating auditors’  performance, qualifications, experience, independence and  pending proceedings relating to professional misconduct, if  any.
v. Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, including  the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and  seniority of the chief internal auditor, coverage and frequency  of internal audit, appointment, removal, performance and  terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.
vi.
Discussing with the internal auditor and senior management,  significant internal audit findings and follow-up thereon.
vii.
Reviewing the findings of any internal investigation by the  internal auditor into matters involving suspected fraud or  irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material  nature and report the matter to the Board.
viii.
Discussing with the statutory auditor before the audit  commences, the nature and scope of audit, as well as conduct  post-audit discussions to ascertain any area of concern.
ix.
Establish and review the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism  under the Whistle-Blower Policy of the Company.
x.
Reviewing the financial statements and investments made  by subsidiary companies and subsidiary oversight, relating  to areas such as adequacy of the internal audit structure and  function of the subsidiaries, their status of audit plan and its  execution, key internal audit observations, risk management  and the control environment.
xi.
Look into the reasons for any substantial defaults in payment  to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of  non-payment of declared dividend) and creditors, if any.
xii.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system for monitoring  compliance with laws and regulations.
xiii.
Approving the appointment of CFO after assessing the  qualification, experience and background etc.
of the candidate.
xiv.
Review the system of storage, retrieval, display or printout of  books of accounts maintained in electronic mode during the  required period under law.
xv.
Approve all or any subsequent modification of transactions  with related parties.
xvi.
To approve policies in relation to the implementation of  the Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading  and Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices (“Code”) and to  supervise implementation of the Code.
xvii.
To note and take on record the status reports, detailing the  dealings by Designated Persons in Securities of the Company,  as submitted by the Compliance Officer on a quarterly basis  and to provide directions on any penal action to be initiated, in  case of any violation of the Code, by any person.
During the year, the Committee inter alia  reviewed key audit  findings covering operational, financial and compliance areas.
It  also reviewed the internal control system in subsidiary companies.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee briefs the Board on significant  discussions at Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee comprises of 4 Independent Directors, all of whom  are financially literate and have relevant finance and/or audit  exposure.
Mr Munjee is the Financial Expert.
The quorum of the  Committee is two members or one-third of its members, whichever  is higher.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also attended the  last Annual General Meeting of the Company.
During the period  under review, 8 Audit Committee meetings were held on April 18,  2017, May 22, 2017, July 4, 2017, August 7, 2017, September 18, 2017,  November 7, 2017, a two-day meeting on January 11-12, 2018 and  February 2, 2018.
Each Audit Committee meeting which considers  financial results is preceded by a meeting of the Audit Committee  members and the Auditors.
The composition of the Audit Committee and attendance at its  meetings is as follows: Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Mr Nasser Munjee (Chairman) 8 100 Dr R A Mashelkar (1) 5 83 Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath 8 100 Ms Falguni Nayar 7 88 Mr Om Prakash Bhatt (2) 0 0 (1) Consequent to his retirement as an Independent Director on December  31, 2017, he also ceased to be a Member of the Committee.
(2) Appointed as a Member with effect from January 16, 2018.
154 Ms Hanne Sorensen, Additional and Independent Director, also  attends Audit Committee meetings as a special invitee with effect  from January 16, 2018.
The Committee meetings are held at the  Company’s Corporate Headquarters or at its plant locations and  are attended by the CEO & Managing Director, Executive Directors,  CFO, Chief Internal Auditor, Statutory Auditors and Cost Auditors on  a need based basis.
The Business and Operation Heads are invited  to the meetings, as and when required.
The Chief Internal Auditor  reports directly to the Audit Committee to ensure independence of  the Internal Audit function.
The Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of the  management, the internal auditors and the Statutory Auditor, in  carrying out its oversight responsibilities.
It also uses external  expertise, if required.
The management is responsible for the  preparation, presentation and integrity of the Company’s financial  statements including consolidated statements, accounting and  financial reporting principles.
The management is also responsible  for internal control over financial reporting and all procedures  are designed to ensure compliance with accounting standards,  applicable laws and regulations as well as for objectively reviewing  and evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of the  Company’s system of internal controls.
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration  No.101248 W/W – 100022), the Company’s Statutory Auditor, is  responsible for performing an independent audit of the Financial  Statements and expressing an opinion on the conformity of those  financial statements with accounting principles generally accepted  in India.
The Audit Commiittee reviews on a quarterly basis the confirmation  of the Independence made by the Auditors, as also approves of the  fees paid to the Auditors by the Company, or any other company  in the Tata Motors Group as per the Policy for Approval of Services  to be rendered by the Auditors.
The said Policy is also available on  our website http:/ /www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/auditfee- policy.pdf.
The Company rotates its Audit Partners responsible for  its audit every five years, apart from the requirement of the Act of  rotating the Audit Firm every ten years, to ensure independence in  the audit function.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE  The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the  Company functions according to its Charter, that defines its  objective, composition, meeting requirements, authority and power,  responsibilities, reporting and evaluation functions in accordance  with Section 178 of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The  broad terms of reference of the NRC are as follows: - Recommend to the Board the set up and composition of the  Board and its Committees including the “formulation of the  criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and  independence of a director” .
The Committee periodically  reviews the composition of the Board with the objective of  achieving an optimum balance of size, skills, independence,  knowledge, age, gender and experience.
- Devise a policy on Board diversity.
- Recommend to the Board the appointment or reappointment  of Directors, including Independent directors, on the basis  of the performance evaluation  report of Independent  Directors.
- Support the Board in matters related to set-up, review and  refresh of the Committees.
- Recommend to the Board on voting on resolutions for  appointment and remuneration of Directors on the Boards of  its material subsidiary companies and provide guidelines for  remuneration of Directors on material subsidiaries.
- Identify and recommend to the Board appointment of Key  Managerial Personnel (“KMP” as defined by the Act) and  executive team members of the Company (as defined by  this Committee).
The Committee shall consult the Audit  Committee before recommending the appointment of the  CFO.
- Carry out evaluation of every Director’s performance and  support the Board, its Committees and individual Directors,  including “formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent  Directors and the Board”.
- Oversee the performance review process for the KMP and   the executive team of the Company with a view that there  is an appropriate cascading of goals and targets across the  Company and on an annual basis, recommend to the Board  the remuneration payable to the Directors, KMP and executive  team of the Company.
- Recommend the Remuneration Policy for Directors, KMP,  executive team and other employees.
- Review matters related to voluntary retirement and early  separation schemes for the Company.
- Oversee familiarization programmes for Directors.
- Oversee HR philosophy, HR and people strategy and  efficacy of HR practices including those for leadership  development, rewards and recognition, talent management  and succession planning (specifically for the Board, KMP  and executive team).
- Performing such other duties and responsibilities as may be  consistent with the provisions of the Committee Charter.
The Committee presently comprises of 2 Independent Directors  and 1 Non-Executive Director.
During the year under review, three  meetings of the Committee were held on May 23, 2017, January 16,  2018 and March 22, 2018.
The decisions are taken by the Committee,  at meetings or by passing circular resolutions.
The composition of  the NRC and attendance at its meetings is as follows: Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Mr Om Prakash Bhatt  (Chairman)(1) 3 100 Mr N Chandrasekaran 3 100 Mr Nasser Munjee 3 100 Dr R A Mashelkar(2) 1 100 (1) Inducted as a member on May 16, 2017 and appointed as the Committee  Chairman with effect from January 16, 2018.
(2) Consequent to his retirement as an Independent Director on December  31, 2017, he also ceased to be the Chairman and Member of the  Committee.
155 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Remuneration Policy The Company has in place a Remuneration Policy for Directors,  KMP and other employees, in accordance with the provisions of the  Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
For details on Remuneration  Policy for Directors, KMP and other employees, kindly refer to  Annexure 4 to the Board’s Report.
Remuneration of Directors: Non-Executive Directors • A sitting fee of `60,000/- for attendance at each meeting  of the Board, Audit Committee, Executive Committee of the  Board, NRC and for Independent Directors Meeting; `20,000/-  for attendance at each meeting of Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee; Safety, Health & Sustainability Committee, the  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Risk Management  Committee and other special need based committees, is paid  to its Members (excluding Managing Director and Executive  Directors) and also to Directors attending by invitation.
The  sitting fees paid/payable to the Non Whole-time Directors  is excluded whilst calculating the limits of remuneration in  accordance with Section 197 of the Act.
The Company also  reimburses out-of-pocket expenses to Directors attending  meetings held at a city other than the one in which the  Directors reside.
• The remuneration by way of commission to the Non- Executive Directors is decided by the Board of Directors  and distributed to them based on their participation and  contribution at the Board and certain Committee meetings  as well as time spent on matters other than at meetings.
The Members had, at the Annual General Meeting held on  August 21, 2013, approved the payment of remuneration by  way of commission to the Non Whole-time Directors of the  Company, of a sum not exceeding 1% per annum of the net  profits of the Company, calculated in accordance with the  provisions of the Act for a period of 5 years commencing  April 1, 2013, respectively.
No Commission was paid to any Non-Executive Director for FY  2017-18 in view of inadequacy of profits.
The performance evaluation criteria for Non-Executive  Directors, including Independent Directors, is determined  by the NRC.
An indicative list of factors that were evaluated  include participation and contribution by a director,  commitment, effective deployment of knowledge and  expertise, effective management of relationship with  stakeholders, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality  and independence of behaviour and judgement.
Given below are the Sitting Fees paid/ payable by the  Company to Non-Executive Directors during FY 2017-18: (` in lakhs) Name Sitting Fees  Mr N Chandrasekaran 7.80 Dr R A Mashelkar(1) 8.60 Mr Nasser Munjee 14.00 (` in lakhs) Name Sitting Fees  Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath 12.20 Ms Falguni Nayar 10.40 Mr Om Prakash Bhatt(2) 7.20 Ms Hanne Sorensen(3) 3.00 Dr Ralf Speth(4) - Total 63.20  (1) In accordance with the Company’s retirement age policy, retired  on December 31, 2017, upon attaining the age of 75 years.
(2) Appointed as an Independent Director of the Company with effect  from May 9, 2017.
(3) Appointed as an Additional and Independent Director of the  Company with effect from January 3, 2018.
(4) Is not paid any commission or sitting fees for attending Board  meetings of the Company in view of his appointment as Chief  Executive Officer and Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  PLC.
Some of the aforementioned Directors are also on the Board of the  Company’s subsidiaries and associates, in a non-executive capacity  and are paid remuneration and sitting fees for participating in their  meetings.
Other than the above, the Non-Executive Directors have  no pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, its  subsidiaries and associates.
Managing and Executive Directors The remuneration paid to the CEO & Managing Director and the  Executive Directors is commensurate with industry standards and  Board level positions held in similar sized companies, taking into  consideration the individual responsibilities shouldered by them  and is in consonance with the terms of appointment approved by  the Members, at the time of their appointment.
The NRC, reviews and recommends to the Board the changes in  the managerial remuneration, generally being increment in basic  salary and commission/incentive remuneration of the Managing and  Executive Directors on a yearly basis.
This review is based on the  Balanced Score Card that includes the performance of the Company  and the individual director on certain defined qualitative and  quantitative parameters such as volumes, EBITDA, market share,  cashflows, cost reduction initiatives, safety, strategic initiatives and  special projects as decided by the Board vis-a-vis targets set in the  beginning of the year.
This review also takes into consideration the  benchmark study undertaken by reputed independent agencies on  comparative industry remuneration practices.
The variable portion of the CEO & Managing Director’s remuneration  comprises of incentive remuneration in the form of performance linked  bonus and long-term incentive.
The target performance linked bonus  would be €550,000/- per annum upto a maximum of €825,000/-  per annum.
With the objective of achieving long-term value creation,  through retention and continuity in leadership, a long term incentive  plan is provided with a value intended target of €550,000/- per annum  upto a maximum of €825,000/- per annum.
156 The variable portion of the Executive Directors remuneration  comprises of a profit-linked commission and/or merit based  incentive remuneration.
The profit-linked commission is awarded  at the discretion of the NRC and the Board of Directors, based  on the net profits of the Company for that financial year, subject  to the overall ceiling limits stipulated in Section 197 of the Act,  but in any case not exceeding 400% of the basic salary.
In case  (` in lakhs) Particulars Mr Guenter Butschek Mr Ravindra Pisharody Mr Satish Borwankar CEO & Managing Director Executive Director   (Commercial Vehicles) (1) Executive Director & COO Basic Salary 250.80 48.97 60.72  Benefits, Perquisites & Allowance 1,294.39(2) 135.96(3) 87.46(4) Incentive Remuneration 1,066.66(5) - 60.00(5) Retirement Benefits 30.10 13.21 16.39 Total Remuneration 2,641.95 198.14 224.57 Note: No Commission was paid to the Whole-time Directors for FY 2017-18 in view of inadequacy of profits.
(1)   Resigned as Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) with effect from September 30, 2017.
(2)   Includes reimbursement of pension benefits of `155.04 lakhs.
(3)   Includes Ex-gratia payment of  `15 lakhs, gratuity of `30 lakhs and leave encashment of `42.60 lakhs.
(4)   Includes leave encashment of  `2.53 lakhs.
(5)   Incentive remuneration would be payable as per agreement.
Terms of  Appointment CEO & Managing Director (MD) Executive Director(s) Severance  Notice Period  and Fees - The Contract with the CEO & MD may be terminated  earlier, without any cause by either giving to the  other party six months’ notice of such termination  or the Company paying six months’ remuneration  which shall be limited to provision of basic salary,  benefits, perquisites and allowances (including  Living Allowance) and any pro-rated incentive  remuneration, in lieu of such notice.
Additionally, in  case of termination initiated by the Company before  the end of the term for the reasons other than Tata  Code of Conduct (“TCoC”), the CEO & MD shall be  entitled to severance pay for a period of 12 months  or balance term of the agreement whichever is less  and which shall be limited to provision of basic  salary, living allowance and any pro-rated incentive  remuneration.
-  This appointment may not be terminated by the  Company without notice or payment in lieu of notice  except for reasons of breach of TCoC.
In case of  breach of TCoC, the CEO & MD shall not be entitled  to Severance.
-  In the event the CEO & MD is not in a position to  discharge his official duties due to any physical or  mental incapacity, he shall be entitled to receive  notice pay and the severance as mentioned above  and this contract shall stand terminated.
- This appointment may be terminated by either party  by giving to the other party six months’ notice of  such termination or the Company paying six months’  remuneration in lieu of the Notice.
- The employment of the Executive Director, may be  terminated by the Company without notice or payment  in lieu of notice:  •  if the Executive Director, is found guilty of any gross  negligence, default or misconduct in connection  with or affecting the business of the Company or  any subsidiary or associated company to which he  is required by the Agreement to render services; or  •  in the event of any serious repeated or continuing  breach (after prior warning) or non-observance by  the Executive Director, of any of the stipulations  contained in the Agreement to be executed  between the Company and the Executive Director;  or  •  in the event the Board expresses its loss of  confidence in the Executive Director.
-  In the event the Executive Director is not in a position  to discharge his official duties due to any physical  or mental incapacity, the Board shall be entitled to  terminate his contract on such terms, as the Board may  consider appropriate in the given circumstances.
the Net Profits of the Company are inadequate for payment  of profit-linked commission in any financial year, an incentive  remuneration, not exceeding 200% of the basic salary, may be  paid at the discretion of the Board.
Given below are details pertaining to certain terms of appointment  and payment of Managerial Remuneration to the CEO & Managing  Director and Executive Directors for FY 2017-18:  157 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The Company has received approval from the shareholders  and the Central Government for appointment and payment of  remuneration to Mr Guenter Butschek, a foreign national, who is  functioning in a professional capacity as its CEO and Managing  Director for a period of 5 years from February 15, 2016 in  accordance with Section 197 read together with Schedule V of  the Act.
During the year under review, the Company did not have an  Employee Stock Option Scheme for any of its employees or  directors.
Retirement Policy for Directors  As per the retirement age policy adopted by the Company,   the Managing and Executive Directors retire at the age of 65  years.
The Executive Director, who have been retained on the  Company’s Board beyond the age of 65 years as Non-Executive  Directors for special reasons may continue as Directors at the  discretion of the Board but in no case beyond the age of 70  years.
The Company has also adopted a Policy for Managing  and Executive Directors (except where he is an expat), which  has also been approved by the Members of the Company,  offering special retirement benefits, viz.
pension, ex-gratia and  medical.
In addition to the above, the retiring Managing Director  is entitled to residential accommodation or compensation in lieu  of accommodation on retirement.
The quantum and payment of  the said benefits are subject to an eligibility criteria of the retiring  director and is payable at the discretion of the Board in each  individual case on the recommendation of the NRC.
In line with the  said Policy, payments are made to former Managing Directors /  Whole-time Directors / their heirs, namely, the spouses of Late   Mr J E Talaulicar and Late Mr V M Raval, Mr F J Da’Cunha,   Mr Ravi Kant, Mr P M Telang and Mr R Pisharody.
Section 149 of the Act provides that an Independent Director  shall hold office for a term of upto 5 consecutive years on  the Board of a Company and would not be liable to retire  by rotation.
An Independent Director would be eligible to  be re-appointed for another 5 years on passing of a Special  Resolution by the Company.
However, no Independent Director  shall hold office for more than 2 consecutive terms, but would  be eligible for appointment after the expiration of 3 years of  ceasing to become an Independent Director.
Provided that,  during the said period of 3 years, he/she is not appointed in  or associated with the Company in any other capacity, either  directly or indirectly.
The retirement age for Independent  Directors is 75 years as per the Company’s Policy.
Accordingly,  all Independent Directors have a tenure of 5 years each or  upon attaining the retirement age of 75 years, whichever is  earlier, as approved by the Members at the Annual General  Meeting held on July 31, 2014.
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE  The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee functions in accordance  with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 read with Part D  of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Committee  comprising of 2 Independent Directors and the CEO & Managing  Director, is empowered to: - Review statutory compliances relating to all security  holders.
- Consider and resolve the grievances of security holders of  the Company, including complaints related to transfer of  securities, non-receipt of annual report/ declared dividends/  notices/ balance sheet.
- Oversee compliances in respect of dividend payments and  transfer of unclaimed amounts and shares to and from the  Investor Education and Protection Fund.
- Oversee and review all matters related to the transfer of  securities of the Company.
- Approve issue of duplicate certificates of the Company.
- Review movements in shareholding and ownership structures  of the Company.
- Ensure setting of proper controls and oversee performance of  the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
- Recommend measures for overall improvement of the quality  of investor services.
During the year under review, 1 Committee meeting was held on  January 11, 2018.
The composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship  Committee and attendance at its meeting is as follows: Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Ms Falguni Nayar  (Chairperson)(1) 1 100 Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath(2) NA NA Mr Guenter Butschek 1 100 Ms Hanne Sorensen(3) NA NA (1) Appointed as the Chairperson of the Committee with effect from  January 16, 2018.
(2) Resigned as a Member of the Committee with effect from July 18, 2017.
(3) Inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from January 16, 2018.
Compliance Officer Mr H K Sethna, Company Secretary, who is the Compliance Officer,  can be contacted at: Tata Motors Limited, Bombay House, 24, Homi  Mody Street, Mumbai - 400 001, India.
Tel: 91 22 6665 8282, 91 22  6665 7824; Fax: 91 22 6665 7799; Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com Complaints or queries relating to the shares and/or debentures  can be forwarded to the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents  – M/s TSR Darashaw Limited at csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com,  whereas complaints or queries relating to the public fixed deposits  can be forwarded to the Registrars to the Fixed Deposits Scheme –  M/s TSR Darashaw Limited at tmlfd@tsrdarashaw.com.
Complaints or queries relating to the Rights Issue launched  by the Company vide Letter of Offer dated March 30, 2015 of  Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares, can be forwarded to Link Intime  India Private Limited, the Registrar to the Issue, for addressing  any Issue related queries / complaints including those relating to  the Applications Supported by Blocked Amount (ASBA) process.
158 Tel: (91 22) 4918 6000 / 9167779196 /97; Fax: (91 22) 4918  6060; Website: www.linkintime.co.in; Email: tatamotors.rights@ linkintime.co.in; Contact Person: Mr Sachin Achar / Mr Sumeet  Deshpande.
The status on the total number of investor complaints during FY  2017-18 is as follows: Type Nos.
Complaints regarding non-receipt of dividend,  shares lodged for transfer 90 Complaints received from the shareholders  through SEBI and other statutory bodies and  resolved 29 Complaints redressed out of the above 115 Pending complaints as on 31.03.2018  4* Other queries received from shareholders and  replied 8,272 * SEBI complaints have been replied within 4 days, but the same has been  reflected as unresolved as on 31.03.2018, as per the condition for complete  resolution defined by SEBI.
All letters received from the investors are replied to and the  response time for attending to investors’ correspondence during  FY 2017-18 is shown in the following table: Particulars Number % Total number of  correspondence received  during FY 2017-18 8,391 100.00 Replied within 1 to 4 days of  receipt 2,801 33.39 Replied within 5 to 7 days of  receipt 2,434 29.00 Replied within 8 to 15 days  of receipt  2,154 25.67 Replied after 15 days of  receipt(1) 938 11.18 Received in last week of  March 2018 have been  replied in April 2018 64 0.76 (1) These correspondence pertained to court cases which involved retrieval  of case files, cases involving retrieval of very old records, co-ordination with  the Company/Advocates etc, partial documents awaited from the Investors,  cases involving registration of legal documents, executed documents  received for issue of duplicate certificates and transmission of shares  without legal representation which involved checking of the documents,  sending notices to Stock Exchange(s) and issue of duplicate certificates/ transmission of shares after approval from the Company.
However, all these  cases have been attended to within the statutory limit of 30 days.
There were no pending share transfers pertaining to the Financial  Year ended March 31, 2018.
Out of the total number of complaints  mentioned above, 29 complaints pertained to letters received  through Statutory/Regulatory bodies and those related to the  Court/Consumer forum matters, fraudulent encashment and non- receipt of dividend.
On recommendations of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee,  the Company has taken various investor friendly initiatives like  organising Shareholders’ visit to Company’s Works at Pune,  sending reminders to investors who have not claimed their dues,  sending nomination forms, etc.
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD The Committee reviews capital and revenue budgets, long-term  business strategies and plans, the organizational structure of the  Company, real estate and investment transactions, allotment of  shares and/or debentures, borrowing and other routine matters.
The Committee also discusses the matters pertaining to legal cases,  acquisitions and divestment, new business forays and donations.
During the year under review, 1 Committee meeting was held on  September 12, 2017.
The Executive Committee of Board presently  comprises of 1 Independent Director, 1 Non-Executive Director and 2  Whole-time Directors.
The composition of the Executive Committee  of Board and attendance at its meetings is given hereunder: Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Mr N Chandrasekaran  (Chairman) 1 100 Mr Nasser Munjee 1 100 Mr Ravindra Pisharody(1) - - Mr Satish Borwankar 1 100 Mr Guenter Butschek 1 100 (1) Consequent to his resignation as Executive Director (Commercial  Vehicle) on September 30, 2017, he also ceased to be a Member of the  Committee.
THE SAFETY, HEALTH AND SUSTAINABILITY (SHS)  COMMITTEE The Committee was renamed on August 9, 2017 from Safety, Health  and Environment Committee with the objective of reviewing Safety,  Health and Sustainability practices.
The terms of reference of the  Committee include the following: - to take a holistic approach to safety, health and sustainability  matters in decision making; - to provide direction to Tata Motors Group in carrying out its  safety, health and sustainability function; - to frame broad guidelines/policies with regard to safety,  health and sustainability; - to oversee the implementation of these guidelines/policies;  and - to review the safety, health and sustainability policies,  processes and systems periodically and recommend  measures for improvement from time to time.
The Committee comprises of 1 Independent Director, 1 Executive  Director and 1 Managing Director.
During the year under review, 3  meetings of the Committee were held on May 22, 2017, July 4, 2017  and November 9, 2017.
The composition of the SHS Committee and  attendance at its meeting is given hereunder: 159 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Composition Meetings  attended Attendance  % Dr R A Mashelkar (Chairman) (1) 3 100 Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath 3 100 Mr Guenter Butschek 3 100 Mr Satish Borwankar 3 100 Mr Ravindra Pisharody(2) 1 50 (1) Consequent to his retirement as an Independent Director on December  31, 2017, he also ceased to be the Chairman and Member of the  Committee.
(2) Consequent to his resignation as Executive Director (Commercial  Vehicle) on September 30, 2017, he also ceased to be a Member of the  Committee.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) COMMITTEE The Committee is constituted by the Board in accordance with the  Act to: a. Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the activities to be  undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of  the Act; b.
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the  activities referred to in clause (a); and c. Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the  Company from time to time.
The CSR Policy is uploaded on the Company’s website as  required under the provisions of Section 135 of the Act and Rule  9 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)  Rules, 2014.
The CSR Committee comprises of 2 Independent Directors, 1  Executive Director and 1 Managing Director.
During the year  under review, 3 meetings of the Committee were held on May 22,  2017, September 18, 2017 and January 12, 2018.
The composition  of the CSR Committee and attendance at its meetings is given  hereunder:  Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Mr Om Prakash Bhatt  (Chairman) (1) NA NA Dr R A Mashelkar (2) 2 100 Ms Falguni Nayar 2 67 Mr Satish Borwankar 3 100 Mr Guenter Butschek 3 100 (1) Appointed as the Chairman and Member of the Committee with effect  from January 16, 2018.
(2) Consequent to his retirement as an Independent Director on December  31, 2017, he also ceased to be a Member and Chairman of the  Committee.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (RMC) The Committee is constituted and functions as per Regulation 21  of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Committee comprises of 1  Independent Director, 1 Executive Director, 1 Managing Director  and the CFO.
The terms of reference enumerated in the Committee  Charter are as follows: - Principles and objectives inter alia include assisting the Board  in overseeing the Company’s risk management process and  controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and funding etc.
and  its periodic update to the Board.
- Committee shall act and have powers in accordance with the  terms of reference specified in writing by the Board and shall  be responsible for reviewing the Company’s risk governance  structure, assessment, practice, guidelines etc.
- The Committee will report to the Board periodically on various  matters and shall undergo an annual self-evaluation of its  performance and report the results thereof to the Board.
During the year under review 4 meetings of the Committee were  held on April 18, 2017, July 4, 2017, September 18, 2017 and January  11, 2018.
The composition of the RMC and attendance at its meetings  is given hereunder: Composition Meetings  attended Attendance % Ms Hanne Sorensen  (Chairperson) (1) NA NA Mr Nasser Munjee (2) 4 100 Dr R A Mashelkar (3) 2 67 Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath (4) 4 100 Ms Falguni Nayar (4) 4 100 Mr Guenter Butschek (5) NA NA Mr Satish Borwankar (5) NA NA Mr P B Balaji (5) NA NA (1) Appointed as a Member on January 16, 2018 and as Chairperson with  effect from March 22, 2018.
(2) Ceased to be the Chairman and Member of the Committee with effect  from March 22, 2018.
(3) Consequent to his retirement as an Independent Director on December  31, 2017, he also ceased to be a Member of the Committee.
(4) Ceased to be Member of the Committee with effect from March 22,  2018.
(5) Inducted as Members with effect from March 22, 2018.
CODE OF CONDUCT Whilst the Tata Code of Conduct is applicable to all Whole-time  Directors and employees of the Company, the Board has also  adopted a seperate Tata Code of Conduct for Non-Executive  Directors and Independent Directors, respectively.
Pursuant to  Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all members  of senior management have confirmed that there are no  material, financial and commercial transactions wherein they  have a personal interest that may have a potential conflict with  the interest of the Company at large.
Pursuant to Regulation  26(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all the Board members  and senior management of the Company as on March 31,  160 2018 have affirmed compliance with their respective Codes of  Conduct.
A Declaration to this effect, duly signed by the CEO  and Managing Director is annexed to this report.
Furthermore,  pursuant to the provisions of Regulations 8 and 9 under the  SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 the  company has adopted and endeavors adherence to the Tata  Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and the Code  of Corporate Disclosure Practices.
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS Annual General Meeting (AGM) Date of AGM Year Special Resolutions passed Venue and Time August 22, 2017 2016-2017 •  Re-appointment of Mr Satish Borwankar as Executive  Director and Chief Operating Officer and payment of  remuneration.
•   Offer or invite for Subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures  on private placement basis.
Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Mumbai - 400020 3:00 p.m. August 9, 2016 2015-2016 • Appointment of Mr Guenter Butschek as the Chief Executive  Officer and Managing Director.
• Re-appointment of Mr Ravindra Pisharody – Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) and payment of remuneration.
• Re-appointment of Mr Satish Borwankar – Executive Director  (Quality) and payment of remuneration.
•  Offer or invite for Subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures  on private placement basis.
August 13, 2015 2014-2015 Offer or invite for Subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures on  private placement basis.
There were no  special resolutions proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot during the last year or at the forthcoming AGM.
Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal Convened Equity Shareholders Meeting  Equity Shareholders Meeting was convened during the financial year, pursuant to the Order of the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal  (NCLT), Mumbai Bench dated June 28, 2017, modified by Orders dated August 23, 2017 and September 15, 2017 (“Orders”) in the matter  of the Scheme of Merger and Arrangement between TML Drivelines Limited and Tata Motors Limited and their respective Shareholders  (“Scheme”).
The details of this meeting are as given below:  Date of Meeting Resolution Outcome Venue & Time November 15, 2017 To approve the Scheme of Merger  and Arrangement between TML  Drivelines Limited and Tata Motors  Limited and their respective  Shareholders under Sections 230 to  232 and other applicable provisions  of the Act.
Resolution was passed by requisite  majority of stakeholders, that is,  majority in number of holders and  three-fourths in value.
Walchand Hirachand Hall,  4th Floor, Indian Merchants’  Chamber, IMC Building, IMC Marg,  Churchgate, Mumbai – 400020 at  3:00 p.m. All resolutions moved at the last AGM and at the NCLT convened  meeting, were passed by means of electronic and physical voting,  by the requisite majority of members attending the meeting.
The  Minutes of the aforementioned General Meetings are available on  the Company’s website.
There were no resolutions passed by Postal Ballot by the Company  during the year under review.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION  The Quarterly, Half Yearly and Annual Results are regularly  submitted to the Stock Exchanges in accordance with the SEBI  Listing Regulations and are generally published in the Indian  Express, Financial Express and the Loksatta (Marathi).
The Company  has emailed to the Members who had provided email addresses,  the half yearly results of the Company.
The information regarding  the performance of the Company is shared with the shareholders  vide the Annual Report.
The official news releases, including on the  quarterly and annual results and presentations made to institutional  investors and analysts are also posted on the Company’s website  (www.tatamotors.com) in the ‘Investors’ section.
161 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 The Annual Report, Quarterly Results, Shareholding Pattern,  Press Releases, Intimation of Board Meetings and other relevant  information of the Company are posted through BSE Listing Centre  and NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS)  portals for investor information.
Green Initiative: In support of the “Green Initiative” undertaken by the Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, the Company had during FY 2017-18 sent various  communications by email to those shareholders whose email  addresses were registered with the depositories or the Registrar  and Transfer Agents.
All agenda papers for the Board and Committee meetings are  disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading them  on a secured online application specifically designed for this purpose.
In line with the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has  emailed soft copies of its Annual Report to all those shareholders  who have registered their email address for the said purpose.
We would greatly appreciate and encourage more Members to  register their email address with their Depository Participant  or the Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company, to receive  soft copies of the Annual Report, Postal Ballot Notices and  other information disseminated by the Company, on a real-time  basis without any delay.
GENERAL INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS The Corporate Identity Number (CIN) allotted to the Company by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) is L28920MH1945PLC004520.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Date and Time Friday, August 3, 2018 at 3:00 p.m. Venue Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Mumbai 400020 FINANCIAL CALENDAR (TENTATIVE) Financial Year ending March 31, 2018 Results for the Quarter ending June 30, 2018 On or before August 14, 2018 September 30, 2018 On or before November 14, 2018 December 31, 2018 On or before February 14, 2019 March 31, 2019 On or before May 30, 2019 Date of Dividend payment No dividend is announced and recommended by the Board for FY 2017-18.
LISTINGS  The Company’s shares are listed on the BSE Ltd. (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE).
The following are the details  of the Company’s shares: Type Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares ISIN INE155A01022 IN9155A01020 BSE – Stock Code 500570 570001 NSE – Stock Code TATAMOTORS TATAMTRDVR BSE - Address Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001; www.bseindia.com NSE - Address “Exchange Plaza”, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051; www.nseindia.com The Company has paid Annual Listing fees for FY 2017-18 to all the Stock Exchanges (both domestic and international) where the Company’s  securities are listed.
Attention is also drawn to foreign listing and listing of debt securities of the Company as mentioned under Outstanding Securities  below.
162 MARKET INFORMATION  Market price data - monthly high/low of the closing price and trading volumes on BSE/NSE depicting liquidity of the Company’s  Ordinary Shares and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares on the said exchanges is given hereunder:- Month Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares BSE NSE BSE NSE High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares Apr-17 475.05 440.40 9035809 474.90 440.60 105624063 289.35 270.60 1468847 290.30 270.45 28027749 May-17 481.45 419.75 14234698 481.50 419.60 152316124 287.85 259.30 9417946 287.90 258.95 62647044 Jun-17 478.55 432.50 93104805 478.48 432.55 113984752 291.10 263.30 3766918 290.85 263.30 37192849 Jul-17 464.60 427.65 10778762 464.60 426.90 105829696 275.80 260.55 1782932 276.50 260.50 25599145 Aug-17 446.90 373.35 15060796  446.90  373.60 153203697 262.45 219.45 3683342 262.60  218.75 41170126 Sep-17 423.90 375.05 59388584 423.65 375.00 172230315 240.65 209.55 4148001 241.40 210.15 82828802 Oct-17 436.55 415.25 7572208 437.05 415.50 115680473 245.95 230.55 2732475 246.10 230.35 40629154 Nov-17 461.55 404.65 16850022 462.90 404.15 247198902 259.25 232.30 5840651 259.65 231.45 54140365 Dec-17 431.20 396.80 12338945 431.85 397.05 135153789 244.80 224.95 2681504 244.10 224.90 35896187 Jan-18 438.85 396.20 11985096 439.30 395.85 170430901 256.55 224.35 4579860 256.65 224.55 62781952 Feb-18 396.05 358.55 13025465 395.80 358.50 181509302 221.80 202.45 5546661 222.05 201.95 51496981 Mar-18 370.85 327.45 12543946 370.75 326.85  161929567 207.85 183.90 2829028 207.45 183.30 41639881 The Performance of the Company’s Stock Price vis-à-vis Sensex, Auto Index and American Depository Receipts (ADR): The monthly high and low of the Company’s ADRs is given below:   (in US $) Month High Low Month High Low April 2017 36.78 34.10 October 2017 33.76 30.75 May 2017 37.33 32.59 November 2017 35.78 31.33 June 2017 37.15 33.49 December 2017 33.81 30.77 July 2017 36.12 33.16 January 2018 34.60 31.12 August 2017 34.87 29.14 February 2018 30.89 27.56 September 2017 32.93 29.35 March 2018 28.45 25.07 Each Depositary Receipt represents 5 underlying Ordinary Shares of face value of  `2/- each.
April 17 May 17 June 17 July 17 Aug 17 Sept 17 Oct 17 Nov 17 Dec 17 Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 $40 $35 $30 $25 $20 $15 $10 $5 $0 Tata Motors Ordinary & ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (`) ADR (US$) Ordinary Shares in BSE ‘A’ Ordinary Shares in BSE ADR PriceBSE Sensex Auto Index Ordinary Shares in BSE April 17 May 17 June 17 July 17 Aug 17 Sept 17 Oct 17 Nov 17 Dec 17 Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 40000 35000 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 BSE SENSEX & AUTO INDEX Tata Motors Ordinary Shares (`) 163 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS  For share related matters, Members are requested to correspond  with the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents – M/s TSR  Darashaw Limited quoting their Folio No./DP ID & Client ID at the  following addresses:  1.
For transfer lodgement, delivery and correspondence :  TSR Darashaw Limited, Unit: Tata Motors Limited, 6-10, Haji  Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate, 20, Dr E Moses Road,  (Near Famous Studios) Mahalaxmi, Mumbai – 400 011.
Tel: 022-6656 8484; Fax: 022- 6656 8494;   e-mail : csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com;   website:www.tsrdarashaw.com  2.
For the convenience of investors based in the following  cities, transfer documents and letters will also be accepted  at the following branches/agencies of TSR Darashaw  Limited:   (i)  Bangalore: 503, Barton Centre, 5th Floor, 84,   Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bangalore – 560 001.
Tel: 080 – 25320321, Fax: 080 – 25580019,   e-mail: tsrdlbang@tsrdarashaw.com   (ii)  Jamshedpur: Bungalow No.1, “E” Road,   Northern Town, Bistupur, Jamshedpur – 831 001.
Tel: 0657 – 2426616, Fax: 0657 – 2426937,    email : tsrdljsr@tsrdarashaw.com   (iii)   Kolkata: Tata Centre, 1st Floor,   43, Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata – 700 071.
Tel: 033 – 22883087, Fax: 033 – 22883062,   e-mail: tsrdlcal@tsrdarashaw.com   (iv)  New Delhi: Plot No.2/42, Sant Vihar, Ansari Road,      Daryaganj, New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel : 011 – 23271805, Fax : 011 – 23271802,   e-mail : tsrdldel@tsrdarashaw.com   (v)  Ahmedabad: Agent of TSRDL – Shah Consultancy  Services Pvt.
Limited: 3-Sumathinath Complex, Pritam  Nagar Akhada Road, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad -380 006.
Tel: 079-2657 6038,    e-mail: shahconsultancy8154@gmail.com  For Fixed Deposits:  the investors are requested to correspond  with the Registrars to the Fixed Deposits Scheme – TSR Darashaw  Limited at the same addresses as mentioned above or send an  e-mail at tmlfd@tsrdarashaw.com.
Tel : 022-66568484  For Rights Issue related matters:  The Company launched a Rights  Issue vide Letter of offer dated March 30, 2015 and Members are  requested to correspond with Link Intime India Private Limited,  the Registrar to the Issue, for addressing any Issue related  matter, including all grievances relating to the ASBA process.
Contact details: C101, 247 Park, L.B.S.
Marg, Vikhroli (West),  Mumbai 400 083; Tel: (91 22) 4918 6000 / 9167779196/97;  Fax: (91 22) 4918 6060; Website: www.linkintime.co.in;   Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.co.in; Contact Person:   Mr Sachin Achar / Mr Sumeet Deshpande.
SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM  Securities lodged for transfer at the Registrar’s address are  normally processed within 15 days from the date of lodgment,  if the documents are clear in all respects.
All requests  for dematerialization of securities are processed and the  confirmation is given to the depositories within 15 days.
The  Executives of the Registrar are empowered to approve transfer  of shares and debentures and other investor related matters.
Grievances received from investors and other miscellaneous  correspondence on change of address, mandates, etc.
are  processed by the Registrars within 15 days.
The following  compliances pertain to share transfers, grievances, etc.
:  (1) Pursuant to Regulation 7(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  certificates are filed with the stock exchanges on half yearly  basis by the Compliance Officer and the representative of  the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent for maintenance of  an appropriate share transfer facility.
(2) Pursuant to Regulation 13(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  a statement on the pending investor complaints is filed  with the stock exchanges and placed before the Board of  Directors on a quarterly basis.
(3) A Company Secretary-in-Practice carries out a  Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit on a quarterly basis  to reconcile the total admitted capital with depositories  viz National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and  Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) and the total  issued and listed capital.
The audit confirms that the total  issued/paid up capital is in agreement with the aggregate  of the total number of shares in physical form and the total  number of shares in dematerialized form (held with NSDL  and CDSL).
(4) Pursuant to Regulation 61(4) read together with Regulation  40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a Certificate by the  Company Secretary-in-Practice is filed with the stock  exchanges within one month from the end of each half of  the financial year, certifying that all certificates are issued  within thirty days of the date of lodgement for transfer, sub- division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement  of calls/ allotment monies  164 Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid amounts to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund (IEPF): (i) Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act and the Investor  Education and Protection Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer  and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), all unclaimed/unpaid  dividend, application money, debenture interest and interest  on deposits as well as principal amount of debentures and  deposits, sale proceeds of fractional shares, redemption  amount of preference shares, etc.
pertaining to the Company  remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 7 years from the  date they became due for payment, are liable to be transferred  to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority,  established by the Central Government.
Furthermore, the IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer  shares of shareholders whose dividends remain unpaid /  unclaimed for a period of 7 consecutive years to the demat  account of the IEPF Authority.
The said requirement does not  apply to shares in respect of which there is a specific order  of the Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining any  transfer of the shares.
The provisions relating to transfer  of shares were made effective by the Ministry of Corporate  Affairs, vide its Notification dated October 13, 2017 read with  the Circular dated October 16, 2017, wherein it was provided  that where the period of 7 consecutive years, as above,  was completed or being completed during the period from  September 7, 2016 to October 31, 2017, the due date of transfer  for such shares was October 31, 2017.
In light of the aforesaid provisions, the Company has during the year,  transferred the unclaimed dividends, outstanding for 7 consecutive  years of the Company.
Further, shares of the Company, in respect  of which dividend has not been claimed for 7 consecutive years  or more, have also been transferred to the demat account of the  IEPF Authority.
The details of the unclaimed dividends and shares  transferred to IEPF during the year 2017-18 are as follows: Financial  Year Amount of  unclaimed  dividend  transferred (`) Number of shares transferred Ordinary  Shares ‘A’ Ordinary  Shares 2008-09 88,64,667 (transferred  during FY2016-17) 32,32,825 1,538 2009-10 2,03,23,084 3,23,527 1,825 Total 2,91,87,751 35,56,352 3,363  The members who have a claim on the above dividends  and shares may claim the same from the IEPF Authority  by submitting an online application in the prescribed Form  No.IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and  sending a physical copy of the same duly signed to the  Company along with requisite documents enumerated in the  Form No.
IEPF-5.
No claims shall lie against the Company in  respect of the dividend/shares so transferred.
The Company strongly recommends shareholders to encash  / claim their respective dividend within the period given below  from the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents: Financial Year Date of Declaration Last date for claiming  dividend Unclaimed Dividend (as on 31.03.2018) (`) Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares 2010-11 August 12, 2011 September 11, 2018 3,01,60,220.00 58,41,885.50 2011-12 August 10, 2012 September 9, 2019 2,97,40,764.00 7,01,149.20 2012-13 August 21, 2013 September 20, 2020 1,62,35,510.00 2,29,775.70 2013-14 July 31, 2014 August 30, 2021 1,62,37,490.00 1,90,638.00 2014-15 No dividend was declared 2015-16 August 9, 2016 September 8, 2023 27,54,452.00 96,200.40 2016-17 No dividend was declared (ii) Whilst the Company’s Registrar has already written to the  Members, Debenture holders and Depositors informing  them about the due dates for transfer to IEPF for unclaimed  dividends/interest payments, attention of the stakeholders  is again drawn to this matter through the Annual Report.
Notices in this regard are also published in the newspapers  The data on unpaid / unclaimed dividend and other  unclaimed monies is also available on the Company’s  website at http:/ /www.tatamotors.com/investor/iepf/ .
Investors of the Company who have not yet encashed their  unclaimed/unpaid amounts are requested to correspond  with the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents, at the  earliest.
Members may refer to the Refund Procedure for claiming the  aforementioned amounts transferred to the IEPF Authority as  detailed on http:/ /iepf.gov.in/IEPFA/refund.html.
(iii) Upto March 31, 2018, the Company has transferred   `25,21,06,874.34 to IEPF, including the following amounts  during the year.
165 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 (in `) Particulars FY 2017-18 Unpaid dividend amounts of the  Company 2,03,23,084.00 Application moneys received for  allotment of any securities and due for  refund - Unpaid matured deposit with the  Company 54,25,748.00 Unpaid matured debentures with the  Company - DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS AT MARCH 31, 2018 Ordinary Shares Range of Shares No.
of Shares No.
of shareholders No.
of Shares Physical  Form (%) Demat Form (%) % of  Capital No.
of  Holders Physical  Form (%) Demat Form (%) % of  Capital 1 – 500 63,618,416 0.14 2.06 2.20 664,176 3.52 85.37 88.89 501 – 1,000 28,029,100 0.12 0.85 0.97 38,035 0.63 4.46 5.09 1,001 – 2,000 32,882,773 0.15 0.99 1.14 22,892 0.41 2.65 3.06 2,001 – 5,000 45,887,145 0.19 1.40 1.59 14,870 0.25 1.74 1.99 5,001 -10,000 28,821,303 0.09 0.91 1.00 4,148 0.05 0.51 0.56 Above 10,000 2,688,109,957 0.19 92.91 93.10 3,034 0.03 0.38 0.41 TOTAL 2,887,348,694  0.88  99.12 100.00 747,155  4.89 95.11 100.00 ‘A’ Ordinary Shares Range of Shares No.
of Shares No.
of shareholders No.
of Shares Physical  Form (%) Demat Form (%) % of  Capital No.
of  Holders Physical  Form (%) Demat Form (%) % of  Capital 1 – 500 15,019,501 0.02 2.93 2.95 134,525 0.56 85.05 85.61 501 – 1,000 8,560,461 0.01 1.67 1.68 11,642 0.03 7.38 7.41 1,001 – 2,000 7,558,687 0.01 1.48 1.49 5,198 0.02 3.29 3.31 2,001 – 5,000 10,382,853 0.00 2.04 2.04 3,250 0.00 2.07 2.07 5,001 -10,000 8,357,889 0.00 1.64 1.64 1,168 0.00 0.74 0.74 Above 10,000 458,622,980 0.00 90.20 90.20 1,352 0.00 0.86 0.86 TOTAL 508,502,371 0.04 99.96 100.00 157,135 0.61 99.39 100.00 For details on the Shareholding Pattern and Top Ten Shareholders, kindly refer Form MGT-9 appended to the Directors’ Report of this  Annual Report.
(in `) Particulars FY 2017-18 Interest accrued on application money  due for refund, unpaid matured deposits  and debentures with the Company 15,34,828.00 Sale proceeds of fractional shares  arising out of issuance of bonus shares,  merger and amalgamation - Redemption amount of preference  shares - Grants and donation - Others - TOTAL 2,72,83,660.00 166 DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES The electronic holding of the shares as on March 31, 2018 through NSDL and CDSL are as follows: Particulars Ordinary Shares (%) ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (%) 2018 2017 2018 2017 NSDL 97.13  97.71 95.72 97.75  CDSL 1.99  1.23 4.24  2.21 TOTAL  99.12  98.94 99.96   99.96 OUTSTANDING SECURITIES Outstanding Depositary Receipts/Warrants or Convertible instruments, conversion / maturity date and likely impact on equity as on  March 31, 2018 are as follows:  • Depositary Receipts: The Company has 8,74,04,950 ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange as on March 31, 2018.
Each  Depository Receipts represents 5 underlying Ordinary Shares of `2/- each.
Listing on Foreign Stock Exchange New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Security Type ADRs ISIN US8765685024 Stock Code / Ticker TTM Address NYSE, 20 Broad Street, New York, NY 10005  Overseas Depositary Domestic Custodian Citibank N.A., 388 Greenwich Street,   14th Floor,  New York, NY 10013 Citibank N.A., Trent House, 3rd Floor, G-60,   Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051 • Senior Unsecured Notes: In October 2014, the Company issued a dual tranche of Senior Unsecured Notes aggregating US$ 750  million, details of which are given hereunder:  Security Type ISIN Issue Size (US$  million) Yield per annum  (%) Date of Maturity Listing Senior Unsecured Notes XS1121907676 500 4.625% April 30, 2020 Singapore Stock  ExchangeSenior Unsecured Notes XS1121908211 250 5.750% October 30, 2024 • There are no outstanding warrants or any other convertible instruments issued by the Company.
• The following Non-Convertible Debentures (NCD) are listed on NSE and BSE under the Wholesale Debt Market segment*: Series No.
Stock Exchange  Listing ISIN Principal Amount  (` in crores) Yield to Maturity  (%) Date of Maturity E 22 NSE INE155A07219 200 9.95 March 2, 2020 E22A NSE INE155A07227 500 10.25 `100 crores on April 30, 22 and   April 30, 2023; &   `150 crores on April 30, 2024  and April 30, 2025.
E 23A NSE INE155A08043 150 9.90 May 7, 2020 E 23B NSE INE155A08050 100 9.75 May 24, 2020 E 23C NSE INE155A08068 150 9.70 June 18, 2020 E 24B NSE INE155A08084 110 10.00 May 28, 2019 E 24E NSE INE155A08118 200 9.69 March 29, 2019 E26A NSE INE155A08183 190 10.30 November 30, 2018 E26B NSE INE155A08191 300 9.81 August 20, 2024  E26C NSE INE155A08209 200 9.77 September 12, 2024 E26D (Option - I) NSE INE155A08217 300 9.71 October 1, 2019 E26D (Option - II) NSE INE155A08225 400 9.73 October 1, 2020 E26E NSE & BSE INE155A08233 400 9.60 October 29, 2022 E26F NSE & BSE INE155A08241 400 9.35 November 10, 2023 167 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Series No.
Stock Exchange  Listing ISIN Principal Amount  (` in crores) Yield to Maturity  (%) Date of Maturity E26G NSE & BSE INE155A08258 300 9.02 December 10, 2021 E27A NSE & BSE INE155A08274 300 8.25 January 28, 2019 E27B NSE & BSE INE155A08282 300 8.40 May 26, 2021 E27C NSE & BSE INE155A08290 400 8.13 July 18, 2018 E27D NSE & BSE INE155A08308 400 8.00 August 1, 2019 E27E NSE & BSE INE155A08316 300 7.50 October 20, 2021 E27F NSE & BSE INE155A08324 500 7.71 March 3, 2022 E27G NSE & BSE INE155A08332 500 7.84 September 27, 2021 E27H NSE & BSE INE155A08340 500 7.50 June 22, 2022 E27I (Tranche 1) NSE & BSE INE155A08357 500 7.28 July 29, 2020 E27I (Tranche 2) NSE & BSE INE155A08365 500 7.40 June 29, 2021  *Detailed information on the above debentures is included in the ‘Notes to Accounts’.
Debenture Trustee: Vistra ITCL (India) Limited, situated at the IL&FS  Financial Centre, 7th Floor, East Quadrant, Plot C- 22, G Block, Bandra  Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051, are the debenture trustees  for all the aforementioned NCD’s issued by the Company.
They may  be contacted at Tel.
: +91 22 2659 3333, Fax : + 91 22 2653 3297,   Email id: itclcomplianceofficer@vistra.com.
PLANT LOCATIONS Location Range of Products Produced  Pimpri, Pune – 411 018; Chikhali, Pune – 410 501; Chinchwad, Pune – 411 033 Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles (M&HCVs),   Light Commercial Vehicles (LCVs),   Utility Vehicles (UVs) and Cars Jamshedpur – 831 010 Intermediate Commercial Vehicles (ICVs) and M&HCVs  Chinhat Industrial Area, Dewa Road,Chinhat, Lucknow – 226 019 ICVs, M&HCVs and LCVs Plot No.
1, Sector 11 and Plot No.
14, Sector 12, I.I.E., Pantnagar,  District Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand – 263 145 Small Commercial Vehicles (SCVs) Revenue Survey No.
1, Village Northkotpura, Taluka Sanand,  Dist.
Ahmedabad – 382 170 Cars KIADB Block II, Belur Industrial Area, Mummigatti Post,  Dharwad – 580 011 SCVs and LCVs ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE For Investor Queries Retail / HNI Investors Mr H K Sethna,   Company Secretary Bombay House,  24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai - 400 001, India Phone : 91-22- 6665 7824  Fax: 91-22- 6665 7260 E-Mail : inv_rel@tatamotors.com Institutional Investors Mr V B Somaiya,   Head (Treasury & Investor  Relations) 3rd floor, Nanavati Mahalaya,  18, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai - 400 001, India Phone : 91-22-66658282 E-Mail : ir_tml@tatamotors.com For Fixed Deposit, Rights Issue and other Share related queries Kindly refer details mentioned herein above under the head  ‘Registrar and Transfer Agents’  SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  The Company does not have any material unlisted Indian subsidiary  company and hence, it is not required to have an Independent  Director of the Company on the Board of such subsidiary company.
However, the following Independent Directors of the Company, are  also present in an independent capacity, on the Board of the below  mentioned subsidiary companies: Common Independent  Directors Presence on the Board of Subsidiary  Companies Mr Nasser Munjee Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc and  Tata Motors Finance Limited Mr Vinesh Kumar  Jairath Concorde Motors (India) Limited, TML  Distribution Company Limited and Tata  Motors Finance Solutions Limited Ms Falguni Nayar Tata Technologies Limited The Company adopted a Policy for Determining Material  Subsidiaries of the Company, pursuant to Regulation 16(1)( c ) of the  SEBI Listing Regulations.
This policy is available on the Company’s  website at http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf  pursuant to Regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Audit Committee also has a 2-day meeting wherein the CEO and  CFO of subsidiary companies make a presentation on significant  issues in audit, internal control, risk management, etc.
Significant  issues pertaining to subsidiary companies are also discussed at  Audit Committee meetings of the Company.
The minutes of the subsidiary companies are placed before the  Board of Directors of the Company and the attention of the Directors  is drawn to significant transactions and arrangements entered into  by the subsidiary companies.
The performance of its subsidiaries is  also reviewed by the Board periodically.
168 DISCLOSURES  i.
Details of relevant related party transactions entered into  by the Company are included in the Board’s Report and in  the Notes to Accounts.
The Company has in place a Policy  on Related Party Transactions setting out (a) the materiality  thresholds for related parties and (b) the manner of dealing  with transactions between the Company and related parties,  including omnibus approvals by Audit Committee based  on the provisions of the Act and Regulation 23 of the SEBI  Listing Regulations.
During the year, there were no materially  significant transactions with related parties, as per the Policy  adopted by the Company that have potential conflict with the  interests of the Company at large.
The Audit Committee takes  into consideration the management representation and an  independent audit consultant’s report, whilst scrutinising and  approving all related party transactions, from the perspective  of fulfilling the criteria of meeting arms’ length pricing and  being transacted in the ordinary course of business.
All  transactions with related parties entered into by the Company  were in the ordinary course of business on an arm’s length  basis and were approved by the Audit Committee.
ii.
The Company has complied with various rules and regulations  prescribed Securities and Exchange Board of India or any  other statutory authority relating to the capital markets during  the last 3 years.
No penalties or strictures have been imposed  by them on the Company, except as mentioned below:  The Securities and Exchange Board of India vide Order dated  March 6, 2018 had issued directions for the Company to  conduct an internal inquiry within 3 months into the leakage  of information relating to its financial results for the quarter  ended December 2015 and to take appropriate actions against  those responsible as well as to submit its report within 7 days  thereafter.
The Company is in the process of investigating the  matter for submission of its report to the Audit Committee  of the Company, which will be submitted to SEBI in a timely  manner.
The Company has paid a penalty of `5.60 lakhs each, levied  by BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India  Limited, in respect of delayed filing of the listing application  for 266 Ordinary Shares and 80’A’ Ordinary Shares allotted,  out of shares held in abeyance, on settlement of an inter-se  dispute amongst the shareholders.
This penalty has been paid  ‘under protest’ subsequent to various representations made  by the Company.
iii.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and Regulation  22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has in  place a Vigil Mechanism and a Whistle-Blower Policy  duly approved by the Audit Committee which provides a  formal mechanism for all Directors and employees of the  Company to approach the Management of the Company  (Audit Committee in case where the concern involves the  Senior Management) and make protective disclosures  to the Management about unethical behaviour, actual  or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code  of Conduct or Ethics policy.
The disclosures reported  are addressed in the manner and within the time frames  prescribed in the Policy.
The Company affirms that no  director or employee of the Company has been denied  access to the Audit Committee.
iv.
The Company has complied with all the mandatory disclosure  requirements of corporate governance as specified in  Regulation 34(3) read with Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI  Listing Regulations.
v. The Company also fulfilled the following non-mandatory  requirements as specified in Part E of the Schedule II of the  SEBI Listing Regulations:  • The Board:  The Non-Executive Chairman maintains  a separate office, for which the Company does not  reimburse expenses.
• Shareholder Rights: Details are given under the heading  “Means of Communications”.
• Modified opinion in Audit Report:  During the year under  review, there was no audit qualification in the Auditors’  Report on the Company’s financial statements.
The  Company continues to adopt best practices to ensure a  regime of unqualified financial statements.
• Separate posts of Chairman and CEO:  The post of the  Non- Executive Chairman of the Board is separate from  that of the Managing Director/CEO.
In the Tata Motors  Group, we have 2 CEO’s, namely the CEO & MD of Tata  Motors, whose scope includes managing the Tata Motors  Group excluding the Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) Group  and the CEO and Director of JLR, whose scope covers  managing JLR.
The respective Boards has delegated the  day-to-day running of the Group to the 2 CEO’s within  certain limits, above which matters must be escalated to  the Board for determination.
• Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Chief Internal Auditor  reports to the Audit Committee of the Company, to ensure  independence of the Internal Audit function.
vi.
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging  activities:  During the FY 2017-18, the Company had managed the foreign  exchange and commodity price risk and hedged to the extent  considered necessary.
The Company enters into forward  contracts for hedging foreign exchange and commodity   exposures against exports and imports.
The details of  foreign currency and commodity exposures are disclosed in  Note No.41(c )(i)(a) and 41( c )(iv) to the Standalone Financial  Statements.
169 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 vii.
Disclosures on compliance with corporate governance requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 have been included in the  relevant sections of this report, a gist of which is given below: Regulation  No.
Particulars Compliance  Status  (Yes/No/NA) Compliance Observed 17 Board of Directors Yes · Composition · Meetings · Periodic review of compliance reports · Plans for orderly succession for appointments · Code of Conduct · Fees / compensation to Non-Executive Directors ·  Minimum information to be placed before the Board as per Part A of  Schedule II · Compliance Certificate as per Part B of Schedule II · Risk assessment and management · Performance evaluation of Independent Directors 18 Audit Committee Yes · Composition · Meetings · Powers of the Committee ·  Role of the Committee and review of information by the Committee  as per Part C of Schedule II 19 Nomination and Remuneration  Committee Yes · Composition · Role of the Committee as per Part D of Schedule II 20 Stakeholders Relationship  Committee Yes · Composition · Role of the Committee as per Part D of Schedule II 21 Risk Management Committee Yes · Composition · Role of the Committee 22 Vigil Mechanism Yes · Review of Vigil Mechanism for Directors and employees · Direct access to Chairperson of Audit Committee 23 Related Party Transactions Yes ·  Policy on Materiality of Related Party transactions and dealing  with Related Party transactions · Prior approval including omnibus approval of Audit Committee · Review of Related Party transactions · No material Related Party transactions 24 Subsidiaries of the Company Yes ·  Appointment of Company’s Independent Director on the Board of  material subsidiary · Review of financial statements of subsidiary by the Audit Committee ·  Minutes of the Board of Directors of the subsidiaries are placed at  the meeting of the Board of Directors ·  Significant transactions and arrangements of subsidiary are placed  at the meeting of the Board of Directors 25 Obligations with respect to  Independent Directors Yes · Maximum directorships and tenure ·  Meetings of Independent Directors and Board effectiveness evaluation · Cessation and appointment of Independent Directors · Familiarisation of Independent Directors 26 Obligations with respect to  employees including Senior  Management, Key Managerial  Personnel, Directors and  Promoters Yes ·  Limit on Membership / Chairmanship in Committees and disclosures  thereon ·  Affirmation on compliance of Code of Conduct by Directors and  Senior Management · Disclosure of shareholding by non-executive Directors ·  Disclosures by Senior Management about potential conflicts of interest ·  No agreement with regard to compensation or profit sharing in  connection with dealings in securities of the Company by Key  Managerial Personnel, Directors and Promoter 170 Regulation  No.
Particulars Compliance  Status  (Yes/No/NA) Compliance Observed 27 Other Corporate Governance  requirements Yes ·  Compliance with discretionary requirements as per Part E of Schedule II ·  Filing of quarterly compliance report on Corporate Governance  with Stock Exchanges.
ix.
Appropriate information has been placed on the Company’s website pursuant to clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation  46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Given below is the information on the Company’s website regarding key policies, codes and  charters, adopted by the Company: Name of Policy, Code or Charter Brief Description Web Link Terms of Appointment of  Independent Directors Relevant extracts from the appointment letter  issued to Independent Directors detailing  the broad terms and conditions of their  appointment.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/Terms- of-Appointment-ID.pdf Board Committees The composition of various committees of the  Board http:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about-us/ leadership/ Tata Code of Conduct Represents the values and core principles that  guide the conduct of every Tata business.
The  Code lays down the ethical standards that Tata  colleagues need to observe in their professional  lives.
a) For Whole-time Directors & Employees http:/ /corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap- southeast-1.amazonaws.com/wp-content/ uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf b) For Non-Executive Directors and Independent  Directors http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ned-id.
pdf Whistleblower Policy  (Vigil Mechanism) The Whistleblower policy has been formulated  for Directors and employees of the Company to  report concerns about unethical behavior, actual  or suspected fraud or violation of the Tata Code of  Conduct.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ whistle-blower-policy.pdf Policy on Related Party  Transactions A policy on materiality of related party  transactions and regulates all transactions  between the Company and its related parties.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/rpt- policy.pdf Policy for determining Material  Subsidiaries This policy determines material subsidiaries of  the Company and disclosures thereof, as required  under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ material.pdf Familiarisation Programme For all Directors through various programmes/  presentations.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ familiarisation-programme-independent- directors.pdf Unpaid Dividend Account Details Statement of unclaimed and unpaid amounts to be  transferred to the IEPF https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/investors/iepf/ Corporate Social Responsibility  Policy The policy outlines the Company’s strategy to  bring about a positive impact on society through  programmes focusing on Health, Education,  Employability and Environment interventions  for relevant target groups, ensuring diversity  and giving preference to needy and deserving  communities inhabiting urban India.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr- policy.pdf viii.
Disclosures on compliance with corporate governance requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 have been included in the relevant sections  of his report.
Appropriate information has been placed on the Company’s website pursuant to clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation  46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
171 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Name of Policy, Code or Charter Brief Description Web Link Audit Committee Charter Inter alia  outlines the terms of reference,  composition, quorum, meeting requirements,  authority and responsibility of the Audit  Committee of the Company.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/audit_ committee_charter.pdf Policy for Approval of Services  to be rendered by the Auditors For the Audit Committee to oversee the services  rendered by the Auditors to the Tata Motors  Group and the payment for the said services  so as to ensure that the Auditors function in an  independent manner.
http:/ /www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/ auditfee-policy.pdf Policy on determination of  Materiality for Disclosure of  Event / Information This policy applies to disclosures of material  events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries.
This policy is in addition to the Company’s  corporate policy.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ material.pdf Content Archiving Policy The policy provides guidelines for archiving of  corporate records and documents as statutorily  required by the Company.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ content-archiving-policy.pdf Code of Corporate Disclosure  Practices This policy is aimed at providing timely, adequate,  uniform and universal dissemination of information  and disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive  Information outside the Company in order to  provide accurate and timely communication to our  shareholders and the financial markets.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ CodeCorporateDisclosure.pdf Dividend Distribution Policy This policy outlines the financial parameters and  factors that are to be considered whilst declaring  dividend.
http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ dividend-distribution-policy.pdf On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman Mumbai, May 23, 2018 (DIN: 00121863)   172 DECLARATION BY THE CEO UNDER REGULATION 26(3) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND  DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 REGARDING ADHERENCE TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT  Pursuant to Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Board Members and  the Senior Management personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance to their respective Codes of Conduct, as applicable to them  for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2018.
For Tata Motors Limited  Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director (DIN: 07427375) Mumbai, May 23, 2018 PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED  We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Tata Motors Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended  on March 31, 2018, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E of  Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI  Listing Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination was limited to a  review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance to the conditions of Corporate  Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and the representations made by the  Directors and the management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in  the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 31, 2018.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness  with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates Practising Company Secretaries  P. N. PARIKH  FCS: 327 CP: 1228  Mumbai, May 23, 2018 173 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Introduction Part of the USD100 billion Tata Group founded by Jamsetji Tata in  1868, the Company is among the world’s leading manufacturers  of automobiles.
With consolidated revenues of `296,298.23  crores in Fiscal 2018, the Company continues to be India’s Largest  Automobile Company.
Sustainability and the spirit of ‘giving back  to society’ is a core philosophy and good corporate citizenship is  strongly embedded in our DNA.
We are the first Indian company  in engineering sector to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Company is present across all segments of commercial  vehicles and passenger vehicles with over 6,600 dealerships,  sales, services and spare parts network touch points globally.
The Business Responsibility Report illustrate the Company  efforts towards creating enduring value for all stakeholders in a  responsible manner.
This Report is aligned with National Voluntary  Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities  of Business (NVG-SEE) released by Ministry of Corporate Affairs  and is in accordance with Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations).
This  report provides an overview of the activities carried out by the  Company under each of the nine principles as outlined in NVG.
Section A: General Information about the Company 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company:  L28920MH1945PLC004520 2.
Name of the Company: Tata Motors Limited 3.
Registered Address:  Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street,  Mumbai - 400001 4.
Website:  http:/ /www.tatamotors.com 5.
E-mail id: inv_rel@tatamotors.com 6.
Financial Year reported: 2017-18 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity  code-wise) NIC  Code Description 2910 Manufacture of motor vehicles 2920 Manufacture of bodies (coachwork) for motor vehicles 2930 Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor  vehicles 4530 Sale of motor vehicle parts and accessories 8.
List three key products/services that the Company  manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet)  1.
Passenger Cars  2.
Commercial Vehicles  3.
Vehicles Sales and Service Please refer to our website www.tatamotors.com for complete list  of our products.
9.
Total number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company  i.
Number of International Locations (Provide details of  major 5): Through subsidiaries and associate companies,  the Company operates in over 175 markets and has over  6600 sales and service touch points.
The Company has  manufacturing facilities in the UK, South Korea, Thailand,  South Africa and Indonesia.
ii.
Number of National Locations –  The Company  manufacturing base in India is spread across Jamshedpur  (Jharkhand), Pune (Maharashtra), Lucknow (Uttar  Pradesh), Pantnagar (Uttarakhand), Sanand (Gujarat) and  Dharwad (Karnataka).
Please refer “Presence across markets” section of the  Company’s Annual Report FY 2017-2018 for complete list  of our global operations.
10.
Markets served by the Company - Local/State/National/ International    The Company vehicles and services cater to entire Indian  market.
The Company’s commercial and passenger vehicles  are already being marketed in several countries in North  America, Central and South America, Africa, Europe, Asia and  Oceania.
Please refer “Presence across markets” section of the  Company’s Annual Report FY 2017-18 for complete list of  markets served Section B: Financial Details of the Company 1.
Paid up Capital (INR): `679.22 Crores  2.
Total Turnover (INR):  `57258.60 Crores (Standalone basis  without joint operations) 3.
Total Profit After Taxes (INR):  Loss of `1266.19 crores  (Standalone basis without joint operations) 4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as  percentage of profit after tax (%):  Total expenditure reported  is `21.44 crores (Standalone basis without joint operations) 5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been  incurred: -   The Company has been regularly conducting a community  engagement strategy which revolves around four focus  themes:  1.
Arogya (Health):  The focus is to work on addressing  child malnutrition, health awareness for females.
This  initiative provides preventive & curative health services  to community.
In Fiscal 2018, 3,81,110 members benefited  from our health initiatives.
2.
Vidyadhanam (Education):  This initiative aims to improve  the quality of education in schools by offering scholarship to  meritorious and needy secondary school students, organizing  Business Responsibility Report (PURSUANT TO REGULATION 34(2)(f) OF SEBI LISTING REGULATIONS) 174 special coaching classes to improve academic performance  in Class X Board exam, supporting school infrastructure  and organizing co-curricular activities for well-rounded  personality development.
In Fiscal 2018, 1,01,454 students  have been benefitted through the education program.
3.
Kaushalya (Employability):  This program has been  developed considering enhanced skill development  among youth.
It includes infusing marketable skills in  school dropout youth in auto sector, non-auto trades,  agriculture and allied activities.
It also, strengthens the  Industrial Training Institutes by offering domain expertise  of automotive skills through knowledge partnership.
In Fiscal 2018, the Company has trained 98,661 youth  marketable vocational skills.
Through the AA policy initiatives, the Company has  associated with 20 SC/ST entrepreneurs in the supply  chain and extended business of 10.88 crore to them.
4.
Vasundhara (Environment):  The Company approach to  improve environment included promotion of renewable  energy, creation of carbon sinks through large scale  sapling plantation, construction of water conservation  structures and building awareness among the community  members.
More than 100000 saplings have been planted  in our various programs under this initiative and 56,161  people participated in various environment awareness  initiatives.
Please refer ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ section of  the Company’s Annual Report FY 2017-18 and Company’s  Annual CSR Report 2017-18 for detailed community  engagement strategy and key initiatives.
The reports are  available on our website www.tatamotors.com.
Section C: Other Details 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ Companies?
The Company has 96 direct and indirect subsidiaries in India  and abroad as year ended March 31, 2018.
2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the BR  Initiatives of the parent company?
If yes, then indicate the  number of such subsidiary company(s)   The Company positively influences and encourages  its subsidiaries to adopt Business Responsibility (BR)  initiatives.
All the Company’s subsidiaries are guided by  Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) to conduct their business  in an ethical, transparent and accountable manner.
It  encompasses suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
It also addresses key BR issues like Quality and Customer  value, Corruption and Bribery, Health and Safety,  Environment, Human Rights and Employee well-being.
Key subsidiaries like Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc.
releases the Sustainability Report every year.
The scope  of this report is defined each year.
For Fiscal 2018, the  Company has extended its reporting boundary to include  the performance of three subsidiary companies and one  Joint Venture (JV) operating out of our premises.
3.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers, distributors  etc.)
that the Company does business with participate in  the BR initiatives of the Company?
If yes, then indicate the  percentage of such entity/entities?
[Less than 30%, 30-60%,  More than 60%]   The Company’s suppliers, distributors are critical to our  operations and supply chain sustainability issues can impact  its operations.
The Company engage with suppliers on BR  initiatives through sustainable supply chain program.
Suppliers  Sustainability Initiative is used as a platform to raise awareness  on health & safety, environmental and community initiatives  of the Company.
The vendors situated across all locations  are actively participating in this initiative.
The Company also  emphasizes on skill development and upgradation of the dealer  and channel partner resources.
Currently less than 30% of  value chain entities participate in the Company’s BR initiatives  and there is a constant effort by the Company to extend these  initiatives to larger value chain base.
Section D: BR Information 1.
Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR  a)  Details of the Director/Directors responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/policies.
Sr.  No.
Particulars Details 1.
DIN Number  (if applicable) 07427375 2.
Name Mr. Guenter Butschek 3.
Designation CEO and Managing Director 4 Telephone 022 6665 8282 5.
E-mail id Guenter.Butschek@tatamotors.com  Sr.  No.
Particulars Details 1.
DIN Number  (if applicable) 01793948  2.
Name Mr. Satish B Borwankar  3.
Designation COO & Executive Director  4 Telephone 020 6613 2257  5.
E-mail id sbborwankar@tatamotors.com  b) Details of the BR head Sr.  No.
Particulars Details 1.
DIN Number  (if applicable) N.A 2.
Name Mr. Arvind Bodhankar 3.
Designation Head – Safety, Health, Environment and  Sustainability 4 Telephone 022 6615 8538  5.
E-mail id arvind.bodhankar@tatamotors.com 175 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 2.
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business released by the Ministry of  Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility.
These are as follows: P1 –  Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.
P2 – Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle.
P3 – Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees.
P4 –  Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged,  vulnerable and marginalized.
P5 – Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
P6 – Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment.
P7 – Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner.
P8 – Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development.
P9 – Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner.
S.  No.
Questions P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9 1.
Do you have policy/policies for?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2.
Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant  stakeholders?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 3.
Does the policy conform to any national /international  standards?
If yes, specify?
(The policies conformance to the spirit  of international standards like ISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS  18000, SA 8000, UNGC guidelines and ILO principles and meet  the regulatory requirements such as SEBI Listing Regulations,  Sarbanes Oxley Act etc.
The policies reflects Tata group’s  commitment to improve the quality of life of the communities it  serves and practice of returning to society what it earns ) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 4.
Has the policy being approved by the Board?
Is yes, has it been  signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director?
* Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 5.
Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/  Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy?
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 6.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant  internal and external stakeholders?
The policies have been communicated to all internal stakeholders.
TCoC and other policies are communicated to suppliers, vendors,  dealers and channel partners based on their relevance.
7.
Does the company have in-house structure to implement the  policy/policies ?
The Company has established in-house structures to implement  these policies.
8.
Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism  related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances  related to the policy/policies?
The whistle blower mechanism provides employees to report  any concerns or grievances pertaining to any potential or  actual violation of TCoC, which covers all aspects of BRR.
An  Investor grievance mechanism is in place to respond to investor  grievances.
The Customer Complaints Mechanism records the  grievances of customers on product and service quality and  other issues of interest to them.
The supplier, vendor, dealer and  channel partner forums and ongoing communication captures  their concerns and grievances.
The continual community  engagement, needs assessments, impact assessments serve  as means for communities to represent their concerns and  grievances.
176 S.  No.
Questions P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9 9.
Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of  the working of this policy by an internal or external agency?
The implementation of TCoC and other policies are reviewed  through internal audit function/ethics counsellor.
External  assessment of Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) covers  the review of implementation of all Company policies.
The  Quality, Safety & Health and Environmental policies are subject  to internal and external audits as part of certification process.
* All the policies are signed by the Managing Director or an Executive Director.
All the policies in Tata Motors are carved from its Guiding  Principles and Core Values.
These policies are mapped to each principle hereunder: Principle Applicable Policies Link for policies Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern  themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Whistle Blower Policy http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle- blower-policy.pdf Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and  services that are safe and contribute to sustainability  throughout their life cycle.
Sustainability Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ sustainability-policy-pop/ Environment Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ environmental-policy-pop/ Quality Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about-us/ corporate-governance/policies/quality- policy-pop/ Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well-being  of all employees.
Sustainability Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ sustainability-policy-pop/  Safety Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about-us/ corporate-governance/policies/safety- health-policy-pop/ Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests  of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders,  especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalized.
CSR Policy http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr- policy.pdf  Tata Affirmative Action Policy http:/ /tata.com/careers/articlesinside/Tata- Affirmative-Action-Programme Sustainability Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ sustainability-policy-pop/ Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote  human rights.
Tata Code of Conduct http:/ /corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap- southeast-1.amazonaws.com/wp-content/ uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf Sustainability Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ sustainability-policy-pop/  Whistle Blower Policy http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle- blower-policy.pdf Principle 6: Businesses should respect, protect, and  make efforts to restore the environment.
Environment Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ environmental-policy-pop/ Sustainability Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ sustainability-policy-pop/  Climate Change Policy http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ Climate-Policy-Eng.pdf  177 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Principle Applicable Policies Link for policies Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing  public and regulatory policy, should do so in a  responsible manner.
Tata Code of Conduct http:/ /corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap- southeast-1.amazonaws.com/wp-content/ uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth  and equitable development.
Sustainability Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about- us/corporate-governance/policies/ sustainability-policy-pop/  CSR Policy http:/ /investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr- policy.pdf Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide  value to their customers and consumers in a responsible  manner.
Tata Code of Conduct http:/ /corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap- southeast-1.amazonaws.com/wp-content/ uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf Quality Policy https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/about-us/ corporate-governance/policies/quality- policy-pop/ 3.
Governance related to BR •  Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors,  Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance  of the Company.
Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually,  More than 1 year Executive Committee (ExCom) reviews and assesses the  various aspects of BR performance of the Company.
The  frequency of ExCom meetings for BR Review is 3-6 months.
Please refer “Corporate Governance” section of the Company’s  Annual Report Fiscal Year 2017-18 for various Board  Committees and their roles and responsibilities.
•  Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report?
What is the hyperlink for viewing this report?
How frequently  it is published?
The Company has been publishing Annual Sustainability  Reports in accordance with globally recognized Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.
These reports also  serve as the Company’s Communication on Progress  (COP) as part of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  signatory reporting obligations and have been aligned with  the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental  and Economic Responsibilities of Business, released by  Ministry of Corporate Governance.
The Company also  published Annual CSR Report this year to highlight the  community engagement strategy and performance.
The  Company’s CSR Report can be viewed at https:/ /www.
tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/14090619/ annualSustainabilityReport2016-17.pdf  and the Sustainability  report can be viewed at https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/wp- content/uploads/2015/10/06100728/tml-sustainability- report-2016-17.pdf Section E: Principle-wise performance Principle 1: Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 1.
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover  only the company?
Yes/ No.
Does it extend to the Group/Joint  Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs/Others?
The Company has adopted the TCoC to remain consistently  vigilant and ensure ethical conduct of its operations.
All  internal and external stakeholders of the Tata Group are  expected to work within boundaries of the TCoC.
The  Company ensures compliance of ethical standards by its  vendors and contractors through appropriate clauses in  its work contracts to which they are obligated.
Generally,  the contract includes clauses in relation to Human Rights  Protection, Corruption practices and other things related  to ethics.
Training and awareness on TCoC is provided to all  employees and relevant stakeholders are also made aware  of the same from time to time.
The Company also has a whistle blower mechanism, which  is being governed by the Whistle Blower Policy.
Through  this it has placed mechanisms for ensuring confidentiality  and protecting the whistle blower from any harassment/  victimization.
The policy covers instances pertaining to  any unfair practice like retaliation, threat or intimidation  of termination/suspension of service, disciplinary action,  transfer, demotion, refusal of promotion, or the like  including any direct or indirect use of authority to obstruct  the Whistle Blower’s right to continue to perform his duties/ functions including making further Protected Disclosure.
The policy is directly monitored by the Chairman of the  Audit Committee and the Group Ethics Officer.
Ethics Helpline: The Company has an ethics helpline where employees can  place anonymous complaints against ethics violations as per  the policy of the Company.
The ethics helpline can be reached  in the following ways: Ethics Hotline: 1800 1032931 / 022 2287 1839.
Oral reports will normally be documented by the Chief  Ethics Counselor / Chairman of the Audit Committee by  accessing the voice mail by a written transcription of the  oral report.
178 Written application to Ethics and compliance: All concerns can be reported to Chief Ethics Counselor /  Chairman of the Audit Committee in Hindi, English or any  regional language.
2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the  past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily  resolved by the management?
If so, provide details thereof,  in about 50 words or so.
Stakeholders Complaint Received 57 Stakeholders Complaint Resolved 51 Percentage of Stakeholders Complaint Resolved 89 Includes TCoC concerns, investor complaints and customer complaints   The Company has setup an investor grievance mechanism  to respond to investor grievances in a timely and appropriate  manner.
The investor grievances are also reviewed at the Board  level by an Investors’ Grievance Committee and immediate action  is taken to resolve the same.
The TCoC concerns are resolved  through internal review mechanism by Ethics Counselor and  Senior Management.
Both the Commercial Vehicles Business Unit  and Passenger Vehicles Business Unit have established robust  customer care systems which track customer complaints and  responds to them in the minimum time possible.
Principle 2 Product Life Cycle Sustainability 1.
List upto 3 of your products or services whose design has  incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or  opportunities.
The Company is a leading automobile manufacturer of  India and has played a significant role over the years in  contributing to economic growth through its commercial  vehicles and passenger cars which transport people, goods  and help deliver services on time.
The Company realizes its  responsibility as a growth enabler and endeavors to create  vehicles which will promote entrepreneurship.
The Company  is also cognizant of the environmental impacts caused during  production and lifecycle of its products and continually strives  to innovate to reduce such impacts.
The Company has become  the first Indian Manufacturer to commercially deploy Series  Hybrid Technology in India, through the delivery of 25 ‘Tata  Starbus Hybrid Electric Bus’ with Full Low Floor configuration,  to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority  (MMRDA).
The Company has also delivered the first set of  Tigor Electric Vehicles (EVs) to state-run Energy Efficiency  Services Limited (EESL) as part of their initiative to procure  10,000 electric vehicles.
Below are few of the products which  have been designed to address social or environmental  concerns, risks and/or opportunities.
Product Social or Environmental benefits Buses for Public Transport – Tata Starbus Hybrid Electric Bus Runs on dual power i.e diesel and electric and is hence, economically  viable, safe and environmentally friendly.
Complies with all UBS-II (Urban Bus Specifications), AIS 052  (Automotive Industry Standards) and CMVR (Central Motor Vehicle  Rules).
Enhanced NVH (Noise, Vibration & Harshness) system.
Chassis with new generation BS IV Engine.
Intermediate & Light Commercial Vehicles (ILCV) – Tata ULTRA Adhere to the latest BS IV emission standards.
Tubeless radial tyres with low aspect ratio.
Less rolling resistance  - better fuel economy.
Front and rear end suspension come with rubber bush - no hassles  of greasing.
Intelligent Power Steering - stability at high speed, low steering  effort.
Strongest chassis in its class with bolted design for increased  modularity.
Passenger Cars – Tigor EV Full electric, zero emission vehicle.
Equipped with a single speed, automatic transmission.
The electric drive systems allows maximum efficiency and  seamless acceleration.
2.
For each such product, provide the following details in  respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.)
per  unit of product (optional):  (a)  Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution  achieved since the previous year throughout the value  chain?
In order to reduce the vehicular weight, the focus of the  Company is on the new and improved technologies so  as to achieve higher fuel efficiency as well as it should  reduce the environmental impact created by the vehicle,  including its material sourcing, production, use and end- of-life stages.
Also in order to reduce the fuel consumption,  the Company focuses on researching, developing and  producing new technologies, such as hybrid engines,  electric cars, fuel-cell vehicles.
Various development  programs to reduce the consumption of fuel, like the  use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses  179 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 through the driveline and improvements in aerodynamics  are also studied and implemented by the Company.
At the  sourcing stage, the Company work with its suppliers in  order to reduce the environmental impacts like, by making  use of returnable and recyclable packing solutions for  majority of the components thereby managing the cost  and the quality, as well as reducing the material use and  avoiding waste generation.
The Company was extensively  working on green and light weighting technologies  in products going beyond the basic Environmental  regulatory compliance.
The Company continuously  strives to improve the sustainability performance of the  product on Life Cycle basis.
(b)  Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water)  has been achieved since the previous year?
The class leading fuel efficiencies of the Company’s  vehicles enable the customers to achieve fuel savings  which translate into cost savings as well.
The REVOTRON  engine epitomizes the FuelNext philosophy of the  Company.
It is developed using a range of eco-friendly  and future oriented technologies.
It also incorporates  latest know-how like multi drive modes, allowing the  best of economy and driving pleasure.
The Company’s  value proposition in the commercial vehicles is aimed to  create vehicles with lowest overall cost of ownership.
The  Recon business, which reconditions aggregates, extends  the life of the aggregates and eliminates the use of fresh  resources that might have been consumed for new  aggregates.
3.
Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable  sourcing (including transportation)?
If yes, what percentage  of your inputs was sourced sustainably?
The Company continually works with its vendors and  suppliers to reduce the environmental impacts of sourcing.
The Company has an Environment Procurement Policy  and Sustainability Policy to engage with its value chain  partners on environmental sustainability.
The Company has  launched a sustainable supply chain initiative in Fiscal 2017.
Through this initiative the Company aims to firstly create  awareness on the subject, ask for suppliers’ sustainability  data and subsequently conduct a site assessment for data  verification.
In Phase I of this initiative, the Company has  completed site assessment of 52 suppliers.
Phase II of this  initiative was completed in Fiscal 2018 where total of 66  suppliers were assessed at their sites.
The Company plans  to take this further to the dealers in the coming years.
The  Company noted a significant initiatives that have been  taken to reduce the packaging impacts in the supply chain  by using recycled / returnable packaging solutions for  various components sourced.
Transportation and logistics  optimization is an ongoing activity to reduce the related  environmental impacts.
The Pantnagar and Sanand plants  have created a vendor park model wherein the key vendors  are situated surrounding the plant.
This not only enables to  optimize the production related costs but also significantly  reduces the environmental impact of transportation of  components.
4.
Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and  services from local & small producers, including communities  surrounding their place of work?
If yes, what steps have been  taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and  small vendors?
During Fiscal 2018, the Company has procured 57.88% of the  materials (by value) from local sources, where local is defined  as the State in which the manufacturing plant is established.
The Company takes significant initiatives in enhancing the  capabilities of local and small vendors.
Through the AA policy  initiatives, in this Fiscal the Company has associated with  20 SC/ST entrepreneurs in the supply chain and extended  business of `10.88 crore to them.
To ensure reliable and responsible suppliers for automotive  production and service parts, the Company expects all its  suppliers to adopt the ISO 9001/TS 16949 quality management  system frameworks.
The Company also encourage its dealers to  adopt quality, environmental and safety management systems.
In addition, the Company has an Environment Procurement Policy  and Sustainability Policy to engage with its value chain partners  on environmental sustainability.
The Company has launched  a sustainable supply chain initiative in Fiscal 2017.
Through this  initiative the Company aims to firstly create awareness on the  subject, ask for suppliers’ sustainability data and subsequently  conduct a site assessment for data verification.
5.
Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and  waste?
If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products  and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%).
Also, provide  details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
The Company ongoing endeavor to have a mechanism  to recycle its products and limit the waste arising out of  production of vehicles.
The Company has initiated well  defined program ‘Prolife’.
The objective is to reduce the  waste and to minimize the need of raw materials to produce  a brand new item.
In Fiscal 2018, total of 26,993 components  were reconditioned.
The re-conditioned long blocks are  also being exported to international markets.
Hazardous  waste is disposed as per regulatory requirements through  the Common Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage &  Disposal Facilities (CHWTSDF), authorized re-cyclers and  co-processing in cement plants.
Principle 3 Employee Wellbeing 1.
Please indicate the Total number of employees.
52,979 as at 31st March, 2018 (Includes Permanent,  Temporary, trainee and contractual employees).
2.
Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on  temporary/ contractual/ casual basis.
28,057 as at 31st March, 2018.
3.
Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees.
689 as at 31st March, 2018.
4.
Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with  disabilities.
12 as at 31st March, 2018.
180 5.
Do you have an employee association that is recognized by  management?
The manufacturing plants at Jamshedpur, Pune, Lucknow,  Pantnagar and Sanand have employee unions recognized by  the management.
The Company enters into long term wage  settlements with these recognized unions.
6.
What percentage of your permanent employees is members  of this recognized employee association?
Around 94% of the operative employees at Jamshedpur, Pune,  Lucknow, Pantnagar & Sanand plants are members of these  employee unions.
These employees represent around 52%  of the total permanent employees at these five plants.
The  Company do not have an Employees Union at our Dharwad  Plant presently.
7.
Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour,  forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last  financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year.
S.  No.
Category No of complaints filed during   the financial year No of complaints pending as on   end of the financial year 1.
Child labour/forced labour/ involuntary labour  0 0 2.
Sexual harassment 13 1 3.
Discriminatory employment 0 0 8.
What percentage of your under mentioned employees were  given safety & skill up-gradation training in the last year?
• Permanent Employees  • Permanent Women Employees  • Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees  • Employees with Disabilities  Safety is of paramount importance to the Company.
All  employees of the Company are provided with safety training  as part of the induction programme.
The safety induction  programme is also a compulsory requirement for contract  workforce before they are inducted into the system.
The  Company has a structured safety training agenda on an on- going basis to build a culture of safety across its workforce.
The Company believes in continual learning of its employees  and has institutionalized a continual learning model for skill  upgradation, especially at the shop-floor level.
The learning  and development needs of management cadre employees  are met through the Company’s L&D structure which includes  various training delivery mechanisms.
Principle 4: Stakeholder Engagement 1.
Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders?
Yes.
The Company has mapped its internal and external  stakeholders.
It uses both formal and informal mechanisms  to engage with various stakeholders to understand their  concerns and expectations.
Individual departments within  the organization have roles and responsibilities identified  and defined to engage with various stakeholders.
2.
Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged,  vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders?
Yes.
The Company’s AA policy is specially designed  to address the socially disadvantaged sections of the  society, Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
Within the broader  stakeholder group of communities, the Company works  towards women empowerment and education of children.
Every year, the Company participate in TAAP (Tata  Affirmative Action Program) Assessment, developed on the  lines of TBEM.
3.
Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to  engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized  stakeholders.
If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words  or so.
Our CSR programmes and projects are aimed at serving  the needy, deserving, socio-economically backward and  disadvantaged communities aimed at improving the quality  of their lives.
Under TAAP, the Company continues to  serve the SC and ST communities in inter alia Education,  Employability and Entrepreneurship.
Area Stakeholder (SC/ST community) Benefits Education In Fiscal 2018, more than 20000 SC/ST students were benefited from the CSR Vidyadhanam programme.
The  projects include IIT-JEE & competitive exams coaching; co-curricular activities; financial aid program for Engineering  Students at IIT Bombay; Scholarships for Secondary school students and Govt.
Engineering College at Pune, School  Infra Improvement and Special Coaching classes in Std.
8th, 9th and 10th.
Employability The programme has benefitted more than 7000 SC/ST youths across different locations in the country in Fiscal 2018.
The skilling projects include: Novice drivers training, agriculture & allied training, ITI partnership & allied-auto trades;  Motor Mechanic Vehicle (MMV) and training in marketable trades such as retail, tally, white goods repair, etc.
Health In Fiscal 2018, more than 2.5 Lakh community members benefited from our health initiatives including those who  inhabit rural/tribal areas.
181 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Principle 5: Human Rights 1.
Does the policy of the company on human rights cover  only the company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?
The Company respects human rights and has established a  Policy on Human Rights.
The policy details the Company’s  approach towards human rights and sets the Company’s  expectations of its Channel Partners and Contractors to adhere  to principles of human rights.
The Company encourages its  suppliers, vendors, contractors and other business partners  associated with the Company to follow the principles laid out  in the TCoC.
2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been received in  the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily  resolved by the management?
During Fiscal 2018, 57 concerns have been received towards  actual or potential violation of TCoC, of which 51 of the  complaints were satisfactorily resolved as at 31.03.2018.
Principle 6: Environmental 1.
Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the  company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/ Contractors/NGOs/others.
Sustainability is built into the Company business processes  through well-defined Sustainability Policy.
This policy  reaffirms value system committed to integrate environmental,  social and ethical principles into our business and innovate  sustainable mobility solutions with passion to enhance quality  of life of communities.
The Company also has Environmental Procurement Policy  which is applicable to all its vendors, contractors and service  providers.
2.
Does the company have strategies/initiatives to address  global environmental issues such as climate change, global  warming, etc.?
Y/N.
If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage  etc.
Yes, the Company has Climate Change policy which guides  the organizational efforts towards mitigating and adapting  to climate change.
The Company approach towards climate  change mitigation and pursuing low carbon growth is three- fold – develop cleaner and more fuel efficient vehicles,  reduce environmental impacts of manufacturing operations  and build awareness among stakeholders.
The Company  also continually working on alternate fuel technologies like  electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technologies.
The Company has delivered 25 ‘Tata Starbus Hybrid Electric  Bus’ to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority  (MMRDA) and has also delivered the first set of Tigor Electric  Vehicles (EVs) to state-run Energy Efficiency Services Limited  (EESL) as part of their initiative to procure 10,000 electric  vehicles.
The Tata Group became part of the Prime Minister’s Low  Carbon Committee and was a member in the Steering  Committee of the ‘Caring for Climate’ initiative of the United  Nations Global Compact and United Nations Environment  Programme.
Ahead of the crucial global climate change talks  that concluded in Paris, global corporate leaders signed an  open letter on climate change.
3.
Does the company identify and assess potential  environmental risks?
Y/N Yes, the Company has a Sustainability Policy and  Environmental Policy which guides the Company’s efforts  to minimize its environmental impacts and continually  improve the environmental performance across life cycle of  the product.
All manufacturing plants in India are certified to  Environmental Management Systems (EMS) as per ISO 14001.
As part of EMS implementation, potential environmental  risks are identified and appropriate mitigation strategies are  planned.
4.
Does the company have any project related to Clean  Development Mechanism?
If so, provide details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
Also, if yes, whether any environmental  compliance report is filed?
None of our plants have undertaken Clean Development  Mechanism projects during Fiscal 2018.
5.
Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on - clean  technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc.?
Y/N.
If  yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.
In Fiscal 2018, the Company continued to work on improving  energy efficiency, introduction of clean technology and  increasing its renewable energy consumption in line with our  aspiration to RE100 - which is a collaborative, global initiative  of influential businesses aspiring to source 100% renewable  electricity for operations.
(A) Renewable Energy    During Fiscal 2018, the Company has set up in-house  Renewable Electricity (RE) generation capacity (solar and  wind) which includes:  •  21.95 MW Captive Wind Power project at Supa and  Satara in Maharashtra; •  2 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Sanand  Works; •  2.1 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Pune Works  and work is ongoing for additional 2MW installation; • 2 MW Solar PV installation at Lucknow Works;  •  18.5 kWp Solar PV installation at Pantnagar Works;  and  •  7.2 kW hybrid-wind and solar installation at Dharwad  Works.
The Company sources off-site wind power at its Pune,  Sanand and Dharwad Works through Power Purchase  Agreements (PPA) with Third Party Wind Power  Generators.
It would continue to source renewable power  from the grid in line with regulatory policies / frameworks  and tariffs in the States where we operate.
182 In Fiscal 2018, the Company generated / sourced  a total 99,382 MWh of RE for its manufacturing  operations which contributed to financial saving of  `666.3 Lakhs.
(B) Energy Efficiency / Clean Technology The Company has signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) with Energy Efficiency Services  Limited (EESL), Ministry of Power, Government of India  to achieve energy saving and resource conservation by  implementing various energy efficiency initiatives across  the Company’s manufacturing facilities in India.
Phase I of  the project is being rolled-out at our Pantnagar, Lucknow  and Pune plants and will be extended later to other  plants.
Key highlights of the MoU include - Diagnostic  Studies & Pilot Projects, Implementation of Energy  Efficiency Projects through innovative financial models  and Capacity Building & Training.
The Company has also implemented significant Energy  Conservation projects across its manufacturing plants  and offices in Fiscal 2018.
•  Pune Plants optimized power consumption in  ventilation systems at Engine Shop, installed energy  efficient LED lighting systems, converted washing  machines from electrical to natural gas heating,  provided interlocks and auto switch-off timers in  Engine Shop, installed Intelligent Flow Control in  Compressor for Paint Shop operations and integrated  painting operations into a single shop.
•  Jamshedpur Plant optimized engine test bed  utilization and installed energy efficient LED lighting.
•  Sanand Plant optimized use of Air Supply Plants  (ASP’s), washing process in Head & Block at Engine  Shop, replaced Nd-YAG laser with fiber laser, and  provided interlocks and auto switch-off timers for  energy intensive machines and equipment.
•  Lucknow Plant implemented empty skid storage  facility in Paint Shop and installed energy efficient  LED lighting.
•  Pantnagar Plant contributed by reduction in no-load  losses in transformers and installed energy efficient  LED lighting.
Please refer Annexure 2 to Board’s Report of the Company  Annual Report FY 2017-18, ‘Energy and Climate Change’ and  ‘Environmental Stewardship of the Tata Motors Sustainability  Report 2017-18 for details on the Company’s energy efficiency  and cleaner production initiatives.
6.
Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within  the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial  year being reported?
The Company is in compliance within the prescribed  permissible limits as per CPCB/SPCB for air emissions,  effluent quality and discharge, solid and hazardous waste  generation and disposal.
7.
Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/ SPCB which are pending (i.e.
not resolved to satisfaction) as  on end of Financial Year.
There is no show cause /legal notice from CPCB/SPCB  pending resolution by the Company as on end of Fiscal 2018.
Principle 7 Policy Advocacy 1.
Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or  association?
If Yes, Name only those major ones that your  business deals with: The Company is member of various trade and chamber associations.
1)  The Company actively participate in all WP29 UNECE group  activities.
2)  The Company also participated in the following National  Committees which are working on formulating policies and  regulations for improvement of environment including GHG  reduction throughout the country; I.
Standing Committee on Emissions (SCOE) II.
Sub-committee on Idle (CO & HC) emission norms of  Union Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways  of India, along with Automotive Research Association of  India (ARAI).
III.
Expert committee to define “Heavy Duty Vehicle Fuel  Economy Norms for India’’ under Ministry of Shipping,  Road Transport and Highways of Government of India  (GoI) & Petroleum Conservation Research Association  (PCRA).
IV.
Expert Committee to define “Light & Medium Duty Vehicle  Fuel Economy Norms for India’’ under Ministry of Road  Transport & Highways of Government of India, Ministry  of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoPNG) & Petroleum  Conservation Research Association (PCRA) V.  Expert committee on Fuel Economy and Labeling of  Passenger Cars under Bureau of Energy Efficiency under  Ministry of Power (GoI) & Ministry of Road Transport &  Highways.
VI.
Interministerial committee for upcoming emission norms  (BSVI) including Real World Driving Emissions (RDE)  & Portable Emission Measurement System (PEMS) for  Motor Vehicles of Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport  and Highways, Ministry of Heavy Industries, Ministry of  Petroleum & Natural Gas (GoI).
VII.
Working group on Quadricycle Emission Norms for India.
VIII.
Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, GoI, is promoting  and assisting technology development for GHG reduction  by way of increased usage of Biodiesel.
We are engaged  in this initiative of GoI and currently running number of  engine and vehicle programs to commercialize usage of  Biodiesel as soon as the same is made available to the  general public by oil marketing companies.
183 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 IX.
Working Group on Energy for Sub-Group on DST’s XIIth  plan on Technology Development Program (TDP).
X.
National Electric Mobility Mission Plan - We have been  actively participating in forming hybrid performance  criteria along with SIAM-FTG group and helped  government to launch FAME scheme.
Now we are  building two types of hybrid and electric vehicles under  Technical Advisor Group under R&D scheme.
The Company participated in all the panel meetings  pertaining to emissions, fuel economy, conventional & non- conventional fuels for rules and standards formulation.
2.
Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations  for the advancement or improvement of public good?
Yes/ No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and  Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development  Policies, Energy Security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable  Business Principles, Others)   The Company, through various industry associations, participated  in advocating matters advancement of the industry and public  good.
It supports various initiatives of the SIAM which include  aspects of product safety, alternate fuel vehicles, environment,  fuel policies, customer information and education, to name a few.
The Company’s Sustainability policy and Affirmative Action policy  is a progressive step towards inclusive development.
Principle 8 : Inclusive Growth 1.
Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/ projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8?
If yes  details thereof.
Inclusive growth is at the core of the Company’s community  development strategy.
Ankur, the Company’s community  engagement strategy, is percolated to each manufacturing plant  through a detailed community development plan.
The plant specific  plan addresses the local needs and the corporate cell drives some  company-wide strategic community development initiatives  such as driver training.
The initiatives primarily focus on Arogya  (Health), Vidyadhanam (Education), Kaushalya (Employability)  and Vasundhara (Environment).
Seva, the employee volunteering  initiative provides our employees with a platform to be a part of  our community initiatives.
Tata Motors along with its employees  also supports Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation  (SMDF) towards implementing Amurtdhara, a National Drinking  Water Project to provide safe drinking water to communities.
Through adoption of Tata Group Affirmative Action (AA) Policy,  the Company works toward inclusion of socially disadvantaged  and marginalized sections of society (Scheduled Castes and  Scheduled Tribes).
The AA interventions focus on Education,  Health, Employability and Entrepreneurship.
The Company has also worked extensively in areas of  healthcare by establishing malnutrition treatment center  (MTC) at its Jamshedpur location in collaboration with UNICEF  & the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and in the area  of agricultural development where it improved lives of around  500+ farmers constituting around 70% of ST farmers by  implementing the Lift Agriculture (LI) project.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2017- 18’ and ‘Community Development’ section of Tata Motors  Sustainability Report FY 2017-18 for detailed community  engagement strategy and key initiatives.
2.
Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house  team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/ any other organization?
CSR Programmes and Projects are deployed by Company:  directly; through its own company-promoted societies/NGOS;  partnering with govt.
and collaborating with reputed, external  non-profit organizations under different models.
Area Partners Involved Education Action Aid, Agastya International Foundation, Avanti Fellows, Block Resource Centre EDUCATION DEPT.
(SSA), CATHEDRAL  CHURCH SANAND, Center for Youth Development & Activities, Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness, College of Engineering  Pune, GANATAR, Global Education Trust, Gram Vikas Kendra, IIT Bombay Alumni Association, Manav Seva Education Trust,  Moinee Foundation, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Rotary Club of Nigdi, Samaj Vikas Kendra,  Samata Shikshan Sanstha, SANAND LIONS FOUNDATION TRUST, Seva Sahyog Foundation, Shanti Seva Nidhi Trust, Shiksha  Prasar Kendra, SHRI SHAKTI KELAVNI UTTEJAK TRUST, Society for Human Environmental Development, Suprabhat Mahila  Mandal, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, Swaroopwardhinee, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Tata Motors Gruhini  Social Welfare Society, The Jai Narayan Charitable Trust, Urmee Charitable Trust, Vidya Poshak, Vikas Samities Employability Ahmedabad Dist.
Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd, Ambika Motor Driving School, Centre for Civil Society, CII,  Gram Vikas Kendra, LAURUS EDUTECH LIFE SKILLS PVT LTD, Manikbag Automobile Pvt Ltd, MITCON Foundation,  Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Pratham Education Foundation, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar,  Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sambhav Foundation, SANAND EDUCATION TRUST, Shashwat, Skill For Progress, SUVIDHA,  Vedanta Foundation, Vigyan Ashram (IIE), Vikas Samities Health Action Aid, CHETNA, Family Planning Association of India, Gram Vikas Kendra, Jan Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Manav  Seva Education Trust, NAMASTE LIFE, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Paryawaran Evam Jan  Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Seth G S Medical College and KEM Hospital, Sneh Foundation, Snehdeep Jankalyan  Foundation, Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation, Sterling Hospital, Swadhar, Vikas Samities Environment Bansilal Ramntath Agarwal Charitable Trust, Bombay Natural History Society, COLLEGE OF SOCIAL WORK (NIRMALA  NIKETAN INSTITUTE), GANATAR, Gram Vikas Kendra, Green Thumb, Manav Seva Education Trust, Paryawaran Evam  Jan Kalyan Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sarvodhaya Maha Sangh, Terre Policy Center, Tree Public Foundation, Vikas  Samities, Wildlife Research and Conservation Society 184 Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2017-18’ and  ‘Community Development’ section of Tata Motors Sustainability  Report 2017-18 for details on various community development  programme partnerships.
3.
Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?
Yes.
The Company has adopted ‘Tata CS Protocol’ to assess  the impact of the various community interventions.
Periodic  impact assessments are conducted and the outcome forms a  critical input to the community development plan preparation  and implementation.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2017- 18’ and ‘Community Development’ section of Tata Motors  Sustainability Report 2017-18 for details on community  impacts created and assessed.
4.
What is your company’s direct contribution to community  development projects- Amount in INR and the details of the  projects undertaken?
Total expenditure reported is ` 21.44 crores.
The details of projects:  1.
Arogya (Health)  build awareness on malnourishment and  other health problems in the community, provides ferry  mobile medical van to look into curative and preventive  health care.
2.
Vidyadhanam (Education)  supporting for infrastructure,  skills development, training and Institutionalized need  based scholarships.
3.
Kaushalya (Employability)  Industrial Training to school  dropout youth in auto sector, non-auto trades, agriculture  and allied activities.
4.
Vasundhara (Environment)  large scale sapling plantation,  construction of water conservation structures and building  awareness about environment and renewable energy sources.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2017- 18’ and ‘Community Development’ section of Tata Motors  Sustainability Report 2017-18 for details on various community  development programmes undertaken.
5.
Have you taken steps to ensure that this community  development initiative is successfully adopted by the  community?
Please explain in 50 words, or so.
Yes.
The Company adopts a collaborative and participatory  approach with communities/beneficiaries in conceiving and  deploying CSR projects.
Partial beneficiary contribution is  sought, wherever feasible, for project deployment / asset  creation, maintenance for them to have greater ownership of  the projects - which we believe is crucial for sustainability of  our initiatives.
Training and capacity building of communities  and relevant stakeholders to successfully adopt & carry  forward these initiatives is done from time to time.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2017- 18’ and ‘Community Development’ section of Tata Motors  Sustainability Report 2017-18 for details on various community  development programme implementation models.
Principle 9: Customer Value 1.
What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases  are pending as on the end of financial year.
The Company provided its customers with the best in class  after sales service.
We hear our customers through various  mediums such as 24X7 Call center toll free no, website, social  media, Tata Motors Service Connect App.
The Company Service rests on three core ‘Service Promises’ –  ‘Responsive’, ‘Reliable’ and ‘Best value’.
A host of distinctive facilities  and services are being offered to deliver each of these promises to  customers in the Company’s nationwide service network.
Passenger  Vehicle  Business Unit Commercial  Vehicle  Business Unit Total Percentage of Consumer  Cases Pending as on  31st March 2018 0.45 0.20 0.21 2.
Does the company display product information on the  product label, over and above what is mandated as per local  laws?
Yes/No/N.A./ Remarks (additional information) The Company displays all the requisite product information and  safety guidance on the product label as required by the local laws.
Over and above the mandatory requirements, the Company also  subscribes to guidance by SIAM (Society of Indian Automobile  Manufacturers) of various customer information requirements  such as the Fuel Economy Customer Information.
The vehicle  manual is an important source of information for customers  which contains product information, safety guidance, customer  support details and tips on efficient use of the vehicle.
3.
Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the  company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible  advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior during the  last five years and pending as on end of financial year.
If so,  provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so  There have been no cases relating to unfair trade practices,  irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior  against The Company in the last five years.
4.
Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer  satisfaction trends?
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are conducted to assess  customer satisfaction levels and benchmark the Company’s  performance with industry peers.
Customer centricity is  intrinsic to the Company culture – develop, deliver, delight.
The Company continuously strive to provide best services  to enhance its customer engagement.
The customer service  quality is met through integration of our Customer Relationship  Management and Dealer Management System (CRM – DMS).
The Passenger Vehicle business uses globally renowned  J.D.Power survey scores to assess overall customer  satisfaction and benchmark with industry peers.
The  Commercial Vehicle business conduct customer satisfaction  survey (eQ scores) through External Agency AC Nielsen every  year.
The eQ i.e.
CEI scores conducted by AC Nielsen are in line  with our internal satisfaction scores.
Financial statements Standalone 186 Independent Auditors’ Report 192 Balance Sheet 193 Statement of Profit and Loss 194 Cash Flow Statement 195 Statement of Changes in Equity 197 Notes to Accounts Consolidated 255 Independent Auditors’ Report 260 Balance Sheet 261 Statement of Profit and Loss 262 Cash Flow Statement 264 Statement of Changes in Equity 266 Notes to Accounts 346 Summarised Statements 348 Financial Statistics 350  Subsidiary Companies Financial   Highlights 2017-18 354 Notice 186 To the Members of  Tata Motors Limited Report on the Audit of the Standalone Ind AS Financial  Statements We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial  statements of Tata Motors Limited (“the Company”), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018, the Statement  of Profit and Loss, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the  Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and summary  of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory  information, and includes two joint operations consolidated on a  proportionate basis.
Management's Responsibility for the Standalone Ind  AS Financial Statements The Company's Board of Directors is responsible for the matters  stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with  respect to the preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs,  profit/loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity  and cash flows of the Company including its joint operations in  accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted  in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the Company and its  joint operations are responsible for maintenance of adequate  accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for  safeguarding the assets of the Company and its joint operations  and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;  selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;  making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;  and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to  the preparation and presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the respective Board of  Directors of the Company and its joint operations are responsible  for assessing the ability of the Company and its joint operations  to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters  related to going concern and using the going concern basis of  accounting unless respective management either intends to  liquidate the Company / joint operation or to cease operations, or  has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone Ind  AS financial statements based on our audit.
Independent Auditor’s Report We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting  and auditing standards and matters which are required to be  included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act and the  Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing specified  under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we  comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone Ind  AS financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the standalone Ind  AS financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on  the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks  of material misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial  statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk  assessments, the auditor considers internal financial control  relevant to the Company's preparation of the standalone Ind AS  financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design  audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit  also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting  policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates  made by the Company's Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
We are also responsible to conclude on the appropriateness  of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting  and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material  uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast  significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going  concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are  required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related  disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are  inadequate, to modify the opinion.
Our conclusions are based on  the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause an entity to cease  to continue as a going concern.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to  the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of  report of other auditor on separate financial statements of one joint  operation, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial statements  give the information required by the Act in the manner so required  and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting  principles generally accepted in India of the state of affairs of the  Company as at 31 March 2018, its loss and other comprehensive  income, changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on  that date.
187 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Other Matters 1.
The comparative financial information of the Company for the  year ended 31 March 2017 prepared in accordance with Ind AS,  included in these standalone Ind AS financial statements have  been audited by the predecessor auditor, which have been  adjusted to give effect to the scheme of merger explained in  Note 47 (iii) to the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
The  report of the predecessor auditor on the comparative financial  information dated 23 May 2017 expressed an unmodified  opinion.
2.
We did not audit the financial statements of one joint operation  included in the standalone Ind AS financial statements, whose  financial statements reflect total assets of ` 6,940.15 crores  and net assets of ` 3,375.06 crores as at 31 March 2018,  total revenues of ` 6,994.76 crores and net cash outflows  amounting to ` 115.57 crores for the year ended on that date,  as considered on a proportionate basis in the standalone Ind  AS financial statements.
These financial statements have been  audited by other auditor whose report has been furnished to  us by the management and our report on the standalone Ind  AS financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts  and disclosures included in respect of this joint operation, is  based solely on the report of the other auditor.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor's Report) Order, 2016  (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms of  Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure A” a statement  on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order for  the Company (excluding its joint operations).
2.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit  and on the consideration of report of the other auditor on  separate financial statements of a joint operation we report,  that:  a) We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law  have been kept by the Company and its joint operations  so far as it appears from our examination of those books  and the report of the other auditor.
c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss,  the Cash Flow Statement and Statement of Changes in  Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the  relevant books of account.
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards  prescribed under section 133 of the Act.
e) On the basis of the written representations received  from the directors as on 31 March 2018 taken on record  by the Board of Directors and the report of the statutory  auditors of the joint operations, none of the directors of  the Company and its joint operations is disqualified as on  31 March 2018 from being appointed as a director in terms  of Section 164(2) of the Act.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements of the  Company and its joint operations which are companies  incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of  such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure  B”.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our  opinion and to the best of our information and according  to the explanations given to us:   i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending  litigations on its financial position in its standalone  Ind AS financial statements; - Refer Note 38 to the  standalone Ind AS financial statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision, as required  under the applicable law or accounting standards,  for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts; - Refer Note  47 (v) to the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts,  required to be transferred, to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund by the Company.
iv.
The disclosures in the financial statements regarding  holdings as well as dealings in specified bank notes  during the period from 8 November 2016 to 30  December 2016 have not been made since they do  not pertain to the financial year ended 31 March  2018.
For B S R & Co. LLP  Chartered Accountants  Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022  Yezdi Nagporewalla Mumbai Partner 23 May 2018 Membership No: 049265 188 Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report – 31 March 2018 (Referred to in paragraph (1) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) (i) (a)  The Company has maintained proper records showing  full particulars, including quantitative details and  situation of fixed assets except for certain tools where  the Company is in the process of updating the location.
(b)  The Company has a regular program of physical  verification of its fixed assets by which its fixed assets are  verified in a phased manner over a period of three years.
In our opinion, this periodicity of physical verification is  reasonable having regard to the size of the Company  and the nature of its fixed assets.
However, fixed assets  aggregating to a carrying value of ` 210.14 crores were not  verified during the year though planned.
As represented  by the management, these will be verified during the  financial year 2018-19.
According to the information and  explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were  noticed on verification of the balance fixed assets.
( c )  According to the information and explanations given  to us, the records examined by us and based on the  examination of the registered sale deed /transfer deed  /conveyance deed /court orders approving schemes  of arrangements /amalgamations provided to us, we  report that, the title deeds, comprising all the immovable  properties of land and buildings which are freehold, are  held in the name of the Company as at the Balance Sheet  date except for certain title deeds for lands amounting  to ` 525.80 crores which are yet to be transferred in  the name of the Company.
In respect of immovable  properties that have been taken on lease and disclosed  as property, plant and equipment in the standalone Ind  AS financial statements, the lease agreements are in the  name of the Company, where the Company is the lessee  in the agreement.
(ii)  The inventory including inventory lying with third parties,  except goods-in-transit, has been physically verified by the  management during the year.
In our opinion, the frequency  of such verification is reasonable and adequate in relation to  the size of the Company and the nature of its business.
The  discrepancies noticed on verification between the physical  stocks and the book records were not material and have been  properly dealt with in the books of account.
(iii)  According to information and explanations given to us,  the Company has granted loans, secured or unsecured, to  companies, firms or other parties covered in the Register  maintained under Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013, in  respect of which:  (a)  The terms and conditions of the grant of such loans are, in  our opinion, prima facie, not prejudicial to the Company’s  interest.
(b)  The schedule of repayment of principal and payment of  interest has been stipulated and repayments or receipts  of principal amounts and interest have been regular as  per stipulations.
( c )  There is no amount overdue for more than 90 days at the  Balance Sheet date.
(iv)  According to the information and explanations given to us,  the Company has complied with provisions of section 185 and  186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of grant of loans,  making investments and providing guarantees and securities,  as applicable.
(v)  According to the information and explanations given to us,  the Company has not accepted any deposits during the year.
In respect of unclaimed deposits, the Company has complied  with the provisions of section 73 to 76 of the Act and the rules  framed thereunder.
(vi)  We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by  the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the Central  Government for maintenance of cost records under section  148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of manufacture of  products and are of the opinion that prima facie, the prescribed  accounts and records have been made and maintained.
However, we have not made a detailed examination of the cost  records.
(vii) (a)  According to the information and explanations given to  us and on the basis of our examination of the records  of the Company, amounts deducted / accrued in the  books of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues  including Provident fund, Employees’ state insurance,  Income tax, Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of customs,  Duty of excise, Value added tax, Goods and services tax  and other material statutory dues have generally been  regularly deposited during the year by the Company  with the appropriate authorities.
We are informed by the  Company that the Employee’s State Insurance Act, 1948  is applicable only to certain locations of the Company.
With regard to the contribution under the Employee’s  Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme, 1976 (the scheme),  the Company has sought exemption from making  contribution to the scheme since it has its own Life  Cover Scheme.
The Company has made application on  March 28, 2017 seeking an extension of exemption from  contribution to the Scheme for a period of 3 years which  is awaited.
According to the information and explanations given to us,  no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Provident  fund, Employees’ state insurance, Income tax, Sales tax,  Service tax, Duty of excise, Duty of customs, Value added  tax, Goods and services tax and other material statutory  dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2018, for a period  of more than six months from the date they became  payable.
(b)  According to the information and explanations given to  us, there are no dues of Income tax, Sales tax, Service tax,  Value added tax, Goods and services tax, Duty of customs  and Duty of excise which have not been deposited by the  Company with appropriate authorities on account of any  disputes except for the following: 189 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Name of the  statute Nature of dues Amount   ( ` in Crores) Amount paid  under protest  ( ` in Crores) Amount  outstanding  ( ` in Crores) Period to which the   amount relates Forum where dispute   is pending Income Tax Act,  1961 Income tax 2.78 2.78 - 1982-83, 1991-92 and 1995-96 High Court 162.51 162.51 - 1997-98 to 1999-2000, 2003-04  to 2011-12 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal 330.65 111.78 218.87 2007-08, 2012-13 and 2013-14 Commissioner of Income Tax  Appeals Central Excise Act,  1944 Duty of excise 133.13 45.37 87.76 1991-92 to 1993-94, 1995-96 to  1999-2000, 2002-03, 2005-06 to  2010-11 High Court  1,384.72 22.06 1362.66 1989-90, 1990-91, 1992-93, 1994- 95, 1996-97, 1997-98, 1999-2000  to 2016-17 The Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunal 32.10 1.91 30.19 1984-85, 1994-95, 1995-96, 1997- 98, 2000-01, 2006-07 to 2016-17 Appellate Authority upto  Commissioner’s level Finance Act, 1994 Service tax 1,116.13 12.79 1,103.34 2003-04 to 2014-15 The Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunal 1.98 0.07 1.91 2011-12 Appellate Authority upto  Commissioner’s level Sales Tax Sales tax 13.18 - 13.18 1995-96 Supreme Court 254.33 50.40 203.93 1984-85 to 1988-89, 1990-91,  2001-02 to 2005-06 High Court 99.24 27.92 71.32 1983-84, 1986-87, 1989-90, 1991- 92, 2000-01, 2004-05 to 2016-17 The Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunal 515.92 30.17 485.75 1979-80, 1986-87, 1988-89 to  2016-17 Appellate Authority upto  Commissioner’s level Customs Act, 1962 Duty of customs 3.90 3.90 - 2011-12 Supreme Court 7.49 3.11 4.38 2008-09 The Customs, Excise and Service  Tax Appellate Tribunal (viii)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in  repayment of loans or borrowings to financial institutions,  banks and government and dues to debenture holders.
(ix)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company had not raised  money by way of further public offer (including debt  instruments) during the year and the term loans taken by  the Company have been applied for the purpose for which  they were raised.
(x)  According to the information and explanations given to us, no  fraud by the Company and no material fraud on the Company  by its officers or employees has been noticed or reported  during the course of our audit.
(xi)  According to the information and explanations given to us and  based on our examination of the records of the Company, the  Company has paid / provided for managerial remuneration  in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the  provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act for  the year ended 31 March 2018.
(xii)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company  as per the Act.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not  applicable to the Company.
(xiii)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, all transactions with related parties  are in compliance with section 177 and 188 of the Act and the  details, as required by the applicable accounting standards  have been disclosed in the standalone Ind AS financial  statements.
(xiv)  According to the information and explanations given to us,  the Company has not made any preferential allotment or  private placement of shares or fully or partially convertible  debentures during the year.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xiv) of  the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xv)  According to the information and explanations given to us, the  Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with  directors or persons connected with them during the year.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to  the Company.
(xvi)  In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us, the Company is not required to  register under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act,  1934.
For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 Yezdi Nagporewalla Mumbai Partner 23 May 2018 Membership No: 049265 190 (Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls under  Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements of Tata Motors Limited (“the Company”) as of  31 March 2018 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone Ind  AS financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that  date which includes internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements of the Company’s joint operations which are  companies incorporated in India.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial  Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Company and its joint  operations incorporated in India are responsible for establishing  and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria  established by the respective companies considering the essential  components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (“the  Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants  of India (“ICAI).
These responsibilities include the design,  implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial  controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly  and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to  company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention  and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable  financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements of the Company  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with  the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI  and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act,  to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls,  both applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both  issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require  that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform  the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate  internal financial controls with reference to financial statements  was established and maintained and if such controls operated  effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system with  reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements included obtaining an understanding of internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing  the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating  the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on  the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s  judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or  error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit  evidence obtained by the other auditor of a joint operation in terms  of their report referred in the Other Matter paragraph below, is  sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion  on the internal financial controls system with reference to financial  statements of the Company.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference  to financial statements A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance  regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation  of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company's internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements includes  those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance  of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect  the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded  as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that  receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in  accordance with authorisations of the management and directors  of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use,  or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material  effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls  with reference to financial statements Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of  collusion or improper management override of controls, material  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject  to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements may become inadequate because of changes  in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report – 31 March 2018 191 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Opinion In our opinion the Company and its joint operations which are  incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate  internal financial controls system with reference to financial  statements and such internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March  2018, based on the internal controls with reference to financial  statements criteria established by the Company and its joint  operations considering the essential components of internal  control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matter Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the  adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements in so far as it relates  to one joint operation, which is a Company incorporated in India, is  based solely on the corresponding report of the other auditor.
Our  opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP  Chartered Accountants  Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022  Yezdi Nagporewalla Mumbai Partner 23 May 2018 Membership No: 049265 192 Balance Sheet (` in crores) Notes As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31, 2017 I.
ASSETS (1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment 3  18,192.52  17,897.12  (b) Capital work-in-progress  1,371.45  1,902.61  ( c) Goodwill  99.09  99.09  (d) Other intangible assets 5 (a)  3,312.14  2,776.71  (e) Intangible assets under development 5 (b)  3,825.15  5,368.38  (f) Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 6  13,950.60  14,330.02  (g) Financial assets  (i) Investments 8  310.19  528.37   (ii) Loans and advances 10  143.96  391.46   (iii) Other financial assets 12  793.40  196.32  (h) Non-current tax assets (net)  695.75  772.67  (i) Other non-current assets 14  1,546.39  1,858.45   44,240.64  46,121.20  (2) CURRENT ASSETS (a) Inventories 16  5,670.13  5,553.01  (b) Investments in subsidiaries and associate (held-for-sale) 7  681.91  -  ( c) Financial assets  (i) Investments 9  1,820.87  2,437.42   (ii) Trade receivables 17  3,479.81  2,128.00   (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 19  546.82  228.94   (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 20  248.60  97.67   (v) Loans and advances 11  140.27  215.96   (vi) Other financial assets 13  646.31  141.54  (d) Current tax assets (net)  73.88  129.49  (e) Assets classified as held-for-sale 47(iv)  223.33  -  (f) Other current assets 15  1,439.73  1,825.05   14,971.66  12,757.08  TOTAL ASSETS  59,212.30  58,878.28  II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY  (a) Equity share capital 21  679.22  679.22  (b) Other equity  19,491.76  20,483.39   20,170.98  21,162.61  LIABILITIES (1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities  (i) Borrowings 23  13,155.91  13,686.09   (ii) Other financial liabilities 25  211.28  1,130.23  (b) Provisions 27  1,009.48  892.18  ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net)  154.61  147.58  (d) Other non-current liabilities 30  291.09  321.24   14,822.37  16,177.32  (2) CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities  (i) Borrowings 24  3,099.87  5,158.52   (ii) Trade payables [includes dues of micro and small enterprises ` 141.59 crores    (as at March 31, 2017 ` 125.11 crores)]  9,411.05  7,082.95   (iii) Acceptances  4,814.58  4,379.29   (iv) Other financial liabilities 26  4,091.16  2,485.94  (b) Provisions 28  862.92  477.17  ( c) Current tax liabilities (net)  21.77  83.68  (d) Other current liabilities 31  1,917.60  1,870.80   24,218.95  21,538.35  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  59,212.30  58,878.28  See accompanying notes to financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 193 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Statement of Profit and Loss ( ` in crores) Notes  Year ended March  31, 2018 Year ended March  31, 2017 I.
Revenue from operations 32  59,624.69  49,054.49  II.
Other Income 33  1,557.60  981.06  III.
Total Income (I+II)  61,182.29  50,035.55  IV.
Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed  37,080.45  27,651.65  (b) Purchases of products for sale  4,762.41  3,945.97  ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale  842.05  (252.14) (d) Excise duty 32(2)  793.28  4,738.15  (e) Employee benefits expense 34  3,966.73  3,764.35  (f) Finance costs 35  1,744.43  1,569.01  (g) Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)  17.14  (252.78) (h) Depreciation and amortisation expense  3,101.89  3,037.12  (i) Product development/Engineering expenses  474.98  454.48  (j) Other expenses 36  9,234.27  8,335.90  (k) Amount capitalised  (855.08)  (941.60) Total Expenses (IV)  61,162.55  52,050.11  V. Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV)  19.74  (2,014.56) VI.
Exceptional items (a) Provision for impairment of investment in a subsidiary  -  123.17  (b) Employee separation cost  3.68  67.61  ( c) Provision for impairment of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development 37(a)  962.98  -  (d) Others 37(b)  -  147.93  VII.
Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI)  (946.92)  (2,353.27) VIII.
Tax expense/(credit) (net) (a) Current tax  92.63  57.06  (b) Deferred tax  (4.70)  19.27  Total tax expense/(credit)  87.93  76.33  IX.
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII)  (1,034.85)  (2,429.60) X.
Other comprehensive income/(loss): (A) (i)  Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:   (a) Remeasurement gains and (losses) on defined benefit obligations (net)  18.24  8.24    (b) Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income  44.04  73.84   (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to   profit or loss  (6.27)  (3.12) (B) (i)  Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss - gains and (losses) in cash flow hedges  (19.56)  23.32   (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  6.77  (8.07) Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of taxes  43.22  94.21  XI.
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (IX+X)  (991.63)  (2,335.39) XII.
Earnings per equity share (EPS) 39 (A) Ordinary shares (face value of ` 2 each) :  (i) Basic `  (3.05)  (7.15)  (ii) Diluted `  (3.05)  (7.15) (B) ‘A’ Ordinary shares (face value of ` 2 each) :  (i) Basic `  (3.05)  (7.15)  (ii) Diluted `  (3.05)  (7.15) See accompanying notes to financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE  [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH  [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT  [DIN:00548091] R SPETH  [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA  [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 194 Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit/(loss) after tax  (1,034.85)  (2,429.60) Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expense  3,101.89  3,037.12  Allowances for trade and other receivables  (109.19)  133.72  Inventory write down/(write back)  162.87  103.35  Provision for impairment of investment in a subsidiary  -  123.17  Marked-to-market on investments measured at Fair value through profit or loss  (2.03)  (3.75) Provision for impairment of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development  962.98  -  Exceptional items - others  -  147.93  Loss on sale of assets (net) (including assets scrapped / written off)  689.17  140.29  Profit on sale of investments at FVTPL (net)  (103.17)  (116.76) Gain on fair value of below market interest loans (6.02)  (46.52) Tax expense / (credit)  87.93  76.33  Interest/dividend (net) 292.03  708.46  Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) 49.24  (212.10)  5,125.70 4,091.24 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in following assets and liabilities  4,090.85 1,661.64 Trade receivables  (1,217.44)  (199.07) Loans and advances and other financial assets  (1,091.81)  (107.37) Other current and non-current assets  429.86  (329.96) Inventories  (277.80)  (571.77) Trade payables and acceptances  2,763.65  2,313.77  Other current and non-current liabilities  (138.51)  24.39  Other financial liabilities  (957.23)  (1,308.96) Provisions  540.78  85.88  Cash generated from operations  4,142.35  1,568.55  Income taxes credit/(paid) (net)  (8.41)  (115.10) Net cash from operating activities  4,133.94  1,453.45  Cash flows from investing activities: Payments for property, plant and equipments  (1,378.58)  (1,958.81) Payments for other intangible assets  (1,444.37)  (1,554.79) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipments  28.15  17.11  Investments in Mutual Fund (purchased)/sold (net)  1,025.59  (537.40) Investments in subsidiary companies  (300.00)  (139.08) Investments in joint ventures  (2.50)  (0.01) Loans to subsidiary companies  -  (0.07) Investment in other companies  (41.63)  -  Repayment of loans to others  -  0.75  (Increase)/Decrease in short term inter corporate deposit  60.00  20.00  Repayment of loans to joint operations  -  132.50  Deposits with financial institution -  (35.00) Deposits/restricted deposits with banks  (768.67)  (114.72) Realisation of deposits/restricted deposits with banks 657.71  379.00  Interest received  399.34  258.87  Dividend received  1,054.69  672.65  Net cash used in investing activities  (710.27)  (2,859.00) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance  0.00*  4.55  Proceeds from long-term borrowings  1,621.80  4,070.52  Repayment of long-term borrowings  (587.10)  (2,596.22) Proceeds from short-term borrowings  3,644.70  6,616.67  Repayment of short-term borrowings  (6,823.28)  (3,298.44) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months)  1,139.44  (1,578.83) Dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax)  (2.75)  (73.00) Interest paid [including discounting charges paid, ` 478.28 crores (March 31, 2017 ` 249.06 crores)]  (2,098.44)  (1,936.45) Net cash (used in) / from financing activities  (3,105.63)  1,208.80  Net increase /(decrease) cash and cash equivalents  318.04  (196.75) Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1, (opening balance)  228.94  427.07  Exchange fluctuation on foreign currency bank balances  (0.16)  (1.38) Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance)  546.82  228.94  Non-cash transactions: Liability towards property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets purchased on credit/deferred credit 258.04  327.82  Increase / (decrease) in liabilities arising from financing activities on account of non-cash transactions : Exchange differences  25.66  (124.06) Amortisation / EIR adjustments of prepaid borrowings  13.73  13.90  * less than ` 50,000/- As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 195 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Statement of Changes in Equity  for the year ended March 31, 2018 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in crores)  Particulars  Equity Share Capital  Balance as at April 1, 2017  679.22  Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance  0.00* Balance as at March 31, 2018  679.22    *less than  ` 50,000/- B.
Other Equity (refer note 22)   (` in crores)  Particulars Securities  premium  account Capital  redemption  reserve Debenture  redemption  reserve Capital Reserve  (on merger) Retained  earnings Other components of equity Total other  equity Equity instruments  through OCI Hedging  reserve Cost of  hedging  reserve Balance as at April 1, 2017  19,213.93  2.28  1,085.94  (345.30)  531.02  (27.12)  11.26  11.38  20,483.39  Profit/(loss) for the period  -  -  -  -  (1,034.85)  -  -  -  (1,034.85) Other comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year  -  -  -  -  11.97  44.04  (14.40)  1.61  43.22  Total comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year  -  -  -  -  (1,022.88)  44.04  (14.40)  1.61  (991.63) Proceeds from issue of shares  held in abeyance  0.00 *  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  0.00 * Balance as at March 31, 2018  19,213.93  2.28  1,085.94  (345.30)  (491.86)  16.92  (3.14)  12.99  19,491.76  * less than  ` 50,000/- See accompanying notes to financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLAPartner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN  [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE  [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH  [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT  [DIN:00548091] R SPETH  [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK  [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR  [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJIGroup Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA  [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 196 Statement of Changes in Equity  for the year ended March 31, 2017 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in crores)  Particulars  Equity Share Capital  Balance as at April 1, 2016  679.18  Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance and  amounts received on unpaid calls 0.04 Balance as at March 31, 2017  679.22  B.
Other Equity (` in crores) Particulars Securities  premium  account Capital  redemption  reserve Debenture  redemption  reserve Capital Reserve  (on merger) Retained  earnings Other components of equity Total other  equity Equity instruments  through OCI Hedging  reserve Cost of hedging  reserve Balance as at April 1, 2016  19,209.42 2.28  1,042.15  -  2,422.65  (100.96)  7.39  -  22,582.93  Effect of merger of TML Drivelines  (refer note 47(iii))  -  -  -  (345.30)  649.64  -  -  -  304.34  Balance as at April 1, 2016  19,209.42  2.28  1,042.15  (345.30)  3,072.29  (100.96)  7.39  -  22,887.27  Profit/(loss) for the year  -  -  -  -  (2,429.60)  -  -  -  (2,429.60) Other comprehensive income/(loss)  for the year  -  -  -  -  5.12  73.84  3.87  11.38  94.21  Total comprehensive income/(loss)  for the year  -  -  -  -  (2,424.48)  73.84  3.87  11.38  (2,335.39) Proceeds from issue of shares held  in abeyance  4.51  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  4.51  Transfer to debenture redemption  reserve  -  -  43.79  -  (43.79)  -  -  -  -  Dividend (including dividend tax)  -  -  -  -  (73.00)  -  -  -  (73.00) Balance as at March 31, 2017  19,213.93  2.28  1,085.94  (345.30)  531.02  (27.12)  11.26  11.38  20,483.39  See accompanying notes to financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLAPartner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN  [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH  [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT  [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK  [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR  [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJIGroup Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA  [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 197 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 1.
Background and operations  Tata Motors Limited referred to as (“the Company” or “Tata  Motors”), designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of  automotive vehicles.
The Company also manufactures engines  for industrial and marine applications.
The Company is a public limited Company incorporated and  domiciled in India and has its registered office at Mumbai,  India.
As at March 31, 2018, Tata Sons Limited, together with its  subsidiaries owns 36.46% of the Ordinary shares and 0.09%  of ‘A’ Ordinary shares of the Company, and has the ability to  significantly influence the Company’s operations.
These standalone financial statements were approved by the  Board of Directors and authorised for issue on May 23, 2018.
2.
Significant accounting policies  a.
Basis of preparation   These financial statements have been prepared in  accordance with Ind AS as notified under the Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 read with  Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”).
The  financial statements have been prepared on historical  cost basis except for certain financial instruments  measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period  as explained in the accounting policies below.
Joint operations   Certain of the Company’s activities, are conducted through  joint operations, which are joint arrangements whereby  the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities,  relating to the arrangement.
As per Ind AS 111 - Joint  arrangements, in its separate financial statements, the  Company being a joint operator has recognised its share  of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of these  joint operations incurred jointly with the other partners,  along with its share of income from the sale of the  output and any assets, liabilities and expenses that it has  incurred in relation to the joint operation.
Although not required by Ind AS’s, the Company has  provided in note 46 additional information of Tata Motors  Limited on a standalone basis excluding its interest in its  two Joint Operations viz.
Tata Cummins Private Limited  and Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited.
b.
Use of estimates and judgments   The preparation of financial statements in conformity  with Ind AS requires management to make judgments,  estimates and assumptions, that affect the application  of accounting policies and the reported amounts of  assets, liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets  and liabilities at the date of these financial statements  and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for  the years presented.
Actual results may differ from these   estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are  reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Revisions to  accounting estimates are recognised in the period  in which the estimate is revised and future periods   affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of  estimation uncertainty and critical judgments in applying  accounting policies that have the most significant effect  on the amounts recognised in the financial statements  are included in the following notes:   i) Note 3 and 5 - Property, plant and equipment and  Intangible assets - useful life and impairment   ii) Note 29 - Recoverability/recognition of deferred tax  assets   iii) Note 27 and 28 - Provision for product warranty   iv) Note 45 - Assets and obligations relating to  employee benefits  c.  Revenue recognition   Revenue is measured at fair value of consideration  received or receivable.
Sale of products    The Company recognises revenues on the sale of  products, net of discounts, sales incentives, customer  bonuses and rebates granted, when products are  delivered to dealers or when delivered to a carrier for  export sales, which is when title and risks and rewards of  ownership pass to the customer.
Revenues are recognised when collectability of the  resulting receivable is reasonably assured.
d.  Government grants and incentives   Government grants are recognised when there is  reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with  the relevant conditions and the grant will be received.
These are recorded at fair value where applicable.
Government grants are recognised in the statement of  profit and loss, either on a systematic basis when the  Company recognises, as expenses, the related costs that  the grants are intended to compensate or, immediately if  the costs have already been incurred.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 198   Government grants related to assets are shown as deferred  revenue and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Government grants related to income are presented as an  offset against the related expenditure, and government  grants that are awarded as incentives with no ongoing  performance obligations to the Company are recognised  as income in the period in which the grant is received.
e. Cost recognition   Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and  are classified according to their nature.
Expenditure capitalised represents employee costs,  stores and other manufacturing supplies, and other  expenses incurred for construction including product  development undertaken by the Company.
f. Provisions   A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the  Company has a present legal or constructive obligation  that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an  outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle  the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting  the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that  reflects current market assessments of the time value  of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Product warranty expenses   The estimated liability for product warranties are recorded  when products are sold.
These estimates are established  using historical information on the nature, frequency  and average cost of warranty claims and management  estimates regarding possible future incidences based  on actions on product failures.
The timing of outflows  will vary as and when warranty claim will arise, being  typically up to six years.
The Company also has back-to-back contractual  arrangement with its suppliers in the event that a vehicle  fault is proven to be a supplier’s fault.
Estimates are  made of the expected reimbursement claim based upon  historical levels of recoveries from suppliers, adjusted for  inflation and applied to the population of vehicles under  warranty as on Balance Sheet date.
Supplier reimbursements are recognised as separate  asset.
g. Foreign currency   These financial statements are presented in Indian rupees,  which is the functional currency of Tata Motors Limited.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the  exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and  liabilities are re-measured into the functional currency at  the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on settlement of  transactions and translation of monetary items are  recognised in the statement of Profit or Loss except to  the extent, exchange differences which are regarded  as an adjustment to interest costs on foreign currency  borrowings, are capitalised as part of borrowing costs.
h. Income taxes   Income tax expense comprises current and deferred  taxes.
Income tax expense is recognised in the statement  of Profit or Loss except when they relate to items that  are recognised outside profit or loss (whether in other  comprehensive income or directly in equity), in which  case tax is also recognised outside profit or loss.
Current income taxes are determined based on respective  taxable income of each taxable entity and tax rules  applicable for respective tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for  the future tax consequences of temporary differences  between the carrying values of assets and liabilities  and their respective tax bases, and unutilised business  loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed  separately for each taxable entity.
Deferred tax assets  are recognised to the extent that it is probable that  future taxable income will be available against which  the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses,  depreciation carry-forwards and unused tax credits could  be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based  on the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period  when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based  on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or  substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset  when there is a legally enforceable right to set off  current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when  they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation  authority and the Company intends to settle its current  tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
i.
Cash & cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents are short-term (three months  or less from the date of acquisition), highly liquid  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 199 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 investments that are readily convertible into cash and  which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in  value.
j.
Earnings per share   Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing  net income by the weighted average number of shares  outstanding during the year.
Partly paid up shares are  included as fully paid equivalents according to the  fraction paid up.
Diluted earnings per share has been  computed using the weighted average number of shares  and dilutive potential shares, except where the result  would be anti-dilutive.
k.  Inventories   Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net  realisable value.
Cost of raw materials, components and  consumables are ascertained on a moving weighted  average basis.
Cost, including fixed and variable  production overheads, are allocated to work-in-progress  and finished goods determined on a full absorption cost  basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price  in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost of  completion and selling expenses.
l. Property, plant and equipment   Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of  acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation  less accumulated impairment, if any.
Freehold land is measured at cost and is not depreciated.
Cost includes purchase price, taxes and duties, labour  cost and direct overheads for self-constructed assets  and other direct costs incurred up to the date the asset is  ready for its intended use.
Interest cost incurred for constructed assets is  capitalised up to the date the asset is ready for its  intended use, based on borrowings incurred specifically  for financing the asset or the weighted average rate of  all other borrowings, if no specific borrowings have been  incurred for the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the Straight Line Method  (SLM) over the estimated useful lives of the assets  considering the nature, estimated usage, operating  conditions, past history of replacement, anticipated  technological changes, manufacturers warranties  and maintenance support.
Taking into account these  factors, the Company has decided to retain the useful  life hitherto adopted for various categories of property,  plant and equipments, which are different from those  prescribed in Schedule II of the Act.
Estimated useful  lives of assets are as follows: Type of asset Estimated   useful life • Buildings, Roads, Bridge and culverts 4 to 60 years  •  Plant, machinery and equipment 8 to 20 years  •  Computers and other IT assets 4 to 6 years  •  Vehicles 4 to 10 years  •  Furniture, fixtures and office  appliances 5 to 15 years    The useful lives are reviewed at least at each year end.
Changes in expected useful lives are treated as change in  accounting estimates.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over  their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned  assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress  until construction and installation are complete and the  asset is ready for its intended use.
m.  Other intangible assets   Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost less  accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment,  if any.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over  estimated useful lives of the intangible assets as per  details below: Type of asset Estimated  amortisation  period • Technological know-how 8 to 10 years •  Software  4 years   The amortisation period for intangible assets with finite  useful lives are reviewed at least at each year-end.
Changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes  in accounting estimates.
Internally generated intangible assets   Research costs are charged to the statement of Profit or  Loss in the year in which they are incurred.
Product development costs incurred on new vehicle  platform, engines, transmission and new products  are recognised as intangible assets, when feasibility  has been established, the Company has committed  technical, financial and other resources to complete the  development and it is probable that asset will generate  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 200 future economic benefits.
The costs capitalised include the cost of materials, direct  labour and directly attributable overhead expenditure  incurred up to the date the asset is available for use.
Interest cost incurred is capitalised up to the date  the asset is ready for its intended use, based on  borrowings incurred specifically for financing the  asset or the weighted average rate of all other  borrowings if no specific borrowings have been  incurred for the asset.
Product development costs are amortised over a period of  120 months for New Generation vehicles and powertrains  on the basis of higher of the volumes between planned  and actuals and on a straight line method over a period  of 36 months for Vehicle Variants, Derivatives and other  Regulatory Projects.
Capitalised development expenditure is measured at  cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated  impairment, if any.
n. Goodwill   Cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated are  tested for impairment annually at each balance sheet  date, or more frequently when there is an indication that  the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the  cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of  the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce  the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that  unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on  the basis of carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Goodwill impairment loss recognised is not reversed in  subsequent period.
o.
Leases   At the inception of a lease, the lease arrangement is  classified as either a finance lease or an operating lease,  based on the substance of the lease arrangement.
Assets taken on finance lease   A finance lease is recognised as an asset and a liability  at the commencement of the lease, at the lower of  the fair value of the asset and the present value of  the minimum lease payments.
Initial direct costs, if  any, are also capitalised and, subsequent to initial  recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance  with the accounting policy applicable to that asset.
Minimum lease payments made under finance leases  are apportioned between the finance expense and  the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance  expense is allocated to each period during the lease  term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of  interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets taken on operating lease   Leases other than finance leases are operating leases, and  the leased assets are not recognised on the Company’s  balance sheet.
Payments made under operating leases  are recognised in the statement of Profit or Loss on a  straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets given on finance lease   All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables  at an amount equal to net investment in the lease.
Initial  direct costs in respect of lease are expensed in the period  in which such costs are incurred.
Income from lease  assets is accounted by applying the interest rate implicit  in the lease to the net investment.
p. Impairment    At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses  whether there is any indication that any property, plant  and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives may  be impaired.
If any such impairment exists the recoverable  amount of an asset is estimated to determine the extent of  impairment, if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the  recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company  estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating  unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets not yet available for use, are tested  for impairment annually at each balance sheet date,  or earlier, if there is an indication that the asset may be  impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less  costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use,  the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their  present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects  current market assessments of the time value of money  and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates  of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash- generating unit) is estimated to be less than its  carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset  (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable  amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately  in the statement of Profit or Loss.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 201 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  q.
Employee benefits   i) Gratuity    Tata Motors Limited and its Joint operations have  an obligation towards gratuity, a defined benefit  retirement plan covering eligible employees.
The  plan provides for a lump-sum payment to vested  employees at retirement, death while in employment  or on termination of employment of an amount  equivalent to 15 to 30 days salary payable for each  completed year of service.
Vesting occurs upon  completion of five years of service.
Tata Motors  Limited make annual contributions to gratuity funds  established as trusts.
Tata Motors Limited account  for the liability for gratuity benefits payable in the  future based on an actuarial valuation.
ii) Superannuation    Tata Motors Limited have two superannuation plans,  a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution  plan.
An eligible employee on April 1, 1996 could  elect to be a member of either plan.
Employees who are members of the defined  benefit superannuation plan are entitled to benefits  depending on the years of service and salary drawn.
The monthly pension benefits after retirement range  from 0.75% to 2% of the annual basic salary for each  year of service.
Tata Motors Limited account for  superannuation benefits payable in future under the  plan based on an actuarial valuation.
With effect from April 1, 2003, this plan was amended  and benefits earned by covered employees have  been protected as at March 31, 2003.
Employees  covered by this plan are prospectively entitled to  benefits computed on a basis that ensures that the  annual cost of providing the pension benefits would  not exceed 15% of salary.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the employees  covered by this plan were given a one-time option to  exit from the plan prospectively.
Furthermore, the  employees who opted for exit were given one- time  option to withdraw accumulated balances from the  superannuation plan.
The Company maintains a separate irrevocable trust  for employees covered and entitled to benefits.
The Company contributes up to 15% or ` 1,50,000  whichever is lower of the eligible employee’s  salary to the trust every year.
The Company  recognises such contribution as an expense when  incurred and has no further obligation beyond this   contribution.
iii) Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY)     Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana is an unfunded defined  benefit plan for employees of Tata Motors Limited.
The benefits of the plan include pension in  certain cases, payable up to the date of normal  superannuation had the employee been in service,  to an eligible employee at the time of death or  permanent disablement, while in service, either as a  result of an injury or as certified by the appropriate  authority.
The monthly payment to dependents of  the deceased/disabled employee under the plan  equals 50% of the salary drawn at the time of death  or accident or a specified amount, whichever is  greater.
Tata Motors Limited account for the liability  for BKY benefits payable in the future based on an  actuarial valuation.
iv) Provident fund and family pension     In accordance with Indian law, eligible employees  of Tata Motors Limited and its Joint operations  are entitled to receive benefits in respect of  provident fund, a defined contribution plan, in  which both employees and the Company make  monthly contributions at a specified percentage of  the covered employees’ salary (currently 12% of  employees’ salary).
The contributions, as specified  under the law, are made to the provident fund and  pension fund set up as an irrevocable trust by Tata  Motors Limited for its employees.
The interest rate  payable to the members of the trust shall not be  lower than the statutory rate of interest declared  by the Central Government under the Employees  Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,  1952 and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the  Company.
The liability in respect of the shortfall of  interest earnings of the Fund is determined on the  basis of an actuarial valuation.
The liability toward  interest is a defined benefit.
There is no shortfall as at   March 31, 2018.   v) Post-retirement medicare scheme     Under this unfunded scheme, employees of Tata  Motors Limited receive medical benefits subject to  certain limits on amounts of benefits, periods after  retirement and types of benefits, depending on  their grade and location at the time of retirement.
Employees separated from the Company as part of  an Early Separation Scheme, on medical grounds  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 202 or due to permanent disablement are also covered  under the scheme.
Tata Motors Limited account for  the liability for post-retirement medical scheme  based on an actuarial valuation.
vi) Compensated absences    The Company provides for the encashment of  leave or leave with pay subject to certain rules.
The  employees are entitled to accumulate leave subject  to certain limits, for future encashment.
The liability  is provided based on the number of days of unutilised  leave at each balance sheet date on the basis of an  independent actuarial valuation.
vii) Remeasurement gains and losses     Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and  losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the  return on assets (excluding interest) relating to  retirement benefit plans, are recognised directly  in other comprehensive income in the period in  which they arise.
Remeasurement recorded in  other comprehensive income is not reclassified to  statement of Profit or Loss.
Actuarial gains and losses relating to long-term  employee benefits are recognised in the statement  of Profit or Loss in the period in which they arise.
viii) Measurement date     The measurement date of retirement plans is   March 31.   ix) The present value of the defined benefit liability and  the related current service cost and past service  cost are measured using projected unit credit   method.
r. Dividends   Any dividend declared by Tata Motors Limited for  any financial year is based on the profits available for  distribution as reported in the standalone statutory  financial statements of Tata Motors Limited (without  joint operations) prepared in accordance with Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles in India, or Ind AS.
Indian law mandates that dividend be declared out of  distributable profits, after setting off un-provided losses  and depreciation of previous years.
In case of inadequacy  or absence of profits in a particular year, a Company  may pay dividend out of accumulated profits of previous  years transferred to retained earnings, however in the  absence of accumulated profits, Company may declare  dividend out of free reserve subject to certain conditions.
Accordingly, in certain years the net income reported in  the financial statements may not be fully distributable.
The amount available for distribution is ` Nil as at March  31, 2018 (` Nil as at March 31, 2017).
s. Segments   The Company is engaged mainly in the business of  automobile products consisting of all types of commercial  and passenger vehicles.
These in the context of Ind AS  108 - operating segments reporting are considered to  constitute one reportable segment.
t. Investments in subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Associates   Investments in subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Associates are measured at cost as per Ind AS 27 –  Separate Financial Statements.
u.
Financial instruments    i) Classification, initial recognition and measurement     A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to  a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability  or equity instrument of another entity.
Financial  assets other than equity instruments are classified  into categories: financial assets at fair value through  profit or loss and at amortised cost.
Financial assets  that are equity instruments are classified as fair  value through profit or loss or fair value through  other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities are  classified into financial liabilities at fair value through  profit or loss and other financial liabilities.
Financial instruments are recognised on the balance  sheet when the Company becomes a party to the  contractual provisions of the instrument.
Initially, a financial instrument is recognised at its  fair value.
Transaction costs directly attributable to  the acquisition or issue of financial instruments are  recognised in determining the carrying amount, if it  is not classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequently, financial instruments are measured  according to the category in which they are classified.
Financial assets at amortised cost:  Financial assets  having contractual terms that give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of  principal and interest on the principal outstanding  and that are held within a business model whose  objective is to hold such assets in order to collect  such contractual cash flows are classified in this  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 203 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 category.
Subsequently, these are measured at  amortised cost using the effective interest method  less any impairment losses.
Equity investments at fair value through other  comprehensive income: These include financial  assets that are equity instruments and are designated  as such upon initial recognition irrevocably.
Subsequently, these are measured at fair value and  changes therein are recognised directly in other  comprehensive income, net of applicable income  taxes.
Dividends from these equity investments are  recognised in the statement of Profit or Loss when  the right to receive payment has been established.
When the equity investment is derecognised, the  cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to  retained earnings.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss:  Financial assets are measured at fair value through  profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised cost  or at fair value through other comprehensive income  on initial recognition.
The transaction costs directly  attributable to the acquisition of financial assets  and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are  immediately recognised in profit and loss.
Equity instruments: An equity instrument is any  contract that evidences residual interests in the  assets of the Company after deducting all of its  liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company  are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct  issue costs.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or  loss: Derivatives, including embedded derivatives  separated from the host contract, unless they  are designated as hedging instruments, for which  hedge accounting is applied, are classified into this  category.
These are measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognised in the statement of  Profit or Loss.
Financial guarantee contracts: These are initially  measured at their fair values and, are subsequently  measured at the higher of the amount of loss  allowance determined or the amount initially  recognised less, the cumulative amount of income  recognised.
Other financial liabilities: These are measured  at amortised cost using the effective interest   method.
ii) Determination of fair value:     The fair value of a financial instrument on initial  recognition is normally the transaction price (fair  value of the consideration given or received).
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company  determines the fair value of financial instruments  that are quoted in active markets using the quoted  bid prices (financial assets held) or quoted ask  prices (financial liabilities held) and using valuation  techniques for other instruments.
Valuation  techniques include discounted cash flow method  and other valuation models.
iii) Derecognition of financial assets and financial  liabilities:     The Company derecognises a financial asset only  when the contractual rights to the cash flows  from the asset expires or it transfers the financial  asset and substantially all the risks and rewards  of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the  Company neither transfers nor retains substantially  all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues  to control the transferred asset, the Company  recognises its retained interest in the asset and an  associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Company retains substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset,  the Company continues to recognise the financial  asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing  for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities are decrecognised when these  are extinguished, that is when the obligation is  discharged, cancelled or has expired.
iv) Impairment of financial assets:     The Company recognises a loss allowance for  expected credit losses on a financial asset that is  at amortised cost.
Loss allowance in respect of  financial assets is measured at an amount equal to  life time expected credit losses and is calculated  as the difference between their carrying amount  and the present value of the expected future  cash flows discounted at the original effective   interest rate.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 204  v. Hedge accounting    The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts  to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency  fluctuations relating to highly probable forecast  transactions.
The Company designates these forward  contracts in a cash flow hedging relationship by applying  the hedge accounting principles.
These forward contracts are stated at fair value at each  reporting date.
Changes in the fair value of these forward  contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of  future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive  income and the ineffective portion is recognised  immediately in the statement of Profit or Loss.
Amounts  accumulated in equity are reclassified to the statement  of Profit or Loss in the periods in which the forecasted  transactions occur.
Forward premium in forward contract are not considered  part of the hedge.
These are treated as cost of hedge and  the changes in fair value attributable to forward premium  is recognised in the other comprehensive income along  with the changes in fair value determined to be effective  portion of the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised,  or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
For forecast  transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging  instrument recognised in equity is retained there until the  forecast transaction occurs.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur,  the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is  immediately transferred to the statement of Profit or Loss  for the year.
w. Recent accounting pronouncements   Ind AS 115 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers    The standard outlines a single comprehensive model  for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising  from contracts with customers and supersedes most  of the current revenue recognition guidance.
The  core principle of the new standard is for companies  to recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods  or services to customers in amounts that reflect the  consideration (that is, payment) to which the company  expects to be entitled to exchange for those goods or  services.
The new standard also will result in enhanced  disclosures about revenue, provide guidance for  transactions that were not previously addressed  comprehensively (for example, service revenue and  contract modifications) and improve guidance for  multiple-element arrangements.
Ind AS 115 is effective  from April 1, 2018.
The Company will be adopting Ind AS 115 with a modified  retrospective approach.
The cumulative effect of initially  applying this Standard will be recorded as an adjustment  to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The figures  for the comparative periods will not be restated.
The  Company has assessed that the profit impact of Ind AS 115  adoption will not be significant to the financial statements.
Certain payouts made to dealers such as infrastructure  support are to be treated as variable components of  consideration and will therefore in accordance with Ind  AS 115, be recognised as revenue deductions in future.
These costs are presently reported as other expenses.
These change in presentation in the income statement  will result in decrease in both revenues and expenses.
Incentives received as Government Grants will be shown  as other income which is currently presented under other  operating revenues.
The introduction of the Standard will give rise to new  financial statement categories in the statement of financial  position, being “contract assets” and “contract liabilities.”  These items can arise through advance payment received  from customers or advance delivery of goods and services  in excess of or ahead of billing at the contract level.
In  addition, disclosure requirements are extended.
Further, Ind AS 115, allows for transitional arrangements  for modified and fulfilled contracts, and clarify the  identification of performance obligations, principal-agent  relationships, and licenses.
The application of these  amendments is also not expected to have any major  impact on the Company’s profitability, liquidity and capital  resources or financial position.
Ind AS 21 - The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange  Rates    The amendment clarifies on the accounting of transaction  that include the receipt or payment of advance  consideration in a foreign currency.
The appendix  explains that the date of the transaction, for the purpose  of determining rate, is the date of initial recognition of  the non-monetary prepayment asset or deferred income  liability.
If there are multiple payments or receipts in  advance, a date of transaction is established for each  payment or receipt.
The Company is evaluating the impact  of this amendment on its financial statements.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 205 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 3.
Property, plant and equipment  ( ` in crores)  Owned assets Given on lease Taken on lease Land Buildings Plant,  machinery  and  equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Vehicles Computers  & other IT  assets Plant,  machinery  and  equipment Buildings Buildings Plant,  machinery  and  equipment Computers  & other IT  assets Furniture  and  fixtures Total Cost as at April 1, 2017 4,574.93  3,384.43  24,767.37  243.74  186.75  639.65  38.68  4.05  31.28  36.43  178.88  4.31  34,090.50  Additions  -  139.65  2,191.50  14.32  95.91  39.64  -  -  -  3.52  7.28  -  2,491.82  Assets classified as held for sale  -  - (2.30)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - (2.30) Assets written off  -  - (536.82)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - (536.82) Disposal  -  (0.56)  (241.10)  (12.14)  (40.31)  (18.60)  (0.64)  (0.03)  -  -  -  -  (313.38) Cost as at March 31, 2018 4,574.93  3,523.52  26,178.65  245.92  242.35  660.69  38.04  4.02  31.28  39.95  186.16  4.31 35,729.82 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2017  -  (996.55)  (14,184.30)  (136.41)  (123.72)  (526.26)  (20.58)  (0.68)  (6.27)  (34.60)  (163.36)  (0.65)  (16,193.38) Depreciation for the year  -  (107.66)  (1,777.03)  (13.43)  (26.93)  (34.64)  (1.32)  (0.07)  (0.51)  (0.79)  (10.70)  (0.86)  (1,973.94) Assets classified as held for sale  - 1.14  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 1.14 Assets written off  -  - 389.09  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 389.09 Disposal  -  0.25  180.01  6.76  34.87  17.62  0.28  -  -  -  -  - 239.79 Accumulated depreciation as at March 31,  2018  -  (1,103.96)  (15,391.09)  (143.08)  (115.78)  (543.28)  (21.62)  (0.75)  (6.78)  (35.39)  (174.06)  (1.51) (17,537.30) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2018 4,574.93  2,419.56  10,787.56  102.84  126.57  117.41  16.42  3.27  24.50  4.56  12.10  2.80  18,192.52  Cost as at April 1, 2016 4,574.93  3,247.39  22,331.38  229.53  176.75  628.72  32.88  4.05  31.28  116.42  174.26  -  31,547.59  Effect of merger of TML Drivelines  -  46.22  943.76  6.49  1.92  2.55  6.37  -  -  -  -  -  1,007.31  Cost as at April 1, 2016 4,574.93  3,293.61  23,275.14  236.02  178.67  631.27  39.25  4.05  31.28  116.42  174.26  -  32,554.90  Additions  -  91.19  1,626.93  11.49  24.77  40.65  0.04  -  -  -  4.62  4.31  1,804.00  Disposal  -  (0.37)  (134.70)  (3.77)  (16.69)  (32.27)  (0.61)  -  -  (79.99)  -  -  (268.40) Cost as at March 31, 2017 4,574.93  3,384.43  24,767.37  243.74  186.75  639.65  38.68  4.05  31.28  36.43  178.88  4.31  34,090.50  Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2016  -  (877.38)  (12,072.58)  (120.91)  (111.96)  (521.59)  (17.50)  (0.59)  (5.76)  (94.72)  (151.35)  -  (13,974.34) Effect of merger of TML Drivelines  (11.99)  (508.41)  (4.40)  (0.70)  (1.88)  (1.16)  -  -  -  -  -  (528.54) Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2016  -  (889.37)  (12,580.99)  (125.31)  (112.66)  (523.47)  (18.66)  (0.59)  (5.76)  (94.72)  (151.35)  - (14,502.88) Depreciation for the year  -  (107.28)  (1,724.37)  (12.95)  (24.84)  (35.05)  (2.15)  (0.09)  (0.51)  (19.87)  (12.01)  (0.65)  (1,939.77) Disposal  -  0.10  121.06  1.85  13.78  32.26  0.23  -  -  79.99  -  -  249.27  Accumulated depreciation as at March 31,  2017  -  (996.55)  (14,184.30)  (136.41)  (123.72)  (526.26)  (20.58)  (0.68)  (6.27)  (34.60)  (163.36)  (0.65)  (16,193.38) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2017 4,574.93  2,387.88  10,583.07  107.33  63.03  113.39  18.10  3.37  25.01  1.83  15.52  3.66  17,897.12  Notes: a) Building include ` 8,631.00  (as at March 31, 2017 ` 8,631.00) being value of investments in shares of Co-operative Housing Societies.
b) Land includes ` 525.80  crores for which transfer of title is pending.
206 4.
Leases               The Company has taken land, buildings, plant and equipment, computers and furniture and fixtures under operating and finance  leases.
The following is the summary of future minimum lease rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases and finance  leases entered into by the Company:              (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Operating Finance Operating Finance Minimum  Lease  Payments Minimum  Lease  Payments Present value  of minimum  lease  payments Minimum  Lease  Payments Minimum  Lease  Payments Present value  of minimum  lease  payments Not later than one year  0.40  6.56  5.78  0.97  8.65  8.36  Later than one year but not later than  five years  1.62  9.61  8.62  1.62  9.97  9.44  Later than five years  29.50  1.70  1.43  29.90  -  -  Total minimum lease commitments  31.52  17.87  15.83  32.49  18.62  17.80  Less: future finance charges  (2.04)  (0.82) Present value of minimum lease  payments  15.83  17.80  Included in the financial statements as: Other financial liabilities - current  (refer 26)  5.78  8.36  Other financial liabilities - non-current  (refer 25)  10.05  9.44   15.83  17.80  Total operating lease rent expenses were ` 77.45 crores and ` 28.79 crores for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company has given plant and equipment under finance leses.
The following is the summary of future minimum lease payments  receivables for assets given on finance leases by the Company: As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Minimum  lease  payments  receivables Present value  of minimum  lease  payments  receivables Minimum  lease  payments  receivables Present value  of minimum  lease  payments  receivables Not later than one year  33.95 12.04  -  -  Later than one year but not later than five years  117.01 37.44  -  -  Later than five years  78.74  80.00  -  -  Total minimum lease payments receivables  229.70  129.48  -  -  Less: unearned finance income  (100.22)  -  Present value of minimum lease payments receivables  129.48  -  Included in the financial statements as: Other financial assets - current (refer 13)  12.04  -  Other financial assets - non-current (refer 12)  117.44  -   129.48  -  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 207 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 5.
(a) Other Intangible assets (` in crores) Technical know  how Computer  Software Product  development Total Cost as at April 1, 2017  349.15  542.24  4,804.98  5,696.37  Additions  42.09  31.95  1,633.95  1,707.99  Fully amortised not in use  -  (1.27)  -  (1.27) Assets classified as held for sale  -  -  (66.29)  (66.29) Cost as at March 31, 2018  391.24  572.92  6,372.64  7,336.80  Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2017  (156.65)  (492.10)  (2,270.91)  (2,919.66) Amortisation for the year  (39.12)  (28.45)  (1,060.38)  (1,127.95) Fully amortised not in use  -  1.27  -  1.27  Assets classified as held for sale  -  -  21.68  21.68  Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2018  (195.77)  (519.28)  (3,309.61)  (4,024.66) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2018  195.47  53.64  3,063.03  3,312.14  Cost as at April 1, 2016  348.91  513.06  6,796.77  7,658.74  Effect of merger of TML drivelines  -  8.71  -  8.71  Cost as at April 1, 2016  348.91  521.77  6,796.77  7,667.45  Additions  0.24  20.47  445.97  466.68  Fully amortised not in use  -  -  (2,437.76)  (2,437.76) Cost as at March 31, 2017  349.15  542.24  4,804.98  5,696.37  Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2016  (123.45)  (459.13)  (3,672.69)  (4,255.27) Effect of merger of TML drivelines  -  (4.96)  -  (4.96) Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2016  (123.45)  (464.09)  (3,672.69)  (4,260.23) Amortisation for the year  (33.20)  (28.01)  (1,035.98)  (1,097.19) Fully amortised not in use  -  -  2,437.76  2,437.76  Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2017  (156.65)  (492.10)  (2,270.91)  (2,919.66) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2017  192.50  50.14  2,534.07  2,776.71  (b) Intangible assets under development For the year  ended March 31,  2018 2017 Balance at the beginning  5,368.38  4,133.93  Additions  1,634.69  1,813.10  Capitalised during the year  (1,644.55)  (447.91) Assets classified as held for sale  (177.56)  -  Write off/provision for impairment  (1,355.81)  (130.74) Balance at the end  3,825.15  5,368.38  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 208 6.
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates measured at cost - non-current              (` in crores)  Number Face value  per unit Description As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Equity shares i) Subsidiaries Unquoted  -  - Tata Technologies Ltd [Note 7(1)]  -  224.10   6,36,97,694  10 Concorde Motors (India) Ltd [Note 3]  109.63  109.63   -  - TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd [Note 7(1)]  -  200.00   -  - Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd [Note 71(1)  and Note 7(2)]  -  19.31   5,39,98,427 (GBP)  1 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC, (UK) [Note 2]  474.90  474.90   7,900  - Tata Technologies Inc, (USA)  0.63  0.63   1,40,47,35,056  10 Tata Motors Finance Ltd [85,714,285 shares acquired during the year]  2,800.00  2,500.00   8,67,00,000  10 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd  86.70  86.70   22,50,00,000  10 TML Distribution Company Ltd  225.00  225.00   2,51,16,59,418 (GBP)  1 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, (Singapore)  10,158.52  10,158.52   1,34,523 (EUR)  31.28 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A., (Spain)  17.97  17.97   1,220 (IDR)  8,855 PT Tata Motors Indonesia  0.01  0.01   2,02,000 (MAD)  1,000 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A., (Morocco)  49.59  49.59   1,83,59,203 (SGD)  1 Tata Precision Industries Pte.
Ltd, (Singapore)  40.53  40.53  Trilix Srl., Turin (Italy) [Note 4]  11.94  11.94   1,00,000 (NGN)  1 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd  - #  - #    13,975.42  14,118.83  Less: Provision for impairment of long-term investments  (214.28)  13,761.14  (214.28)  13,904.55  ii) Associates Quoted  29,82,214  10 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd  108.22  108.22  Unquoted  16,000 (TK)  1,000 NITA Co. Ltd (Bangladesh)  1.27  1.27   5,23,33,170  10 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd  77.47  77.47   -  - Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd (Note 7(1))  -  186.96  238.50  425.46  iii) Joint Ventures (JV) Unquoted  25,00,000  10 JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd (24,95,000 shares acquired during the year)  2.50  2.50  0.01  0.01  TOTAL  13,950.60  14,330.02  # less than ` 50,000/- Notes:  (1) Market Value of quoted investments.
332.65  189.16 (2) The Company had given a letter of comfort to ANZ Bank, London for GBP 2 million (` 18.46 crores as at March 31, 2018) against loan extended by the bank to Tata  Motors European Technical Centre PLC.
UK (TMETC).
Also the Company has given an undertaking to ANZ Bank, London to retain 51% ownership of TMETC at all  times during the tenor of the loan.
(3) The Company has given a letter of comfort to Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd amounting to ` 15.00 crores against credit facility extended to Concorde Motors  (India) Ltd (CMIL).
The Company will not dilute its stake in CMIL below 100% during the tenor of the facility.
(4) Trilix Srl., Turin (Italy) is a limited liability Company.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 209 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 7.
Investments in subsidiaries and associate (held for sale) - carried at lower of cost or net-realisable  value - current  Number Face value  per unit Description As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Equity shares Subsidiaries Unquoted  3,03,00,600  10 Tata Technologies Ltd (refer note 1 below)  224.10  -   11,50,00,000  10 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd (refer note 1 below)  200.00  -   50,00,000 10 Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd  [refer note 1 & 2 below] (25,00,000 Bonus shares during the year)  19.31  -  Total  443.41  -  Associates Unquoted  4,54,28,572 10 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd   (refer note 1 below)  238.50  -  Total  681.91  -   Note:               (1) The investment in the Company’s subsidiaries Tata Technologies Ltd, TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd and Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory  Services Ltd and associate Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under  Ind AS 105.
(2) The Company has given a letter of comfort to HDFC bank amounting to ` 1 crore against Working Capital Facility to Tata Motors Insurance Broking and  Advisory Services Ltd (TMIBASL).
Also the Company has given an undertaking to HDFC bank that it will not dilute its stake below 51% in TMIBASL during the  tenor of the loan.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 210 8.
Investments-non-current            (` in crores) Number Face value  per unit Description As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31, 2017 Investment in equity shares measured at fair  value through other comprehensive income Quoted  -  - Tata Steel Ltd [Note 9 (a)]  -  213.96   -  - Tata Chemicals Ltd [Note 9 (a)]  -  -  4.22  218.18  Unquoted 50,000  1,000 Tata International Ltd  28.85  28.85  1,383  1,000 Tata Services Ltd  0.14  0.14  350  900 The Associated Building Company Ltd  0.01  0.01  1,03,10,242  100 Tata Industries Ltd  183.19  183.19  33,600  100 Kulkarni Engineering Associates Ltd  -  -  12,375  1,000 Tata Sons Ltd  68.75  68.75  2,25,00,001  10 Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd  22.50  22.50  2,40,000  10 Oriental Floratech (India) Pvt.
Ltd  -  -  43,26,651  15 Tata Capital Ltd  6.70  6.70  50,000  10 NICCO Jubilee Park Ltd  0.05  310.19  0.05  310.19  TOTAL  310.19  528.37  Note:  a)  Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income also include:   (Amount in `)   Number Face value  per unit Description As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31, 2017  -  - Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd  -  25,000  50 5 Jamshedpur Co-operative Stores Ltd  250  250  16,56,517  (M$) 1 Tatab Industries Sdn.
Bhd., (Malaysia)  1  1  4  25,000 ICICI Money Multiplier Bond  1  1  100 10 Optel Telecommunications  1,995  1,995   -  - Punjab Chemicals  -  1  b)   (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (1)  Book Value of quoted investments  -  218.18  (2)  Book Value of unquoted investments  310.19  310.19  (3)  Market Value of quoted investments  -  218.18  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 211 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 9.
Investments-current ( ` in crores) Number Face value  per unit Description As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Investments in Mutual funds measured at  Fair value through profit and loss Unquoted Mutual funds  1,517.03  2,437.42  Investment in equity shares measured at fair  value through other comprehensive income Quoted  51,41,696 10 Tata Steel Ltd (709,199 rights issue during  the year) (note (a) below)  293.62  -   3,54,599 10 Tata Steel Ltd (Partly Paid) (354,599 rights  issue during the year) (note (a) below)  5.46  -  70,249 10 Tata Chemicals Ltd (note (a) below)  4.76  303.84  -  -  TOTAL  1,820.87  2,437.42  Note:  a)  The Investment in Tata Steel Ltd and Tata Chemicals Ltd are classified as current investments.
b)  Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income also include:   (Amount in `)  Number Face value  per unit Description As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 80,000 10 Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd  25,000  -  200 10 Punjab Chemicals  1  -  c) ( ` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (1) Book Value of quoted investments  303.84  -  (2) Market Value of quoted investments  303.84  -  (3) Book Value of unquoted investments  1,517.03  2,437.42  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 212 10.
Loans and advances- non current (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Unsecured : (a) Loans to employees  27.23  24.77  (b) Loan to subsidiaries Considered good  12.04  12.04  Considered doubtful  585.75  585.75   597.79  597.79  Less : Allowances for doubtful loans  (585.75)  12.04  (585.75)  12.04  ( c) Dues from subsidiary companies, Considered doubtful Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A.  53.74  53.74  Less : Allowances for doubtful dues  (53.74)  -  (53.74)  -  (d) Deposits  58.37  68.57  (e) Others Considered good  46.32  286.08  Considered doubtful  7.30  16.41   53.62  302.49  Less : Allowances for doubtful loans and advances  (7.30)  46.32  (16.41)  286.08  Total  143.96  391.46  11.
Loans and advances- current As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Secured : Finance receivables  15.79  16.19  (net of provision of ` 7.22 crores and ` 6.86 crores as at March  31, 2018 and 2017, respectively) Unsecured : (a) Advances and other receivables  68.03  82.59  (net of provision of ` 123.15 crores and ` 87.04 crores as at  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively) (b) Inter corporate deposits - Considered good  -  60.00  ( c) Dues from subsidiary companies (Note below)  17.23  22.79  (d) Loan to subsidiary company (Tata Motors European Technical  Centre Plc, UK)  39.22  34.39   TOTAL  140.27  215.96  Note: As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Dues from subsidiary companies: (a) PT Tata Motors Indonesia  4.53  6.78  (b) Concorde Motors (India) Ltd  2.78 - ( c) Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd  0.05  0.07  (d) Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd  0.80  5.17  (e) Tata Motors Nigeria Ltd  0.20  0.20  (f) PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia  2.36  2.11  (g) Jaguar Land Rover Ltd  -  1.21  (h) Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd  -  0.24  (i) Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd  6.51  6.12  (j) Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC  -  0.02  (k) Tata Motors Finance Ltd  -  0.01  (l) TML Holdings Pte Ltd  -  0.86   17.23  22.79  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 213 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 12.
Other financial assets - non-current        ( ` in crores)  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Derivative financial instruments  200.13  190.75  (b) Restricted deposits  3.98  3.94  ( c) Finance lease receivable  117.44  -  (d) Government grants  467.14  -  (e) Others  4.71  1.63  Total  793.40  196.32  13.
Other financial assets - current  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Derivative financial instruments  42.21  100.35  (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits  0.59  1.19  ( c) Term / Fixed deposits other than banks  -  40.00  (d) Finance lease receivable  12.04  -  (e) Interim dividend  42.37  -  (f) Government grants  411.40  -  (g) Others  137.70  -  Total  646.31  141.54  14.
Other non-current assets  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Capital advances  285.54  561.01  (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government  931.39  998.39  ( c) Prepaid lease rental on operating lease  127.74  128.86  (d) Recoverable from Insurance companies  185.99  150.00  (e) Others  15.73  20.19  Total  1,546.39  1,858.45  15.
Other current assets  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Advance to suppliers and contractors  234.65  242.73  (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government  1,047.35  1,445.97  ( c) Prepaid expenses  94.00  105.16  (d) Recoverable from Insurance companies  26.97  20.84  (e) Others  36.76  10.35  Total  1,439.73  1,825.05  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 214 16.
Inventories        (` in crores)  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Raw materials and components  2,216.20  1,510.40  (b) Work-in-progress  787.02  825.60  ( c) Finished goods  2,014.37  2,817.80  (d) Stores and spare parts  201.69  195.57  (e) Consumable tools  43.31  38.39  (f) Goods-in-transit - Raw materials and components  407.54  165.25  Total  5,670.13  5,553.01   During the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded inventory write-down expenses of ` 162.87 crores and `  180.70 crores, respectively.
Cost of inventories (including cost of purchased products) recognised as expense during the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017  amounted to ` 50,328.14 crores and ` 44,238.04 crores, respectively.
17.
Trade receivables-unsecured  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 Considered good  3,479.81  2,128.00  Considered doubtful  543.50  693.17   4,023.31  2,821.17  Less : Allowances for doubtful debts  (543.50)  (693.17) Total  3,479.81  2,128.00  18.
Allowance for trade receivables, loans and other receivables For the   year ended  March 31, 2018 For the   year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  1,447.55  1,432.44  Allowances made/(reversed) during the year  (109.19)  133.72  Written off  (15.85)  (118.61) Balance at the end  1,322.51  1,447.55  19.
Cash and cash equivalents  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Cash on hand  0.14  0.38  (b) Cheques on hand  242.77  0.79  ( c) Balances with banks (refer note below)  303.91  118.32  (d) Deposits with banks  -  109.45   546.82  228.94  Note: Includes remittances in transit  145.17  60.91  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 215 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 20.
Other bank balances        ( ` in crores)  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 With upto 12 months maturity: (a) Earmarked balances with banks (refer note below)  248.53  86.60  (b) Bank deposits  0.07  11.07  Total  248.60  97.67   Note:           Earmarked balances with banks as at March 31, 2018 of ` 163.50 crores  (as at March 31, 2017 ` 67.50 crores) is held as security in  relation to repayment of borrowings.
21.
Equity Share Capital  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Authorised: (i) 400,00,00,000  Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  800.00  700.00  (as at March 31, 2017: 350,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (ii) 100,00,00,000  ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  200.00  200.00  (as at March 31, 2017: 100 ,00,00,000 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (iii) 30,00,00,000  Convertible Cumulative Preference shares of ` 100 each  3,000.00  3,000.00  (as at March 31, 2017: 30,00,00,000 shares of ` 100 each) Total  4,000.00  3,900.00  (b) Issued [Note (h)]: (i) 288,78,43,046  Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  577.57  577.57  (as at March 31, 2017: 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (ii) 50,87,36,110  ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  101.75  101.75  (as at March 31, 2017: 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) Total  679.32  679.32  ( c) Subscribed and called up: (i) 288,73,48,694  Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  577.47  577.47  (as at March 31, 2017: 288,73,48,428 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (ii) 50,85,02,371 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  101.70  101.70  (as at March 31, 2017: 50,85,02,291 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each)  679.17  679.17  (d) Calls unpaid - Ordinary shares 310  Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (` 1 outstanding on each) and 260  Ordinary shares of `  2 each (` 0.50 outstanding on each)  (0.00)  (0.00) (as at March 31, 2017: 310 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (` 1 outstanding on each) and 260  Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (` 0.50 outstanding on each)  (e) Paid-up (c+d):  679.17  679.17  (f) Forfeited - Ordinary shares  0.05  0.05  Total ( e+ f)  679.22  679.22  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 216 (g) The movement of number of shares and share capital Year ended   March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 (No.
of shares)  (` in  crores)   (No.
of shares)  (` in crores)  (i) Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1 288,73,48,428  577.47 288,72,03,602  577.44  Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance  266  0.00 *  1,44,826  0.03  Balance as at March 31 288,73,48,694  577.47 288,73,48,428  577.47  (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1 50,85,02,291  101.70 50,84,76,704  101.70  Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance  80  0.00 *  25,587  0.00  Balance as at March 31 50,85,02,371  101.70 50,85,02,291  101.70    * less than ` 50,000/-  (h) The entitlements to 494,352 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (as at March 31, 2017 : 494,618 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) and  233,739 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (as at March 31, 2017: 233,819 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) are subject matter of  various suits filed in the courts / forums by third parties for which final order is awaited and hence kept in abeyance.
(i) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares:   (i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of ` 2 each :   • The Company has two classes of shares – the Ordinary shares and the ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of ` 2 each (together  referred to as shares).
In respect of every Ordinary share (whether fully or partly paid), voting rights shall be in the same  proportion as the capital paid up on such Ordinary share bears to the total paid up Ordinary share capital of the Company.
In case of every ‘A’ Ordinary share, if any resolution is put to vote on a poll or by postal ballot at any general meeting of  shareholders, the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms of its issue and  if a resolution is put to vote on a show of hands, the holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of  votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares.
• The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual  General Meeting.
Further, the Board of Directors may also declare an interim dividend.
The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary shares  shall be entitled to receive dividend for each financial year at five percentage point more than the aggregate rate of dividend  declared on Ordinary shares for that financial year.
• In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of  all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholdings.
(ii) American Depository Shares (ADSs) and Global Depository Shares (GDSs) :   • Each ADS and GDS underlying the ADR and GDR respectively represents five Ordinary shares of ` 2 each.
A holder of ADS  and GDS is not entitled to attend or vote at shareholders meetings.
An ADS holder is entitled to issue voting instructions  to the Depository with respect to the Ordinary shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the  Company’s ADSs deposit agreement and Indian Law.
The depository for the ADSs and GDSs shall exercise voting rights in  respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit  agreements.
• Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of ` 2 each in all  respects including entitlement of the dividend declared.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 217 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  (j) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital :  As at March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 % of Issued   Share Capital No.
of Shares % of Issued  Share Capital No.
of Shares (i) Ordinary shares : (a) Tata Sons Ltd 32.72% 96,13,81,852 28.71% 82,89,70,378  (b) Life Insurance Corporation of India 5.08% 14,92,95,627 5.18% 14,94,23,428  ( c) Citibank N.A.
as Depository  # 43,70,24,750  # 53,04,96,280  (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares : (a) HDFC Trustee Company Ltd-HDFC Equity Fund * 34,40,000 8.19% 4,16,71,282  (b) Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund * 1,42,99,041 5.96% 3,03,29,225  ( c) ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage Fund 9.44% 4,79,98,379  -  -  (d) Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund 8.74% 4,44,31,036  -  -  (e) HDFC Large Cap Fund 5.15% 2,62,02,083  -  -  (f) Government Of Singapore 6.78%  3,44,87,840 *  2,16,02,490    # held by Citibank, N.A.
as depository for American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs)   * Less than 5%  (k) Information regarding issue of shares in the last five years    (a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash.
(b) The Company has not issued any bonus shares.
( c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares.
22.
A) Other components of equity  (a) The movement of Equity instruments through Other Comprehensive Income is as follows:        ( ` in crores)  Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  (27.12)  (100.96) Other comprehensive income for the year  44.04  73.84  Balance at the end  16.92  (27.12) (b) The movement of Hedging reserve is as follows: Balance at the beginning  11.26  7.39  Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges  (4.80)  17.22  Income tax relating to gain/loss recognised on cash flow hedges 1.66  (5.97) (Gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss (17.22)  (11.30) Income tax relating to gain/loss reclassified to profit or loss 5.96  3.92  Balance at the end  (3.14)  11.26  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 218 (` in crores) ( c) The movement of Cost of Hedging reserve is as follows:  Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  11.38  -  Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges 19.86  17.40  Income tax relating to gain/loss recognised on cash flow hedges  (6.87)  (6.02) (Gain) / loss reclassified to profit or loss (17.40) - Income Tax relating to (gain) / loss reclassified to profit or loss 6.02 - Balance at the end  12.99  11.38  (d) Summary of Other components of equity: Equity instruments through other comprehensive income  16.92  (27.12) Hedging reserve  (3.14)  11.26  Cost of hedging reserve  12.99  11.38  Total  26.77  (4.48)  (B) Notes to reserves   a) Capital redemption reserve    The Indian Companies Act, 2013 (the “Companies Act”) requires that where a company purchases its own shares out  of free reserves or securities premium account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be  transferred to a capital redemption reserve account and details of such transfer shall be disclosed in the balance sheet.
The capital redemption reserve account may be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the company  to be issued to shareholders of the company as fully paid bonus shares.
Tata Motors Limited established this reserve  pursuant to the redemption of preference shares issued in earlier years.
b) Debenture redemption reserve    The Companies Act requires that where a company issues debentures, it shall create a debenture redemption reserve  out of profits of the company available for payment of dividend.
The company is required to maintain a Debenture  Redemption Reserve of 25% of the value of debentures issued, either by a public issue or on a private placement  basis.
The amounts credited to the debenture redemption reserve may not be utilised by the company except to  redeem debentures.
c) Securities premium    The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium Account.
d) Retained earnings    Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date.
e) Dividends    For the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, considering the losses in the Tata Motors Limited (Standalone), no dividend is  permitted to be paid to the Members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 219 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 23.
Long-term borrowings ( ` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Secured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (refer note I (i) (a) and I (ii) (a))  200.00  700.00  (b) Term loans:  (i) from banks (refer note I (i) ( c))  635.45  621.57   (ii) others (refer note I (i) ( b))  144.75  130.16  ( c) Finance lease obligations  10.05  9.44   990.25  1,461.17  Unsecured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (refer note I (ii) (b))  6,307.37  5,898.57  (b) Term loan from banks  Buyer’s line of credit (at floating interest rate) (refer note I (iv))  1,000.00  1,500.00  ( c) Senior notes (refer note I (iii))  4,858.29  4,826.35   12,165.66  12,224.92  Total  13,155.91  13,686.09  24.
Short-term borrowings As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Secured: Loans from banks (refer note II)  1,454.11  1,662.95   1,454.11  1,662.95  Unsecured: (a) Loans from banks  13.62  46.33  (b) Inter corporate deposits from subsidiaries and associates  203.75  177.00  ( c) Commercial paper  1,428.39  3,272.24   1,645.76  3,495.57  Total  3,099.87  5,158.52   I.
Information regarding long-term borrowings   (i)  Nature of security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) :    (a) Rated, Listed, Secured, 9.95% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to ` 200 crores included within Long- term borrowings in note 23 and 10.25% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to ` 500 crores included  within Current maturities of Long-term borrowings in note 26 are secured by a pari passu charge by way of an English  mortgage of the Company’s freehold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable  assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand in the State of Gujarat.
(b) The term loan of ` 584.82 crores (recorded in books at ` 133.39 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending  March 31, 2033 to quarter ending March 31, 2038, along with simple interest at the rate of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is secured  by a second and subservient charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s freehold land together with  immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at  Sanand plant in the State of Gujarat.
The term loan of ` 35.92 crores (recorded in books at ` 11.36 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending June  30, 2030 to March 31, 2033, along with a simple interest of 0.01% p.a.
The loan is secured by bank guarantee for the due  performance of the conditions as per the terms of the agreement.
( c) Term loan of ` 635.45 is taken by joint operation Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd which is due for repayment from  December 2017 to May 2023.
The loan is secured by first charge over fixed assets procured from its loan/jeep project.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 220   ii) Schedule of repayment and redemption for Non-Convertible Debentures :   (` in crores)  Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) Redeemable on Principal (a) Secured : 10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2025) # April 30, 2025 150.00  10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) # April 30, 2024 150.00  10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2023) # April 30, 2023 100.00  10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) # April 30, 2022 100.00  9.95% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) March 2, 2020 200.00  # The Company has exercised call option to redeem in full, at the end of 8th year from the date of allotment i.e.
on April  30, 2018, hence classified as other financial liabilities-current.
(` in crores) Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) Redeemable on Principal (b) Unsecured : 9.77% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) September 12, 2024 200.00  9.81% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) August 20, 2024 300.00  9.35% Non-Convertible Debentures (2023) November 10, 2023 400.00  9.60% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) October 29, 2022 400.00  7.71% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) March 3, 2022 500.00  7.50% NCD due 2022(E27H Series) June 22, 2022 500.00  9.02% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) December 10, 2021 300.00  7.50% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) October 20, 2021 300.00  7.84% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) September 27, 2021 500.00  8.40% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) May 26, 2021 300.00  7.40% NCD due 2021(E27I Series Tranche 2) June 29, 2021 500.00  9.73% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) October 1, 2020 400.00  9.70% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) June 18, 2020 150.00  9.75% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) May 24, 2020 100.00  9.90% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) May 7, 2020 150.00  7.28% NCD due 2020(E27I Series Tranche 1) July 29, 2020 500.00  9.71% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) October 1, 2019 300.00  8.00% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) August 1, 2019 400.00  10.00% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) May 28, 2019 110.00  9.69% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) March 29, 2019 * 200.00  8.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) January 28, 2019 * 300.00  10.30% Non-Convertible Debentures (2018) November 30, 2018 * 190.00  8.13% Non-Convertible Debentures (2018) July 18, 2018 * 400.00  Debt issue cost (2.63)    * Classified as other financial liabilities-current being maturity before March 31, 2019.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 221 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353   (iii) Schedule of repayment of Senior Notes: (` in crores)  Redeemable on Currency Amount (in  million) As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 4.625% Senior Notes April 30, 2020 USD 500  3,238.86  3,230.54  5.750% Senior Notes October 30, 2024 USD 250  1,619.43  1,595.81   4,858.29  4,826.35    (iv)  The Buyer’s line of credit from banks amounting to ` 1,500 crores is repayable within a maximum period of four years from  the drawdown dates.
All the repayments are due from quarter ending September 30, 2018 to March 31, 2021.
The Buyer’s  line of credit of ` 500 crores classified under other financial liabilities-current being maturity before March 31, 2019.
II.
Information regarding short-term borrowings    Loans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the  Company viz.
stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery  (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all other  moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future.
III.
Collateral    Inventory, trade receivables, other financial assets, property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of ` 4,415.30 crores  and ` 4,460.45 crores are pledged as collateral/security against the borrowings as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
25.
Other financial liabilities – non-current ( ` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Derivative financial instruments  -  0.55  (b) Liability for financial guarantee contracts  -  995.08  ( c) Liability towards employee separation scheme  82.26  71.84  (d) Others  129.02  62.76  Total  211.28  1,130.23  26.
Other financial liabilities – current As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Current maturities of long-term borrowings (refer note below)  2,208.06  512.37  (b) Liability for financial guarantee contracts  977.26  1,050.00  ( c) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  500.06  449.73  (d) Liability for capital expenditure  129.86  120.63  (e) Deposits and retention money  186.44  206.26  (f) Derivative financial instruments  1.29  9.38  (g) Deferred payment liability  -  70.08  (h) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the  Companies Act, 2013 not due (i) Unpaid dividends  10.73  13.48  (ii) Unpaid matured deposits and interest thereon  11.88  14.09  (iii) Unpaid debentures and interest thereon  0.18  0.18  (i) Others  65.40  39.74  Total  4,091.16  2,485.94  Details of Current maturities of long-term borrowings : (i) Non Convertible Debentures (Unsecured) (refer note I (ii) (b))  1,089.86  450.00  (ii) Non Convertible Debentures (Secured) (refer note I (ii) (a))  500.00  -  (iii) Finance lease obligations  5.78  8.36  (iv) Loans from Banks (refer note I (i) (d))  112.42  34.94  (v) Buyer’s line of credit (Capex) (refer note I (i) (b))  500.00  19.07  Total  2,208.06  512.37  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 222 27.
Provisions-non current (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Employee benefits obligations  622.88  628.09  (b) Warranty  364.35  247.43  ( c) Annual maintenance contract (AMC)  9.26  16.66  (d) Others  12.99  -  Total  1,009.48  892.18  28.
Provisions-current As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Employee benefits obligations  32.17  24.05  (b) Warranty  739.12  419.39  ( c) Annual maintenance contract (AMC)  46.20  33.73  (d) Others  45.43  -   862.92  477.17  Note AMC and Warranty provision movement Year ended March 31, 2018 AMC Warranty Balance at the beginning  50.39  666.82  Provision made during the year  15.74 907.39* Provision used during the year  (10.67)  (450.55) Impact of discounting  -  (20.19) Balance at the end  55.46  1,103.47  Current  46.20  739.12  Non-current  9.26  364.35  * Include estimated recovery from suppliers of ` 141.21 crores.
29.
Income taxes  The reconciliation of estimated income tax to income tax expense is as follows:   (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Profit/(loss) before tax  (946.92)  (2,353.27) Income tax expense at tax rates applicable to individual entities  (327.71)  (814.42) Additional deduction for patent, research and product development cost  (198.58)  (700.15) Items (net) not deductible for tax/not liable to tax : - foreign currency (gain)/loss relating to loans and deposits (net)  8.12  -  - interest and other expenses relating to borrowings for investment  20.95  21.46  - Dividend from subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and investments measured at fair  value through other comprehensive income  (77.04)  (57.37) - Provision for impairment of capital work in progress  34.61  -  Undistributed earnings of joint operations  54.85  28.97  Deferred tax assets not recognised as realization is not probable  699.49  1,700.51  Utilization/credit of unrecognised tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and other tax benefits  (130.10)  (62.57) Reversal of tax provision for previous years  (2.45)  (15.78) Others  5.79  (24.32) Income tax expense reported  87.93  76.33  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 223 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows:  Opening  balance Recognised  in profit or  loss MAT Credit  utilised Recognised  in/reclassified  from OCI Closing  balance Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation  2,546.16  (4.62)  -  -  2,541.54  Business loss carry forwards  1,578.01  (21.43)  -  -  1,556.58  Expenses deductible in future years: - provisions, allowances for doubtful receivables  and others  977.61  (367.45)  -  -  610.16  Compensated absences and retirement benefits  116.55  13.30  -  (6.27)  123.58  Minimum alternate tax carry-forward  29.78  (15.21)  (12.23)  -  2.34  Intangible assets  6.57  -  -  6.57  Derivative financial instruments  -  7.87  -  6.77  14.64  Unrealised profit on inventory  -  1.58  -  -  1.58  Others  129.44  (56.76)  -  -  72.68  Total deferred tax assets  5,384.12  (442.72)  (12.23)  0.50  4,929.67  Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment  2,676.75  (97.00)  -  -  2,579.75 Intangible assets  2,739.64  (375.54)  -  -  2,364.10  Undistributed earnings in joint operations  63.24  53.02*  -  -  116.26  Derivative financial instruments  22.61  (22.61)  -  -  -  Others  29.46  (5.29)  -  -  24.17  Total deferred tax liabilities  5,531.70  (447.42)  -  -  5,084.28  Deferred tax liabilities  (147.58)  4.70  (12.23)  0.50  (154.61)  * Net off ` 1.83  crores reversed on dividend distribution by joint operations.
As at March 31, 2018, unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to ` 2,102.72  crores and ` 5,511.61  crores which can be carried  forward indefinitely and up to a specified period, respectively.
These relate primarily to depreciation carry forwards, other deductible  temporary differences and business losses.
The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the basis that its recovery is not  probable in the foreseeable future.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets expire unutilised based on the year of origination as follows: ( ` in crores) March 31, 2021 272.13 2022 26.13 2023  1,160.42  Thereafter 4.052.93 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 224  Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows:           (` in crores) Opening  balance Effect of   merger with  TML Drivelines Recognised  in profit or  loss Recognised  in/reclassified  from OCI Closing  balance Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation  1,984.14  -  562.02  -  2,546.16  Business loss carry forwards  1,531.47  -  46.54  -  1,578.01  Expenses deductible in future years:   - provisions, allowances for doubtful receivables  and others  1,440.93  -  (463.32)  -  977.61  Compensated absences and retirement benefits  111.36  3.98 4.33  (3.12)  116.55  Minimum alternate tax carry-forward  16.82  -  12.96  -  29.78  Intangible assets  7.47  -  (0.90)  -  6.57  Others  93.88  3.50  32.06  -  129.44  Total deferred tax assets  5,186.07  7.48  193.69  (3.12)  5,384.12  Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment  2,663.29  49.17  (35.71)  -  2,676.75  Intangible assets  2,519.18 4.04  216.42  -  2,739.64  Undistributed earnings in joint operations  36.88  -  26.36*  -  63.24  Derivative financial instruments  3.91  -  10.63  8.07  22.61  Others  34.20  -  (4.74)  -  29.46  Total deferred tax liabilities  5,257.46  53.21  212.96  8.07  5,531.70  Deferred tax liabilities  (71.39)  (45.73)  (19.27)  (11.19)  (147.58)  * Net off ` 1.83 crores reversed on dividend distribution by joint operation.
30.
Other non-current liabilities As at March 31,  2018 As at March 31,  2017 (a) Deferred revenue (refer note below)  253.09  270.40  (b) Employee Benefit Obligations - Funded  20.34  42.79  ( c) Others  17.66  8.05   291.09  321.24  31.
Other current liabilities As at March 31,  2018 As at March 31,  2017 (a) Advances received from customers  896.35  850.40  (b) Statutory dues (GST,VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc)  781.12  803.11  ( c) Deferred revenue (refer note below)  188.23  157.65  (d) Others  51.90  59.64   1,917.60  1,870.80   Note:             Deferred revenue includes ` 187.67 crores as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 227.92 crores as at March 31, 2017) grants relating to property,  plant and equipment related to duty saved on import of capital goods and spares under the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG)  scheme.
Under such scheme, the Company is committed to export prescribed times of the duty saved on import of capital goods over  a specified period of time.
In case such commitments are not met, the Company would be required to pay the duty saved along with  interest to the regulatory authorities.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 225 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 32.
Revenue From Operations ( ` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) Sale of products (including excise duty) (note 1 and 2 below)  57,868.04 47,709.39 (b) Sale of services  365.17  367.44  ( c) Finance revenues  1.12  1.94  (d) Other operating revenues (note 3 below)  1,390.36 975.72 Total  59,624.69  49,054.49  Note: (1) Includes exchange gain/(loss) (net) on hedges reclassified from hedge reserve to  statement of profit or loss  (0.93)  (0.73) (2) Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Service Tax (GST) with effect from July 1, 2017, Central Excise, Value Added Tax  (VAT), etc have been replaced by GST.
In accordance with Ind AS 18 on Revenue and Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013,  GST, GST Compensation Cess, etc.
are not included in Revenue from Operations for applicable periods.
In view of the aforesaid  restructuring of indirect taxes, Sale of products for the year ended March 31, 2018 is not comparable with year ended March 31,  2017.
Following additional information is being provided to facilitate such comparison: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) Sale of products  57,868.04 47,709.39 (b) Excise duty  (1,168.14)  (4,623.54) ( c) Sale of products (net of excise duty) (a-b)  56,699.90 43,085.85 (3) Other operating revenue includes export and other incentives from governments (referred to as ”incentives”) of ` 829.13 crores   and ` 419.87 crores for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
33.
Other income  Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) Interest income  397.71  187.90  (b) Dividend income (note 1 below)  1,054.69  672.65  ( c) Profit on sale of investments at FVTPL  103.17  116.76  (d) MTM – Investments measured at FVTPL  2.03  3.75   1,557.60  981.06  Note: (1) Includes : (a) Dividend from subsidiary companies and associates  999.25  669.48  (b) From investment measured at FVTOCI  14.49  4.45  ( c) Exchange gain / (loss)  40.95  (1.28) 34.
Employee benefits expense Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) Salaries, wages and bonus  3,311.57  3,179.05  (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds  236.16  209.11  ( c) Staff welfare expenses  419.00  376.19  Total  3,966.73  3,764.35  226 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 35.
Finance costs           (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) Interest  1,650.35  1,649.68  Add: Exchange fluctuation considered as interest cost  6.24  -  Less: Interest capitalised*  (396.11)  (451.00)  1,260.48  1,198.68  (b) Discounting charges  483.95  370.33  Total  1,744.43  1,569.01   *  The weighted average rate for capitalisation of interest relating to general borrowings was approximately 7.43 % and 7.63 % for the  years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
36.
Other expenses Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) Processing charges  1,240.88  1,004.45  (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts  639.35  653.61  ( c) Power and fuel  545.12  483.48  (d) Freight, transportation, port charges etc.
1,703.15  1,536.77  (e) Publicity  720.18  848.36  (f) Warranty expenses  766.18  493.33  (g) Information technology/computer expenses  711.95  762.39  (h) Allowances made/(reversed) for trade and other receivables  (109.19)  133.72  (i) Assets Scrapped/ Written Off  995.47 141.45 (j) Works operation and other expenses (note below)  2,021.18 2,278.34 Total  9,234.27  8,335.90  Note: Works operation and other expenses include: (a) Auditors’ Remuneration (excluding service tax): # (i)  Audit Fees  7.34  8.16  (ii)  Audit Fees for financial statements as per IFRS  (including SOX certification)  3.72  3.59  (iii)  In other Capacities :  Tax Audit / Transfer Pricing Audit  0.89  0.75   Taxation Matters  0.45  0.08  (iv)  Other Services *  4.47  1.51  (v)  Reimbursement of travelling and out-of-pocket expenses  0.86  0.88  * Includes payment to an affiliate firm of statutory auditors # The above amount includes ` 10.84 crores paid to predecessor Auditor, Deloitte  Haskins and Sells LLP and its affiliates for the year ended March 31, 2018.
4.10  0.56  (b) Cost Auditors’ Remuneration (excluding service tax) : (i)  Cost Audit Fees  0.20  0.20  (ii)  Reimbursement of travelling and out-of-pocket expenses  0.01 - ( c) Works operation and other expenses for the year ended March 31, 2018 includes ` 21.44 crores (` 25.94 crores for the year  ended March 31, 2017) spent by Tata Motors Ltd on standalone basis excluding interest in the joint operations, towards various  schemes of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
No amount has  been spent on construction / acquisition of an asset of the Company.
The prescribed CSR expenditure required to be spent in  the year 2017-18 as per the Companies Act, 2013 is ` Nil, in view of average net profits of the Company being ` Nil (under section  198 of the Act) for last three financial years.
227 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 37.  a) Exceptional debit of ` 962.98 crores  is related to provision for impairment of certain capital work-in-progress and intangibles  under development.
The company reviewed product development programs and capital work-in-progrees and consequently  provided for impairment during the year ended March 31, 2018.  b) Exceptional debit of ` 147.93 crores for the year ended March 31, 2017, relates to provision for inventory of BS III vehicles as  at March 31, 2017.
This does not include higher level of customer discounts and variable marketing expenses in March 2017, to  support higher level of retail sales, which have been netted off against ‘Revenue from operations.
38.
Commitments and contingencies  In the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties.
The Company assesses such claims  and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an ongoing basis, with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever  necessary.
The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and  discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material.
For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable,  the Company provides disclosure in the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes  probable.
The following is a description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable.
The Company believes that none  of the contingencies described below would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or   cash flows.
Litigation  The Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant.
There are claims which the Company does not  believe to be of material nature, other than those described below.
Income Tax  The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities relating to tax treatment of certain items.
These mainly include  disallowed expenses, the tax treatment of certain expenses claimed by the Company as deductions and the computation of, or  eligibility of, the Company’s use of certain tax incentives or allowances.
Most of these disputes and/or disallowances, being repetitive in nature, have been raised by the income tax authorities consistently  in most of the years.
The Company has a right of appeal to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), or CIT (A), the Dispute Resolution Panel, or DRP,  and to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, or ITAT, against adverse decisions by the assessing officer, DRP or CIT (A), as applicable.
The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal to the ITAT against adverse decisions by the CIT (A) or DRP.
The Company has  a further right of appeal to the Bombay High Court or the Supreme Court against adverse decisions by the appellate authorities for  matters involving substantial question of law.
The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal.
As at March 31, 2018, there are matters and/or disputes pending in appeal amounting to ` 60.89  crores (` 148.60 crores as at March  31, 2017).
Customs, Excise Duty and Service Tax  As at March 31, 2018, there are pending litigation for various matters relating to customs, excise duty and service taxes involving  demands, including interest and penalties, of ` 1,491.36  crores (` 1,425.12 crores as at March 31, 2017).
These demands challenged  the basis of valuation of the Company’s products and denied the Company’s claims of Central Value Added Tax, or CENVAT credit on  inputs.
The details of the demands for more than ` 20 crores are as follows:   The Excise Authorities have raised a demand for ` 90.72 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 90.72 crores as at March 31, 2017), on account  of alleged undervaluation’s of ex-factory discounts given by Company on passenger vehicles through invoices.
The matter is being  contested by the Company before the Bombay High Court.
As at March 31, 2018, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand and penalty of ` 239.95 crores,  (` 218.23 crores as at March 31,  2017), due to the classification of certain chassis (as dumpers instead of goods transport vehicles) which were sent to automotive  body builders by the Company, which the Excise Authorities claim requires the payment of the National Calamity Contingent Duty, or  228 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements NCCD.
The Company has obtained a technical expert certificate on the classification.
The appeal is pending before the Custom Excise  & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal.
The Excise Authorities had denied the Company’s claim of a CENVAT credit of ` 36.03 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 24.96 crores as  at March 31, 2017) claimed by the Company from financial year 1992 to 2013, on technical grounds.
The matter is being contested by  the Company before the appellate authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Excise Authorities had levied penalties and interest amounting to ` 679.88 crores (` 679.88 crores as at  March 31, 2017) with respect to CENVAT credit claimed by the Company from March 2010 to November 2012, on inputs, stating that  vehicles manufactured at Uttarakhand plant are “Exempted Products” and the Company may not claim a CENVAT credit on these  vehicles.
The Company has challenged this demand as NCCD and the automobile cess is assessed on those vehicles, which are  “duties of excise”.
Therefore, the Company asserts that these vehicles are not “Exempted Products”.
The matter is being contested by  the Company before the appellate authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand amounting to ` 29.54 crores (` 29.54 crores as at March 31, 2017)  on pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales service charges incurred by dealers on Company’s products on the alleged  grounds that the pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales services are provided by the dealer on behalf of the Company  and should be included in excisable value of the vehicle.
The case is pending before Tribunal.
As at March 31, 2018, the Exicse Authorities have confirmed demand & penalty totalling to ` 90.88 crores (` Nil as at March 31, 2017)  towards vehicles allegedly sold below cost of production with an intention to penetrate the market.
The matter is being contested by  the Company before appellate authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Exicse Authorities have filed Appeal before appellate authority against the Order of adjudicating authority  allowing Cenvat credit of service tax of ` 36.15 crores (` 36.15 crores as at March 31, 2017) availed on consulting engineers services.
Sales Tax  The total sales tax demands (including interest and penalty), that are being contested by the Company amount to ` 949.54 crores as  at March 31, 2018 (` 965.80 crores as at March 31, 2017).
The details of the demands for more than ` 20 crores are as follows:  The Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand of ` 269.38 crores as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 208.59 crores as at March 31, 2017)  towards rejection of certain statutory forms for concessional lower/nil tax rate (Form F and Form C) on technical grounds such as  late submission, single form issued against different months / quarters dispatches / sales, etc.
and denial of exemption from tax in  absence of proof of export for certain years.
The Company has contended that the benefit cannot be denied on technicalities, which  are being complied with.
The matter is pending at various levels.
The Sales Tax Authorities have denied input tax credit and levied interest and penalty thereon due to varied reasons aggregating to  ` 435.96 crores as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 305.46 crores as at March 31, 2017).
The reasons for disallowing credit was mainly due to  Taxes not paid by Vendors, incorrect method of calculation of set off as per the department, alleging suppression of sales as per the  department etc.
The matter is contested in appeal.
Sales tax demand aggregating ` 95.75 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` Nil as at March 31, 2017) has been raised by Sales Tax Authorities  for non submission of Maharashtra Trial Balance.
This is relating to VAT assessment for the financial year 2010 to 2013.
The matter is  contested in appeal.
The Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand for Entry Tax liability at various states amounting to ` 23.92 crores as at March 31, 2018  (` Nil as at March 31, 2017) .
The company is contesting this issue.
Other Taxes and Dues  Other amounts for which the Company may contingently be liable aggregate to ` 205.19 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 221.14 crores  as at March 31, 2017).
Following are the cases involving more than ` 20 crores:  The municipal authorities in certain states levy octroi duty (a local indirect tax) on goods brought inside the municipal limits at rates  based on the classification of goods.
Demands aggregating ` 61.65 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 61.65 crores as at March 31, 2017)  had been raised demanding higher octroi duties on account of classification disputes relating to components purchased for the  manufacture of vehicles and retrospective increase in octroi rates relating to past periods.
The dispute relating to classification is  presently pending before the Bombay High Court and the other dispute is pending before the Supreme Court.
229 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  As at March 31, 2018, property tax amounting to ` 56.84 crores (` 53.70 crores as at March 31, 2017) has been demanded by the local  municipal authorities in respect of vacant land of the Company in the plants in Pimpri, Chinchwad and Chikhali.
The Company has filed  Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court against an unfavorable decision of the Bombay High Court.
The Supreme Court  has disposed of the SLP and remanded the matter back to the local municipal corporation for fresh adjudication.
As at March 31, 2018, Sales tax / VAT amounting to ` 30.54  crores (` 29.95 crores as at March 31, 2017) has been demanded by local  authorities on dealers in respect of spare parts used for carrying out warranty repairs.
The dispute is pending before the Supreme  Court.
Commitments  The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of plant and machinery, equipment  and various civil contracts of a capital nature amounting to ` 2,096.64  crores at March 31, 2018 ( ` 1,606.45 crores as at March 31,  2017), which are yet to be executed.
The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of intangible assets of a capital  nature amounting to ` 466.01 crores as at March 31, 2018, (` 420.06 crores as at March 31, 2017), which are yet to be executed.
39.
Earnings per Share (“EPS”) ( ` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018  Year ended  March 31, 2017  (a) Profit/(loss) after tax ` crores  (1,034.85)  (2,429.60) (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
2,88,73,48,357  2,88,72,18,310  ( c) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
50,85,02,336  50,84,83,714  (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary) `  2  2  (e) Share of profit / (loss) for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS ` crores  (879.89)  (2,065.78) (f) Share of profit / (loss) for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS * ` crores  (154.96)  (363.82) (g) Earnings per Ordinary share (Basic) `  (3.05)  (7.15) (h) Earnings per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Basic) `  (3.05)  (7.15) (i) Profit after tax for Diluted EPS ` crores  #  #  (j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
#  #  (k) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants and shares held in  abeyance Nos.
#  #  (l) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
#  #  (m) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
#  #  (n) Add: Adjustment for ‘A’ Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos.
#  #  (o) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
#  #  (p) Share of profit for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS ` crores  #  #  (q) Share of profit for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS * ` crores  #  #  ( c) Earnings per Ordinary share (Diluted) `  (3.05)  (7.15) (s) Earnings per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Diluted) `  (3.05)  (7.15)  *  ‘A’ Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to receive dividend @ 5% points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by  the Company on Ordinary Shares for the financial year.
# Since there is a loss for year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 potential equity shares are not considered as dilutive and hence  Diluted EPS is same as Basic EPS.
230 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 40.
Capital Management  The Company’s capital management is intended to create value for shareholders by facilitating the meeting of long-term and short- term goals of the Company.
The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of annual operating plans and long-term product and other  strategic investment plans.
The funding requirements are met through equity, non-convertible debentures, senior notes and other  long-term/short-term borrowings.
The Company’s policy is aimed at combination of short-term and long-term borrowings.
The Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of total debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio  of the Company.
Total borrowings includes all long and short-term borrowings as disclosed in notes 23, 24 and 26 (a) to the financial statements.
Equity comprises all components excluding (profit)/loss on cash flow hedges.
The following table summarizes the capital of the Company: (` in crores) Year ended   March 31, 2018  Year ended   March 31, 2017  Equity  20,161.13  21,139.97  Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term borrowings  5,307.93  5,670.89  Long-term borrowings  13,155.91  13,686.09  Total borrowings  18,463.84  19,356.98  Total capital (Debt + Equity)  38,624.97  40,496.95  Total equity as reported in balance sheet  20,170.98  21,162.61  Hedging reserve  3.14  (11.26) Cost of Hedge reserve  (12.99)  (11.38) Equity as reported above  20,161.13  21,139.97  231 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 41.
Disclosures on financial instruments  This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional information on balance sheet items that contain financial  instruments.
The details of significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised,  in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
(a) Financial assets and liabilities   The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2018.
(` in crores) Financial assets Cash, and other  financial assets  at amortised cost Investments -  FVTOCI Investments -  FVTPL Derivatives other  than in hedging  relationship Derivatives  in hedging  relationship Total carrying  value Total fair value (a) Investments - non-current  -  310.19  -  -  -  310.19  310.19  (b)  Investments - current  -  303.84  1,517.03  -  -  1,820.87  1,820.87  ( c)  Trade receivables  3,479.81  -  -  -  -  3,479.81  3,479.81  (d)  Cash and cash equivalents  546.82  -  -  -  -  546.82  546.82  (e)  Other bank balances  248.60  -  -  -  -  248.60  248.60  (f)  Loans and advances - non-current  143.96  -  -  -  -  143.96  143.96  (g)  Loans and advances - current  140.27  -  -  -  -  140.27  140.27  (h)  Other financial assets - non-current  593.27  -  -  200.13  -  793.40  793.40  (i)  Other financial assets - current  604.10  -  -  26.15  16.06  646.31  646.31   Total  5,756.83  614.03  1,517.03  226.28  16.06  8,130.23  8,130.23  Financial liabilities Derivatives  other than  in hedging  relationship Derivatives  in hedging  relationship Other financial  liabilities Total carrying  value Total fair value (a)  Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long-term  borrowings)  -  -  15,363.97  15,363.97  15,643.29  (b)  Short-term borrowings  -  -  3,099.87  3,099.87  3,099.87  ( c)  Trade payables  -  -  9,411.05  9,411.05  9,411.05  (d)  Acceptances  -  -  4,814.58  4,814.58  4,814.58  (e)  Other financial liabilities - non-current  -  -  211.28  211.28  211.28  (f) Other financial liabilities - current  0.30  0.99  1,881.81  1,883.10  1,883.10   Total  0.30  0.99  34,782.56  34,783.85  35,063.17  232 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2017.
(` in crores) Financial assets Cash, and other  financial assets  at amortised cost Investments -  FVTOCI Investments -  FVTPL Derivatives other  than in hedging  relationship Derivatives  in hedging  relationship Total carrying  value Total fair value (a)  Investments - non-current  -  528.37  -  -  -  528.37  528.37  (b)  Investments - current  -  -  2,437.42  -  -  2,437.42  2,437.42  ( c) Trade receivables  2,128.00  -  -  -  -  2,128.00  2,128.00  (d)  Cash and cash equivalents  228.94  -  -  -  -  228.94  228.94  (e)  Other bank balances  97.67  -  -  -  -  97.67  97.67  (f)  Loans and advances - non-current  391.46  -  -  -  -  391.46  391.46  (g)  Loans and advances - current  215.96  -  -  -  -  215.96  215.96  (h)  Other financial assets - non-current  5.57  -  -  190.75  -  196.32  196.32  (i)  Other financial assets - current  41.19  -  -  65.73  34.62  141.54  141.54   Total  3,108.79  528.37  2,437.42  256.48  34.62  6,365.68  6,365.68  Financial liabilities Derivatives  other than  in hedging  relationship Derivatives  in hedging  relationship Other financial  liabilities Total carrying  value Total fair value (a)  Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long-term  borrowings)  -  -  14,198.46  14,198.46  14,700.97  (b)  Short-term borrowings  -  -  5,158.52  5,158.52  5,158.52  ( c) Trade payables  -  -  7,082.95  7,082.95  7,082.95  (d)  Acceptances  -  -  4,379.29  4,379.29  4,379.29  (e)  Other financial liabilities - non-current  0.55  -  1,129.68  1,130.23  1,130.23  (f)  Other financial liabilities - current  9.38  -  1,964.19  1,973.57  1,973.57   Total  9.93  -  33,913.09  33,923.02  34,425.53  233 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value,  grouped into Level 1 to Level 3, as described below.
Quoted prices in an active market (Level 1): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets that are measured by reference to quoted  prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
This category consists of quoted equity shares, quoted corporate  debt instruments and mutual fund investments.
Valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities, measured using  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e; as prices) or  indirectly (i.e; derived from prices).
This level of hierarchy include Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts.
Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities  measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Fair values are determined in whole or in  part, using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions  in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
There has been no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Costs of certain unquoted equity instruments has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide range of  possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range.
These investments in equity  instruments are not held for trading.
Instead, they are held for medium or long term strategic purpose.
Upon the application of Ind AS  109, the Company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI as the directors believes this provides  a more meaningful presentation for medium or long term strategic investments, than reflecting changes in fair value immediately in  profit or loss.
Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecast cash flow information where  applicable.
(` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments  1,820.87  -  310.19  2,131.06  (b) Derivative assets  -  242.34  -  242.34   Total  1,820.87  242.34  310.19  2,373.40  Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities  -  1.29  -  1.29   Total  -  1.29  -  1.29  As at March 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments  2,655.60  -  310.19  2,965.79  (b) Derivative assets  -  291.10  -  291.10   Total  2,655.60  291.10  310.19  3,256.89  Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities  -  9.93  -  9.93   Total  -  9.93  -  9.93  234 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on recurring basis,  grouped into Level 1 to Level 3 categories:        (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments  -  -  -  -   Total  -  -  -  -  Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long- term borrowings)  4,952.01  10,691.28  -  15,643.29  (b) Short-term borrowings  -  3,099.87  -  3,099.87   Total  4,952.01  13,791.15  -  18,743.16  As at March 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments  -  -  -  -   Total  -  -  -  -  Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long- term borrowings)  5,047.12  9,653.85  -  14,700.97  (b) Short-term borrowings  -  5,158.52  -  5,158.52   Total  5,047.12  14,812.37  -  19,859.49  The short-term financial assets and liabilities are stated at amortised cost which is approximately equal to their fair value.
The fair value of borrowings which have a quoted market price in an active market is based on its market price and for other borrowings  the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk-free rate of return,  adjusted for the credit spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity.
Management uses its best judgment in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments.
However, there are inherent limitations  in any estimation technique.
Therefore, substantially for all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented above are not  necessarily indicative of all the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of respective dates.
As such, the fair value of the financial instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different from the amounts  reported at each year end.
235 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  Offsetting  Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to offsetting where there is currently a legally enforceable right to set  off recognised amounts and the Company intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability,  simultaneously.
Certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to master netting arrangements, whereby in the case of  insolvency, derivative financial assets and financial liabilities will be settled on a net basis.
The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that  are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2018:   ( ` in crores) Gross  amount  recognised Gross amount  recognised as  set off in the  balance sheet Net amount  presented in  the balance  sheet Amounts subject to an  enforceable master netting  arrangement Net amount  after  offsetting Financial   instruments Cash   collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial  instruments  242.34  -  242.34  -  -  242.34  (b) Trade receivables 3,670.42  (190.61)  3,479.81  -  -  3,479.81  ( c) Loans and advances-current 157.36  (17.09) 140.27  -  - 140.27 Total 4,070.12  (207.70) 3,862.42  -  - 3,862.42 Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial  instruments  1.29  -  1.29  -  -  1.29  (b) Trade payables 9,618.75  (207.70) 9,411.05  -  - 9,411.05 Total 9,620.04  (207.70) 9,412.34  -  - 9,412.34  The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that  are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2017: Gross  amount  recognised Gross amount  recognised as  set off in the  balance sheet Net amount  presented in  the balance  sheet Amounts subject to an  enforceable master netting  arrangement Net amount  after  offsetting Financial   instruments Cash   collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial  instruments  291.10  -  291.10  (6.07)  -  285.03 (b) Trade receivables  2,209.19  (81.19)  2,128.00  -  -  2,128.00  ( c) Loans and advances-current  256.68  (40.72)  215.96  -  -  215.96  Total  2,756.97  (121.91)  2,635.06  (6.07)  -  2,628.99  Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial  instruments  9.93  -  9.93  (6.07)  -  3.86  (b) Trade payables  7,204.86  (121.91) 7,082.95  -  - 7,082.95 Total  7,214.79  (121.91) 7,092.88  (6.07)  -  7,086.81  236 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  ( c) Financial risk management   In the course of its business, the Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates,  equity prices, liquidity and credit risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments.
The Company has a risk management policy which not only covers the foreign exchange risks but also other risks associated  with the financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate risks and credit risks.
The risk management policy is approved by the  board of directors.
The risk management framework aims to:   • Create a stable business planning environment by reducing the impact of currency and interest rate fluctuations on the  Company’s business plan.
• Achieve greater predictability to earnings by determining the financial value of the expected earnings in advance.
(i) Market risk    Market risk is the risk of any loss in future earnings, in realizable fair values or in future cash flows that may result from a  change in the price of a financial instrument.
The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the  interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity price fluctuations, liquidity and other market changes.
Future specific  market movements cannot be normally predicted with reasonable accuracy.
(i) (a) Foreign currency exchange rate risk:     The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the income statement and equity,  where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets/liabilities are denominated in a currency  other than the functional currency.
Considering the countries and economic environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks  arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.
The risks primarily relate to fluctuations in U.S. dollar,  Euro and Thai Baht against the respective functional currencies of the Company.
The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses foreign exchange and other derivative instruments primarily  to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
Any weakening of the functional currency may impact the  Company’s cost of exports and cost of borrowings and consequently may increase the cost of financing the Company’s  capital expenditures.
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate  risks.
It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in accordance with its risk management  policies.
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated for each currency by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate  exposure of a currency and a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift in the foreign exchange rates of each  currency by 10%.
The exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as  disclosed in (iv) derivative financial instruments and risk management below.
The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives  disclosed at clause (iv) below) as of March 31, 2018:         (` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro GBP THB Others 1 Total Financial assets  591.30  18.14  95.09  128.80  27.69  861.02  Financial liabilities  6,157.54  175.97  523.79  3.15  29.87  6,890.32      1 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian rouble, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, South  African rand, Thai baht and Korean won.
10% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the  Company would result in decrease/increase in the Company’s net profit/(loss) before tax by approximately ` 86.10  crores and ` 689.03 crores for financial assets and financial liabilities respectively for the year ended March 31,  2018.
237 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements      The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from  derivatives disclosed at clause (iv) below) as of March 31, 2017:         ( ` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro GBP THB Others 2 Total Financial assets  395.23  11.03  34.53  95.25  16.22  552.26  Financial liabilities  5,974.81  150.24  374.84  8.17  26.17  6,534.23      2 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian rouble, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, South  African rand, Thai baht and Korean won.
10% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the  Company would result in decrease/increase in the Company’s net profit/(loss) before tax by approximately ` 55.23  crores and ` 653.42 crores for financial assets and financial liabilities, respectively for the year ended March 31,  2017.
(Note: The impact is indicated on the profit/(loss) before tax basis.)
(i) (b) Interest rate risk     Interest rate risk is measured by using the cash flow sensitivity for changes in variable interest rates.
Any movement in  the reference rates could have an impact on the Company’s cash flows as well as costs.
The Company is subject to variable interest rates on some of its interest bearing liabilities.
The Company’s interest  rate exposure is mainly related to debt obligations.
The Company also uses a mix of interest rate sensitive financial  instruments to manage the liquidity and fund requirements for its day to day operations like short term loans.
As at March 31, 2018 and 2017, financial liability of ` 3,239.35  crores and ` 3,418.97 crores, respectively, was subject to  variable interest rates.
Increase/decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would result in  decrease/increase in profit/(loss) before tax of ` 32.39  crores and ` 34.19 crores for the year ended March 31, 2018 and  2017, respectively.
The model assumes that interest rate changes are instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve.
Although some assets  and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to re-pricing, these may not react correspondingly to changes in  market interest rates.
Also, the interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in  market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may change with a lag.
The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves.
This  calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk  exposures outstanding as at that date.
The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt  outstanding during the period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
(Note: The impact is indicated on the profit/(loss) before tax basis).
(i) ( c) Equity Price risk     Equity Price Risk is related to the change in market reference price of the investments in equity securities.
The fair value of some of the Company’s investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income  exposes the Company to equity price risks.
These investments are subject to changes in the market price of securities.
The fair value of Company’s investment in quoted equity securities as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 was ` 303.84  crores  and ` 218.18 crores, respectively.
A 10% change in equity price as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 would result in an impact  of ` 30.38  crores and ` 21.82 crores, respectively.
(Note: The impact is indicated on equity before consequential tax impact, if any).
238 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements   (ii) Credit risk    Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual  terms or obligations.
Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness  as well as concentration risks.
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk, principally consist of investments classified as fair  value through profit and loss, trade receivables, loans and advances and derivative financial instruments.
None of the  financial instruments of the Company result in material concentrations of credit risks.
Exposure to credit risk    The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk was  ` 7,819.91 crores and ` 6,069.96 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, being the total of the carrying amount  of balances with banks, short term deposits with banks, trade receivables, finance receivables, margin money and other  financial assets excluding equity investments.
Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired    None of the Company’s cash equivalents, including time deposits with banks, are past due or impaired.
Regarding trade  receivables and other receivables, and other loans or receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no  indications as at March 31, 2018, that defaults in payment obligations will occur.
Credit quality of financial assets and impairment loss    The ageing of trade receivables as of balance sheet date is given below.
The age analysis has been considered from the due  date.
(` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Trade receivables Gross Allowance Net Gross Allowance Net Period (in months) (a) Not due  1,674.79  (8.10)  1,666.69  915.10  (9.59)  905.51  (b) Overdue up to 3 months  1,133.46  (33.60)  1,099.86  841.67  (15.83)  825.84  ( c) Overdue 3-6 months  144.00  (12.50)  131.50  138.47  (11.36)  127.11  (d) Overdue more than 6 months  1,071.06  (489.30)  581.76  925.93  (656.39)  269.54 1  TOTAL  4,023.31  (543.50)  3,479.81  2,821.17  (693.17)  2,128.00     1  Trade receivables overdue more than six months include ` 462.22 crores as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 212.29 crores as at  March 31, 2017) outstanding from state government organizations in India, which are considered recoverable.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of various types of customers, spread across geographical areas.
Ongoing  credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of these trade receivables and where appropriate allowance  for losses are provided.
Further the Company, groups the trade receivables depending on type of customers and  accordingly credit risk is determined.
239 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements   (iii) Liquidity risk    Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations.
The objective of liquidity risk  management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements.
The Company has obtained fund and non-fund based working capital lines from various banks.
Further, the Company has  access to funds from debt markets through commercial paper programs, non-convertible debentures, senior notes and  other debt instruments.
The Company invests its surplus funds in bank fixed deposit and liquid and liquid plus schemes  of mutual funds, which carry no/low mark to market risks.
The Company has also invested 15% of the non-convertible  debentures (taken/issued by the Company) falling due for repayment in the next 12 months in bank deposits, to meet the  regulatory norms of liquidity requirements.
The Company also constantly monitors funding options available in the debt and capital markets with a view to maintaining  financial flexibility.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest  payments as at March 31, 2018:  ( ` in crores) Financial liabilities Carrying  amount Due in 1st  Year Due in 2 nd  Year Due in 3rd to  5th Year Due after  5th Year Total  contractual  cash flows (a) Trade payables  9,411.05  9,411.05  -  -  -  9,411.05  (b) Acceptances  4,814.58  4,814.58  -  -  -  4,814.58  ( c) Borrowings and interest thereon  18,963.90  6,238.08 2,006.03 10,638.87  3,570.94  22,453.92  (d) Other financial liabilities  1,593.03  1,401.69  83.97  86.30  73.47  1,645.43  (e) Derivative liabilities  1.29  1.29  -  -  -  1.29  Total  34,783.85  21,866.69  2,090.00  10,725.17  3,644.41 38,326.27 The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest  payments as at March 31, 2017: Financial liabilities Carrying  amount Due in 1st  Year Due in 2nd  Year Due in 3rd  to 5th Year Due after  5th Year Total  contractual  cash flows (a) Trade payables  7,082.95  7,082.95  -  -  -  7,082.95  (b) Acceptances  4,379.29  4,379.29  -  -  -  4,379.29  ( c) Borrowings and interest thereon  19,806.71  7,056.76  2,662.85  10,158.67  5,003.70  24,881.98  (d) Other financial liabilities  2,644.14  1,493.66  1,019.23  56.56  73.13  2,642.58  (e) Derivative liabilities  9.93  9.38  -  -  0.55  9.93  Total  33,923.02  20,022.04  3,682.08  10,215.23  5,077.38  38,996.73            240 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements   (iv) Derivative financial instruments and risk management    The Company has entered into a variety of foreign currency, interest rates and commodity forward contracts and options to  manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price risk.
The counterparty is  generally a bank.
These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and  procedures.
The Company also enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate currency swap agreements, mainly to manage exposure  on its fixed rate or variable rate debt.
The Company uses interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure to  exchange rate fluctuations on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Specific transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks,  volatility risks, counterparty risks, settlement risks and gearing risks.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques based on information derived from  observable market data.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows:        (` in crores) As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 (a) Foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options  245.74  276.81  (b) Commodity Derivatives  (4.69)  4.37  Total  241.05  281.18     The gain/loss due to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on derivative contracts, recognised in the income  statement was ` 6.31 crores (loss) and ` 85.41 crores (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The gain/(loss) on commodity derivative contracts, recognised in the income statement was ` 6.07 crores and ` 9.06 crores  for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
241 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 42.
Related-party transactions  The Company’s related parties principally consist of subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and their subsidiaries, Tata Sons Ltd,  subsidiaries and joint ventures of Tata Sons Ltd.
The Company routinely enters into transactions with these related parties in the  ordinary course of business.
The Company enters into transactions for sale and purchase of products and services with its related  parties.
The following table summarizes related-party transactions and balances for the year ended / as at March 31, 2018:     ( ` in crores) Subsidiaries Joint  Operations Associates  and its  subsidiaries Tata Sons  Ltd, its  subsidiaries  and joint  ventures Total Purchase of products  1,217.67  3,163.05  2,595.40  170.71  7,146.83  Sale of products  5,918.05  545.49  199.80  453.26  7,116.60  Services received  2,548.55 -  8.82  256.29  2,813.66  Services rendered  221.54  4.31  13.05  1.59  240.49  Bills discounted  -  -  -  4,135.03  4,135.03  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  41.25 -  62.43  0.18  103.86  Purchase of investments  -  2.50  -  -  2.50  Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/paid,  net  (931.25)  (4.56)  (9.43)  3.93  (941.31) Finance given (including loans and equity) - - - - - Finance given, taken back (including loans and  equity)  60.00 - - -  60.00  Finance taken (including loans and equity) 1,773.55 - 489.00 - 2,262.55 Finance taken, paid back (including loans and  equity) 1,746.80 - 489.00 - 2,235.80 Assets / deposits given as security  2.35 - - -  2.35  Amounts receivable in respect of loans and interest  thereon  637.37  -  -  -  637.37  Amounts payable in respect of loans and interest  thereon  147.75  -  56.00  2.10  205.85  Trade and other receivables  564.28 -  61.18  61.59  687.05  Trade payables  1,592.08  184.81  149.57  67.43  1,993.89  Acceptances  -  -  -  220.16  220.16  Assets / deposits given as security  2.54  -  -  3.00  5.54  Deposit taken as security  3.31  -  -  -  3.31  Provision for amount receivable (including loans)  639.49  -  -  -  639.49   Note: With the introduction of GST from July 01, 2017, the related party transactions reported does not include indirect tax component.
The previous period figures to that extent is not comparable.
242 The following table summarizes related-party transactions and balances for the year ended / as at March 31, 2017:     (` in crores) Subsidiaries Joint  Operations Associates  and its  subsidiaries Tata Sons  Ltd, its  subsidiaries  and joint  ventures Total Purchase of products  1,036.85 2,275.75  2,056.84  65.46  5,434.90  Sale of products  4,541.55 323.72  248.20  452.62 5,566.09 Services received  1,803.86 0.07  10.89  256.98 2,071.80 Services rendered  216.14  16.11  13.03  4.64  249.92  Bills discounted  -  -  -  3,202.77  3,202.77  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  49.06  -  13.79  0.02  62.87  Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/paid, net  (648.91)  (12.12)  (11.07)  36.52  (635.58) Finance given (including loans and equity) 222.26 -  -  - 222.26 Finance given, taken back (including loans and equity) 30.00 132.50 - - 162.50 Finance taken (including loans and equity) 1,358.00 329.00  -  - 1,687.00 Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity) 1,397.00 300.00 - - 1,697.00 Deposits taken as security  3.31  -  -  -  3.31  Amounts receivable in respect of loans and interest  thereon  692.48  -  -  5.33  697.81  Amounts payable in respect of loans and interest  thereon  121.00  -  56.00  0.64  177.64  Trade and other receivables  231.02  -  46.26  36.14  313.42  Trade payables 1,014.18 123.95  39.63  49.54 1,227.30 Assets / deposits given as security  2,502.35 - -  3.00  2,505.35  Deposit taken as security 3.31 - - -  3.31  Provision for amount receivable (including loans) 639.49 - - -  639.49  Details of significant transactions are given below: Particulars Nature of relationship Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 i) Bill discounted  Tata Capital Ltd  Tata Sons Ltd, its subsidiaries and  joint ventures  4,135.03  3,202.77  ii) Dividend Income  TML Holding Pte Ltd Subsidiary 789.85 507.64 Compensation of key management personnel: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended March  31, 2017 Short-term benefits  39.49  30.40  Post-employment benefits* 1.88 2.04  The compensation of CEO and Managing Director is ` 26.42 crores and ` 22.55 crores for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017  respectively.
*  Excludes provision for encashable leave and gratuity for certain key management personnel as a separate actuarial valuation is not  available.
Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Other transactions with key management personnel: Dividend paid  -  - **  ** less than ` 50,000/-  Refer note 44 for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
Refer note 45 for information on transactions with post-employment benefit plans.
Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 243 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 43.
Disclosures required by Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 and Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013  (a) Amount of loans / advances in nature of loans outstanding from subsidiaries as at March 31, 2018, on a standalone basis.
(` in crores) Outstanding  as at March  31, 2018/  March 31,  2017 Maximum  amount  outstanding  during the  year Name of the Company Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc., UK 39.22 39.22  [Tata Motors European Technical Centre has utilised this loan for investment in National Automotive  Innovation Centre set up jointly with University of Warwick and Jaguar Landrover Ltd and carried an  interest rate of 12 months LIBOR + 3% prevailing rate (4.7076% p.a-5.6492% p.a] 34.39 40.56  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. 539.40 539.40  (Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. has utilised this loan for meeting its capex requirement and  general corporate purposes, which is fully provided).
539.40 539.40  Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb SA 58.39 58.39  (Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb SA has utilised this loan for general corporate purposes,  which is partly provided).
58.39 58.39  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd - 50.00  (Inter Corporate Deposit utilised for working capital finance at the rate of interest of 9% p.a to 10.00%  p.a.
having Call / Put option).
50.00 50.00  Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd - 10.00  (Inter Corporate Deposit utilised for working capital finance at the rate of interest of 9.00% p.a.
to  10.00% p.a having Call / Put option).
10.00 25.00   (b) Details of Investments made are given in notes 6, 7, 8 and 9 244 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 44.
Details of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates  % direct holding  Name of the Company Country of  incorporation/  Place of  business  As at March  31, 2018  As at March  31, 2017 Subsidiaries TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd India  100.00  100.00  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd India  100.00  100.00  Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Ltd India  100.00  100.00  Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc UK  100.00  100.00  Tata Technologies Ltd India  72.29  72.32  Tata Motors Finance Ltd India  100.00  100.00  Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd India  51.00  51.00  TML Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore  100.00  100.00  TML Distribution Company Ltd India  100.00  100.00  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A Spain  100.00  100.00  Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A Morocco  100.00  100.00  Trilix S.r.l Italy  80.00  80.00  Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd Singapore  78.39  78.39  Joint Ventures JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd India  50.00  50.00  Associates Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd India  46.44  46.44  Nita Co. Ltd Bangladesh  40.00  40.00  Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd India  26.00  26.00  Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd India  39.74  39.74  245 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 45.
Employee benefits  Defined Benefit Plan  Pension and post retirement medical plans  The following table sets out the funded and unfunded status and the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the pension  and the post retirement medical plans in respect of Tata Motors and joint operations:                ( ` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement Medical Benefits As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 Change in defined benefit obligations : Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year  860.35  813.84  169.31  148.60  Current service cost  56.64  54.11  8.89  7.47  Interest cost  60.26  61.88  12.01  11.55  Remeasurements (gains) / losses Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in demographic  assumptions  (11.28)  -  (11.17)  -  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial  assumptions  25.21  12.58  (2.65)  20.24  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience  adjustments  8.70  (6.89)  (28.24)  (10.31) Transfer in/(out) of liability  1.58  -  -  -  Benefits paid from plan assets  (105.49)  (69.89)  -  -  Benefits paid directly by employer  (5.34)  (5.28)  (9.60)  (8.24) Past service cost- plan amendments  7.55  -  -  -  Defined benefit obligation, end of the year  898.18  860.35  138.55  169.31  Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year  738.53  711.33  -  -  Interest income  55.42  54.59  -  -  Remeasurements gains / (losses)   Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest  expense)  (0.59)  23.81  -  -  Employer’s contributions  110.28  18.69  -  -  Transfer in/(out) of assets  1.58  -  -  -  Benefits paid  (105.49)  (69.89)  -  -  Fair value of plan assets, end of the year  799.73  738.53  -  -  Pension Benefits Post retirement medical  Benefits As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 Amount recognised in the balance sheet consists of Present value of defined benefit obligation  898.18  860.35  138.55  169.31  Fair value of plan assets  799.73  738.53  -  -  Net liability  (98.45)  (121.82)  (138.55)  (169.31) Amounts in the balance sheet: Non–current assets  0.82  4.26  -  -  Non–current liabilities  (99.27)  (126.08)  (138.55)  (169.31) Net liability  (98.45)  (121.82)  (138.55)  (169.31) 246 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of: (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical  Benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Remeasurements (gains) / losses ( 4.99)  (28.21)  (40.20) 1.86 (4.99)  (28.21)  (40.20) 1.86  Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: Pension Benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at March 31,  2017 Defined benefit obligation  44.71  704.77  Fair value of plan assets  41.99 678.02  Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation less than plan assets: Pension Benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Defined benefit obligation  756.92  56.25  Fair value of plan assets  757.74  60.51   Information for unfunded plans: Pension Benefits Post retirement medical  Benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Defined benefit obligation  96.55  99.33  138.55  169.31   Net pension and post retirement medical cost consist of the following components: Pension Benefits Post retirement medical  Benefits Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 Service cost  56.64  54.11  8.89  7.47  Net interest cost / (income)  4.84  7.29  12.01  11.55  Past service cost- plan amendments  7.55  -  -  -  Net periodic cost  69.03  61.40  20.90  19.02  247 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income.
Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended   March 31,  2017 Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended   March 31,  2017 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest  expense)  0.59  (23.81)  -  -  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in demographic  assumptions  (11.28)  -  (11.17)  -  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial  assumptions  25.21  12.58  (2.65)  20.24  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience  adjustments on plan liabilities  8.70  (6.89)  (28.24)  (10.31) Total recognised in other comprehensive income  23.22  (18.12)  (42.06)  9.93  Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and other  comprehensive income  92.25  43.28  (21.16)  28.95   The assumptions used in accounting for the pension and post retirement medical plans are set out below: Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 Discount rate 6.75%-7.70% 6.75%-7.50% 7.70% 7.30% Rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 6.00%-8.00% 5.00%-8.00% NA NA Increase in health care cost NA NA 6.00% 6.00%  Plan Assets              The fair value of Company’s pension plan asset as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 by category are as follows: Pension benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Asset category: Cash and cash equivalents 6.5% 0.4% Debt instruments (quoted) 65.2% 71.9% Debt instruments (unquoted) 0.9% 5.4% Equity instruments (quoted) 1.9% 1.5% Deposits with Insurance companies 25.5% 20.8% 100.0% 100.0%  The Company’s policy is driven by considerations of maximizing returns while ensuring credit quality of the debt instruments.
The  asset allocation for plan assets is determined based on investment criteria prescribed under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, and is  also subject to other exposure limitations.
The Company evaluates the risks, transaction costs and liquidity for potential investments.
To measure plan asset performance, the Company compares actual returns for each asset category with published bench marks.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2018 is 14.5 years ( March 31, 2017 : 15.7 years).
248 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  The Company expects to contribute ` 77.61 crores to the funded pension plans in FY 2018-19.
The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/ increase of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation and health care cost: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit  obligation Impact on service cost and  interest cost Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by ` 78.74 crores Decrease by ` 16.07 crores Decrease by 1% Increase by ` 91.16 crores Increase by ` 17.42 crores Salary escalation rate Increase by 1% Increase by ` 69.71 crores Increase by ` 15.91 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 61.92 crores Decrease by ` 13.96 crores Health care cost Increase by 1% Increase by ` 16.49 crores Increase by ` 3.78 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 13.97 crores Decrease by ` 3.12 crores  The Company’s contribution to defined contribution plan aggregated to ` 182.20 crores and ` 163.30 crores for the years ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
249 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 46 Additional information  The financial statements include the Company’s proportionate share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in its two Joint  Operations, namely Tata Cummins Private Limited and Fiat India Automobile Private Limited.
Below are supplementary details of Tata  Motors Limited on standalone basis excluding interest in the aforesaid two Joint Operations:  A.
Balance Sheet                ( ` in crores) As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 I.
ASSETS (1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment  16,030.88  16,325.13  (b) Capital work-in-progress  1,337.89  1,490.50  ( c) Other intangible assets  3,198.53  2,723.94  (d) Intangible assets under development  3,811.03  5,330.49  (e) Investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates  15,607.64  15,987.06  (f) Financial assets (i) Investments  310.19  528.37  (ii) Loans and advances  143.36  390.71  (iii) Other financial assets  784.46  190.54  (g) Non-current tax assets (net)  650.46  722.13  (h) Other non-current assets  1,419.52  1,536.27   43,293.96  45,225.14  (2) CURRENT ASSETS (a) Inventories  4,925.47  5,185.58  (b) Investments in subsidiaries and associate (held-for-sale)  681.91  -  ( c) Financial assets (i) Investments  1,820.87  2,437.42  (ii) Trade receivables  2,960.93  1,922.88  (iii) Cash and cash equivalents  499.65  149.89  (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above  180.38  86.67  (v) Loans and advances  136.37  215.64  (vi) Other financial assets  525.36  141.47  (d) Current tax assets (net)  73.88  129.49  (e) Assets classified as held-for-sale  223.33  -  (f) Other current assets  1,172.45  1,413.45   13,200.60  11,682.49  TOTAL ASSETS  56,494.56  56,907.63  II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY   (a) Equity share capital  679.22  679.22  (b) Other equity  19,004.01  20,228.02   19,683.23  20,907.24  LIABILITIES (1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings  12,517.97  13,064.52  (ii) Other financial liabilities  211.28  1,129.68  (b) Provisions  983.55  864.33  ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net)  -  49.63  (d) Other non-current liabilities  97.90  86.61   13,810.70  15,194.77  (2) CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings  2,880.34  4,832.20  (ii)  Trade payables  8,667.13  6,850.76  (iii) Acceptances  4,814.58  4,379.29  (iv) Other financial liabilities  3,936.77  2,386.11  (b) Provisions  852.93  444.43  ( c) Current tax liabilities (net)  14.76  70.06  (d) Other current liabilities  1,834.12  1,842.77   23,000.63  20,805.62  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  56,494.56  56,907.63  250 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements  B.
Statement of Profit and Loss         (` in crores) Particulars Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 I.
Revenue from operations  57,258.60  48,273.97  II.
Other Income  1,558.00  984.34  III.
Total Income (I+II)  58,816.60  49,258.31  IV.
Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed  35,011.52  27,387.84  (b) Purchases of products for sale  5,724.01  4,405.11  ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale  845.67  (194.51) (d) Excise duty  733.95  4,508.46  (e) Employee benefits expense  3,767.86  3,607.16  (f) Finance costs  1,686.59  1,535.76  (g) Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)  10.99  (254.14) (h) Depreciation and amortisation expense  2,851.27  2,830.84  (i) Product development/Engineering expenses  474.55  453.33  (j) Other expenses  8,907.44  8,133.14  (k) Amount capitalised  (855.08)  (941.60) Total Expenses (IV)  59,158.77  51,471.39  V. Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV)  (342.17)  (2,213.08) VI.
Exceptional items (a) Provision for impairment of investment in a subsidiary  -  123.17  (b) Employee separation cost  3.68  67.61  ( c) Provision for impairment of capital-work-in progress and intangibles under development  962.98  -  (d) Others  -  147.93  VII.
Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI)  (1,308.83)  (2,551.79) VIII.
Tax expense (net) (a) Current tax  6.00  4.02  (b) Deferred tax  (48.64)  (8.58) Total tax expense  (42.64)  (4.56) IX.
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII)  (1,266.19)  (2,547.23) X.
Other comprehensive income/(loss): (A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:   (a) Remeasurement gains and (losses) on defined benefit obligations (net)  16.71  12.72    (b) Quoted equity instruments through other comprehensive income  44.04  73.84   (ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss  (5.78)  (4.40) (B) (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss - gains and (losses) in cash flow  hedges  (19.56)  23.32   (ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit and loss  6.77  (8.07) Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of taxes  42.18  97.41  XI.
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (IX+X)  (1,224.01)  (2,449.82) XII.
Earnings per equity share (EPS) (a) Ordinary shares:  (i) Basic `  (3.73)  (7.50)  (ii) Diluted `  (3.73)  (7.50) (b) ‘A’ Ordinary shares:  -   (i) Basic `  (3.73)  (7.50)  (ii) Diluted `  (3.73)  (7.50) 251 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 C.  Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2018  i) Equity Share Capital ( ` in crores) Particulars Equity  Share Capital Balance as at April 1, 2017  679.22  Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance  - * Balance as at March 31, 2018  679.22  *less than  ` 50,000/-  ii) Other Equity Particulars Securities  premium  account Capital  redemption  reserve Debenture  redemption  reserve Capital  reserve  (on merger) Retained earnings Other components of equity (OCI) Total other  equityUndistributable  (Ind AS 101) Distributable Equity  instruments  through OCI Hedging  reserve Cost of  hedging  reserve Balance as at April 1, 2017  19,213.93  2.28  1,085.94  (345.30)  627.03  (351.38)  (27.12)  11.26  11.38  20,228.02  Profit/(loss) for the year  -  -  -  -  -  (1,266.19)  -  -  -  (1,266.19) Other comprehensive income /(loss) for  the year  -  -  -  -  -  10.93  44.04  (14.40)  1.61  42.18  Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the  year  -  -  -  -  -  (1,255.26)  44.04  (14.40)  1.61  (1,224.01) Proceeds from issue of shares held in  abeyance  0.00*  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Balance as at March 31, 2018  19,213.93  2.28  1,085.94  (345.30)  627.03  (1,606.64)  16.92  (3.14)  12.99  19,004.01  * less than  ` 50,000/- Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 252 D.  Statement of Changes in Equity for the period ended March 31, 2017  i) Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Equity  Share Capital Balance as at April 1, 2016  679.18  Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance and amounts received on  unpaid calls  0.04  Balance as at March 31, 2017  679.22   ii) Other Equity Particulars Securities  premium  account Capital  redemption  reserve Debenture  redemption  reserve Capital  reserve  (on merger) Retained earnings Other components of equity (OCI) Total other  equityUndistributable  (Ind AS 101) Distributable Equity  instruments  through OCI Hedging  reserve Cost of  hedging  reserve Balance as at April 1, 2016 19209.42  2.28  1,042.15  -  709.36  1,572.34  (100.96)  7.39  -  22,441.98  Effect of merger of TML Drivelines  -  -  (345.30)  (82.33)  731.98  -  -  -  304.35  Balance as at April 1, 2016  19,209.42  2.28  1,042.15  (345.30)  627.03  2,304.32  (100.96)  7.39  -  22,746.33  Profit/(loss) for the year  -  -  -  -  -  (2,547.23)  -  -  -  (2,547.23) Other comprehensive income /(loss) for  the year  -  -  -  -  -  8.32  73.84  3.87  11.38  97.41  Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the  year  -  -  -  -  -  (2,538.91)  73.84  3.87  11.38  (2,449.82) Proceeds from issue of shares held in  abeyance  4.51  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  4.51  Transfer to Debenture redemption reserve  -  -  43.79  -  -  (43.79)  -  -  -  -  Dividend (including dividend tax)  -  -  -  -  -  (73.00)  -  -  -  (73.00) Balance as at March 31, 2017  19,213.93  2.28  1,085.94  (345.30)  627.03  (351.38)  (27.12)  11.26  11.38  20,228.02  Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 253 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 47.
Other notes:  i) Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006   The information as required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 has been  determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Company.
The amount  of principal and interest outstanding during the year is given below :   (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017  (a) Amounts outstanding but not due as at March 31,  141.59  125.11  (b) Amounts due but unpaid as at March 31,  - Principal  0.69  -  ( c) Amounts paid after appointed date during the year  - Principal  95.50  88.32  (d) Amount of interest accrued and unpaid as at March 31,  - Interest  2.55  1.72  (e) Amount of estimated interest due and payable for the period from  April 1,2018 to actual date of payment or May 23, 2018 (whichever is  earlier)  - Interest  0.17  0.18   ii) Expenditure incurred on Research and Development by Tata Motors Limited on standalone basis excluding interest in the joint  operations    (` in crores) Particulars Year ended  March 31, 2018  Year ended  March 31, 2017  (a) Revenue expenditure charged to the statement of profit and loss (Product  development / Engineering expenses, exceptional items and works, operations &  other expenses) 923.10 508.26 (b) Revenue expenditure capitalised to intangibles under development during the year 1,362.51  1,526.34  ( c) Capital expenditure in relation to tangible fixed assets 111.91  65.59  Total  2,397.52  2,100.19   iii) Effective April 30, 2018, the Company completed the merger of TML Drivelines Ltd (TML Drivelines) pursuant to a scheme  of arrangement of merger.
As TML Drivelines is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, the merger has been accounted  in accordance with “Pooling of Interest Method” laid down by Appendix C of Indian Accounting Standard 103 (Ind AS 103):  (Business combinations of entities under common control), notified under the Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly, all assets, liabilities and reserves of TML Drivelines have been recorded in the books of account of the Company  at their existing carrying amounts and in the same form.
To the extent that there are inter-company loans, advances, deposits,  balances or other obligations as between TML Drivelines and the Company, have been eliminated.
The difference, between the  investments held by the Company and all assets, liabilities and reserves of TML Drivelines, has been debited to capital reserve.
Comparative accounting period presented in the financial statements of the Company has been restated for the accounting  impact of the merger, as stated above, as if the merger had occurred from the beginning of the comparative period in the  financial statements i.e.
April 1, 2016.
254 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018  iv) The Company’s certain assets related to defence business are classified as ”Held for Sale’’ as they meet the criteria laid out under  Ind AS 105.   v) The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for  material foreseeable losses.
At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under  any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has  been made in the books of account.
To the Members of Tata Motors Limited Report on the Audit of Consolidated Ind AS Financial  Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial  statements of Tata Motors Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the  Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company  and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its joint  operations, its associates and its jointly controlled entities, which  comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018, the  Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, Consolidated Statement  of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, for  the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting  policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to  as “the consolidated financial statements”).
Management's Responsibility for the Consolidated  Ind AS Financial Statements The Holding Company's Board of Directors is responsible for the  preparation of these consolidated financial statements in terms  of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter  referred to as “the Act”) that give a true and fair view of the  consolidated state of affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other  comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in  equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its  joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entities in  accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in  India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified  under section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of  the companies included in the Group and of its joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entities are responsible for  maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with  the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group  and its joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entities  and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the  selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making  judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and  the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the  accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant  to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been  used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial  statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective  Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and  of its joint operations, associates, jointly controlled entities are  responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of its joint  operations, associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as  Independent Auditor’s Report a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going  concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless  management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease  operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated  financial statements based on our audit.
While conducting the  audit, we have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the  accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required  to be included in the audit report under the provisions of the Act  and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards  on Auditing specified under Section 143 (10) of the Act.
Those  Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and  plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about  whether the consolidated financial statements are free from  material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated financial  statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor's  judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether  due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the  auditor considers internal financial control relevant to the Holding  Company's preparation of the consolidated financial statements  that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures  that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes  evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and  the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made, as well as  evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial  statements.
We are also responsible to conclude on the appropriateness  of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting  and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material  uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast  significant doubt on the ability of Group and of its joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as a going  concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are  required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related  disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such  disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions  are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our  auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause  Group and its joint operations, associates and jointly controlled  entities to cease to continue as a going concern.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit  evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports  referred to in sub-paragraph 2 (a) of the Other Matters paragraph  below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
255 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to  the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of  reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on  the other financial information of the subsidiaries, joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entities, the aforesaid consolidated  financial statements give the information required by the Act in the  manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity  with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the  consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entities as at 31 March 2018,  and their consolidated profit and other comprehensive income,  consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash  flows for the year ended on that date.
Other Matters 1.
The comparative financial information of the Group, its joint  operations, associates and jointly controlled entities for the  year ended 31 March 2017 prepared in accordance with Ind  AS included in these consolidated financial statements have  been audited by the predecessor auditor.
The report of the  predecessor auditor on the comparative financial information  dated 23 May 2017 expressed an unmodified opinion.
2.
(a) We did not audit the financial statements/ financial  information of three subsidiaries, seventy-one step-down  subsidiaries and one joint operation, whose financial  statements/ financial information reflect total assets of  ` 264,026.34 crores and net assets of ` 98,271.10 crores  as at 31 March 2018, total revenues of ` 240,841.01  crores and net cash inflows amounting to ` 152.35  crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in  the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated  financial statements also include the Group's share  of net profit of ` 2,266.54 crores for the year ended 31  March, 2018, as considered in the consolidated financial  statements, in respect of five associates and three jointly  controlled entities, whose financial statements / financial  information have not been audited by us.
These financial  statements / financial information have been audited by  other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us  by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated  financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts  and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries,  step-down subsidiaries, joint operation, associates and  jointly controlled entities and our report in terms of sub- section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, insofar as it relates to  the aforesaid subsidiaries, step-down subsidiaries, joint  operation, associates and jointly controlled entities is  based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
Of the three subsidiaries and seventy-one step-down  subsidiaries listed above, the financial statements/  financial information of three subsidiaries and ten step- down subsidiaries which are located outside India have  been prepared under the generally accepted accounting  principles ('GAAPs') applicable in their respective countries  and which have been audited by the respective auditors  under generally accepted auditing standards applicable  in their respective countries.
The Holding Company's  management has converted these financial statements/  financial information from accounting principles  generally accepted in their respective countries to Indian  Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section  133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
We have audited these  conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company's  management.
Our opinion in so far as it relates to such  subsidiaries and step-down subsidiaries located outside  India is based on the reports of other auditors under the  aforementioned GAAPs in the respective countries and  the aforesaid conversion adjustments prepared by the  Holding Company's management and audited by us.
(b)  We did not audit the financial statements / financial  information of four subsidiaries and eight step-down  subsidiaries, whose financial statements / financial  information reflect total assets of ` 18,454.64 crores  and net assets of ` 9,714.24 crores as at 31 March 2018,  total revenues of ` 1,305.67 crores and net cash inflows  amounting to ` 568.39 crores for the year ended on that  date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements also include the  Group’s share of net profit of ` 2.67 crores for the year  ended 31 March 2018, as considered in the consolidated  financial statements, in respect of three associates and  one jointly controlled entity whose financial statements /  financial information have not been audited by us.
These financial statements / financial information are  unaudited and have been furnished to us by the Management  and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in  so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included  in respect of these subsidiaries, step-down subsidiaries,  associates and jointly controlled entity, and our report in  terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as  it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, step-down subsidiaries,  associates and jointly controlled entity, is based solely on  such unaudited financial statements / financial information.
In  our opinion and according to the information and explanations  given to us by the Management, these financial statements /  financial information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements,  and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with  respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of  the other auditors and the financial statements / financial  information certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and  on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate  financial statements and the other financial information  of subsidiaries, step-down subsidiaries, joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entities, as noted in the ‘other  matter’ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that: 256   a) We have sought and obtained all the information and  explanations which to the best of our knowledge and  belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the  aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by  law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated  financial statements have been kept so far as it appears  from our examination of those books and the reports of  the other auditors.
c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated  Statement of Profit and Loss, the Consolidated Cash Flow  Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in  Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the  relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of  preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial  statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards  specified under section 133 of the Act.
e) On the basis of the written representations received from  the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2018  taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding  Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its  subsidiary companies, joint operations, associates and  jointly controlled entity incorporated in India, none of  the directors of the Group companies, its joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entity incorporated  in India is disqualified as on 31 March 2018 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the  Act.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements of  the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint  operations, associates and jointly controlled entity  incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of  such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure  A”.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in  the Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the  Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion  and to the best of our information and according to the  explanations given to us and based on the consideration  of the report of the other auditors on separate financial  statements as also the other financial information  of the subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and  jointly controlled entities, as noted in the ‘Other matter’  paragraph:   i.
The consolidated financial statements disclose the  impact of pending litigations on the consolidated  financial position of the Group, its joint operations,  associates and jointly controlled entities.
Refer Note  37 to the consolidated financial statements.
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial  statements, as required under the applicable law or  Ind AS, for material foreseeable losses, on long-term  contracts including derivative contracts.
Refer Note  45 (h) to the consolidated financial statements in  respect of such items as it relates to the Group, its  joint operations, associates and jointly controlled  entities.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts to  the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the  Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, joint  operations, associates and jointly controlled entity  incorporated in India during the year ended 31 March  2018.   iv.
The disclosures in the consolidated financial  statements regarding holdings as well as dealings  in specified bank notes during the period from 8  November 2016 to 30 December 2016 have not been  made since they do not pertain to the financial year  ended 31 March 2018.
For  B S R & Co. LLP  Chartered Accountants  Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022  Yezdi Nagporewalla Mumbai Partner 23 May 2018 Membership No: 049265 257 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 (Referred to in paragraph (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and  Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls under  Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) We have audited the internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements of Tata Motors Limited (“the Company”  or “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies, its  joint operations, its associates and its jointly controlled entity,  which are companies incorporated in India, as at 31 March 2018  in conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS financial  statements of the Holding Company for the year ended on that  date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial  Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and its  subsidiary companies, its joint operations, its associates and jointly  controlled entity, which are companies incorporated in India, are  responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial  controls based on the internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements criteria established by the respective  company considering the essential components of internal control  stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
These responsibilities include the  design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal  financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the  orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence  to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,  the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and  completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation  of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's  internal financial controls with reference to financial statements  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with  the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over  Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on  Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section  143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal  financial controls, both issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the  Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements  and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements was established and maintained and if such  controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence  about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system with  reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report – 31 March 2018 Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements included obtaining an understanding of internal  financial controls assessing the risk that a material weakness  exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The  procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the  financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit  evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports  referred to in the Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Company's internal financial controls with reference to financial  statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference  to financial statements A company's internal financial control with reference to financial  statements is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A  company's internal financial control with reference to financial  statements includes those policies and procedures that (1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,  accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions  of the assets of the Company; (2)  provide reasonable  assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to  permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts  and expenditures of the Company are being made only in  accordance with authorisations of management and directors of  the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding  prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,  use, or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a  material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls  with reference to financial statements Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of  collusion or improper management override of controls, material  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject  to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements may become inadequate because of changes  in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies,  joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entity, which  are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects,  258  an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to  financial statements and such internal financial controls with  reference to financial statements were operating effectively as at 31  March 2018, based on the internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements criteria established by the respective  company considering the essential components of internal control  stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
Other matter Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the  adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements in so far as it relates  to one joint operation, one associate and one jointly controlled  entity, which are companies incorporated in India, is based solely  on the corresponding reports of the other auditors.
Our opinion is  not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP  Chartered Accountants  Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022  Yezdi Nagporewalla Mumbai Partner 23 May 2018 Membership No: 049265 259 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (` in crores) Notes As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 I.
ASSETS (1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment 3  73,867.84  59,594.56  (b) Capital work-in-progress  16,142.94  10,186.83  ( c) Goodwill 5  116.45  673.32  (d) Other intangible assets 6 (a)  47,429.57  35,676.20  (e) Intangible assets under development 6 (b)  23,890.56  23,512.01  (f) Investments in equity accounted investees 7  4,887.89  4,606.01  (g) Financial assets  (i) Other Investments 8  763.76  690.76   (ii) Finance receivables 16  15,479.53  10,753.13   (iii) Loans and advances 10  495.41  753.66   (iv) Other financial assets 11  4,563.87  2,911.12  (h) Deferred tax assets (net) 20  4,158.70  4,457.34  (i) Non-current tax assets (net)  899.90  972.31  (i) Other non-current assets 18  2,681.25  2,847.36   195,377.67  157,634.61  (2) CURRENT ASSETS (a) Inventories 12 42,137.63 35,085.31 (b) Investments in equity accounted investees (held-for-sale) 7 ( c) 497.35 - ( c) Financial assets  (i) Other investments 9 14,663.75 15,041.15  (ii) Trade receivables 13 19,893.30 14,075.55  (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 14 14,716.75 13,986.76  (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 15 19,897.16 22,091.12  (v) Finance receivables 16 8,401.65  6,810.12   (vi) Loans and advances 10  2,279.66  710.45   (vii) Other financial assets 11  3,029.12  1,555.94  (d) Current tax assets (net)  208.91  223.36  (e) Assets classified as held-for-sale 45 ( c)  2,585.19  -    (f) Other current assets 19  7,662.37  6,539.99  135,972.84 116,119.75 TOTAL ASSETS 331,350.51 273,754.36 II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  (1) EQUITY (a)  Equity share capital 21  679.22  679.22  (b) Other equity* 22  94,748.69  57,382.67   Equity attributable to owners of Tata Motors Limited  95,427.91  58,061.89   Non-controlling interests  525.06  453.17   95,952.97  58,515.06   LIABILITIES (2) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities  (i) Borrowings 24  61,199.50  60,629.18   (ii) Other financial liabilities 26  2,739.14  11,409.58  (b) Provisions 28  10,948.44  9,004.46  ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 20  6,125.80  1,174.00  (d) Other non-current liabilities 29  11,165.19  17,392.56   92,178.07  99,609.78  (3) CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities  (i) Borrowings 25  16,794.85  13,859.94   (ii) Trade payables   72,038.41  57,698.33   (iii) Acceptances  4,901.42  4,834.24   (iv) Other financial liabilities 27  31,267.49  25,634.83  (b)  Provisions 28  7,953.50  5,807.76  ( c) Current tax liabilities (net)  1,559.07  1,392.58  (d) Liabilities directly associated with Assets held-for-sale 45 ( c)  1,070.18  -    (e) Other current liabilities 30  7,634.55  6,401.84   143,219.47  115,629.52  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  331,350.51  273,754.36  * Includes other comprehensive income relating to assets held for sale amounting to ` (6.64) crores as at March 31, 2018 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements    As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863]  Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 260  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS (` in crores) Notes  Year ended   March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 I.
Revenue from operations 31 295,409.34 274,492.12 II.
Other income 32 888.89 754.54 III.
Total Income (I+II) 296,298.23 275,246.66 IV.
Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed  (i) Cost of materials consumed  173,371.19  160,147.12   (ii) Basis adjustment on hedge accounted derivatives  (1,378.60)  (777.57) (b) Purchases of products for sale  15,903.99  13,924.53  ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale  (2,046.58)  (7,399.92) (d) Excise duty  790.16  4,799.61  (e) Employee benefits expense 33  30,300.09  28,332.89  (f) Finance costs 34  4,681.79  4,238.01  (g) Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)  (1,185.28)  3,910.10  (h) Depreciation and amortisation expense  21,553.59  17,904.99  (i) Product development/Engineering expenses  3,531.87  3,413.57  (j) Other expenses 35  60,184.21  55,430.06  (k) Amount capitalised  (18,588.09)  (16,876.96) Total Expenses (IV)  287,118.34  267,046.43  V. Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) 9,179.89 8,200.23 VI.
Exceptional items (a) Defined benefit pension plan amendment past service credit 45(e)  (3,609.01)  -    (b) Employee separation cost  3.68  67.61  ( c) Provision for impairment of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development 45 (d)  1,641.38  -    (d) Others 45 (f) & (g)  (11.19)  (1,182.17) VII.
Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI)  11,155.03  9,314.79  VIII.
Tax expense/(credit) (net) 20 (a) Current tax  3,303.46  3,137.66  (b) Deferred tax  1,038.47  113.57  Total tax expense/(credit)  4,341.93  3,251.23  IX.
Profit for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII)  6,813.10  6,063.56  X.
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net) 7  2,278.26  1,493.00  XI.
Profit for the year (IX+X)  9,091.36  7,556.56  Attributable to:  (a) Shareholders of the Company  8,988.91  7,454.36   (b)  Non-controlling interests  102.45  102.20  XII.
Other comprehensive income/(loss): (A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:    (a) Remeasurement gains and (losses) on defined benefit obligations (net)  4,676.51  (7,823.75)   (b) Quoted equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income  42.86  83.15    ( c) Share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees (net)  (7.16)  (6.08)   (d) Gains and (losses) in cash flow hedges of forecast inventory purchases  1,227.74  2,026.77   (ii)  Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  (991.02)  867.35  (B) (i)  Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss:   (a)  Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations  9,518.15  (9,678.58)   (b) Gains and (losses) in cash flow hedges  18,069.71  (15,565.66)   ( c) Share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees (net)  429.41  (304.70)  (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  (3,403.69)  2,906.93  Total other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period (net of tax)  29,562.51  (27,494.57) Attributable to:  (a)  Shareholders of the Company  29,535.61  (27,460.30)  (b) Non-controlling interests  26.90  (34.27) XIII.
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period (net of tax) (XI+XII)  38,653.87  (19,938.01) Attributable to:  (a)  Shareholders of the Company  38,524.52  (20,005.94)  (b) Non-controlling interests  129.35  67.93  XIV.
Earnings per equity share (EPS) 43 (A) Ordinary shares (face value of ` 2 each) :  (i) Basic EPS `  26.46  21.94   (ii) Diluted EPS `  26.45  21.93  (B) ‘A’ Ordinary shares (face value of ` 2 each) :  (i) Basic EPS `  26.56  22.04   (ii) Diluted EPS `  26.55  22.03  See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863]  Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 261 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (` in crores)  Year ended   March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit/(loss) after tax  9,091.36  7,556.56  Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expense  21,553.59  17,904.99  Allowances/(reversal) for finance receivables  43.30  (28.15) Allowances/(reversal) for trade and other receivables 14.57 132.93 Inventory write-down 607.42  295.59  Exceptional items-others  (11.19)  (1,182.17) Exceptional items- Defined benefit pension plan amendment  (3,609.01)  -    Marked-to-market on investments measured at Fair value through profit or loss  (32.05)  (5.68) Loss on sale of assets (including provision for impairment, assets scrapped/written off) (net) 2,382.55 373.69 Impairment of Goodwill  -    14.25  Profit on sale of investments (net)  (129.26)  (176.14) Gain on fair value of below market interest loans (6.02)  (46.52) Fair value gain on disposal of joint venture  (19.06)  -    Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net)  (2,278.26)  (1,493.00) Tax expense (net)  4,341.93  3,251.23  Interest / dividend (net)  3,954.21  3,665.29  Foreign exchange gain (net)  (2,591.80)  (1,422.76) Cash flows from operating activities before changes in following assets and liabilities  33,312.28 28,840.11 Finance receivables  (6,361.22)  (1,783.64) Trade receivables  (4,326.58)  (2,368.66) Loans and advances and other financial assets  (3,343.38)  379.93  Other current and non-current assets  151.25  (1,274.96) Inventories  (3,560.43)  (6,620.67) Trade payables and acceptances  7,320.34  9,300.56  Other current and non-current liabilities  (4,756.95)  1,911.48  Other financial liabilities  1,541.98  744.28  Provisions 6,901.29  2,965.92  Cash generated from operations  26,878.58  32,094.35 Income tax paid (net)  (3,021.16)  (1,895.10) Net cash from operating activities  23,857.42 30,199.25 Cash flows from investing activities: Payments for property, plant and equipment  (19,865.43)  (16,071.78) Payments for other intangible assets  (15,213.49)  (14,395.10) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  30.30  53.39  Investments in Mutual Fund (purchased)/sold (net)  2,361.09  1,914.38  Loans to others  -    (9.78) Repayment of loan by other  -    0.75  Repayment of loan by joint operation  -    132.50  Excess of cash acquired on acquisition of subsidiary company  14.45  -    Investment in equity accounted investees  (4.21)  (106.95) Investments - others  (328.78)  (6.36) Proceeds from sale of investments in other companies  19.43  50.61  Interest received  690.47  638.18  Dividend received 15.77  10.51  Dividend received from equity accounted investees  1,781.64  609.19  Decrease in short-term inter-corporate deposit  -    30.00  Deposits with financial institution -  (35.00) Deposits/restricted deposits with banks  (48,260.05)  (45,127.19) Realisation of deposits/restricted deposits with banks 52,557.20  34,232.77  Net cash used in investing activities  (26,201.61)  (38,079.88) 262   Year ended   March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 Cash flows from financing activities: Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance (net of issue expenses)  0.00*  4.55  Proceeds from long-term borrowings 15,145.21  18,384.52  Proceeds from issue of shares to minority shareholders  -    0.62  Repayment of long-term borrowings  (10,587.25)  (9,212.13) Proceeds from short-term borrowings  15,008.73  15,005.26  Repayment of short-term borrowings  (19,376.62)  (11,753.71) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months)  7,328.24  (766.25) Distribution to Minority  (39.99) - Dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax)  -    (73.00) Dividend paid to non-controlling interests shareholders of subsidiaries  (including dividend distribution tax)  (55.97)  (48.22) Interest paid [including discounting charges paid ` 918.90 crores  (March 31, 2017 ` 666.40 crores)]  (5,410.64)  (5,336.34) Net cash from/(used in) financing activities  2,011.71  6,205.30  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (332.48)  (1,675.33) Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1, (opening balance)  13,986.76  17,153.61  Classified as held for sale  (243.94)  -    Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents  1,306.41  (1,491.52) Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance)  14,716.75 13,986.76 Non-cash transactions: Liability towards property, plant and equipment and intangible assets purchased on credit/ deferred credit  8,346.54  3,346.35  Increase/(decrease) in liabilities arising from financing activities on account of non-cash  transactions: Exchange differences  2,768.03  (2,671.09)  Classified as held for sale  (142.55)  -    Amortisation of prepaid discounting charges 202.70 257.41 * less than ` 50,000/- As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863]  Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) 263 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  for the year ended March 31, 2018 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in crores)  Particulars  Equity Share Capital  Balance as at April 1, 2017  679.22  Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance - * Balance as at March 31, 2018  679.22   *  less than ` 50,000/- B.
Other Equity                (` in crores)  Particulars Securities  Premium  Account Capital  redemption  reserve Debenture  redemption  reserve Reserve for  research  and human  resource  development Special  reserve Earned  surplus  reserve Capital  Reserve Retained  earnings Other components of equity Attributable  to Owners of  Tata Motors  Limited Non- controlling  interests Total other  equityEquity  instruments  through Other  Comprehensive  Income Hedging  Reserve Cost of  hedging  reserve Currency  translation  reserve Balance as at April 1, 2017 18,891.93  2.28  1,085.94  165.78  292.46  32.18 1,164.20 59,053.14  (19.26) (17,911.63)  (74.22)  (5,300.13)  57,382.67  453.17  57,835.84  Profit for the period  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    8,988.91  -    -    -    -    8,988.91  102.45  9,091.36  Other comprehensive income /(loss)  for the year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    3,909.10  42.86  15,444.99  217.30  9,921.36  29,535.61  26.90  29,562.51  Total comprehensive income/(loss)  for the year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -   12,898.01  42.86  15,444.99  217.30  9,921.36  38,524.52  129.35  38,653.87  Amounts recognised in inventory  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (1,159.40)  0.90  -    (1,158.50)  -    (1,158.50) Proceeds from issue of shares held  in abeyance  -*    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -*    Minority interest on acquisitions  during the year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    98.62  98.62  Distribution to Minority  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (39.99)  (39.99) Minority interest changes during  the year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (60.12)  (60.12) Realised gain on investments  held at fair value through Other  comprehensive income  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.78  (0.78)  -    -    -    -    -    -    Dividend paid (including dividend tax)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (55.97)  (55.97) Transfer (from)/to retained earnings -  -    -    34.96  86.97  11.88  -    (133.81)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Balance as at March 31, 2018 18,891.93  2.28  1,085.94  200.74  379.43  44.06 1,164.20 71,818.12  22.82  (3,626.04)  143.98  4,621.23  94,748.69  525.06  95,273.75  *  less than  ` 50,000/- See accompanying notes to financial statements  As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLAPartner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN  [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH  [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT  [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK  [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR  [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJIGroup Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 264  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  for the year ended March 31, 2017 A.
Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars  Equity Share Capital  Balance as at April 1, 2016  679.18  Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance and  amounts received on unpaid calls  0.04  Balance as at March 31, 2017  679.22  B.
Other Equity                 (` in crores)  Particulars Securities  Premium  Account Capital  redemption  reserve Debenture  redemption  reserve Reserve for  research  and human  resource  development Special  reserve Earned  surplus  reserve Capital  Reserve Retained  earnings Other components of equity Attributable  to Owners of  Tata Motors  Limited Non- controlling  interests Total other  equityEquity  instruments  through Other  Comprehensive  Income Hedging  Reserve Cost of  hedging  reserve Currency  translation  reserve Balance as at April 1, 2016  18,887.42  2.28  1,042.15  165.78  292.46  24.00  1,164.20  58,292.89  (102.70)  (6,152.15)  4.70  4,652.20  78,273.23  432.84  78,706.07  Profit for the period  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    7,454.36  -    -    -    -    7,454.36  102.20  7,556.56  Other comprehensive income /(loss) for  the period  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (6,569.14)  83.44  (10,943.35)  (78.92)  (9,952.33)  (27,460.30)  (34.27)  (27,494.57) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for  the year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    885.22  83.44  (10,943.35)  (78.92)  (9,952.33)  (20,005.94)  67.93  (19,938.01) Amounts recognised in inventory  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (816.13)  -    -    (816.13)  -    (816.13) Dividend paid (including dividend tax)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (73.00)  -    -    -    -    (73.00)  (48.22)  (121.22) Issue of shares held in abeyance  4.51  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4.51  -    4.51  Issue of shares to minority shareholders  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.62  0.62  Transfer to debenture redemption reserve  -    -    43.79  -    -    -    -    (43.79)  -    Transfer (from)/to retained earnings  -    -    -    -    -    8.18  (8.18)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Others  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Balance as at March 31, 2017  18,891.93  2.28  1,085.94  165.78  292.46  32.18  1,164.20  59,053.14  (19.26)  (17,911.63)  (74.22)  (5,300.13)  57,382.67  453.17  57,835.84  *  less than  ` 50,000/- See accompanying notes to financial statements  As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLAPartner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN  [DIN: 00121863] Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH  [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT  [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK  [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR  [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJIGroup Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018 265 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Background and operations   Tata Motors Limited and its subsidiaries and joint operations,  (collectively referred to as “the Company” or “Tata Motors”),  designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of automotive  vehicles.
The Company provides financing for the vehicles  sold by dealers of the Company in certain markets.
The  Company also manufactures engines for industrial and marine  applications, aggregates such as axles and transmissions for  commercial vehicles and factory automation equipment, and  provides information technology services.
Tata Motors Limited is a public limited Company incorporated  and domiciled in India and has its registered office in Mumbai,  India.
As at March 31, 2018, Tata Sons Limited together with its  subsidiaries, owns 36.46% of the Ordinary shares and 0.09%  of ‘A’ Ordinary shares of the Company, and has the ability to  significantly influence the Company’s operation.
The Company’s operations include the Jaguar Land Rover  business (referred to as JLR or Jaguar Land Rover).
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the  Board of Directors and authorised for issue on May 23, 2018.
2.
Significant accounting policies   a.
Statement of compliance    These financial statements have been prepared in  accordance with Ind AS as notified under the Companies  (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 read with  Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
b.
Basis of preparation    The consolidated financial statements have been  prepared on historical cost basis except for certain  financial instruments measured at fair value at the end  of each reporting period as explained in the accounting  policies below.
c. Basis of consolidation    Subsidiaries    The consolidated financial statements include Tata  Motors Limited and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are  entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists  when the Company (a) has power over the investee, (b)  it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its  involvement with the investee and (c  ) has the ability to  affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an  investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there  are changes to one or more of the three elements listed  above.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that  currently are exercisable are taken into account.
The  results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed off during the  year are included in the consolidated financial statements  from the effective date of acquisition and up to the  effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Inter-company transactions and balances including  unrealised profits are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding  goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identified  separately from the Company’s equity.
The interest of  non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured  either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’  proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s  identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement  basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non- controlling interests is the amount of those interests at  initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share  of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive  income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if  it results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit  balance.
Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do  not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity  transactions.
The carrying amount of the Company’s  interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted  to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the  subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by  which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and  the fair value of the consideration paid or received is  recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of  the Company.
When the Company loses control of a subsidiary, the  profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference  between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of consideration  received and the fair value of any retained interest and  (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including  goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non- controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in  other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary  are accounted for (i.e., reclassified to profit or loss) in  the same manner as would be required if the relevant  assets or liabilities were disposed off.
The fair value of  any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the  date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value  on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under  Ind-AS 109 Financial Instruments: Recognition and  Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial  recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly   controlled entity.
Interests in joint arrangements    A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which  two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control  is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an  arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the  relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the  parties sharing control.
266  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   Joint operations    Certain of the Company’s activities, are conducted through  joint operations, which are joint arrangements whereby  the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities,  relating to the arrangement.
The Company recognizes, in  the consolidated financial statements, its share of the  assets, liabilities, income and expenses of these joint  operations incurred jointly with the other partners, along  with its share of income from the sale of the output and  any assets, liabilities and expenses that it has incurred in  relation to the joint operation.
Joint ventures    A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the  parties that have joint control of the arrangement have  rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The results,  assets and liabilities of a joint venture are incorporated  in these financial statements using the equity method of  accounting as described below.
Associates    Associates are those entities in which the Company has  significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to  participate in the financial and operating policy decisions  of the investee but not control or joint control those  policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when  the Company holds between 20 and 50 percent of the  voting power of another entity.
The results, assets and  liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial  statements using the equity method of accounting as  described below.
Equity method of accounting (equity accounted  investees)    An interest in an associate or joint venture is accounted  for using the equity method from the date in which the  investee becomes an associate or a joint venture and are  recognised initially at cost.
The Company’s investment  includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any  accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated  financial statements include the Company’s share  of profits or losses and equity movements of equity  accounted investees, from the date that significant  influence or joint control commences until the date  that significant influence or joint control ceases.
When  the Company’s share of losses exceeds its interest in  an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of  that interest (including any long-term investments in  the nature of net investments) is reduced to nil and the  recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the  extent that the Company has an obligation or has made  payments on behalf of the investee.
When the Company transacts with an associate or joint  venture of the Company, unrealised profits and losses  are eliminated to the extent of the Company’s interest in  its associate or joint venture.
d. Business combination    Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted  for using the acquisition method.
Acquisition related costs  are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
The acquiree’s  identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised  at their fair value at the acquisition date, except certain  assets and liabilities required to be measured as per the  applicable standard.
Purchase consideration in excess of the Company’s  interest in the acquiree’s net fair value of identifiable  assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised  as goodwill.
Excess of the Company’s interest in the net  fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities  and contingent liabilities over the purchase consideration  is recognised, after reassessment of fair value of net  assets acquired, in the Capital Reserve.
e. Use of estimates and judgments    The preparation of financial statements in conformity  with Ind AS requires management to make judgments,  estimates and assumptions, that affect the application of  accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets,  liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of these financial  statements and the reported amounts of revenues and  expenses for the years presented.
Actual results may  differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed  at each balance sheet date.
Revisions to accounting  estimates are recognised in the period in which the  estimate is revised and future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of  estimation uncertainty and critical judgments in applying  accounting policies that have the most significant effect  on the amounts recognised in the financial statements  are included in the following notes:    i) Note 3 and 6 - Property, plant and equipment and  intangible assets – Useful lives and impairment    ii) Note 5 - Impairment of goodwill   iii) Note 6 - Impairment of indefinite life intangible  assets    iv) Note 20 - Recoverability/recognition of deferred tax  assets    v) Note 28 - Provision for product warranty    vi) Note 36 - Assets and obligations relating to  employee benefits    vii)  Note 16 -  Allowances for credit losses for finance  receivables 267 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  f. Revenue recognition    Revenue is measured at fair value of consideration  received or receivable.
i) Sale of products     The Company recognises revenues on the sale of  products, net of discounts, sales incentives, customer  bonuses and rebates granted, when products are  delivered to dealers or when delivered to a carrier  for export sales, which is when title and risks and  rewards of ownership pass to the customer.
Revenues are recognised when collectability of the  resulting receivable is reasonably assured.
For sale with repurchase agreements, revenue is  measured as the difference between the initial sale  price and the agreed repurchase price.
Such revenue  is recognised on a straight line basis over the terms  of the agreement.
ii) Finance revenues     Finance and service charges are accrued on the  unpaid principal balance of finance receivables using  the effective interest method.
g. Government grants and incentives   Government grants are recognised when there is  reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with  the relevant conditions and the grant will be received.
These are recorded at fair value where applicable.
Government grants are recognised in the consolidated  statement of profit and loss, either on a systematic basis  when the Company recognizes, as expenses, the related  costs that the grants are intended to compensate or,  immediately if the costs have already been incurred.
Government grants related to assets are deferred and  amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Government  grants related to income are presented as an offset  against the related expenditure, and government  grants that are awarded as incentives with no ongoing  performance obligations to the Company are recognised  as income in the period in which the grant is received.
h. Cost recognition    Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and  are classified according to their nature.
Expenditure capitalised represents employee costs,  stores and other manufacturing supplies, and other  expenses incurred for construction including product  development undertaken by the Company.
i.
Provisions    A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the  Company has a present legal or constructive obligation  that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an  outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the  obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the  expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects  current market assessments of the time value of money  and the risks specific to the liability.
i) Product warranty expenses     The estimated liability for product warranties are  recorded when products are sold.
These estimates  are established using historical information on the  nature, frequency and average cost of warranty  claims and management estimates regarding  possible future incidences based on actions on  product failures.
The timing of outflows will vary as  and when warranty claim will arise, being typically  up to six years.
The Company also has back-to-back contractual  arrangement with its suppliers in the event that  a vehicle fault is proven to be a supplier’s fault.
Estimates are made of the expected reimbursement  claim based upon historical levels of recoveries from  supplier, adjusted for inflation and applied to the  population of vehicles under warranty as on balance  sheet date.
Supplier reimbursements are recognised as separate  asset.
ii) Residual risk     In certain markets, the Company is responsible for  the residual risk arising on vehicles sold by dealers  under leasing arrangements.
The provision is based  on the latest available market expectations of future  residual value trends.
The timing of the outflows  will be at the end of the lease arrangements – being  typically up to three years.
iii) Legal and product liability    Legal and product liability provision is recorded in  respect of compliance with regulations and known  litigations which impact the Company.
The product  liability claim primarily relates to motor accident  claims, consumer complaints, dealer terminations,  personal injury claims and compliance with  regulations.
iv) Environmental liability    Environmental liability relates to various  environmental remediation cost such as asbestos  removal and land clean up.
The timing of when these  costs will be incurred is not known with certainty.
j.
Foreign currency    These consolidated financial statements are presented  in Indian rupees, which is the functional currency of Tata  Motors Limited.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the  exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and   268  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS liabilities are re-measured into the functional currency at  the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are recognised in the statement of  profit and loss except to the extent, exchange differences  which are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on  foreign currency borrowings, are capitalised as part of  borrowing costs.
For the purpose of consolidation, the assets and liabilities  of the Company’s foreign operations are translated to  Indian rupees at the exchange rate prevailing on the  balance sheet date, and the income and expenses at  the average rate of exchange for the respective months.
Exchange differences arising on such translation are  recognised as currency translation reserve under equity.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of  a foreign operation previously recognised in currency  translation reserve in equity are not reclassified from  equity to profit or loss until the disposal of the operation.
k. Income taxes    Income tax expense comprises current and deferred  taxes.
Income tax expense is recognised in the statement  of profit and loss except when they relate to items that  are recognised outside profit or loss (whether in other  comprehensive income or directly in equity), in which  case tax is also recognised outside profit or loss, or  where they arise from the initial accounting for business  combination.
In the case of a business combination the  tax effect is included in the accounting for the business  combination.
Current income taxes are determined based on respective  taxable income of each taxable entity and tax rules  applicable for respective tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for  the future tax consequences of temporary differences  between the carrying values of assets and liabilities  and their respective tax bases, and unutilised business  loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed  separately for each taxable entity and for each taxable  jurisdiction.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the  extent that it is probable that future taxable income will  be available against which the deductible temporary  differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry- forwards and unused tax credits could be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based  on the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period  when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based  on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or  substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset  when there is a legally enforceable right to set off  current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when  they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation  authority and the Company intends to settle its current  tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
l.  Cash & cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents are short-term (three months  or less from the date of acquisition), highly liquid  investments that are readily convertible into cash and  which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in  value.
m. Earnings per share    Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing  profit for the year by the weighted average number of  shares outstanding during the year.
Partly paid up shares  are included as fully paid equivalents according to the  fraction paid up.
Diluted earnings per share has been  computed using the weighted average number of shares  and dilutive potential shares, except where the result  would be anti-dilutive.
n. Inventories    Inventories (other than those recognised consequent to  the sale of vehicles subject to repurchase arrangements)  are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of raw materials, components and consumables are  ascertained on a first in first out basis.
Cost, including  fixed and variable production overheads, are allocated  to work-in-progress and finished goods determined on  a full absorption cost basis.
Net realisable value is the  estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business  less estimated cost of completion and selling expenses.
Inventories include vehicles sold subject to repurchase  arrangements.
These vehicles are carried at cost to the  Company and are amortised in changes in inventories  of finished goods to their residual values (i.e., estimated  second hand sale value) over the term of the arrangement.
o.
Property, plant and equipment    Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of  acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation  less accumulated impairment, if any.
Freehold land is measured at cost and is not depreciated.
Heritage assets, comprising antique vehicles purchased  by the Company, are not depreciated as they are  considered to have a residual value in excess of cost.
Residual values are re-assessed on an annual basis.
Cost includes purchase price, taxes and duties, labour  cost and direct overheads for self-constructed assets  and other direct costs incurred up to the date the asset is  ready for its intended use.
Interest cost incurred for constructed assets is capitalised  up to the date the asset is ready for its intended use, based  on borrowings incurred specifically for financing the asset  or the weighted average rate of all other borrowings, if no  269 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the Straight Line Method  (SLM) over the estimated useful lives of the assets  considering the nature, estimated usage, operating  conditions, past history of replacement, anticipated  technological changes, manufacturers warranties and  maintenance support.
Taking into account these factors,  the Company and its domestic group companies have  decided to retain the useful life hitherto adopted for  various categories of property, plant and equipment,  which are different from those prescribed in Schedule II  of the Act.
Estimated useful lives of the assets are as follows: Type of Asset Estimated useful  life  Buildings, Roads, Bridge and  culverts  4 to 60 years  Plant, machinery and equipment  3 to 30 years  Computers and other IT assets  3 to 6 years  Vehicles  3 to 11 years  Furniture, fixtures and office  appliances  3 to 21 years    The useful lives and method of deprication is reviewed at  least at each year-end.
Changes in expected useful lives  are treated as change in accounting estimates.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over  their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned  assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress  until construction and installation are complete and the  asset is ready for its intended use.
p. Other intangible assets    Intangible assets purchased, including those acquired  in business combinations, are measured at cost or fair  value as of the date of acquisition where applicable less  accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment,  if any.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed  annually to determine whether indefinite-life assessment  continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the  useful-life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on  a prospective basis.
Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: Type of Asset  Estimated   useful life  Patents and technological know- how  2 to 12 years  Computer software  1 to 8 years  Customer related intangibles -  dealer network  20 years Intellectual property rights  3 to 10 years The amortisation period for intangible assets with  finite useful lives is reviewed at least at each year-end.
Changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes  in accounting estimates.
Internally generated intangible asset  Research costs are charged to the statement of profit and  loss in the year in which they are incurred.
Product development costs incurred on new vehicle  platform, engines, transmission and new products  are recognised as intangible assets, when feasibility  has been established, the Company has committed  technical, financial and other resources to complete the  development and it is probable that asset will generate  probable future economic benefits.
The costs capitalised include the cost of materials, direct  labour and directly attributable overhead expenditure  incurred up to the date the asset is available for use.
Interest cost incurred is capitalised up to the date the  asset is ready for its intended use, based on borrowings  incurred specifically for financing the asset or the  weighted average rate of all other borrowings if no  specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset.
Product development cost is amortised over a period of 24  months to 120 months or on the basis of actual production  or planned production volume over such period.
Product development expenditure is measured at  cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated  impairment, if any.
q.
Leases    At the inception of a lease, the lease arrangement is  classified as either a finance lease or an operating lease,  based on the substance of the lease arrangement.
Assets taken on finance lease    A finance lease is recognised as an asset and a liability  at the commencement of the lease, at the lower of  the fair value of the asset and the present value of the  minimum lease payments.
Initial direct costs, if any, are  also capitalised and, subsequent to initial recognition, the  asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting  policy applicable to that asset.
Minimum lease payments  made under finance leases are apportioned between the  finance expense and the reduction of the outstanding  liability.
The finance expense is allocated to each period  during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic  rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
270  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   Assets taken on operating lease    Leases other than finance leases are operating leases, and  the leased assets are not recognised on the Company’s  balance sheet.
Payments made under operating leases  are recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a  straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
r. Impairment    i) Goodwill     Cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated  are tested for impairment annually at each balance  sheet date, or more frequently when there is an  indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the  recoverable amount of the cash generating unit  is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the  impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the  carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that  unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata  on the basis of carrying amount of each asset in the  unit.
Goodwill impairment loss recognised is not  reversed in subsequent period.
ii) Property, plant and equipment and other intangible  assets     At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses  whether there is any indication that any property,  plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite  lives may be impaired.
If any such impairment exists  the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to  determine the extent of impairment, if any.
Where it  is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount  of an individual asset, the Company estimates the  recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to  which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and  intangible assets not yet available for use, are tested  for impairment annually at each balance sheet date,  or earlier, if there is an indication that the asset may  be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less  costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use,  the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their  present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects  current market assessments of the time value of  money and the risks specific to the asset for which the  estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash- generating unit) is estimated to be less than its  carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or  cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable  amount.
An impairment loss is recognised  immediately in the statement of profit and loss.
s. Employee benefits    i) Pension plans     Jaguar Land Rover operate defined benefit pension  plans for certain of its subsidiaries, which are  contracted out of the second state pension scheme  until April 5, 2016.
The assets of the plan are held  in separate trustee administered funds.
The plans  provide for monthly pension after retirement as per  salary drawn and service period as set out in rules of  each fund.
Contributions to the plans by the Jaguar Land Rover  subsidiaries take into consideration the results of  actuarial valuations.
The plans with a surplus position  at the year-end have been limited to the maximum  economic benefit available from unconditional  rights to refund from the scheme or reduction in  future contributions.
Where the subsidiary group is  considered to have a contractual obligation to fund  the pension plan above the accounting value of the  liabilities, an onerous obligation is recognised.
A separate defined contribution plan is available to  employees of Jaguar Land Rover.
Costs in respect of  this plan are charged to the statement of profit and  loss as incurred.
ii) Gratuity     Tata Motors Limited and its subsidiaries and joint  operations in India have an obligation towards  gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan covering  eligible employees.
The plan provides for a lump- sum payment to vested employees at retirement,  death while in employment or on termination of  employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30  days salary payable for each completed year of  service.
Vesting occurs upon completion of five years  of service.
Tata Motors Limited and such subsidiaries  make annual contributions to gratuity funds  established as trusts or insurance companies.
Tata  Motors Limited and its subsidiaries in India account  for the liability for gratuity benefits payable in the  future based on an actuarial valuation.
iii) Superannuation     Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries  in India have two superannuation plans, a defined  benefit plan and a defined contribution plan.
An  eligible employee as on April 1, 1996 could elect to  be a member of either plan.
Employees who are members of the defined  benefit superannuation plan are entitled to benefits  depending on the years of service and salary drawn.
The monthly pension benefits after retirement range  from 0.75% to 2% of the annual basic salary for  each year of service.
Tata Motors Limited and such  subsidiaries account for superannuation benefits  271 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS payable in future under the plan based on an  actuarial valuation.
With effect from April 1, 2003, this plan was amended  and benefits earned by covered employees have  been protected as at March 31, 2003.
Employees  covered by this plan are prospectively entitled to  benefits computed on a basis that ensures that the  annual cost of providing the pension benefits would  not exceed 15% of salary.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the employees  covered by this plan were given a one-time option to  exit from the plan prospectively.
Furthermore, the  employees who opted for exit were given one- time  option to withdraw accumulated balances from the  superannuation plan.
Separate irrevocable trusts are maintained for  employees covered and entitled to benefits.
Tata  Motors Limited and its subsidiaries contribute up to  15% or ` 150,000, whichever is lower, of the eligible  employees’ salary to the trust every year.
Such  contributions are recognised as an expense when  incurred.
Tata Motors Limited and such subsidiaries  have no further obligation beyond this contribution.
iv) Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY)     Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana is an unfunded defined  benefit plan for employees of Tata Motors Limited  and some of its subsidiaries.
The benefits of the plan  include pension in certain cases, payable up to the  date of normal superannuation had the employee  been in service, to an eligible employee at the time  of death or permanent disablement, while in service,  either as a result of an injury or as certified by the  appropriate authority.
The monthly payment to  dependents of the deceased/disabled employee  under the plan equals 50% of the salary drawn at  the time of death or accident or a specified amount,  whichever is greater.
Tata Motors Limited and these  subsidiaries account for the liability for BKY benefits  payable in the future based on an actuarial valuation.
v) Provident fund and family pension     In accordance with Indian law, eligible employees  of Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries  and joint operations are entitled to receive benefits in  respect of provident fund, a defined contribution plan,  in which both employees and the Company make  monthly contributions at a specified percentage of  the covered employees’ salary (currently 12% of  employees’ salary).
The contributions, as specified  under the law, are made to the provident fund and  pension fund set up as an irrevocable trust by Tata  Motors Limited and its subsidiaries or to respective  Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and the  Central Provident Fund under the State Pension  scheme.
The interest rate payable to the members of  the trust shall not be lower than the statutory rate of  interest declared by the Central Government under  the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous  Provisions Act,1952 and shortfall, if any, shall be  made good by the Company.
The embedded interest  rate guarantee is considered to be defined benefit.
The liability in respect of the short fall of interest  earnings of the Fund is determined on the basis of an  actuarial valuation.
There is no shortfall as at March  31, 2018.    vi) Severance indemnity     Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited,  or TDCV, a subsidiary company incorporated  in Korea; has an obligation towards severance  indemnity, a defined benefit retirement plan,  covering eligible employees.
The plan provides for  a lump sum payment to all employees with more  than one year of employment equivalent to 30 days’  salary payable for each completed year of service.
vii) Post-retirement medicare scheme     Under this unfunded scheme, employees of Tata  Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries receive  medical benefits subject to certain limits on amounts  of benefits, periods after retirement and types of  benefits, depending on their grade and location  at the time of retirement.
Employees separated  from the Company as part of an Early Separation  Scheme, on medical grounds or due to permanent  disablement are also covered under the scheme.
Tata Motors Limited and such subsidiaries account  for the liability for post-retirement medical scheme  based on an actuarial valuation.
viii) Compensated absences     Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries  and joint operations provide for the encashment of  leave or leave with pay subject to certain rules.
The  employees are entitled to accumulate leave subject  to certain limits, for future encashment.
The liability  is provided based on the number of days of unutilised  leave at each balance sheet date on the basis of an  actuarial valuation.
ix) Remeasurement gains and losses     Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and  losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the  return on assets (excluding interest) relating to  retirement benefit plans, are recognised directly  in other comprehensive income in the period in  which they arise.
Remeasurement recorded in  other comprehensive income is not reclassified to  statement of profit and loss.
Actuarial gains and losses relating to long-term  employee benefits are recognised in the statement  of profit and loss in the period in which they arise.
x) Measurement date     The measurement date of retirement plans is March  31.
272  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   xi) The present value of the defined benefit liability and  the related current service cost and past service cost  are measured using projected unit credit method.
t. Dividends    Any dividend declared by Tata Motors Limited is based  on the profits available for distribution as reported in the  statutory financial statements of Tata Motors Limited  (standalone) prepared in accordance with Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles in India or Indian GAAP or  Ind AS.
Indian law permits the declaration and payment  of dividend out of profits for the year or previous financial  year(s) as stated in the statutory financial statements of  Tata Motors Limited (Standalone) prepared in accordance  with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India,  or Ind AS after providing for depreciation in accordance  with the provisions of Schedule II to the Companies Act.
However, in the absence or inadequacy of the said profits,  it may declare dividend out of free reserves, subject to  certain conditions as prescribed under the Companies  (Declaration and Payment of Dividend) Rules, 2014.
Accordingly, in certain years the net income reported in  these financial statements may not be fully distributable.
The amount available for distribution is ` Nil as at March  31, 2018 (` Nil as at March 31, 2017).
u.
Segments    The Company primarily operates in the automotive  segment.
The automotive segment comprises two  reportable segments i.e.
Tata and other brand vehicles,  including financing thereof and Jaguar Land Rover.
Other operating segments do not meet the quantitative  thresholds for disclosure and have been aggregated.
v. Financial instruments    i) Classification, initial recognition and measurement     A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to  a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability  or equity instrument of another entity.
Financial  assets other than equity instruments are classified  into categories: financial assets at fair value through  profit or loss and at amortised cost.
Financial assets  that are equity instruments are classified as fair  value through profit or loss or fair value through  other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities are  classified into financial liabilities at fair value through  profit or loss and other financial liabilities.
Financial instruments are recognised on the balance  sheet when the Company becomes a party to the  contractual provisions of the instrument.
Initially, a financial instrument is recognised at its  fair value.
Transaction costs directly attributable to  the acquisition or issue of financial instruments are  recognised in determining the carrying amount, if it  is not classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequently, financial instruments are measured  according to the category in which they are classified.
Financial assets at amortised cost: Financial assets  having contractual terms that give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of  principal and interest on the principal outstanding  and that are held within a business model whose  objective is to hold such assets in order to collect  such contractual cash flows are classified in this  category.
Subsequently, these are measured at  amortised cost using the effective interest method  less any impairment losses.
Equity investments at fair value through other  comprehensive income: These include financial  assets that are equity instruments and are designated  as such upon initial recognition irrevocably.
Subsequently, these are measured at fair value and  changes therein, are recognised directly in other  comprehensive income, net of applicable deferred  income taxes.
Dividends from these equity investments are  recognised in the statement of profit and loss when  the right to receive payment has been established.
When the equity investment is derecognised, the  cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to  retained earnings.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:   Financial assets are measured at fair value through  profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised cost  or at fair value through other comprehensive income  on initial recognition.
The transaction costs directly  attributable to the acquisition of financial assets  and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are  immediately recognised in profit or loss.
Derivatives, unless they are designated as hedging  instruments, for which hedge accounting is applied,  financial assets which have contractual cash flows  which are not in the nature of solely principal and  interest payments (like hybrid instruments having  embedded derivatives) are classified into this  category.
These are measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognised in the statement of  profit and loss.
Equity instruments:  An equity instrument is any  contract that evidences residual interests in the  assets of the Company after deducting all of its  liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company  are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct  issue costs.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss    Derivatives, including embedded derivatives  separated from the host contract, unless they  are designated as hedging instruments, for which  hedge accounting is applied, are classified into this  category.
These are measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognised in the statement of  profit and loss.
273 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353    Other financial liabilities:  These are measured at  amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ii) Determination of fair value:     The fair value of a financial instrument on initial  recognition is normally the transaction price (fair  value of the consideration given or received).
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company  determines the fair value of financial instruments  that are quoted in active markets using the quoted  bid prices (financial assets held) or quoted ask  prices (financial liabilities held) and using valuation  techniques for other instruments.
Valuation  techniques include discounted cash flow method  and other valuation models.
iii) Derecognition of financial assets and financial  liabilities:     The Company derecognizes a financial asset only  when the contractual rights to the cash flows  from the asset expires or it transfers the financial  asset and substantially all the risks and rewards  of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the  Company neither transfers nor retains substantially  all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues  to control the transferred asset, the Company  recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an  associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Company retains substantially all the risks and  rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset,  the Company continues to recognize the financial  asset and also recognizes a collateralised borrowing  for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when these  are extinguished, that is when the obligation is  discharged, cancelled or has expired.
iv) Impairment of financial assets:     The Company recognizes a loss allowance for  expected credit losses on a financial asset that is at  amortised cost.
Loss allowance in respect of financial assets other  than finance receivables is measured at an amount  equal to life time expected credit losses and is  calculated as the difference between their carrying  amount and the present value of the expected  future cash flows discounted at the original effective  interest rate.
Loss allowance for finance receivables is measured  at an amount equal to twelve month expected  losses if credit risk on such assets has not increased  significantly since initial recognition.
An allowance  equal to life time expected losses is provided if credit  risk has increased significantly from the date of  initial recognition.
Credit risk is determined to have  increased significantly when a finance receivable  contract becomes sixty/ninety days past due.
Such  impairment loss is recognised in the statement of  profit and loss.
If the amount of an impairment loss  decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease  can be related objectively to an event occurring  after the impairment was recognised, the previously  recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal  is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
v.  Hedge accounting     The Company uses foreign currency forward and  option contracts to hedge its risks associated with  foreign currency fluctuations relating to highly  probable forecast transactions.
The Company  designates these forward and option contracts in  a cash flow hedging relationship by applying the  hedge accounting principles.
These forward and option contracts are stated at  fair value at each reporting date.
Changes in the fair  value of these forward and option contracts that are  designated and effective as hedges of future cash  flows are recognised in other comprehensive income  (net of tax) and the ineffective portion is recognised  immediately in the consolidated statement of  profit and loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are  reclassified to the consolidated statement of profit  and loss in the periods in which the forecasted  transaction occurs.
For forwards and options, forward premium and  the time value are not considered part of the hedge.
These are treated as cost of hedge and the changes  in fair value attributable to time value is recognised  in the other comprehensive income along with the  changes in fair value determined to be effective  portion of the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised,  or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
For  forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss  on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is  retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to  occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in  equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated  statement of profit and loss for the year.
w. Recent accounting pronouncement     Ind AS 115 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers     The standard outlines a single comprehensive model  for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising  from contracts with customers and supersede most  current revenue recognition guidance, including  industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of  the new standard is for companies to recognize  revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to  customers in amounts that reflect the consideration  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 274  (that is, payment) to which the Company expects to  be entitled to exchange for those goods or services.
The new standard also will result in enhanced  disclosures about revenue, provide guidance for  transactions that were not previously addressed  comprehensively (for example, service revenue  and contract modifications) and improve guidance  for multiple-element arrangements.
Ind AS 115 is  effective from April 1, 2018.
The Company will be adopting Ind AS 115 with a  modified retrospective approach.
The cumulative  effect of initially applying this Standard will be  recorded as an adjustment to the opening balance  of retained earnings.
The figures for the comparative  periods will not be restated.
The Company has  assessed that the profit impact of Ind AS 115 adoption  will not be significant to the Consolidated financial  statements.
The Company has assessed that there will be  change in the basis of measurement of revenue for  certain contracts in which performance obligation  is satisfied over a period of time and revenue is  measured as a percentage to the work completed.
For such contracts, revenue will be measured in  accordance with Ind AS 115, when the Company has  satisfied a performance obligation by transferring  the promised good or service (i.e.
an asset) to the  customer i.e.
when the customer obtains control of  the asset and establishes an unconditional right to  receive the consideration.
There will be no significant  impact to the opening retained earnings on account  of this change in measurement.
The Company makes transport arrangements  for delivering its vehicles to the dealers.
The  gross consideration received in respect of these  arrangements are recognised and presented with  revenue in the statement of profit and loss.
The cost  associated with these arrangements are presented  within freight cost in the statement of profit and  loss.
In accordance with Ind AS 115, the Company  has determined that it is an agent in providing these  services, and therefore the gross consideration  received, net off cost associated with respect  to these arrangements will be presented within  revenue.
Certain payouts made to dealers such as  infrastructure support payments are to be treated  as variable components of consideration and will  therefore in accordance with Ind AS 115, be recognised  as revenue deductions in future.
These costs are  presently reported as other expenses.
These change  in presentation in the income statement will result in  decrease in both revenues and expenses.
The introduction of the Standard will give rise to  new financial statement categories in the statement  of financial position, being “contract assets” and  “contract liabilities.” These items can arise through  advance payment received from customers or  advance delivery of goods and services in excess of  or ahead of billing at the contract level.
In addition,  disclosure requirements are extended.
Incentives received from Government will be  included under other income, which is currently  presented under other operating income under  revenue from operations.
Further, Ind AS 115, will allow for transitional  arrangements for modified and fulfilled contracts,  and clarify the identification of performance  obligations, principal-agent relationships, and  licenses.
The application of these amendments is  also not expected to have any major impact on the  Group’s profitability, liquidity and capital resources  or financial position.
Ind AS 21 - The Effect of Changes in Foreign  Exchange Rates     The amendment effective April 1, 2018, clarifies  on the accounting of transaction that include the  receipt or payment of advance consideration in  a foreign currency.
The appendix explains that  the date of the transaction, for the purpose of  determining rate, is the date of initial recognition  of the non-monetary prepayment asset or  deferred income liability.
If there are multiple  payments or receipts in advance, a date of  transaction is established for each payment or  receipt.
The Company is evaluating the impact of  this amendment on its financial statements.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 275 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  (x) The following subsidiary companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements: Sr  No.
Name of the Subsidiary company Country of  incorporation  % of holding either directly  or through subsidiaries  As at  March  31, 2018 As at  March  31, 2017 Direct Subsidiaries 1 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited India  100  100 2 Concorde Motors (India) Limited India  100  100 3 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Limited India  100  100 4 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC UK  100  100 5 Tata Technologies Limited India  72.29  72.32 6 TMF Holdings Limited (formerly known as Tata Motors Finance Limited) India  100  100 7 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited India  51  51 8 TML Holdings Pte.
Limited Singapore  100  100 9 TML Distribution Company Limited India  100  100 10 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera  S.A. Spain  100  100 11 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA Morocco  100  100 12 Trilix S.r.l Italy  80  80 13 Tata Precision Industries Pte.
Limited Singapore  78.39  78.39 Indirect subsidiaries  * 14 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited South Korea  100  100 15 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle  Sales and Distribution Company  Limited South Korea  100  100 16 Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited Thailand  95.49  95.28 17 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited South Africa  60  60 18 PT Tata Motors Indonesia Indonesia  100  100 19 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited Thailand  72.29  72.32 20 Tata Technologies Pte Limited Singapore  72.29  72.32 21 INCAT International Plc.
UK  72.29  72.32 22 Tata Technologies Europe Limited UK  72.29  72.32 23 Escenda Engineering AB (Tata Technologies Europe Limited acquired  100% stake in the Company w.e.f.
May 1, 2017) UK  72.29  - 24 INCAT GmbH.
Germany  72.29  72.32 25 Tata Technologies Inc. USA  72.35  72.37 26 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico  72.35  72.37 27 Cambric Limited USA  72.32  72.32 28 Cambric UK Limited (Dissolved w.e.f.
May 23, 2017) UK  72.35  72.32 29 Cambric GmbH Germany  72.35  72.32 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 276  Sr  No.
Name of the Subsidiary company Country of  incorporation  % of holding either directly  or through subsidiaries  As at  March  31, 2018 As at  March  31, 2017 30 Midwest Managed Services Inc.(Merged into Tata Technologies Inc. w.e.f.
February 28, 2018) USA  -    72.32 31 Tata Technologies SRL Romania Romania  72.32  72.32 32 Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Limited China  72.29  72.32 33 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc UK  100  100 34 Jaguar Land Rover Limited UK  100  100 35 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH Austria  100  100 36 Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV Belgium  100  100 37 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited Japan  100  100 38 Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa  100  100 39 JLR Nominee Company Limited UK  100  100 40 The Daimler Motor Company Limited UK  100  100 41 The Jaguar Collection Limited UK  100  100 42 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited UK  100  100 43 S.S. Cars Limited UK  100  100 44 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited UK  100  100 45 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Germany  100  100 46 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited UK  100  100 47 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC USA  100  100 48 Land Rover Ireland Limited Ireland  100  100 49 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Netherlands  100  100 50 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veiculos e Pecas, Lda.
Portugal  100  100 51 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Australia  100  100 52 Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa Italy  100  100 53 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL Spain  100  100  54 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited South Korea  100  100  55 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Limited China  100  100  56 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC Canada  100  100  57 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS France  100  100  58 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (pty) Limited South Africa  100  100  59 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil industria e Comercio de Veiculos LTDA Brazil  100  100  60 Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia) Russia  100  100  61 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited UK  100  100  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 277 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Sr  No.
Name of the Subsidiary company Country of  incorporation  % of holding either directly  or through subsidiaries  As at  March  31, 2018 As at  March  31, 2017 62 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited India  100  100  63 Jaguar Cars Limited UK  100  100  64 Land Rover Exports Limited UK  100  100  65 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited UK  100  100  66 Jaguar Racing Limited UK  100  100  67 InMotion Ventures Limited UK  100  100  68 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited UK  100  100  69 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited UK  100  100  70 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited UK  100  100  71 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited China  100  100  72 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o Slovakia  100  100  73 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte.
Ltd Singapore  100  100  74 Jaguar Land Rover Columbia S.A.S Columbia  100  100  75 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Indonesia  100  100  76 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited India  100  100  77 Tata Motors Finance Limited (formerly known as Sheba Properties  Limited) India  100  100  78 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria  100  100  79 Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
July  28, 2017) Ireland  100  -  80 Spark44 (JV) Limited(Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) UK  50.50  -  81 "Spark44 Pty.
Ltd.   (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017)" Australia  50.50  -  82 Spark44 GMBH (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Germany  50.50  -  83 Spark44 LLC (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) USA  50.50  -  84 Spark44 Limited (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) China  50.50  -  85 Spark44 DMCC (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) UAE  50.50  -  86 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Limited (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31,  2017) India  50.50  -  87 Spark44 Limited (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) UK  50.50  -  88 Spark44 Pte Ltd (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Singapore  50.50  -  89 Spark44 Communication SL (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Spain  50.50  -  90 Spark44 SRL (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Italy  50.50  -  91 Spark44 Limited (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Korea  50.50  -  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 278  Sr  No.
Name of the Subsidiary company Country of  incorporation  % of holding either directly  or through subsidiaries  As at  March  31, 2018 As at  March  31, 2017 92 Spark44 Japan KK (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Japan  50.50  -  93 Spark44 Canada Inc (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) Canada  50.50  -  94 Spark44 South Africa (Pty) Limited (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) South Africa  50.50  -  95 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited (Incorporated  w.e.f.November 17, 2017) Taiwan  100.00  -  96 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios Mexico,S.A.
de C.V.(Incorporated w.e.f.
October 2, 2017) Mexico  100.00  -  97 Jaguar Land Rover Mexico,S.A.P.I.
de C.V.(Incorporated w.e.f.
October 2,  2017) Mexico  100.00  -    * Effective holding % of the Company directly and through its subsidiaries.
(iv) The following Jointly controlled companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements: Sr  No.
Name of the jointly controlled company Country of  incorporation  % of holding either directly  or through subsidiaries   As at  March  31, 2018 As at  March  31, 2017 Joint operations    1 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited India  50  50 2 Tata Cummins Private Limited India  50  50  Joint Ventures 3 Tata HAL Technologies Limited ** India  36.16  36.16  4 Spark 44 (JV) Limited (Subsidiary w.e.f.
August 31, 2017) UK  -    50  5 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited China  50  50  6 JT Special Vehicles Pvt.
Limited India  50  50    ** Effective holding % of the Company as it is a Joint Venture of Tata Technologies Ltd  (v) The following associate companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements: Sr  No.
Name of the associate company Country of  incorporation % of holding either directly or  through subsidiaries As at  March  31, 2018 As at  March  31, 2017 1 Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited India  47.19  47.19  2 Nita Company Limited Bangladesh  40.00  40.00  3 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited India  39.99  39.99  4 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited India  39.19  39.19  5 Tata AutoComp Systems Limited India  26.00  26.00  6 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited UK  49.90  49.90  7 Cloud Car Inc  USA  26.30  42.60  8 Synaptiv Limited UK  33.33  33.33  9 DriveClubService Pte.
Ltd. (Associate w.e.f.
July 13, 2017) Singapore  25.07  -    NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 279 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 3.
Property, plant and equipment   (` in crores) Owned assets Given on lease Taken on lease Land Buildings Plant and  equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Vehicles Computers Heritage  Assets Land Buildings Plant and  equipment Vehicles Buildings Plant and  equipment Furniture  and  fixtures Computers Total Cost as at April 1, 2017 6,761.98 12,014.30 79,560.14 1,218.13 290.95 1,766.77 423.35 20.11 29.46 8.95 8.14 149.57 416.15 4.31 178.87 102,851.18 Additions 294.61 3,155.56 15,698.18 146.43 109.02 263.54 - 0.72 - - 25.00 8.50 3.52 - 7.28 19,712.36 Asset acquired in Business Combination - 2.06 0.22 42.73 - 13.12 - - - - - 0.10 - - - 58.23 Assets classified as held for sale - (27.11) (366.90) (40.73) (3.88) (160.69) - - - - - (100.20) (0.63) - - (700.14) Currency translation differences 282.00 1,355.91 8,374.91 121.91 11.47 143.85 50.00 2.41 3.98 - - 2.68 39.67 - - 10,388.79 Write off of assets - -  (536.82) - - - (110.06) - - - - - - - - (646.88) Disposal - (7.78) (2,662.47) (63.18) (54.44) (83.44) (8.61) - (0.03) (3.79) (1.91) (1.56) (299.87) - - (3,187.08) Cost as at March 31, 2018 7,338.59 16,492.94 100,067.26 1,425.29 353.12 1,943.15 354.68 23.24 33.41 5.16 31.23 59.09 158.84 4.31 186.15 128,476.46 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2017 - 2,445.47 38,476.07 600.90 179.59 1,003.48 - - 0.73 3.08 3.66 35.59 344.04 0.65 163.36 43,256.62 Depreciation for the period - 652.15 9,838.20 133.52 44.68 176.24 - - 0.13 1.32 3.70 5.60 7.24 0.86 10.70 10,874.34 Writeoff of assets - -  (389.08) - - - - - - - - - - (389.08) Assets classified as held for sale - (13.07) (115.43) (13.36) (2.58) (95.56) - - - - - (20.98) (0.60) - - (261.58) Currency translation differences - 218.14 3,718.80 54.38 6.19 51.96 - - 0.07 - - 0.78 20.25 - - 4,070.57 Disposal - (2.78) (2455.45) (57.09) (48.05) (77.43) - - - (0.28) (1.30) - (299.87) - - (2,942.25) Accumulated depreciation as at March  31, 2018 - 3,299.91 49,073.11 718.35 179.83 1,058.69 - - 0.93 4.12 6.06 20.99 71.06 1.51 174.06 54,608.62 Net carrying amount as at   March 31, 2018 7,338.59 13,193.03 50,994.15 706.94 173.29 884.46 354.68 23.24 32.48 1.04 25.17 38.10 87.78 2.80 12.09 73,867.84 Cost as at April 1, 2016 7,161.52 12,164.18 79,478.20 1,241.33 279.69 1,634.42 497.78 23.17 34.55 21.93 - 144.06 563.00 - 174.25 103,418.08 Additions 21.87 1,114.12 9,324.76 136.73 44.79 313.64 1.48 - - 0.04 8.14 12.43 0.99 4.31 4.62 10,987.92 Currency translation differences (421.41) (1,175.59) (8,824.25) (130.46) (11.50) (138.39) (75.91) (3.06) (5.09) - - (6.73) (67.85) - - (10,860.24) Disposal - (88.41) (418.57) (29.47) (22.03) (42.90) - - - (13.02) - (0.19) (79.99) - - (694.58) Cost as at March 31, 2017 6,761.98 12,014.30 79,560.14 1,218.13 290.95 1,766.77 423.35 20.11 29.46 8.95 8.14 149.57 416.15 4.31 178.87 102,851.18 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2016 - 2,170.86 34,138.35 544.05 158.59 910.29 - - 0.75 9.27 29.44 378.06 - 151.35 38,491.01 Depreciation for the year - 507.70 8,074.51 133.78 43.46 169.64 - - 0.15 2.15 3.66 6.78 94.13 0.65 12.01 9,048.62 Write off of assets - - 102.04 - - - - - - - - - - - - 102.04 Currency translation differences - (183.91) (3,551.59) (50.77) (4.81) (41.24) - - (0.17) - (0.44) (48.16) - - (3,881.09) Disposal - (49.18) (287.24) (26.16) (17.65) (35.21) - - - (8.34) - (0.19) (79.99) - - (503.96) Accumulated depreciation as at March  31, 2017 - 2,445.47 38,476.07 600.90 179.59 1,003.48 - - 0.73 3.08 3.66 35.59 344.04 0.65 163.36 43,256.62 Net carrying amount as at   March 31, 2017 6,761.98 9,568.83 41,084.07 617.23 111.36 763.29 423.35 20.11 28.73 5.87 4.48 113.98 72.11 3.66 15.51 59,594.56 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 280  4.
Leases  The Company has taken land, buildings, plant and equipment, computers and furniture and fixtures under operating and finance  leases.
The following is the summary of future minimum lease rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases and finance  leases entered into by the Company:  (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Operating Finance Operating Finance Minimum  Lease  Payments Minimum  Lease  Payments Present value  of minimum  lease  payments Minimum  Lease  Payments Minimum  Lease  Payments Present value  of minimum  lease  payments Not later than one year 880.80  25.39  22.23  659.77  25.82  22.12  Later than one year but not  later than five years 2,152.78  28.25  22.19  1,787.14  41.71  33.81  Later than five years 2,334.29 38.06 24.56  1,464.55  37.22  20.23  Total minimum lease  commitments 5,367.87 91.70 68.98  3,911.46  104.75  76.16  Less: future finance charges  (22.72)  (28.61) Present value of minimum  lease payments 68.98  76.14  Included in the financial  statements as: Other financial liabilities -  current  (refer note 27)  22.23  22.13  Long-term borrowings   (refer note 24) 46.75  54.01   68.98  76.14   Total operating lease rent expenses were  ` 1,022.39 crores and ` 822.48 crores for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively.
5.
Goodwill  (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  673.32  759.80 Impairment  -    (14.25) Classified as held for sale  (557.91)  - Currency translation differences  1.04  (72.23) Balance at the end  116.45  673.32  As at March 31, 2018, goodwill of ` 116.45 crores relates to the automotive and related activity segment (Tata and other brand vehicles  including financing thereof).
As at March 31, 2017, goodwill of ` 115.41 crores and ` 557.91 crores relates to the automotive and related  activity segment (Tata and other brand vehicles including financing thereof) and "others" segment, respectively.
As at March 31, 2018, goodwill of ` 99.09 crores  has been allocated to a joint operation Fiat India Automobiles Pvt.
Ltd., cash  generating unit.
The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit has been determined based on value in use.
Value in use has  been determined based on future cash flows, after considering current economic conditions and trends, estimated future operating  results, growth rates and anticipated future economic conditions.
As at March 31, 2018, the estimated cash flows for a period of 5 years were developed using internal forecasts, and a pre-tax discount  rate of 12.40%.
The cash flows beyond 4 years have been extrapolated assuming 2% growth rates.
The management believes that any  reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the  cash generating unit.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 281 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 6.
(a)  Other intangible assets  (` in crores) Other intangible assets Software Patents and  technological  know how Customer  related Intellectual  property  rights  and other  intangibles Indefinite  life trade  marks and  patents Product  development Total Cost as at April 1, 2017  5,212.84  1,313.68  516.61  194.99  5,003.50  47,746.09  59,987.71  Additions  847.20  42.75  22.31  61.53  -    16,464.77  17,438.56  Asset acquired in Business  Combination  12.62  -    -    33.59  -    -    46.21  Assets classified as held for  sale  (248.83)  (1.68)  (48.69)  -    -    (299.20) Currency translation  differences  694.31  167.37  71.05  36.99  702.81  7,217.99  8,890.52  Write off assets  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Fully amortised not in use  (216.62)  -    -    -    -    (1,231.04)  (1,447.66) Cost as at March 31, 2018  6,301.52  1,522.12  561.28  327.10  5,706.31  70,197.81  84,616.14  Accumulated amortisation as at  April 1, 2017  2,214.78  1,096.05  225.43  39.62  -    20,735.63  24,311.51  Amortisation for the period  997.26  135.07  26.09  53.67  -    9,467.16  10,679.25  Assest Held for Sale  (170.05)  (0.64)  (10.96)  -    -    -    (181.65) Fully amortised not in use (216.62)  -    -    -    -   (1,231.04)  (1,447.66) Currency translation  differences  297.30  153.38  32.56  4.83  -   3,224.34  3,712.41  Write off assets 112.71  -    -    -    -    -   112.71 Accumulated amortisation as at  March 31, 2018  3,235.38  1,383.86  273.12  98.12  -    32,196.09  37,186.57  Net carrying amount as at  March 31, 2018  3,066.14  138.26  288.16  228.98  5,706.31  38,001.72  47,429.57  Cost as at April 1, 2016  5,966.68  1,525.56  605.00  82.08  5,902.17  50,681.24  64,762.73  Additions  797.70  1.79  -    129.43  -    7,943.73  8,872.65  Currency translation  differences  (821.48)  (213.67)  (88.39)  (13.14)  (898.67)  (7,231.70)  (9,267.05) Disposal  -    -    -    (3.38)  -    -    (3.38) Fully amortised not in use  (730.06)  -    -    -    -    (3,647.18)  (4,377.24) Cost as at March 31, 2017  5,212.84  1,313.68  516.61  194.99  5,003.50  47,746.09  59,987.71  Accumulated amortisation as at  April 1, 2016  2,493.19  1,149.93  228.27  39.71  -    19,306.74  23,217.84  Amortisation for the year  756.87  131.20  28.97  1.06  -    7,938.27  8,856.37  Fully amortised not in use  (730.06)  -    -    -    -    (3,647.18)  (4,377.24) Currency translation  differences  (305.22)  (183.14)  (31.81)  (1.15)  -    (2,862.20)  (3,383.52) Disposal  -    (1.94)  -    -    -    -    (1.94) Accumulated amortisation as at  March 31, 2017  2,214.78  1,096.05  225.43  39.62  -    20,735.63  24,311.51  Net carrying amount as at  March 31, 2017  2,998.06  217.63  291.18  155.37  5,003.50  27,010.46  35,676.20  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 282  (b) Intangible assets under development  For the year ended March 31,  2018 2017 Balance at the beginning  23,512.01  19,367.97  Additions 16,877.22  15,125.50  Transferred to cost of other intangible assets  (17,286.12)  (7,986.70) Transferred to held for sale  (190.10)  -    Write off / provision for impairment  (1,596.26)  (130.74) Currency translation impact  2,573.81  (2,864.02) Balance at the end  23,890.56  23,512.01  ( c ) The useful life of trademarks and brands in respect of the acquired Jaguar Land Rover businesses have been determined to be  indefinite as the Company expects to generate future economic benefits indefinitely from these assets.
The indefinite life intangible assets have been allocated to the Jaguar Land Rover businesses.
The recoverable amount of the cash  generating unit has been determined based on value in use.
Value in use has been determined based on future cash flows after  considering current economic conditions and trends, estimated future operating results, growth rates and anticipated future economic  conditions.
The estimated cash flows for a period of five years were developed using internal forecast, and a pre-tax discount rate of 8.7%.
The cash  flows beyond five years have been extrapolated assuming 2.0% growth rate.
The management believes that any reasonably possible  change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 283 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 7.
Investments in equity accounted investees:  (a) Associates:   The Company has no material associates as at March 31, 2018.
The aggregate summarised financial information in respect of the  Company's immaterial associates that are accounted for using the equity method is set forth below.
(` in crores) As at  March 31,  2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Carrying amount of the Company’s interest in associates  933.34  872.63 As at  March 31,  2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Company’s share of profit/(loss) in associates*  118.30  110.93 Company’s share of other comprehensive income in associates  (1.90)  (15.51) Company’s share of total comprehensive income in associates  116.40 95.42   (i) Fair value of investment in an equity accounted associate for which published price quotation is available, which is a level 1  input, was ` 338.04 crores and ` 192.22 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The carrying amount as at March  31, 2018 was ` 141.48 crores and ` 136.84 crores, as at March 31, 2017, respectively.
(ii) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Group purchased 25.08% of the share capital of Driveclubservice Pte.
Limited  for `3.01 crores.
In addition, the Group also purchased 1 per cent of the share capital of Driveclub Limited, the wholly owned  subsidiary of Driveclubservice Pte.
Limited.
However, the Group has 25.83% of the voting rights, being the 1% of share capital  held and the indirect shareholding held through Driveclubservice Pte.
Limited.
Both Driveclubservice Pte.
Limited and  Driveclub Limited are therefore accounted for as equity accounted investments as the Group has significant influence over  the companies.
(b) Joint ventures:   (i) Details of the Company's material joint venture is as follows: Name of joint venture Principal activity Principal place of  the business % holding as at March 31, 2018 2017 Chery Jaguar Land Rover  Automotive Co. Limited (Chery) Manufacture and  assembly of vehicles China 50% 50%    Chery is a limited liability company, whose legal form confers separation between the parties to the joint arrangement.
There is no contractual arrangement or any other facts and circumstances that indicate that the parties to the joint venture  have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the joint arrangement.
Accordingly, Chery is classified as a joint  venture.
The summarised financial information in respect of Chery that is accounted for using the equity method is set forth  below.
(` in crores) As at  March 31,  2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Current assets  8,231.79  7,608.28 Non-current assets  12,218.49  8,852.56 Current liabilities  (9,929.83)  (7,565.07) Non-current liabilities  (1,418.41)  (1,424.97) The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents  4,046.68  5,025.85 Current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables and provisions)  (388.52)  (1.70) Non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables and provisions)  (1,399.96)  (1,416.88) Share of net assets of material joint venture  4,551.02  3,735.40 Other consolidation adjustments  (101.62)  (66.79) Carrying amount of the Company's interest in joint venture 4,449.40  3,668.61 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 284  Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 Revenue  23,787.61  18,960.13  Net income/(loss)  4,338.13  2,732.06  Other comprehensive income  121.79  -    Total comprehensive income for the year  4,459.92  2,732.06  The above net income includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation  1,194.78  920.11  Interest income  (229.87)  (99.32) Interest expense (net)  60.90  70.66  Income tax expense/(credit)  1,163.05  901.44    Reconciliation of above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the joint venture  recognised in the consolidated financial statements: As at  March 31,  2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Net assets of the joint venture  9,102.04 7,470.80 Proportion of the Company's interest in joint venture  4,551.02 3,735.40 Other consolidation adjustments  (101.62) (66.79)  Carrying amount of the Company's interest in joint venture  4,449.40 3,668.61    During the year ended March 31, 2018, a dividend of GBP 206.46 Million(` 1,764.49 crores) was received by a subsidiary in  UK from Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Ltd.(2017 : GBP 68 Million, ` 592.88 crores)   (ii) The aggregate summarised financial information in respect of the Company’s immaterial joint ventures that are accounted  for using the equity method is set forth below.
As at  March 31,  2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Carrying amount of the Company's interest in joint ventures  2.50  64.77     During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company acquired a further 10,000 ‘B’ shares in Spark 44 (JV) Ltd (Spark 44),  increasing its share of the voting rights of Spark 44 from 50% to 50.5%.
In addition, Spark 44’s Articles of Association together  with the Shareholder Agreement were amended to give Jaguar Land Rover Limited control of Spark 44 as the majority  shareholder.
Prior to this, Jaguar Land Rover Limited had joint control over Spark44 (JV) Limited and equity accounted for Spark44 (JV)  Limited as a Joint Venture.
Following the additional share purchase and change to Articles of Association and Shareholder  Agreement Spark44 (JV) Limited has been consolidated as a subsidiary from August 31, 2017.
(` in crores)  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 Company’s share of profit/(loss) in immaterial joint ventures*  16.25  27.65  Company’s share of other comprehensive income in immaterial joint ventures  -    (13.03) Company’s share of total comprehensive income in immaterial joint ventures  16.25  14.62  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 285 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  ( c) Summary of carrying amount of the Company’s interest in equity accounted investees:  As at   March 31, 2018  As at   March 31, 2017 Carrying amount in immaterial associates  435.99  872.63  Carrying amount in immaterial associates (held for sale)  497.35  -    Carrying amount in material joint venture  4,449.40  3,668.61  Carrying amount in immaterial joint ventures  2.50  64.77  Total  5,385.24  4,606.01  Current (held for sale)  497.35  -    Non current  4,887.89 4,606.01  Total 5,385.24 4,606.01  (d) Summary of Company’s share of profit/(loss) in equity accounted investees:  Year ended  March 31, 2018  Year ended  March 31, 2017 Share of profit/(loss) in immaterial associates  118.30  110.93  Share of profit/(loss) in material joint venture  2,169.07  1,366.03  Share of profit/(loss) on other adjustments in material joint venture  (25.36)  (11.61) Share of profit/(loss) in immaterial joint ventures  16.25  27.65   2,278.26  1,493.00   (e) Summary of Company’s share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees:  Year ended  March 31, 2018  Year ended  March 31, 2017 Share of other comprehensive income in immaterial associates  (10.96)  (4.00) Currency translation differences-immaterial associates  9.06  (11.51) Currency translation differences-material joint venture  420.35  (280.16) Currency translation differences-immaterial joint ventures  -    (13.03)  418.45  (308.70)   * Company’s share of profit/(loss) of the equity accounted investees has been determined after giving effect for the subsequent  amortisation/depreciation and other adjustments arising on account of fair value adjustments made to the identifiable net  assets of the equity accounted investee as at the date of acquisition and other adjustment arising under the equity method  of accounting.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 286  8.
Other Investments - non-current  (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Investments - measured at Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income  Quoted:   Equity shares  36.64  260.29   Unquoted:   Equity shares  371.26  369.98   Total  407.90  630.27  (b) Investments - measured at Fair value through profit or loss  Quoted:   Mutual fund  -    25.09   Unquoted:   (i) Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares  0.40  1.40    (ii) Cumulative redeemable preference shares  2.50  6.50    (iii) Equity shares 246.82  -      (iv) Convertible debentures 85.40 7.08   (v) Others 16.86 16.54    TOTAL 351.98  56.61  ( c) Investments - measured at amortised cost  Unquoted:   Non-convertible debentures  3.88  3.88    Total  3.88  3.88  TOTAL (a+b+c)  763.76  690.76  Aggregate book value of quoted investments  36.64  285.38  Aggregate market value of quoted investments  36.64  285.38  Aggregate book value of unquoted investments  727.12  405.38  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 287 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 9.
Other Investments - current  (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Investments - measured at fair value through other comprehensive income  Quoted:   Equity Shares  303.28 - (b) Investments - measured at fair value through profit and loss  Unquoted:   (i) Mutual funds  1,601.00  3,040.54    (ii) Advance against investments  -    0.40   Total  1,904.28  3,040.94  ( c ) Investments - measured at amortised cost  Unquoted:   Mutual funds  12,759.47  12,000.21   Total  12,759.47  12,000.21  TOTAL (a+b)  14,663.75  15,041.15  Aggregate book value of unquoted investments  14,360.47  15,041.15  Aggregate book value of quoted investments  303.28 - Aggregate market value of quoted investments  303.28 - 10.
Loans and advances As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Non-current Secured, considered good: (a)  Loans to channel partners ( Net of provision ` 7.30 crores and ` 16.41 crores as at March  31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.)
237.03  195.61  Unsecured, considered good: (a) Loans to employees  28.06  27.73  (b) Loans to others  -    40.80  ( c)  Others (Net of provision ` 41.68 crores  and ` Nil as at March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively.)
230.32  489.52  Total  495.41  753.66  Current Secured, considered good: (a) Loans to channel partners  18.84  25.79  Unsecured, considered good: (a)  Advances to supplier, contractors etc.
(Net of provision ` 165.10 crores and ` 119.57  crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively)  2,260.50  684.35  (b) Inter corporate deposits  0.32  0.31  Total  2,279.66  710.45 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 288  11.
Other financial assets  (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Non-current (a) Derivative financial instruments  2,846.90  2,775.34  (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits  2.60  2.40  ( c) Restricted deposits  69.06  57.19  (d) Margin money / cash collateral with banks  104.80  74.56  (e) Government grant receivables  467.14  -    (f) Other deposits  1.18  1.63  (g) Others-supplier recovery  1,072.19  -    Total  4,563.87  2,911.12  Margin money with banks in restricted cash deposits consist of collateral provided for transfer of finance receivables.
Restricted  deposits as at March 31, 2018 and 2017 include ` 50.76 crores and ` 32.37 crores, respectively, held as a deposit in relation to  ongoing legal cases.
Current (a) Derivative financial instruments  2,476.13  1,510.18  (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits  3.89  5.76  ( c) Term /Fixed deposit other than Banks  -    40.00  (d) Government grant receivable  411.39  -    (e) Others-supplier recovery  137.71  -    Total  3,029.12  1,555.94  12.
Inventories  As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Raw materials and components  3,019.28  2,159.53  (b) Work-in-progress  4,043.17  3,642.56  ( c) Finished goods  33,875.53  28,235.17  (d) Stores and spare parts  208.72  216.12  (e) Consumable tools  375.56  297.66  (f) Goods-in-transit - Raw materials and components  615.37  534.27  Total  42,137.63  35,085.31   Note:  (i) Inventories of finished goods include ` 4,023.61 crores and ` 2,637.94 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relating  to vehicles sold subject to repurchase arrangements.
(ii) Cost of inventories (including cost of purchased products) recognised as expense during the years ended March 31, 2018 and  2017 amounted to ` 2,17,338.62 crores and ` 2,03,087.37 crores, respectively.
(iii) During the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded inventory write-down expense of ` 607.42 crores and  ` 372.51 crores, respectively.
(iv) Excludes ` 95.80 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 289 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 13.
Trade receivables (Unsecured)* (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Considered good  19,893.30  14,075.55  Considered doubtful  1,261.67  1,377.44   21,154.97  15,452.99  Less : Allowances for doubtful trade receivables  (1,261.67)  (1,377.44) Total  19,893.30  14,075.55   * Excludes ` 524.58 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018.
14.
Cash and cash equivalents As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Cash on hand  31.42  32.62  (b) Cheques on hand  399.44  111.31  ( c) Balances with banks  8,907.19  8,462.76  (d) Deposit with banks  5,378.70  5,380.07   Total  14,716.75  13,986.76  15.
Bank balances As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 With upto 12 months maturity: (a) Earmarked balances with banks  493.87  238.36  (b) Margin money / cash collateral with banks  41.71  -    ( c) Bank deposits  19,361.58  21,852.76   Total  19,897.16  22,091.12   Note:   Earmarked balances with bank include ` 248.60 crores and ` 186.14 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively held as  security in relation to interest and repayment of bank borrowings.
Out of these deposits, ` 85.09 crores and ` 118.64 crores as at  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively are pledged till the maturity of the respective borrowing.
16.
Finance receivables As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Finance receivables  25,070.75  21,160.76  Less: allowance for credit losses  (1,189.57)  (3,597.51)  Total  23,881.18  17,563.25  Current portion  8,401.65  6,810.12  Non-current portion  15,479.53  10,753.13   Total  23,881.18  17,563.25  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 290           Changes in the allowance for credit losses in finance receivables are as follows: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  3,597.51  5,006.69  Allowances made/(reversed) during the year  43.30  (28.15) Written off  (2,451.24)  (1,381.03) Balance at the end  1,189.57  3,597.51  17.
Allowance for trade and other receivables  Change in the allowances for trade and other receivables are as follows: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  1,517.03  1,483.71  Assets classified as held for sale  (13.05)  -    Allowances made/(reversed) during the year 14.57  132.93  Written off  (45.49)  (134.03) Foreign exchange translation differences 4.56  34.42  Balance at the end 1,477.62  1,517.03  18.
Other non-current assets* As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 a) Capital advances  284.53  562.52  b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government  1,049.63  1,125.26  c) Prepaid rentals on operating leases  381.72  326.10  d) Prepaid expenses  762.59  631.24  e) Others  202.78  202.24   Total  2,681.25  2,847.36   * Excludes ` 83.56 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018.
19.
Other current assets* As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 a) Advances and other receivables  364.02  402.94  b) GST/VAT, other Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government    (Net of provision ` 1.86 crores and ` 3.61 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively.)
5,674.80  4,904.80  c) Prepaid expenses  1,440.35  1,106.21  e) Others  183.20  126.04   Total  7,662.37  6,539.99   * Excludes ` 33.75 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 291 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 20.
Income taxes  The domestic and foreign components of profit/(loss) before income tax is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Profit/(loss) before income taxes  India  (963.60)  (2,657.73)  Other than India  12,118.63  11,972.52   Total  11,155.03  9,314.79   The domestic and foreign components of income tax expense is as follows: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Current taxes  India 242.00  184.55   Other than India  3,061.46  2,953.11  Deferred taxes  India 48.49  186.00   Other than India  989.98  (72.43) Total income tax expense  4,341.93  3,251.23   The reconciliation of estimated income tax to income tax expense is as follows: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Pfofit /(Loss) before tax  11,155.03  9,314.79  Income tax expense at tax rates applicable to individual entities  2,248.91  1,621.79  Additional deduction for patent, research and product development cost  (409.98)  (745.58) Items (net) not deductible for tax /not liable to tax : - foreign currency (gain)/loss relating to loans and deposits (net)  133.62  (73.98) - interest and other expenses relating to borrowings for investment  33.78  53.10  - Dividend from subsidiaries, joint operations, equity accounted investees and other  investments   (5.01)  2.71  Profit on sale of business to a wholly owned subsidiary  -    407.89  Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint operations and equity accounted investees 917.01  389.17  Deferred tax assets not recognised because realization is not probable  990.23  2,243.94  Utilization/credit of unrecognised tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and other tax benefits  (358.33)  (350.90) Impact of change in statutory tax rates  539.26  (524.96) Others  252.44  228.05  Income tax expense reported  4,341.93  3,251.23   The UK Finance Act 2016 was enacted during the year ended March 31, 2017 which included provisions for a reduction in the UK  Corporation tax rate to 17% with effect from April 1, 2020.
Accordingly, UK deferred tax has been provided at rates applicable when the  temporary difference is expected to reverse.
Included within ‘Impact of change in statutory tax rates’ is a charge of ` 464.84 crores for the impact of the change in the US Federal  rate from 35% to 21% on deferred tax assets for the year ended March 31, 2018.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 292   Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows: (` in crores) Opening  balance Recognised  in profit or  loss Recognised in/ reclassified  from other  comprehensive  income MAT Credit  Utilised Classified as  held for sale Closing  balance Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation  2,574.50  1.86  1.58 -  (13.21)  2,564.73  Business loss carry forwards  3,292.38 1,340.70  328.41 -  -   4,961.49 Expenses deductible in future years: - provisions, allowances for doubtful  receivables and others  2,828.72 72.85  123.31 -  (3.49) 3,021.39 Compensated absences and  retirement benefits  2,172.96  (722.47)  (594.16) -  (13.70)  842.63 Minimum alternate tax carry-forward  74.92 1.26 - (34.21)  (3.78) 38.19 Property, plant and equipment  111.90  (30.83)  11.58 -  -    92.65  Derivative financial instruments  4,428.94  (582.98)  (3,090.32) - (0.39)    755.25  Inventory  1,609.40  (303.82)  202.34 -  -    1,507.92  Others  796.44  200.77  152.37 -  (9.34) 1,140.24 Total deferred tax assets  17,890.16 (22.66)  (2,864.89) (34.21)  (43.91) 14,924.49 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment  2,702.20 8.39  45.35 -  (15.87) 2,740.07 Intangible assets  10,484.89  530.51  1,165.71 -  2.74  12,183.85  Undistributed earnings in  subsidiaries, joint operations and  equity accounted investees  1,337.63  508.16 *  93.93 -  -    1,939.72  Fair valuation of retained interest in a  subsidiary subsequent to disposal of  controlling equity interest  16.95  -    -   -  -    16.95  Derivative financial instruments  23.12  (23.12) - - - - Others  42.03  (8.12)  (13.29) -  (9.62)  11.00  Total deferred tax liabilities  14,606.82 1,015.82  1,291.70 -  (22.75) 16,891.59 Net assets/(liabilities)  3,283.34  (1,038.48)  (4,156.59) (34.21)  (21.16)  (1,967.10) Deferred tax assets 4,158.70 Deferred tax liabilities (6,125.80)  * Net of ` 408.85 crores reversed on dividend distribution by subsidiaries.
As at March 31, 2018, unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to ` 3,461.67 crores and ` 6,257.80 crores, which can be carried  forward indefinitely and up to a specified period, respectively.
These relate primarily to depreciation carry forwards, other deductible  temporary differences and business losses.
The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the basis that its recovery is not  probable in the foreseeable future.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 293 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Unrecognised deferred tax assets expire unutilised based on the year of origination as follows: March 31, (` in crores) 2019  29.72 2020  54.35 2021  320.39 2022  90.58 2023  1,217.18 Thereafter  4,545.58  The Company has not recognised deferred tax liability on undistributed profits of certain subsidiaries amounting to` 74,589.17 crores  and ` 40,965.53 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, because it is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary  differences associated with such undistributed profits and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable  future.
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2017 are as follows: Opening balance Recognised in  profit or loss Recognised in/ reclassified  from other  comprehensive  income Closing balance Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation  2,010.81  563.75  (0.06)  2,574.50  Business loss carry forwards  3,234.23  293.99  (235.84)  3,292.38  Expenses deductible in future years: - provisions, allowances for doubtful receivables  and others  4,034.57  (1,063.87)  (141.98)  2,828.72  Compensated absences and retirement benefits  1,186.90  (1.20)  987.26  2,172.96  Minimum alternate tax carry-forward  58.26  16.66  -    74.92  Property, plant and equipment  216.83  (72.74)  (32.19)  111.90  Derivative financial instruments  2,296.64  (35.07)  2,167.37  4,428.94  Unrealised profit on inventory  1,223.34  534.47  (148.41)  1,609.40  Others  652.10  205.49  (61.15)  796.44  Total deferred tax assets  14,913.68  441.48  2,535.00  17,890.16  Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment  2,743.13  (41.01)  0.08  2,702.20  Intangible assets  11,258.14  576.72  (1,349.97)  10,484.89  Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries joint  operations and equity accounted investees  1,343.63  23.81*  (29.81)  1,337.63  Fair valuation of retained interest in a subsidiary  subsequent to disposal of controlling equity  interest  16.95  -    -    16.95  Derivative financial instruments  4.04  19.32  (0.24)  23.12  Others  65.54  (23.79)  0.28  42.03  Total deferred tax liabilities  15,431.43  555.05  (1,379.66)  14,606.82  Net assets/(liabilities)  (517.75)  (113.57)  3,914.66  3,283.34  Deferred tax assets  4,457.34  Deferred tax liabilities  (1,174.00)  * Net of ` 365.36 crores reversed on dividend distributions by subsidiaries.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 294  21.
Equity Share Capital  (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Authorised: (i) 400,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  800.00  700.00  (as at March 31, 2017: 350,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (ii) 100,00,00,000 A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  200.00  200.00  (as at March 31, 2017: 100,00,00,000 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (iii) 30,00,00,000 Convertible Cumulative Preference shares of ` 100 each  3,000.00  3,000.00  (as at March 31, 2017: 30,00,00,000 shares of ` 100 each) TOTAL  4,000.00  3,900.00  (b) Issued [Note (j)]: (i) 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  577.57  577.57  (as at March 31, 2017: 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (ii) 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  101.75  101.75  (as at March 31, 2017: 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) Total  679.32  679.32  ( c) Subscribed and called up: (i) 288,73,48,694 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  577.47  577.47  (as at March 31, 2017: 288,73,48,428 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (ii) 50,85,02,371 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  101.70  101.70  (as at March 31, 2017: 50,85,02,291 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) (d) Calls unpaid - Ordinary shares  (0.00)*  (0.00)* 310 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each ( ` 1 outstanding on each) and 260 Ordinary  shares of ` 2 each (` 0.50 outstanding on each) (as at March 31, 2017: 310 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (` 1 outstanding on each)  and 260 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (` 0.50 outstanding on each) ) (e) Paid-up (c+d):  679.17  679.17  (f) Forfeited - Ordinary shares  0.05  0.05  Total (e + f)  679.22  679.22   (g) The movement of number of shares and share capital  (No.
of shares)  (` in crores)  (No.
of shares)  (` in crores)  Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 (i) Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1  2,887,348,428  577.47 2,887,203,602  577.44  Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance  266 0.00*  144,826  0.03  Balance as at  March 31  2,887,348,694  577.47  2,887,348,428  577.47  (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1  508,502,291  101.70  508,476,704  101.70  Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance  80 0.00*  25,587 0.00* Balance as at  March 31  508,502,371  101.70  508,502,291  101.70   (h)  The entitlements to 4,94,352 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each (as at March 31, 2017 : 4,94,618 Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) and  2,33,739 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each  (as at March 31, 2017 : 2,33,819 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of ` 2 each) are subject matter of  various suits filed in the courts / forums by third parties for which final order is awaited and hence kept in abeyance.
* less than ` 50,000/-      NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 295 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  ( i) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :   (i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of ` 2 each :    • The Company has two classes of shares – the Ordinary shares and the ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of ` 2 each (together  referred to as shares).
In respect of every Ordinary share (whether fully or partly paid), voting rights shall be in the  same proportion as the capital paid up on such Ordinary share bears to the total paid up Ordinary share capital of the  Company.
In case of every ‘A’ Ordinary share, if any resolution is put to vote on a poll or by postal ballot at any general  meeting of shareholders, the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms  of its issue and if a resolution is put to vote on a show of hands, the holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the  same number of votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares.
• The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual  General Meeting.
Further, the Board of Directors may also declare an interim dividend.
The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary  shares shall be entitled to receive dividend for each financial year at five percentage point more than the aggregate rate  of dividend declared on Ordinary shares for that financial year.
• In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution  of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholdings.
(ii) American Depository Shares (ADSs) and Global Depository Shares (GDSs) :    • Each ADS and GDS underlying the ADR and GDR respectively represents five Ordinary shares of ` 2 each.
A holder  of ADS and GDS is not entitled to attend or vote at shareholders meetings.
An ADS holder is entitled to issue voting  instructions to the Depository with respect to the Ordinary shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the  provisions of the Company’s ADSs deposit agreement and Indian Law.
The depository for the ADSs and GDSs shall  exercise voting rights in respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms  of the respective deposit agreements.
• Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of ` 2 each in  all respects including entitlement of the dividend declared.
(j) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital : As at March 31,  2018 As at March 31, 2017  % Issued Share  Capital No.
of Shares % Issued Share  Capital No.
of Shares (i) Ordinary shares : (a) Tata Sons Limited 32.72% 96,13,81,852 28.71% 82,89,70,378  (b) Life Insurance Corporation of India 5.08% 14,92,95,627 5.18% 14,94,23,428  ( c) Citibank N A as Depository  # 43,70,24,750  # 53,04,96,280  (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares : (a) HDFC Trustee Company Limited-HDFC  Equity Fund * 34,40,000 8.19% 4,16,71,282  (b) ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage Fund 9.44% 4,79,98,379  -    -    ( c) Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund 8.74% 4,44,31,036  -    -    (d) HDFC Large Cap Fund 5.15% 2,62,02,083  -    -    (e) Government of Singapore 6.78% 3,44,87,840  *  21,602,490  (f) Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund * 1,42,99,041 5.96% 3,03,29,225    # held by Citibank, N.A.
as depository for American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs)   * Less than 5%  (k) Information regarding issue of shares in the last five years    (a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash.
(b) The Company has not issued any bonus shares.
( c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 296  22.
Other components of equity  (a) The movement of Currency translation reserve is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  (5,300.13)  4,652.20  Exchange differences arising on translating the net assets of foreign operations (net)  9,491.95  (9,647.63) Net change in translation reserve - equity accounted investees (net)  429.41  (304.70) Balance at the end  4,621.23  (5,300.13)  (b) The movement of Equity instruments held as fair value through other comprehensive income(FVTOCI) is as follows: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  (19.26)  (102.70) Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  42.86  83.44  Fair value (gain)/loss reclassified to retained earnings on equity instruments held as  FVTOCI (net)  (0.78)  -    Balance at the end  22.82  (19.26)  ( c) The movement of Hedging reserve is as follows: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  (17,911.63)  (6,152.15) Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges  8,700.95  (23,738.38) Income tax relating to gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges  (1,626.88)  4,558.18  (Gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss  10,328.81  10,296.01  Income tax relating to gain/(loss) reclassified to profit or loss  (1,957.86)  (2,059.16) Amounts removed from hedge reserve and recognised in inventory  (1,431.40)  (1,020.39) Income tax related to amounts removed from hedge reserve and recognised in  inventory  271.97  204.26  Balance at the end  (3,626.04)  (17,911.63)  (d) The movement of Cost of hedging reserve is as follows: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Balance at the beginning  (74.22)  4.70  Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges of inventory  186.13  (106.02) Income tax relating to gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges  (35.47)  -    Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges of forecast sales  81.56  9.50  Income tax relating to gain/loss recognised on cash flow hedges  (14.95)  17.60  Amounts removed from hedge reserve and recognised in inventory  1.15  -    Income tax related to amounts removed from hedge reserve and recognised in inventory  (0.22)  -    Balance at the end  143.98  (74.22) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 297 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  (e) Summary of Other components of equity: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Currency translation reserve  4,621.23  (5,300.13) Equity instruments held as FVTOCI  22.82  (19.26) Hedging reserve  (3,626.04)  (17,911.63) Cost of hedging reserve  143.98  (74.22) Total  1,161.99  (23,305.24) 23.
Notes to reserves and dividends  (a) Securities premium   The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium Account.
(b) Retained earnings   Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date.
( c) Capital redemption reserve   The Indian Companies Act, 2013 (the “Companies Act”) requires that where a company purchases its own shares  out of free  reserves or securities premium account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to   capital redemption reserve account and details of such transfer shall be disclosed in the Balance Sheet.
The capital redemption  reserve account may be applied by the Company, in paying up unissued shares of the Company to be issued to shareholders of  the Company as fully paid bonus shares.
Tata Motors Limited established this reserve pursuant to the redemption of preference  shares issued in earlier years.
(d) Debenture redemption reserve   The Companies Act requires that where a company issues debentures, it shall create a debenture redemption reserve out of  profits of the Company available for payment of dividend.
The company is required to maintain a Debenture Redemption Reserve  of 25% of the value of debentures issued, either by a public issue or on a private placement basis.
The amounts credited to the  debenture redemption reserve may not be utilised by the Company except to redeem debentures.
(e) Reserve for research and human resource development   In terms of Article 9 of the Act on Special Taxation Restriction in Korea, Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (TDCV,  a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited) is entitled for deferment of tax in respect of expenditures incurred on product development  cost subject to fulfillment of certain conditions, by way of deduction from the taxable income, provided that TDCV appropriates  an equivalent amount from “Retained Earnings” to “Reserve for Research and Human Resource Development”.
The deferment is for a period of three years and from the fourth year onwards one-third of the reserve is offered to tax and an  equal amount is then transferred from the reserve to “Retained earnings available for appropriation”.
(f) Special reserve   Special reserve represents the reserve created by two subsidiaries of Tata Motors Limited pursuant to the Reserve Bank of  India Act, 1934 (the “RBI Act”) and related regulations applicable to those companies.
Under the RBI Act, a non-banking finance  company is required to transfer an amount not less than 20% of its net profit to a reserve fund before declaring any dividend.
Appropriation from this reserve fund is permitted only for the purposes specified by the RBI.
(g) Earned surplus reserve   Under the Korean commercial code, TDCV is required to appropriate at least 10% of cash dividend declared each year  to a legal  reserve until such reserves equal to 50% of capital stock.
This reserve may not be utilised for cash dividends, but may only be  used to offset against future deficits, if any, or may be transferred to capital stock.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 298   (h) Hedge Reserve   Effective portion of fair value gain/(loss) on all financial instrument designated in cash flow hedge relationship are accumulated  in hedge reserve.
(i) Cost of hedge reserve   Fair value gain/(loss) attributable to cost of hedge on all financial instrument designated in cash flow hedge relationship are  accumulated in cost of hedge reserve.
(j) Capital reserve   The capital reserve represents the excess of the Company‘s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets,  liabilities and contingent liabilities over the purchase consideration.
(k) Dividends   The final dividend is recommended by the Board of Directors and is recorded in the books of account upon its approval by the  shareholders.
For the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, considering the losses in the Tata Motors Limited (standalone), No  dividend is permitted to be paid to the members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder.
24.
Long-term borrowings (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Secured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures  2,005.58  3,045.24  (b) Collateralised debt obligations  592.49  453.99  ( c) Term loans: (i) from banks  4,909.55  4,062.68  (ii) other parties  201.31  141.84  (d) Finance lease obligations  46.75  54.01  Unsecured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures  8,694.50  8,668.80  (b) Term loans: (i) from banks  8,753.12  9,475.88  (ii) other parties  55.67  54.12  ( c) Senior notes  35,045.72  34,227.81  (d) Others  894.81  444.81  Total  61,199.50  60,629.18  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 299 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 25.
Short-term borrowings (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Secured: (a) Loans from banks  5,104.30  4,795.01  (b) Loans from other parties  171.11  79.77  Unsecured: (a) Loans from banks  851.89  733.58  (b) Loans from other parties  -    15.91  ( c) Inter corporate deposits from associates  86.00  56.00  (d) Commercial paper  10,581.55  8,179.67  Total  16,794.85  13,859.94   Collaterals  Inventory, trade receivables, finance receivables, other financial assets, property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of  ` 18,196.91 crores and ` 17,105.18 crores are pledged as collateral/security against the borrowing as at March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively.
Notes :  Nature of Security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) :  Long Term Borrowing  (A) Non convertible debentures   (i) Rated, Listed, Secured, 9.95% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to `200 crores included within Long-term  borrowings in note 24 and 10.25% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to `500 crores included within Current  maturities of long-term borrowings in note 27 are secured by a pari passu charge by way of an English mortgage of the  Company’s freehold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding  stock and book debts) situated at Sanand in the State of Gujarat.
10.25% Coupon Non-Convertible Debentures amounting  `500 crores has been classified as current liabilities, since the Company has exercised call option to redeem in full, at the  end of 8th year from the date of allotment i.e.
on April 30, 2018.
(ii) Privately placed non-convertible debentures amounting to `1,805.58 crores included within Long-term borrowings in note  24 and `2,024.28 crores included within Current maturities of long-term borrowings in note 27 are fully secured by :    (a) First pari passu charge on residential flat of Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL), formerly known as Sheba Properties  Limited (SPL), an indirect subsidiary of the Company    (b) Pari - passu charge is created in favour of debenture trustee on :     -  All receivables of TMFL arising out of loan and lease transactions,     -  All book debts, trade advances forming part of movable property of SPL.
(c  )   Any other security as identified by TMFL acceptable to the debenture trustee.
(B) Collateralised debt obligation   Collateralised debt obligation represent amount received against finance receivables securitised/assigned, which does not  qualify for derecognition.
The repayment are due from financial year ending March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2020.
( C) Long-term loan from banks/financial institutions and Government   (i) Term loans from banks amounting to `3,704.11 crores included within long-term borrowings and `184.82 crores included  within current maturities of long-term borrowings are secured by a pari-passu charge in favour of the security trustee on  all receivables of TMFL arising out of loan, lease, all other book debts; and such other current assets as may be identified by  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 300  TMFL from time to time and accepted by the relevant lender/security trustee.
(ii) Term loans from banks amounting to `570.00 crores included within long-term borrowings are secured by way of a  charge  created on all receivables of Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (TMFSL) arising out of loan, lease, trade advacnes and  all other book debts; and such other current assets as may be identified by TMFSL from time to time and accepted by the  relevant lender.
(iii) The term loan of `584.82 crores (recorded in books at `133.39 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending March  31, 2033 to quarter ending March 31, 2038, along with simple interest at the rate of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is secured by a  second and subservient charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s freehold land together with immovable  properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand plant in the  State of Gujarat.
(iv) The term loan of `53.90 crores (recorded in books at `18.87 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending June  30, 2030 to March 31, 2033, along with a simple interest of 0.01% p.a.
The loan is secured by bank gurantee for the due  performance of the conditions as per the terms of the agreement.
(v) Loans from Banks and External Commercial Borrowings (ECB) amounting to `635.45 crores included within long-term  borrowings and `112.42 crores included within current maturity of long-term borrowings are secured by exclusive first  charge on building and all movable fixed assets and also by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company  viz.
stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery  (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including  receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all  other movable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future.
(vi) The term loan of `49.05 crores included within Long -term borrowings and `4.95 crores included within current maturity of  long-term borrowing are secured by pari passu first charge on fixed assets of Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited.
(D) Short-term borrowings   Loans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the  Company viz.
stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery  (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including  receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all other  movable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future.
Long-Term Borrowings: Terms  (A) Senior notes (Euro MTF listed debt)   The senior notes of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (JLR) are listed on the Euro MTF market, which is a listed market regulated  by the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
Details of the tranches of the senior notes outstanding at March 31, 2018 are as follows: (` in crores) Particulars: Currency Amount    (in million) As at   March 31,  2018 As at   March 31, 2017 5.625% Senior Notes due 2023 USD 500  3,248.52  3,209.63  3.875% Senior Notes due 2023 GBP 400  3,666.48  3,210.84  5.000% Senior Notes due 2022 GBP 400  3,659.84  3,202.76  3.500% Senior Notes due 2020 USD 500  3,271.36  3,229.86  4.125% Senior Notes due 2018* USD 700  4,584.47  4,518.52  4.250% Senior Notes due 2019 USD 500  3,273.84  3,231.48  2.750% Senior Notes due 2021 GBP 300  2,750.46  2,406.52  2.200% Senior Notes due 2024 EUR 650  5,211.24  4,466.88  4.500% Senior Notes due 2027 USD 500  3,156.92  -     32,823.13  27,476.49    * Classified as other financial liabilities - current being maturity before March 31, 2019.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 301 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  (B) Senior notes (SGX-ST listed debt)   The senior notes of Tata Motors Limited and TML Holdings Pte Ltd are listed on the SGX-ST market, which is a listed market  regulated by the Singapore Stock Exchange.
Details of the tranches of the senior notes outstanding at March 31, 2018 are as follows: (` in crores) Particulars: Currency Amount    (in million) As at   March 31,  2018 As at   March 31, 2017 5.750% Senior Notes due 2024 USD 250  1,619.43 1,595.81 5.750% Senior Notes due 2021 USD 300  1,948.77  1,924.98  4.625% Senior Notes due 2020 USD 500  3,238.86 3,230.53  6,807.06  6,751.32   (C ) Non convertible debentures amounting to `10,700.08 crores included within long-term borrowing and `4,110.71 crores included  within current maturities of long term borrowings bear interest rate ranging from 7.28% to 11.50% and maturity ranging from April  2018 to September 2024.
(D) Loan from banks/ financial institutions consists of:   (i) Term loan amounting to `7,253.74 crores included within long-term borrowings and `1,423.25 crores included within current  maturities of long term borrowings bearing floating interest rate based on marginal cost of funds lending rate (MCLR) of  respective bank having maturity ranging from April, 2018 to March 2023.
(ii) External commercial borrowings in foreign currencies amounting to `629.86 crores included within long-term borrowing  and `83.95 crores included within current maturities of long term borrowings bearing floating interest rate based on LIBOR  maturing in May 2023.
(iii) Foreign currency term loan amounting to `5,828.12 crores included within long-term borrowing bearing floating interest  rate that are linked to LIBOR with maturity ranging from July 2020 to July 2023.
Short Term Borrowings - Terms:   (i) Short-term loan from banks and other parties(financial institutions) consist of cash credit, overdrafts, short term loan, bill  discounting amounting to `1,096.54 crores bearing fixed rate of interest ranging from 6.77% to 8.70% and `5,030.85 crores  bear floating rate of interest based on MCLR of respective banks and other bench mark rates.
(ii) Commercial paper are unsecured short term papers, issued at discount bearing no coupon interest.
The yield on commercial  paper issued by the Company ranges from 6.08% to 8.15%.
26.
Other financial liabilities – non-current As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 a) Derivative financial instruments  2,450.20  11,259.57  b) Liability towards employee separation scheme  85.22  72.36  c) Others  203.72  77.65  Total  2,739.14  11,409.58  27.
Other financial liabilities – current  As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 a) Current maturities of long-term borrowings  10,956.12  4,114.86  b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  1,095.72  943.24  c) Liability towards vehicles sold under repurchase arrangements  4,423.58  2,828.38  d) Liability for capital expenditure  8,219.45  3,120.40  e) Deposits and retention money  202.29  201.50  f) Derivative financial instruments  6,207.66  14,257.95  g) Deferred payment liability  -    70.08  h) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund   under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 (IEPF) not due  22.79  27.75  i) Others  139.88  70.67  Total  31,267.49  25,634.83  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 302  As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Notes: Current maturities of long term borrowings consist of : i) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (Secured)  2,524.28  1,852.30  ii) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (Unsecured)  1,586.43  950.00  iii) Collateralised debt obligation  728.09  573.39  iv) Finance lease obligation  22.23  22.13  v) Senior Notes  4,584.47  -    vi) Term loans from banks and others  1,510.62 717.04 Total 10,956.12 4,114.86 28.
Provisions (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31,  2017 Non-current a) Employee benefits obligations  738.00  732.97  b) Product warranty  9,453.60  7,360.69  c) Legal and product liability  219.95  384.52  d) Provision for residual risk  254.76  219.07  e) Provision for environmental liability  150.05  178.00  f) Annual maintenance contract  9.26  16.66  g) Other provisions  122.82  112.55  Total  10,948.44  9,004.46  Current a) Employee benefit obligations  106.64  68.93  b) Product warranty  6,481.50  4,670.64  c) Legal and product liability  1,099.92  881.49  d) Provision for residual risk  62.20  54.80  e) Provision for environmental liability  97.88  96.58  f) Annual maintenance contract  46.20  33.73  g) Other provisions  59.16  1.59  Total  7,953.50  5,807.76  Year ended March 31, 2018 Product warranty Legal and product  Liability Provision for  residual risk Provision for  environmental  liability Balance at the beginning  12,031.33  1,266.00  273.87  274.58 Provision made / (reversed) during the year * 8,533.88  209.13  44.10  (14.79) Provision used during the year  (6,590.59)  (316.65)  (21.11)  (45.64) Impact of discounting  152.14  -    -    - Impact of foreign exchange translation  1,813.03  161.39  20.10  33.78 Provision for asset classified as held for sale  (4.69)  -    -    - Balance at the end  15,935.10  1,319.87  316.96  247.93 Current  6,481.50  1,099.92  62.20  97.88 Non-current  9,453.60  219.95  254.76  150.05  * Provision made during the year includes estimated recovery from supplies ` 1,042.93 crores.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 303 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 29.
Other non-current liabilities* (` in crores) As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 a) Deferred revenue  7,001.76  5,161.37  b) Employee benefits obligations  4,100.76  11,984.02  c) Others  62.67  247.17    Total  11,165.19  17,392.56   * Excludes ` 246.57 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018.
30.
Other current liabilities* As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 a) Advances received from customers  1,431.25  1,711.15  b) Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service Tax, GST, Octroi etc)  3,176.86  2,658.93  c) Deferred revenue  2,411.53  1,764.98  d) Others  614.91  266.78    Total  7,634.55  6,401.84   Deferred revenue include:  (i) ` 187.67 crores as at March 31, 2018 and ` 227.92 crores as at March 31, 2017 grants relating to property, plant and equipment  relate to duty saved on import of capital goods and spares under the EPCG scheme.
Under such scheme, the Company is  committed to export prescribed times of the duty saved on import of capital goods over a specified period of time.
In case such  commitments are not met, the Company would be required to pay the duty saved along with interest to the regulatory authorities.
(ii) ` 2,702.00 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 2,047.24 crores as at March 31, 2017) relating to Research and Development Expenditure  Credit (RDEC) on qualifying expenditure incurred since April 1, 2013.
* Excludes ` 174.89 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018.
31.
Revenue from Operations Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 a) Sale of products (refer note 1 & 2 below) 283,748.32 265,436.34 b) Sale of services 3,033.90 2,432.51 c) Finance revenues  2,604.03  2,429.23  d) Other operating revenues  (refer note 3 below)  6,023.09  4,194.04    Total  295,409.34  274,492.12  Note: (1) Includes exchange gain/(loss) (net) on hedges reclassified from hedge reserve to  statement of profit or loss     (10,274.11)  (9,928.70)  (2) Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Service Tax (GST) with effect from July 1, 2017, Central Excise, Value Added Tax  (VAT), etc have been replaced by GST.
In accordance with Ind AS 18 on Revenue and Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013, GST,  GST Compensation Cess, etc.
are not included in sale of products for applicable periods.
In view of the aforesaid restructuring  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 304  of indirect taxes, sale of products for the year ended March 31, 2018 are not comparable with the previous periods.
Following  additional information is being provided to facilitate such comparison:  (` in crores)  Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 a) Sale of products 283,748.32 265,436.34 b) Excise duty  (1,166.77) (4,642.46)  c) Sale of products (net of excise duty) (a)- (b) 282,581.55  260,793.88   3) Other operating revenue include incentives form Governments of ` 1,555.58 crores and ` 1,485.63 crores for the year ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
This includes ` 387.67 crores and ` 561.04 crores, for the year ended March 31, 2018 and  2017, respectively, received by a foreign subsidiary as an indirect tax incentive that requires the subsidiary to meet certain criteria  relating to vehicle efficiency and investment in engineering and research and development and ` 338.78 crores and ` 504.72  crores, for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively for Research and Development Expenditure Credit (RDEC) on  qualifying expenditure.
32.
Other income Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 a) Interest income  711.81  562.21  b) Dividend income  15.77  10.51  c) Profit on sale of investments measured at FVTPL  129.26  176.14  d) MTM on investments measured at FVTPL  32.05  5.68    Total  888.89  754.54  33.
Employee benefits expense Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 a) Salaries, wages and bonus  23,686.45  22,409.51  b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds  3,218.30  2,826.23  c) Staff welfare expenses  3,395.34  3,097.15   Total  30,300.09  28,332.89   A subsidiary of the Company operates a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) arrangement for certain employees.
The scheme provides a  cash payment to the employee based on a specific number of phantom shares at grant and the share price of Tata Motors Limited at  the vesting date.
The cash payment is dependent on the performance of the underlying shares of Tata Motors Limited over the 3 year  vesting period and continued employment at the end of the vesting period.
The fair value of the awards is calculated using a Black- Scholes model at the grant date.
The fair value is updated at each reporting date as the awards are accounted for as cash-settled plan.
The inputs into the model are based on the Tata Motors Limited historic data, the risk-free rate and the weighted average fair value  of shares, in the scheme at the reporting date.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the subsidiary company issued its final LTIP  based on the share price of Tata Motors Limited.
The amount released in relation to the LTIP was ` 8.55 crores and `70.13 crores for  the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company considers these amounts as not material and accordingly has  not provided further disclosures as required by Ind AS 102 “Share-based payment”.
During the year ended March 31, 2017, the subsidiary has launched a new long-term employment benefit scheme which provides a  cash payment to certain employees based on subsidiary’s performance against long-term business metrics.
This new LTIP scheme  has been accounted for in accordance with Ind  AS 19 “Employee benefits”.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 305 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 34.
Finance costs  (` in crores)  Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 a) Interest  4,987.93  4,778.68  b) Less: Interest capitalised*  (1,294.32)  (1,294.10) c) Add: Exchange fluctuation considered as interest cost  6.19  -     3,699.80  3,484.58  d) Discounting charges  981.99  753.43    Total  4,681.79  4,238.01   * Represents borrowing costs capitalised during the year on qualifying assets (property plant and equipment and product  development).
The weighted average rate for capitalisation of interest relating to general borrowings was approximately 4.26% and 4.40% for the  years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
35.
Other expenses Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 (a) Processing charges  1,339.08  1,172.03  (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts  2,210.56  2,419.11  ( c) Power and fuel  1,308.08  1,159.82  (d) Information Technology (IT) related/Computer expenses  2,143.18  2,202.51  (e) Engineering expense  5,278.84  4,273.72  (f) MTM (gain)/loss on commodity derivatives  214.63  918.40  (g) Warranty and product liability expenses  7,700.07  8,106.37  (h) Freight, transportation, port charges etc.
10,742.12  9,754.71  (i) Publicity  8,968.59  8,698.68  (j) Allowances/(reversal) for trade and other receivables  14.57  132.93  (k) Allowances/(reversal) for finance receivables  43.30  (28.15) (l) Works operation and other expenses (note below)  20,221.19  16,619.93   Total  60,184.21  55,430.06   Note  Works operation and other expenses : Year ended  March 31,  2018 Year ended  March 31,  2017 (i) Auditors' remuneration (i) Audit fees  55.59  59.28  (ii) Tax Audit fees  1.62  2.70  (iii) All other fees  4.72  4.07  Total  61.93  66.05  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 306  36.
Employee benefits   Defined Benefit Plan   Pension and post retirement medical plans  The following table sets out the funded and unfunded status and the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the pension  and the post retirement medical plans in respect of Tata Motors, its Indian subsidiaries and joint operations:  (` in crores) Pension benefits Post retirement medical  benefits As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018  As at March  31, 2017 Change in defined benefit obligations : Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year  980.76  923.86  183.86  160.05  Current service cost  72.25  65.71  10.20  8.19  Interest cost  68.76  69.51  13.06  12.33  Remeasurements  (gains) / losses  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in demographic  assumptions  (16.03)  (0.96)  (11.40)  2.17   Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial  assumptions  22.88  16.01  (2.70)  21.82   Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience  adjustments  10.50  (6.50)  (28.96)  (10.46) Benefits paid from plan assets  (116.85)  (77.89)  -    -    Benefits paid directly by employer  (5.98)  (8.98)  (10.01)  (10.24) Past service cost - Plan amendment  8.50  -    -    -    Defined benefit obligation, end of the year  1,024.79  980.76  154.05  183.86  Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year  841.78  799.69  -    -    Interest income  63.33  60.05  -    -    Remeasurements  gains / (losses) Return on  plan assets, (excluding  amount included in net Interest cost)  (2.69)  26.41  -    -    Employer’s contributions  120.47  33.52  -    -    Benefits paid  (116.85)  (77.89)  -    -    Fair value of plan assets, end of the year  906.04  841.78  -    -    Amount recognised in the balance sheet consists of: Present value of defined benefit obligation  1,024.79  980.76  154.05  183.86  Fair value of plan assets  906.04  841.78  -    -    Net liability  (118.75)  (138.98)  (154.05)  (183.86) Amounts in the balance sheet: Non–current assets  1.57  6.55  -    -    Non–current liabilities  (106.98)  (145.53)  (142.01)  (183.86) Liabilities for asset classified as held for sale  (13.34)  -    (12.04)  -    Net liability  (118.75)  (138.98)  (154.05)  (183.86) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 307 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of: Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018  As at March  31, 2017 Remeasurements  (gains) / losses (6.66)  (26.70)  (38.22)  4.84  (6.66)  (26.70)  (38.22)  4.84   Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: Pension benefits As at  March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 Defined benefit obligation 141.08  795.37  Fair value of plan assets 126.29  757.55   Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation less than plan assets: Pension benefits As at  March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 Defined benefit obligation 778.18 77.69 Fair value of plan assets 779.75 84.23  Information for unfunded plans: Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits As at March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 As at  March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 Defined benefit obligation  105.53  107.70  154.05  183.86   Net pension and post retirement medical cost consist of the following components: Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Service cost 72.25  65.71  10.20  8.19  Net interest cost / (income)  5.43  9.46  13.06  12.33  Past service cost - Plan amendment  8.50  -    -    -    Net periodic cost 86.18  75.17  23.26  20.52   Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income.
Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Remeasurements Return on  plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest  expense)  2.69  (26.41)  -    -    Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions  (16.03) (0.96)  (11.40)  2.17  Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions  22.88 16.01  (2.70)  21.82  Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in experience  adjustments on plan liabilities  10.50  (6.50)  (28.96)  (10.46) Total recognised in other comprehensive income  20.04  (17.86)  (43.06)  13.53  Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and   other comprehensive income 106.22  57.31  (19.80)  34.05  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 308   The assumptions used in accounting for the pension and post retirement medical plans are set out below: Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits As at  March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 As at  March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 Discount rate 7.5% - 8.0% 6.75%-7.5% 8.0% 7.3% Rate of increase in compensation  level of covered employees 5.0% - 12.0% 4.0% - 11.0% NA NA Increase in health care cost NA NA 6.0% 6.0%  Plan Assets  The fair value of Company’s pension plan asset as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 by category are as follows: Asset category: Pension benefits As at  March 31, 2018  As at March 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 6.0% 1.0% Debt instruments (quoted) 68.4% 72.0% Debt instruments  (unquoted) 0.3% 5.0% Equity instruments (quoted) 1.7% 1.0% Deposits with Insurance companies 23.6% 21.0% 100.0% 100.0%  The Company’s policy is driven by considerations of maximizing returns while ensuring credit quality of the debt instruments.
The  asset allocation for plan assets is determined based on investment criteria prescribed under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, and is  also subject to other exposure limitations.
The Company evaluates the risks, transaction costs and liquidity for potential investments.
To measure plan asset performance, the Company compares actual returns for each asset category with published bench marks.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2018 is 14.51 years (2017 : 16.06 years)  The Company expects to contribute ` 85.63 crores to the funded pension plans in Fiscal 2019.
The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/ increase of 1% in the assumed discount rate, salary escalation and health care cost: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit  obligation Impact on service cost and  interest cost Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by ` 91.80 crores Decrease by ` 21.11 crores Decrease by 1% Increase by ` 106.73 crores Increase by ` 21.67 crores Salary escalation rate Increase by 1% Increase by ` 81.51 crores Increase by ` 19.50 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 72.24 crores Decrease by ` 18.62 crores Health care cost Increase by 1% Increase by` 19.12 crores Increase by ` 4.57 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 16.07 crores Decrease by ` 3.72 crores NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 309 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Severance indemnity plan  Severance indemnity is a funded plan of Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Limited (TDCV), a subsidiary of Tata Motors  Limited.
The following table sets out, the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the severance indemnity plan.
(` in crores) As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Change in defined benefit obligation: Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year  348.26  333.92  Service cost  45.26  48.62  Interest cost  7.90  6.34  Remeasurements  (gains) / losses Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions  (0.14)  (15.65) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan  liabilities  14.70  (19.53) Benefits paid from plan assets  (7.08)  (4.26) Benefits paid directly by employer  (3.49)  (1.35) Foreign currency translation  20.22  0.17  Defined benefit obligation, end of the year  425.63  348.26  Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year  324.53  261.76  Interest income  8.15  5.58  Remeasurements gain / (loss) Return on  plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense)  (5.13)  (2.54) Employer’s contributions  65.64  64.64  Benefits paid  (7.08)  (4.68) Foreign currency translation  19.25  (0.23) Fair value of plan assets, end of the year  405.36  324.53  Amount recognised in the balance sheet consist of: As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Present value of defined benefit obligation  425.63  348.26  Fair value of plan assets  405.36  324.53  Net liability  (20.27)  (23.73) Amounts in the balance sheet: Non- current liabilities  (20.27)  (23.73)  Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income for severance indemnity consists of: As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Remeasurements  (gains) / losses  (77.12)  (96.81)  (77.12)  (96.81) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 310   Net severance indemnity cost consist of the following components: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Service cost  45.26  48.62  Net interest cost  (0.25)  0.76  Net periodic pension cost  45.01  49.38   Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income for severance indemnity plan: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 Remeasurements (gains) / losses Return on  plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense)  5.13  2.54  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions  (0.14)  (15.65) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan liabilities  14.70  (19.53) Total recognised in other comprehensive income  19.69  (32.64) Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income  64.70  16.74   The assumptions used in accounting for the Severance indemnity plan is set out below: As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Discount rate 2.8% 2.3% Rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 3.5% 3.0%  The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/ increase of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation rate:  Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit  obligation Impact on service cost and  interest cost Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by ` 41.49 crores Decrease by ` 11.32 crores Decrease by 1% Increase by ` 48.43 crores Increase by ` 12.43 crores Salary escalation rate Increase by 1% Increase by ` 47.59 crores Increase by ` 13.26 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 41.60 crores Decrease by ` 11.46 crores  Severance indemnity plans asset allocation by category is as follows: As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31,  2017 Deposit with banks 100% 100%  The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2018 is 10.65 years (2017 : 10.85 years)  The Company expects to contribute `  23.79 crores to the funded severance indemnity plans in Fiscal 2019.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 311 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Jaguar Land Rover Pension plan  Jaguar Land Rover Ltd  UK, have pension arrangements providing qualifying employees with defined benefits related to pay and  service as set out in the rules of each fund.
The UK defined benefit schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company.
The trustees of the  pension schemes are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme is responsible  for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the schemes and all other governance matters.
The board of trustees must be  composed of representatives of the Company and plan participants in accordance with the plan’s regulations.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed  below :  Asset volatility  The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to corporate bond yields; if plan assets under perform  compared to the corporate bonds discount rate, this will create or increase a deficit.
The defined benefit plans hold a significant  proportion of equity type assets, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and  risk in the short-term.
As the plans mature, the Company intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the  liabilities.
However, the Company believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group,  a level of continuing equity type investments is an appropriate element of the Company’s long term strategy to manage the plans  efficiently.
Changes in bond yields  A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the  value of the plans’ bond holdings and interest rate hedging instruments.
Inflation risk  Some of the Company’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most  cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation).
The plans hold a significant  proportion of assets in index linked gilts, together with other inflation hedging instruments and also assets which are more loosely  correlated with inflation.
However an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit to some degree.
Life expectancy  The majority of the plan’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an  increase in the plan’s liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK defined benefit plans, where inflationary increases result in  higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The following table sets out the disclosure pertaining to employee benefits of Jaguar Land Rover Limited (` in crores) Pension benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Change in defined benefit obligation: Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year  80,667.69  73,179.07  Service cost  1,856.13  1,735.73  Interest cost  2,058.43  2,410.74  Remeasurements  (gains) / losses Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions  (1,799.04)  (666.24) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions  (3,017.78)  20,469.33  Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan  liabilities  (848.75)  (1,867.22) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 312  Pension benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Past service cost  (3,609.01)  -    Plan settlement  (180.76)  -    Benefits paid  (8,444.13)  (1,972.42) Member contributions  32.48  17.53  Foreign currency translation  10,064.78  (12,638.83) Defined benefit obligation, end of the year  76,780.04  80,667.69  Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year  68,845.49  67,803.30  Interest Income  1,866.13  2,261.71  Remeasurements gains / (losses) Return on  plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense)  (997.46)  10,072.49  Employer’s contributions  2,455.42  1,989.95  Members contributions  32.48  17.53  Plan settlement  (174.95)  -    Benefits paid  (8,444.13)  (1,972.42) Expenses paid  (77.77)  (78.90) Foreign currency translation  9,232.68  (11,248.17) Fair value of plan assets, end of the year  72,737.89  68,845.49   Amount recognised in the balance sheet consist of: Pension benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Present value of defined benefit obligation  76,780.04  80,667.69  Fair value of plan assets  72,737.89  68,845.49  Net liability  (4,042.15)  (11,822.20) Amount recognised in the balance sheet consist of: Non- current assets  -    3.81  Non -current liabilities  (4,042.15)  (11,826.01) Net liability  (4,042.15)  (11,822.20)  Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consist of : Pension benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Remeasurements (gains) / losses  (1,649.79)  3,018.32   (1,649.79)  3,018.32  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 313 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Net pension and post retirement cost consist of the following components: (` in crores) Pension benefits Year ended   March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 Current service cost  1,856.13  1,735.73  Past service cost  (3,609.01)  -    Administrative expenses  77.77  78.90  Plan settlement  (5.81)  -    Net interest cost / (income) (Including onerous obligations)  192.30  149.03  Net periodic pension cost  (1,488.62)  1,963.66   Amount recognised in other comprehensive income Pension benefits Year ended   March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions  (1,799.04)  (666.24) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions  (3,017.78)  20,469.33  Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan liabilities  (848.75)  (1,867.22) Return on  plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense)  997.46  (10,072.49) Change in onerous obligation, excluding amounts included in interest expenses  -    (17.53) Total recognised in other comprehensive income  (4,668.11)  7,845.85  Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income  (6,156.73)  9,809.51   The assumptions used in accounting for the pension plans are set out below: Pension benefits As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 Discount rate 2.7% 2.6% Expected rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 2.3% 3.7% Inflation increase 3.1% 3.2% For the valuation as at March 31, 2018, the mortality assumptions used are the SAPS base table, in particular S2PxA tables and the  Light table for members of the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan.
For the Jaguar Pension Plan, scaling factors of 113%  to 119%  have been used for male members and scaling factors of 102%  to 114%   have been used for female members.
For the Land Rover Pension Scheme, scaling factors of 108%  to 113%  have been used for male members and scaling factors of 102%  to 111% have been used for female members.
For the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan, an average scaling factor of 95% has been used for male members and an average scaling  factor of 85% has been used for female members.
For the valuation as at March 31, 2017, the mortality assumption used are the SAPS base table, in particular S2NxA tables and the  light table for member of Jaguar Executive Pension Plan.
A scaling factor of 120% for males and 110% for females has been used for  Jaguar Pension Plan, 115% for males and 105% for females for Land Rover Pension scheme, and 95% for males and 85% for females  for the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan.
There is an allowance for future improvements in line with the CMI (2017) projections and an allowance for long-term improvements  of 1.25% per annum (2017, CMI (2014) projections with 1.25% per annum improvements).
The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are (years) Retiring today : Males  21.3  21.5  Females 23.4  24.5  Retiring in 20 years : Males 22.5  23.3  Females 25.1  26.3  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 314   Pension plans asset allocation by category is as follows:  (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 2017 Quoted * Unquoted Total Quoted * Unquoted Total Equity Instruments Information Technology  1,218.16  -    1,218.16  1,149.04  -    1,149.04  Energy  516.79  -    516.79  493.60  -    493.60  Manufacturing  885.93  -    885.93  841.55  -    841.55  Financials  1,393.50  -    1,393.50  1,327.06  -    1,327.06  Others  3,848.27  -    3,848.27  3,649.43  -    3,649.43   7,862.65  -    7,862.65  7,460.68  -    7,460.68  Debt Instruments Government 35,169.67  -   35,169.67  23,709.13  -    23,709.13  Corporate Bonds (Investment Grade)  184.57  16,943.46  17,128.03  161.84  16,758.23  16,920.07  Corporate Bonds (Non Investment  Grade)  -    5,389.42  5,389.42  995.30  3,350.03  4,345.33  35,354.24  22,332.88 57,687.12  24,866.27  20,108.26  44,974.53  Property Funds UK  -    1,522.70  1,522.70  -    1,537.45  1,537.45  Other  -    1,476.55  1,476.55  -    1,262.33  1,262.33   -    2,999.25  2,999.25  -    2,799.78  2,799.78  Cash and Cash equivalents  2,010.94  -    2,010.94  752.54  -    752.54  Other Hedge Funds  -    3,285.33  3,285.33  -    3,261.02  3,261.02  Private Markets  18.46  2,325.57  2,344.03  -    1,407.98  1,407.98  Alternatives  4,337.38  1,974.89  6,312.27  2,646.04  3,066.81  5,712.85   4,355.84  7,585.79  11,941.63  2,646.04  7,735.81  10,381.85  Derivatives Foreign exchange contracts  -    9.23  9.23  -    137.56  137.56  Interest Rate and inflation  -   2,104.10  2,104.10  -    9,159.98  9,159.98   -   2,113.33  2,113.33  -    9,297.54  9,297.54  Collateralised debt obligations  -   (11,877.03)   (11,877.03)    -    (6,821.43)  (6,821.43) Total 49,583.67 23,154.22  72,737.89  35,725.53  33,119.96  68,845.49   * determined on the basis of quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
The split of Level 1 assets is 71% (2017: 66%), Level 2 assets 20% (2017: 27%) and Level 3 assets 9% (2017: 7%).
Private market holdings  are classified as Level 3 instruments.
Included in the value for Government bonds, Interest Rate and Inflation derivatives are Repo  transactions, as noted above.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 315 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  The sensitivity analysis below is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is  unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit  obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the  projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised  within the consolidated balance sheet.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit  obligation Impact on service cost and  interest cost Discount rate Increase / decrease by 0.25% Decrease/increase by   ` 4,074.37 crores Decrease/increase by   ` 74.75 crores Inflation rate Increase / decrease by 0.25% Increase/decrease by   ` 3,468.98 crores Increase/decrease by   ` 88.59 crores Mortality rate Increase / decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by   ` 2,219.45 crores Increase/decrease by   ` 47.99 crores  Jaguar Land Rover contributes towards the UK defined benefit schemes.
Following the April 5, 2015 valuations, it is intended to  eliminate the pension scheme funding deficits over the 10 years following the valuation date.
As at 31 March 2018, there is no additional  liability; however, following the changes to the defined benefit schemes’ rules in April 2017, an additional obligation may arise in the  future.
The current agreed contribution rate for defined benefit accrual is 31% of pensionable salaries in the UK.
Deficit contribution  levels remain in line with the schedule of contributions agreed following the 2015 statutory valuation.
Both the ongoing and deficit  contribution rates these are expected to reduce following the completion of the 2018 statutory valuation during 2019.
The average duration of the benefit obligation at March 31, 2018 is 20.04 years (2017: 21.60 years).
With the new benefit structure effective April 6, 2017, the expected net periodic pension cost for the year ended March 31, 2019 is  ` 2,120.39 crores.
The Company expects to pay ` 2,371.71 crores to its defined benefit schemes in the year ended March 31, 2019.
Defined contribution plan  The Company’s contribution to defined contribution plans aggregated `899.59 crores, `754.95 crores for years ended March 31, 2018  and 2017, respectively.
37.
Commitments and contingencies  In the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties.
The Company assesses such claims and  assertions and monitors the legal environment on an ongoing basis, with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever necessary.
The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such  matters in its financial statements, if material.
For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides  disclosure in the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable.
The following is a description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable.
The Company believes  that none of the contingencies described below would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of  operations or cash flows.
Litigation  The Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant.
There are claims which the Company does not  believe to be of material nature, other than those described below.
Income Tax  The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities relating to tax treatment of certain items.
These mainly include  disallowed expenses, the tax treatment of certain expenses claimed by the Company as deductions and the computation of, or  eligibility of, the Company’s use of certain tax incentives or allowances.
Most of these disputes and/or disallowances, being repetitive in nature, have been raised by the income tax authorities consistently  in most of the years.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 316   The Company has a right of appeal to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), or CIT (A), the Dispute Resolution Panel, or DRP,  and to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, or ITAT, against adverse decisions by the assessing officer, DRP or CIT (A), as applicable.
The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal to the ITAT against adverse decisions by the CIT (A) or DRP.
The Company has  a further right of appeal to the Bombay High Court or the Supreme Court against adverse decisions by the appellate authorities for  matters involving substantial question of law.
The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal.
As at March 31, 2018, there are matters and/or disputes pending in appeal amounting to ` 303.09 crores, which includes ` 2.18 crores  in respect of equity accounted investees (` 158.61 crores, which includes ` 2.18 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at  March 31, 2017).
Customs, Excise Duty and Service Tax  As at March 31, 2018, there are pending litigations for various matters relating to customs, excise duty and service tax involving  demands, including interest and penalties, of ` 1,671.71 crores, which includes ` 5.02 crores in respect of equity accounted investees  (` 1,464.22 crores, which includes ` 5.99 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2017).
These demands  challenged the basis of valuation of the Company’s products and denied the Company’s claims of Central Value Added Tax, or CENVAT,  credit on inputs.
The details of the demands for more than ` 20 crores are as follows:  The Excise Authorities have raised a demand for ` 90.72 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 90.72 crores as at March 31, 2017), on account  of alleged undervaluation’s of ex-factory discounts given by Company on passenger vehicles through invoices.
The matter is being  contested by the Company before the Bombay High Court.
As at March 31, 2018, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand and penalty of ` 239.95 crores (` 218.23 crores as at March 31,  2017), due to the classification of certain chassis (as dumpers instead of goods transport vehicles) which were sent to automotive  body builders by the Company, which the Excise Authorities claim requires the payment of the National Calamity Contingent Duty, or  NCCD.
The Company has obtained a technical expert certificate on the classification.
The appeal is pending before the Custom Excise  & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal.
The Excise Authorities had denied the Company’s claim of a CENVAT credit of ` 36.03 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 24.96 crores as  at March 31, 2017) claimed by the Company from Fiscal 1992 to Fiscal 2013, on technical grounds.
The matter is being contested by  the Company before the appellate authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Excise Authorities had levied penalties and interest amounting to ` 679.88 crores (`679.88 crores as at  March 31, 2017) with respect to CENVAT credit claimed by the Company from March 2010 to November 2012, on inputs, stating that  vehicles manufactured at Uttarakhand plant are “Exempted Products” and the Company may not claim a CENVAT credit on these  vehicles.
The Company has challenged this demand as NCCD and the automobile cess is assessed on those vehicles, which are  “duties of excise”.
Therefore, the Company asserts that these vehicles are not “Exempted Products”.
The matter is being contested by  the Company before the appellate authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Service Tax Authorities have raised Service Tax demand of ` 54.85 crores, wherein department alleged that  the fee charged for securitisation contract by one of our subsidiary, TMFL are not adequate.
The matter is being contested by TMFL  before the appellate authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand amounting to ` 29.54 crores (` 29.54 crores as at March 31, 2017)  on pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales service charges incurred by dealers on Company’s products on the alleged  grounds that the pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales services are provided by the dealer on behalf of the Company  and should be included in excisable value of the vehicle.
The case is pending before Tribunal.
As at March 31, 2018, the Exicse Authorities have confirmed demand & penalty totalling to ` 90.88 crores (` Nil crores as at March  31, 2017) towards vehicles allegedly sold below cost of production with an intention to penetrate the market.
The matter is being  contested by the Company before appellate Authorities.
As at March 31, 2018, the Exicse Authorities have filed Appeal before appellate authority against the Order of adjudicating authority  allowing CENVAT credit of service tax of `36.15 crores (` 36.15 crores as at March 31, 2017) availed on consulting engineers services.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 317 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353  Sales Tax  The total sales tax demands (including interest and penalty), that are being contested by the Company amount to ` 1,096.18 crores,  which includes ` 10.85 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2018 (` 1,057.93 crores, which includes ` 11.54  crores in respect of equity accounted investees, as at March 31, 2017).
The details of the demands for more than ` 20 crores are as  follows:  The Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand of ` 269.38 crores (` 208.59 crores as at March 31, 2017) towards rejection of certain  statutory forms for concessional lower/nil tax rate (Form F and Form C) on technical grounds such as late submission, single form  issued against different months / quarters dispatches / sales, etc.
and denial of exemption from tax in absence of proof of export for  certain year The Company has contended that the benefit cannot be denied on technicalities, which are being complied with.
The  matter is pending at various levels.
The Sales Tax authorities have denied input tax credit and levied interest and penalty thereon due to varied reasons aggregating to  ` 435.96 crores as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 305.46 crores as at March 31, 2017).
The reasons for disallowing credit was mainly due to  Taxes not paid by Vendors, incorrect method of calculation of set off as per the department, alleging suppression of sales as per the  department etc.
The matter is contested in appeal.
As at March 31, 2018, Sales Tax demand aggregating `95.75 crores has been raised by Sales Tax Authorities for non submission of  Maharashtra Trial Balance.
This is relating to VAT assessment for the financial year  2010-2013.
The matter is contested in appeal.
As at March 31, 2018, the Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand for Entry Tax liability at various states amounting to ` 23.92  crores.
The Company is contesting this issue.
Other Taxes and Dues  Other amounts for which the Company may contingently be liable aggregate to  ` 367.02 crores, which includes  ` 1.76 crores in  respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2018 (` 300.01 crores, which includes ` 1.76 crores in respect of equity accounted  investees, as at March 31, 2017).
Following are the cases involving more than ` 20 crores:  The municipal authorities in certain states levy octroi duty (a local indirect tax) on goods brought inside the municipal limits  at rates based on the classification of goods.
Demands aggregating  ` 61.65 crores as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 61.65 crores as at  March 31, 2017) had been raised demanding higher octroi duties on account of classification disputes relating to components  purchased for the manufacture of vehicles and retrospective increase in octroi rates relating to past periods.
The dispute  relating to classification is presently pending before  the Bombay High Court and the other dispute is pending before the  Supreme Court.
As at March 31, 2018, property tax amounting to ` 56.84 crores (` 53.70 crores as at March 31, 2017) has been demanded by the local  municipal authorities in respect of vacant land of the Company in the plants in Pimpri, Chinchwad and Chikhali.
The Company has filed  Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court against an unfavorable decision of the Bombay High Court.
The Supreme Court  has disposed of the SLP and remanded the matter back to the local municipal corporation for fresh adjudication.
As at March 31, 2018, Sales tax / VAT amounting to ` 30.54 crores (` 29.95 crores as at March 31, 2017) has been demanded by local  authorities on dealers in respect of spare parts used for carrying out warranty repairs.
The dispute is pending before the Supreme Court.
Other claims  There are other claims against the Company, the majority of which pertain to government body investigations with regards to  regulatory compliances, motor accident claims, product liability claims and consumer complaints.
Some of the cases also relate to  the replacement of parts of vehicles and/or the compensation for deficiencies in the services by the Company or its dealers.
Commitments  The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of plant and machinery, equipment  and various civil contracts of a capital nature amounting to  ` 10,018.66 crores, which includes ` 12.73 crores in respect of equity  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 318  accounted investees as at March 31, 2018 ( ` 19,610.93 crores, which includes ` 1,403.80 crores in respect of equity accounted  investees, as at March 31, 2017), which are yet to be executed.
The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of intangible assets of a  capital nature amounting to ` 581.39 crores  as at March 31, 2018, ( ` 640.21 crores as at March 31, 2017), which are yet to be  executed.
Under the joint venture agreement with Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Limited, the Company is committed to contribute  ` 3,622.12 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 3,295.60 crores as at March 31, 2017) towards its share in the capital of the joint venture of  which ` 2,975.31 crores (` 2,707.10 crores as at March 31, 2017) has been contributed as at March 31, 2018.
As at March 31, 2018, the  Company has an outstanding commitment of ` 646.81 crores (` 588.50 crores as at March 31, 2017).
The Company has contractual obligation towards Purchase Commitment for ` 13,222.63 crores (` 12,186.90 crores as at March 31,  2017).
38.
Capital Management  The Company’s capital management is intended to create value for shareholders by facilitating the meeting of long-term and short- term goals of the Company.
The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of annual operating plans and long-term product and other  strategic investment plans.
The funding requirements are met through equity, convertible and non-convertible debt securities, senior  notes and other long-term/short-term borrowings.
The Company’s policy is aimed at combination of short-term and long-term  borrowings.
The Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of total debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio  of the Company.
Total debt includes all long and short-term debts as disclosed in notes 24, 25 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Equity  comprises all components excluding (profit)/loss on cash flow hedges and foreign currency translation reserve.
The following table summarizes the capital of the Company: (` in crores) As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31, 2017 Equity*  94,794.02  81,808.56  Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt  27,750.97  17,974.80  Long-term debt  61,199.50  60,629.18  Total debt  88,950.47  78,603.98  Total capital (Debt + Equity)  183,744.49 160,412.54   * Details of equity : As at  March 31, 2018 As at  March 31, 2017 Total equity as reported in balance sheet  95,952.97  58,515.06  Currency translation reserve attributable to -  Shareholders of Tata Motors Limited  (4,621.23)  5,300.13  -  Non-controlling interests (19.78)  7.52  Hedging reserve  3,482.06  17,985.85  Equity as reported above  94,794.02  81,808.56  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 319 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39.
Disclosure on financial instruments  This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional information on balance sheet items that contain financial  instruments.
The details of significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised,  in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
(a) Financial assets and liabilities   The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2018.
Financial assets Cash and  other  financial  assets at  amortised  cost Investments -  FVTOCI Investments -  FVTPL Investments  - Amortised  cost Derivatives  other than  in hedging  relationship Derivatives  in hedging  relationship Total carrying  value Total fair  value (a) Other investments - non-current  -    407.90  351.98  3.88  -    -    763.76  763.76  (b) Investments - current  -    303.28    1,601.00  12,759.47  -    -    14,663.75  14,663.75  ( c) Trade receivables  19,893.30  -    -    -    -    -    19,893.30  19,893.30  (d) Cash and cash equivalents  14,716.75  -    -    -    -    -    14,716.75  14,716.75  (e) Other bank balances  19,897.16  -    -    -    -    -    19,897.16  19,897.16  (f) Loans and advances - non- current  495.41  -    -    -    -    -    495.41  495.41  (g) Loans and advances - current  2,279.66  -    -    -    -    -    2,279.66  2,279.66  (h) Finance receivable - current  8,401.65  -    -    -    -    -    8,401.65  8,401.65  (i) Finance receivable - non-current  15,479.53  -    -    -    -    -    15,479.53  15,421.94  (j) Other financial assets - non- current  1,716.97  -    -    -    489.03  2,357.87  4,563.87  4,563.87  (k) Other financial assets - current 552.99  -    -    -   878.80  1,597.33 3029.12 3,029.12 Total  83,433.42  711.18  1,952.98  12,763.35 1,367.83  3,955.20 104,183.96  104,126.37 Financial liabilities Derivatives other than  in hedging relationship Derivatives in hedging  relationship Other financial  liabilities Total carrying value Total fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including  current maturities of long-term  borrowings) (note below)  -    -    72,155.62  72,155.62 72,871.82 (b) Short-term borrowings  -    -    16,794.85  16,794.85  16,794.85  ( c) Trade payables  -    -    72,038.41  72,038.41  72,038.41  (d) Acceptances  -    -    4,901.42  4,901.42  4,901.42  (e) Other financial liabilities -   non-current  177.23  2,272.97  288.94  2,739.14  2,739.14  (f) Other financial liabilities - current  1,329.43  4,878.23  14,103.71  20,311.37  20,311.37  Total  1,506.66  7,151.20  180,282.95  188,940.81 189,657.01  N ote:  1 Includes USD denominated bonds designated as cash flow hedges against forecasted USD revenue amounting to ` 11,166.44 crores (USD 1,700 million)  2 Inculdes ` 3,156.00 crores designated as hedged item in fair value hedge relationship.
This includes a loss of ` 92.80 crores on account of fair value changes  attributable to the hedged intrest rate risk.
320  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2017.
Financial assets Cash and  other  financial  assets at  amortised  cost Investments -  FVTOCI Investments -  FVTPL Investments  - Amortised  cost Derivatives  other than  in hedging  relationship Derivatives  in hedging  relationship Total carrying  value Total fair  value (a) Other investments - non-current  -    630.27  56.61  3.88  -    -    690.76  690.76  (b) Investments - current  -    -    3,040.94  12,000.21  -    -    15,041.15  15,041.15  ( c) Trade receivables  14,075.55  -    -    -    -    -    14,075.55  14,075.55  (d) Cash and cash equivalents  13,986.76  -    -    -    -    -    13,986.76  13,986.76  (e) Other bank balances  22,091.12  -    -    -    -    -    22,091.12  22,091.12  (f) Loans and advances - non- current  753.66  -    -    -    -    -    753.66  753.66  (g) Loans and advances - current  710.45  -    -    -    -    -    710.45  710.45  (h) Finance receivable - current  6,810.12  -    -    -    -    -    6,810.12  6,810.12  (i) Finance receivable - non-current  10,753.13  -    -    -    -    -    10,753.13  10,718.92  (j) Other financial assets - non- current  135.78  -    -    -    1,156.97  1,618.37  2,911.12  2,911.12  (k) Other financial assets - current  45.76  -    -    -    424.00  1,086.18  1,555.94  1,555.94  TOTAL  69,362.33  630.27  3,097.55  12,004.09  1,580.97  2,704.55  89,379.76  89,345.55  Financial liabilities Derivatives other than  in hedging relationship Derivatives in hedging  relationship Other financial  liabilities Total carrying value Total fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including  current maturities of long-term  borrowings) (note below)  -    -    64,744.04  64,744.04  66,339.97  (b) Short-term borrowings  -    -    13,859.94  13,859.94  13,859.94  ( c) Trade payables  -    -    57,698.33  57,698.33  57,698.33  (d) Acceptances  -    -    4,834.24  4,834.24  4,834.24  (e) Other financial liabilities - non- current  1,169.84  10,089.73  150.01  11,409.58  11,409.58  (f) Other financial liabilities - current  3,541.10  10,716.85  7,262.02  21,519.97  21,519.97  TOTAL  4,710.94  20,806.58  148,548.58  174,066.10  175,662.03    Note:   Includes USD denominated bonds designated as cash flow hedges against forecasted USD revenue amounting to ` 7,782.00 crores (USD 1,200 million)    321 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353   The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value,  grouped into Level 1 to Level 3, as described below.
Quoted prices in an active market (Level 1): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets that are measured by reference to  quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
This category consists quoted equity shares, quoted  corporate debt instruments and mutual fund investments.
Valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities, measured  using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e;  as prices) or indirectly (i.e; derived from prices).
This level of hierarchy includes Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative  contracts.
Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities  measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Fair values are determined in whole  or in part, using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market  transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
The main items in this category are investments  in certain unquoted debentures and equity.
(` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments 1 940.92  -    723.24 2,664.16 (b) Derivative assets  -   5,323.03  -   5,323.03 Total 1 940.92 5,323.03  723.24 7,987.19 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative laibilities  -   8,657.86  -   8,657.86 Total  -   8,657.86  -   8,657.86 As at March 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments  3,326.32  -    401.50  3,727.82  (b) Derivative assets  -    4,285.52  -    4,285.52  TOTAL  3,326.32  4,285.52  401.50  8,013.34  Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities  -    25,517.52  -    25,517.52  Total  -    25,517.52  -    25,517.52  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 322    The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on recurring  basis, grouped into Level 1 to Level 3 categories:  (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments  12,759.47  -   3.88  12,763.35  (b) Finance receivables  -    -    23,823.59  23,823.59  Total  12,759.47  -    23,827.47  36,586.94  Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including current  maturities of long term borrowing) 39,949.70 32,922.12  -   72,871.82 (b) Short-term borrowings  -    16,794.85  -    16,794.85  Total 39,949.70 49,716.97  -   89,666.67 As at March 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments  12,000.21  -    3.88  12,004.09  (b) Finance receivables  -    -    17,529.04  17,529.04  Total  12,000.21  -    17,532.92  29,533.13  Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including current  maturities of long term borrowing)  35,323.52  31,016.45  -    66,339.97  (b) Short-term borrowings  -    13,859.94  -    13,859.94  ( c) Other financial liabilities - non-current  -    -    -    -    Total  35,323.52  44,876.39  -    80,199.91    The short-term financial assets and liabilities are stated at amortised cost which is approximately equal to their fair value.
Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecast cash flow information  where applicable.
The fair value of finance receivables has been estimated by discounting expected cash flows using rates at which loans of similar  credit quality and maturity would be made and internal assumptions such as expected credit losses and estimated collateral  value for repossessed vehicles as at March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Since significant unobservable inputs are applied in measuring the  fair value, finance receivables are classified in Level 3.
The fair value of borrowings which have a quoted market price in an active market is based on its market price and for other  borrowings the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk-free  rate of return, adjusted for the credit spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity and credit quality.
Costs of certain unquoted equity instruments have been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a  wide range of possible fair value measurements and Cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range.
These  investments in equity instruments are not held for trading.
Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose.
Upon the application of Ind AS 109, the Company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments as at FVTOCI  as the management believe that this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long-term strategic investments, as  opposed to reflecting changes in fair value immediately in profit or loss.
Management uses its best judgment in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments.
However, there are inherent limitations  in any estimation technique.
Therefore, for substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented above are  not necessarily indicative of all the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of respective  dates.
As such, the fair value of the financial instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different from the  amounts reported at each year end.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 323 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353   Offsetting   Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to offsetting where there is currently a legally enforceable right to set  off recognised amounts and the Company intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability,  simultaneously.
Certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to master netting arrangements, whereby in the case of  insolvency, derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with the same countries will be settled on a net basis.
The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts  that are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2018: Gross  amount  recognised Gross  amount  recognised  as set off in  the balance  sheet Net amount  presented in  the balance  sheet Amounts subject to an  enforceable master netting  arrangement Net amount  after  offsetting Financial  instruments Cash  collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial  instruments  5,323.03  -    5,323.03  (4,905.82)  -    417.21  (b) Trade receivables  19,990.57  (97.27)  19,893.30  -    -    19,893.30  ( c) Cash and cash  equivalents  16,384.33  (1,667.58)  14,716.75  -    -    14,716.75  Total  41,697.93  (1,764.85)  39,933.08  (4,905.82)  -    35,027.26  Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial  instruments  8,657.86  -    8,657.86  (4,905.82)  -    3,752.04  (b) Trade payable  72,135.68  (97.27)  72,038.41  -    -    72,038.41  ( c) Loans from banks/ financial institutions  (short-term & current  maturities of long term  debt  29,418.55  (1,667.58)  27,750.97  -    -    27,750.97  Total  110,212.09  (1,764.85)  108,447.24  (4,905.82)  -    103,541.42    The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts  that are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2017: Gross  amount  recognised Gross  amount  recognised  as set off in  the balance  sheet Net amount  presented in  the balance  sheet Amounts subject to an  enforceable master netting  arrangement Net amount  after  offsetting Financial  instruments Cash  collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial  instruments  4,285.52  -    4,285.52  (3,402.13)  -    883.39  (b) Trade receivables  14,103.26  (27.71)  14,075.55  -    -    14,075.55  ( c) Cash and cash  equivalents  14,237.61  (250.85)  13,986.76  -    -    13,986.76  Total  32,626.39  (278.56)  32,347.83  (3,402.13)  -    28,945.70  Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial  instruments  25,517.52  -    25,517.52  (3,402.13)  -    22,115.39  (b) Trade payable  57,726.04  (27.71)  57,698.33  -    -    57,698.33  ( c) Loans from banks/ financial institutions  (short-term & current  maturities of long term  debt)  18,225.65  (250.85)  17,974.80  -    -    17,974.80  Total  101,469.21  (278.56)  101,190.65  (3,402.13)  -    97,788.52  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 324   (b) Transfer of financial assets   The Company transfers finance receivables in securitisation transactions and direct assignments.
In such transactions the  Company surrenders control over the receivables, though it continues to act as an agent for the collection of receivables.
Generally in such transactions, the Company also provides credit enhancements to the transferee.
Because of the existence of credit enhancements in such transactions, the Company continues to have the obligation to pay to  the transferee, limited to the extent of credit enhancement provided, even if it does not collect the equivalent amounts from the  original asset and hence continues to retain substantially all risks and rewards associated with the receivables, and as a result of  which such transfer or assignment does not meet the derecognition criteria, resulting in the transfer not being recorded as sale.
Consequently, the proceeds received from such transfers are recorded as collateralised debt obligations.
Further the Company transfers certain trade receivables under the debt factoring arrangements.
These do not qualify for  derecognition, if the recourse arrangement is in place.
Consequently the proceeds received from such transfers with a recourse  arrangements are recorded as loans from banks / financial institutions and classified under short-term borrowings.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and finance receivables along with the associated liabilities is as follows: (` in crores)  As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Nature of Asset Carrying amount  of asset sold Carrying amount  of associated  liabilities Carrying amount  of asset sold Carrying amount  of associated  liabilities (a) Trade receivables  1,507.44  1,507.44  1,494.87  1,494.87  (b) Finance receivables  1,306.911  1,320.58  1,004.38  1,027.12    1 Net of provision of ` 22.62 crores, ` 29.00 crores as at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
( c) Cash flow hedges   As at March 31, 2018, the Company and its subsidiaries have a number of financial instruments in a hedging relationship.
The  Company and its subsidiaries use both foreign currency forward and option contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps and  other currency options to hedge changes in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency and interest rate risk arising from  sales and purchases and repayment of foreign currency bonds.
The Company and its subsidiaries have also designated some  of its U.S. dollar denominated bonds as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship to hedge the changes in future  cash flows as a result of foreign currency risk arising from future anticipated sales.
The Company and its subsidiaries also have a number of foreign currency options and other currency options, which are entered  into as an economic hedge of the financial risks of the Company.
These contracts do not meet the hedge accounting criteria of Ind  AS 109, hence the change in fair value of these derivatives are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss.
Options are designated on spot discounted basis.
The time value of options are identified as cost of hedge.
Changes in the time  value of options are recognised in Cost of Hedge reserve.
Changes in the spot intrinsic value of options is recognised in Hedge  reserve.
Changes in fair value arising from own and counter-party credit risk in options and forward exchange contracts are  considered ineffective in the hedge relationship and thus the change in fair value of forward exchange contracts attributable to  changes in credit spread are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
Cross currency basis spread was historically included  in the hedging relationship.
Any ineffectiveness arising out of cross currency basis spread is recognised in the statement of profit  and loss as it arises.
Cross currency basis spread arising from forward exchange contracts entered after 1st January 2018 is  identified as cost of hedge and accordingly changes in fair value attributable to this is recognised in cost of hedge reserve.
Changes in fair value of foreign currency derivative and bonds, to the extent determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised  in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion of the fair value change is recognised in statement of Profit and Loss.
The fair value gain/losses recorded in Hedge reserve and Cost of Hedge reserve is recognised in the statement of profit and loss  when the forecasted transactions occur.
The accumulated gain/losses in hedge reserve and cost of hedge reserve are expected  to be recognised in statement of profit or loss during the years ending March 31, 2019 to 2023.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 325 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 (` in crores) As at    March 31,2018 As at    March 31,2017 Fair value gain/(loss) of foreign currency derivative contracts entered for cash flow  hedges of forecast sales recognised in hedging reserve 6,533.29  (24,547.60) Fair value gain/(loss) of foreign currency derivative contracts entered for cash flow  hedges of forecast inventory purchases recognised in hedging reserve  1,227.74  2,026.77  Fair value gain/(loss) of foreign currency bonds designated as cash flow hedges of   forecast sales recognised in hedging reserve 1,243.52  (1,314.07) Fair value gain/(loss) of cross currency interest rate swaps entered for cash flow hedges  of repayment of foreign currency denominated borrowings recognised in hedging reserve  (35.91)  -    Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in hedging reserve 8,968.64  (23,834.90) Gain/(loss) reclassified from hedging reserve and recognised in ‘Revenue from  Operation’ in the statement of profit and loss on occurrence of forecast sales (10,274.11) (9,928.70) Gain/(loss) reclassified out of hedging reserve and recorded in inventory in the Balance  sheet on occurrence of forecast purchases  1,430.25  1,020.39  Gain/(loss) reclassified from hedging reserve and recognised in ‘Foreign exchange  (gain)/loss (net)’ in the statement of profit and loss on account of forecast transactions  no longer expected to occur  (54.70)  (367.31) Gain/(loss) reclassified from hedging reserve (8,898.56) (9,275.62) Gain/(loss) on foreign currency derivatives not hedge accounted, recognised in ‘Foreign  exchange (gain)/loss (net)’ in the statement of profit and loss  1,176.20  (2,041.94) Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in ‘Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)’ in the statement   of profit and loss on account of ineffectiveness arising from foreign currency basis  spread on forward contracts designated in cash flow hedge relationship  381.64  (231.78)  (d) Financial risk management   In the course of its business, the Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates,  equity prices, liquidity and credit risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments.
The Company has a risk management policy which not only covers the foreign exchange risks but also other risks associated  with the financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate risks and credit risks.
The risk management policy is approved by the  board of directors.
The risk management framework aims to:   •  Create a stable business planning environment by reducing the impact of currency and interest rate fluctuations on the  Company’s business plan.
•  Achieve greater predictability to earnings by determining the financial value of the expected earnings in advance.
(i) Market risk    Market risk is the risk of any loss in future earnings, in realizable fair values or in future cash flows that may result from a  change in the price of a financial instrument.
The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the  interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity price fluctuations, liquidity and other market changes.
Future specific  market movements cannot be normally predicted with reasonable accuracy.
(a) Foreign currency exchange rate risk:     The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the income statement and equity,  where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets/liabilities are denominated in a currency  other than the functional currency of the respective consolidated entities.
Considering the countries and economic environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks  arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.
The risks primarily relate to fluctuations in U.S. dollar,  Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, Singapore dollar and Euro, against the respective functional currencies of Tata Motors  Limited and its subsidiaries.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 326      The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses foreign exchange and other derivative instruments primarily  to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
Furthermore, any movement in the functional currencies of  the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenues from its  international operations.
Any weakening of the functional currency may impact the Company’s cost of imports and cost  of borrowings and consequently may increase the cost of financing the Company’s capital expenditures.
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate  risks.
It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in accordance with its risk management  policies.
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated for each currency by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate  exposure of a currency and a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift in the foreign exchange rates of each  currency by 10%.
The following analysis is based on the gross exposure as of the relevant balance sheet dates, which could affect the  income statement.
There is no exposure to the income statement on account of translation of financial statements  of consolidated foreign entities.
Furthermore, the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative  contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed at clause (iv) below.
The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives  disclosed at clause (iv) below) as at March 31, 2018: (` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro Chinese  Renminbi GBP Japanese  Yen Others 1 Total (a) Financial assets 13,531.07 12,817.17 4,997.72 1,511.50  475.02 4,165.24 37,497.72 (b) Financial liabilities 36,909.10 31,192.69 5,398.91 6,371.66 545.65 3,538.95 83,956.96     1 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian rouble, Singapore dollars, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, South  African rand, Thai baht and Korean won.
10% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Company  would result in increase/decrease in the Company’s net income before tax by approximately ` 3,749.77 crores for  financial assets and decrease/increase in Company’s net income before tax by approximately ` 8,395.70 crores for  financial liabilities respectively for the year ended March 31, 2018.
The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives  disclosed at clause (iv) below) as at March 31, 2017: U.S. dollar Euro Chinese  Renminbi Japanese  Yen Others 2 Total (a) Financial assets  10,498.74  9,862.42  4,000.96  127.98  4,432.32  28,922.42  (b) Financial liabilities  37,547.87  21,301.83  3,399.19  538.22  2,939.25  65,726.36      (Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis).
(b) Interest rate risk     Interest rate risk is measured by using the cash flow sensitivity for changes in variable interest rates.
Any movement in  the reference rates could have an impact on the Company’s cash flows as well as costs.
The Company is subject to variable interest rates on some of its interest bearing liabilities.
The Company’s interest  rate exposure is mainly related to debt obligations.
The Company also uses a mix of interest rate sensitive financial  instruments to manage the liquidity and fund requirements for its day to day operations like short term non-convertible  bonds and short term loans.
In its financing business, the Company enters into transactions with customers which primarily result in receivables at  fixed rates.
In order to manage this risk, the Company has a policy to match funding in terms of maturities and interest  rates and also for certain part of the portfolio, the Company does not match funding with maturities, in order to take  advantage of market opportunities.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 327 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353     The Company also enters into arrangements of securitization of receivables in order to reduce the impact of interest  rate movements.
Further, Company also enters into interest rate swap contracts with banks to manage its interest rate  risk.
As at March 31, 2018 and 2017 financial liability of ` 21,018.28 crores and ` 18,928.36 crores, respectively, was subject  to variable interest rates.
Increase/decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would result  in an impact (decrease/increase in case of net income) of ` 210.18 crores and ` 189.28 crores on income for the year  ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The model assumes that interest rate changes are instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve.
Although some assets  and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to re-pricing, these may not react correspondingly to changes in  market interest rates.
Also, the interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in  market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may change with a lag.
The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves.
This  calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk  exposures outstanding as at that date.
The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt  outstanding during the period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
(Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis).
The Company uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge some of its exposure to interest rate arising from  variable rate foreign currency denominated debt.
The Company and its subsidiaries also uses cross currency interest  rate swaps to convert some of its foreign currency denominated fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
( c) Equity Price risk     Equity Price Risk is related to the change in market reference price of the investments in equity securities.
The fair value of some of the Company’s investments in equity securities exposes the Company to equity price risks.
In general, these securities are not held for trading purposes.
These investments are subject to changes in the market  price of securities.
The fair value of some of the Companies investment in quoted equity securities as of March 31, 2018  and 2017, was ` 340.48 crores and ` 260.29 crores, respectively.
A 10% change in equity prices of available-for-sale  securities held as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, would result in an impact of ` 34.05 crores and ` 26.03 crores on equity,  respectively.
(Note: The impact is indicated on equity before consequential tax impact, if any).
(ii) Credit risk    Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual  terms or obligations.
Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness  as well as concentration risks.
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk, principally consist of investments in debt instruments,  trade receivables, finance receivables, loans and advances and derivative financial instruments.
None of the financial  instruments of the Company result in material concentrations of credit risks.
Exposure to credit risk    The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk was  ` 1,03,506.52 crores as at March 31, 2018 and ` 88,716.87 crores as at March 31, 2017, being the total of the carrying amount  of balances with banks, short term deposits with banks, trade receivables, finance receivables, margin money and other  financial assets excluding equity investments.
Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired    None of the Company’s cash equivalents, including time deposits with banks, are past due or impaired.
Regarding trade  receivables and other receivables, and other loans or receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no  indications as at March 31, 2018, that defaults in payment obligations will occur.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 328     Credit quality of financial assets and impairment loss    The ageing of trade receivables and finance receivables as of balance sheet date is given below.
The age analysis have been  considered from the due date.
(` in crores) Trade receivables As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Gross Allowance Net Gross Allowance Net Period (in months) (a) Not due  15,951.89  (21.56)  15,930.33  11,943.87  (90.99)  11,852.88  (b) Overdue up to 3 months  3,281.94  (37.15)  3,244.79  1,771.82  (31.98)  1,739.84  ( c) Overdue 3-6 months  224.36  (35.48)  188.88  185.93  (25.49)  160.44  (d) Overdue more than 6 months  1,696.78  (1,167.48)  529.30 1  1,551.37  (1,228.98)  322.39  Total  21,154.97  (1,261.67)  19,893.30  15,452.99  (1,377.44)  14,075.55     Trade receivables consist of a large number of various types of customers, spread across geographical areas.
Ongoing credit  evaluation is performed on the financial condition of these trade receivables and where appropriate, allowance for losses  are provided.
1 Trade receivables overdue more than six months include ` 462.22 crores as at March 31, 2018 (` 212.29 crores as at March  31, 2017, outstanding from state government organizations in India, which are considered recoverable.
The Company makes allowances for losses on its portfolio of finance receivable on the basis of expected future collection  from receivables.
The future collection are estimated on the basis of past collection trend which are adjusted for changes in  current circumstances as well as expected changes in collection on account of future with respect to certain macro economic  factor like GDP growth, fuel price and inflation.
Finance receivables 2 As at March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 Gross Allowance Net Gross Allowance Net Period (in months) (a) Not due 3  23,914.24  (762.15)  23,152.09  18,004.78  (1,604.08)  16,400.70  (b) Overdue up to 3 months  452.63  (15.45)  437.18  298.24  (20.39)  277.85  ( c) Overdue more than 3 months  703.88  (411.97)  291.91  2,857.74  (1,973.04)  884.70  Total  25,070.75  (1,189.57)  23,881.18  21,160.76  (3,597.51)  17,563.25     2 Finance receivables originated in India.
3  Allowance in the “Not due” category includes allowance against installments pertaining to impaired finance receivables  which have not yet fallen due.
(iii) Liquidity risk    Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations.
The objective of liquidity risk  management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements.
The Company has obtained fund and non-fund based working capital lines from various banks.
Furthermore, the Company  has access to funds from debt markets through commercial paper programs, non-convertible debentures, fixed deposits  from public, senior notes and other debt instruments.
The Company invests its surplus funds in bank fixed deposit and liquid  and liquid plus schemes of mutual funds, which carry no/low mark to market risks.
The Company has also invested 15% of  the public deposits/non-convertible debentures (taken by the Company) falling due for repayment in the next 12 months in  bank deposits, to meet the regulatory norms of liquidity requirements.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 329 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353    The Company also constantly monitors funding options available in the debt and capital markets with a view to maintaining  financial flexibility.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest  payments as at March 31, 2018:   (` in crores) Financial liabilities Carrying  amount Due in 1st  Year Due in 2nd  Year Due in 3rd  to 5th Year Due after  5th Year Total  contractual  cash flows (a) Trade payables and accep- tances  76,939.83  76,939.83 - - -  76,939.83  (b) Borrowings and interest  thereon 90,046.19 31,349.98 14,909.70 40,002.72  16,401.49 102,663.89 ( c) Derivative liabilities  8,657.86  6,207.66 2,968.80 1,218.82 120.76 10,516.04 (d) Other financial liabilities 13,296.93  13,026.82  153.23  87.48  79.64  13,347.17  Total 188,940.81 127,524.29 18,031.73 41,309.02  16,601.89 203,466.93    Contractual maturities of borrowings includes cash flows relating to collateralised debt obligations.
This represents the  amount received against the transfer of finance receivables in securitisation transactions and/or direct assignments, which  do not qualify for derecognition.
The liability of the Company in such cases is limited to the extent of credit enhancements  provided.
The contractual maturities of such collateralised debt obligations are as follows: Financial liabilities Carrying  amount Due in 1st  Year Due in 2nd  Year Due in 3rd  to 5th Year Due after  5th Year Total  contractual  cash flows Collateralised debt obligations  1,320.58  728.09  592.49  -   -  1,320.58     The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest  payments as at March 31, 2017: Financial liabilities Carrying  amount Due in 1st  Year Due in 2nd  Year Due in 3rd  to 5th Year Due after  5th Year Total  contractual  cash flows (a) Trade payables  57,698.33  57,698.33  -    -    -    57,698.33  (b) Acceptances  4,834.24  4,834.24  -    -    -    4,834.24  ( c) Borrowings and interest  thereon  79,547.22  21,733.53  13,055.95  39,614.01  19,358.94  93,762.43  (d) Derivative liabilities  25,517.52  15,791.87  10,470.86  6,052.83  1.15  32,316.71  (e) Other financial liabilities  6,468.79  6,318.78  30.53  69.78  78.89  6,497.98  Total  174,066.10  106,376.75  23,557.34  45,736.62  19,438.98  195,109.69     The contractual maturities of such collateralised debt obligations are as follows: Financial liabilities Carrying  amount Due in 1st  Year Due in 2nd  Year Due in 3rd  to 5th Year Due after  5th Year Total  contractual  cash flows Collateralised debt obligations  1,027.38  629.67  367.07  110.82  -    1,107.56  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 330    (iv) Derivative financial instruments and risk management    The Company has entered into variety of foreign currency, interest rates and commodity forward contracts and options to  manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price risk.
The counter-party is  generally a bank.
These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and  procedures.
The Company also enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate currency swap agreements, mainly to manage exposure  on its fixed rate or variable rate debt.
The Company uses interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure to  exchange rate fluctuations on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Specific transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks,  volatility risks, counter-party risks, settlement risks and gearing risks.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques based on information derived from  observable market data.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows: (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) Foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options  (3,708.93)  (21,685.18) (b) Commodity Derivatives  (0.24)  385.66  ( c) Others including interest rate and currency swaps  374.34  67.52  Total  (3,334.83)  (21,232.00)    The gain/loss on commodity derivative contracts, recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss was ` 214.63 crores gain  and ` 918.40 crores gain for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Foreign exchange sensitivity in respect of company’s exposure to forward and option contract: As at   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 10% Depreciation of foreign currency: Gain/(loss) in hedging reserve 4,532.90  12,194.42  Gain/(loss) in statement of Profit and loss 213.42  (90.35) 10% Appreciation of foreign currency: Gain/(loss) in hedging reserve  (5,335.38)  (13,011.69) Gain/(loss) in statement of Profit and loss  (134.65)  816.50     In respect of the Company’s commodity derivative contracts, a 10% depreciation/appreciation of all commodity prices  underlying such contracts, would have resulted in an approximate (loss)/gain of  (` 461.42) crores/ ` 461.42 crores and   (`461.24) / `461.24 crores  in the statement of profit and loss for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Exposure to gain/loss on derivative instruments offset to some extent the exposure to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk  as disclosed above.
(Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis).
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 331 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 40.
Disclosure of financial instruments designated as hedging instrument in cash flow hedge  The details of cash flow hedges entered into by one of the Company’s subsidiaries to hedge the currency fluctuation of its functional  currency (GBP) against foreign currencies to hedge future cash flows arising from revenue and repayment of borrowing cost of  materials is as follows:  Outstanding contracts Average strike rate Nominal amounts Fair value £ in million ` in crores As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 As at March  31, 2018 As at March  31, 2017 Fx Forwards Cash flow hedges - USD Sell - USD/ Buy - GBP <1 year 0.659 0.667  1,724.9 2,767.7  (1,148.02)  (4,228.80) Between 1-5 years 0.676 0.668  2,659.9 4,850.8  (581.39)  (6,228.30) Cash flow hedges - Chinese  Yuan Sell - Chinese Yuan / Buy -  GBP <1 year 0.102 0.100  2,974.0 3,435.7  (2,774.27)  (3,874.38) Between 1-5 years 0.105 0.102  2,581.9 4,132.3  (767.81)  (2,096.60) Cash flow hedges -Euro Buy - Euro / Sell - GBP <1 year 0.817 0.795  1,602.1 1,574.1  1,200.62  977.50  Between 1-5 years 0.868 0.804  2,818.8 2,327.5  1,108.34  1,464.62  Cash flow hedges - Other <1 year - -  1,748.3 1,675.7  (567.55)  (2,483.39) Between 1-5 years - -  1,559.7 1,829.5  370.98  (1,459.77) Fx Options Cash flow hedges - USD Sell - USD/ Buy - GBP <1 year 0.743 0.760  48.3 11.4  25.84  -    Between 1-5 years 0.706 0.728  258.4 127.4  113.51  5.66  Cash flow hedges - Chinese  Yuan Sell - Chinese Yuan / Buy -  GBP <1 year 0.103 0.105  10.3 10.5  -    -    Between 1-5 years - 0.103  -   10.3  -    1.62  Cash flow hedges -Euro Buy - Euro / Sell - GBP <1 year 0.963 0.956  534.3 186.5  (23.07)  (28.32) Between 1-5 years 0.969 0.969  1,560.4 1,588.9  105.20  (158.60) Cross currency interest rate  swaps  Buy - USD / Sell - GBP Between 1-5 years 0.759 -  379.6 -  (258.40) - USD denominated Bonds 0.673  471.0  (4,614.23) < 1 year 0.736  735.8  (6,561.44) Between 1-5 years - 0.803 - 963.0 -  (7,964.60) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 332  41.
Segment reporting  The Company primarily operates in the automotive segment.
The automotive segment includes all activities relating to development,  design, manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles including financing thereof, as well as sale of related parts and accessories.
The Company provides financing for vehicles sold by dealers in India.
The vehicle financing is intended to drive sale of vehicles by  providing financing to the dealers’ customers and as such is an integral part of automotive business.
The financing activity is assessed  as an integral part of the overall automotive business.
The operating results of the financing activity does not include all of the interest  or cost of funds employed for the purposes of financing, and therefore the operating results of this activity is not used to make  decisions about resources to be allocated or to asses  performance.
The Company’s products mainly include Tata and other brand vehicles and Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles.
As at March 31, 2018, the automotive segment is bifurcated into the following :  Tata and other brand vehicles, including financing thereof and Jaguar Land Rover.
The Company’s other segment comprises primarily activities relating to information technology or IT services, machine tools and  factory automation solutions.
The segment information presented is in accordance with the accounting policies adopted for preparing the consolidated financial  statements of the Company.
Segment revenues, expenses and results include inter-segment transfers.
Such transfers are undertaken  either at competitive market prices charged to unaffiliated customers for similar goods or at contracted rates.
These transfers are  eliminated on consolidation.
(` in crores) For the year ended /as at March 31, 2018 Automotive and related activity Tata and other  brand vehicles  (including  financing  thereof) 1 Jaguar Land  Rover Intra- segment  eliminations Total Others Inter- segment  eliminations Total Revenues: External revenue  66,469.13  226,964.86  -    293,433.99  1,975.35  -    295,409.34  Inter-segment/intra- segment revenue  151.25  -    (131.91)  19.34  1,277.01  (1,296.35)  -    Total revenues  66,620.38  226,964.86  (131.91) 293,453.33  3,252.36  (1,296.35)  295,409.34  Earnings before other  income, finance cost, foreign  exchange gain / (loss) (net),  exceptional items and tax  2,103.58  9,408.80  -    11,512.38  422.32  (147.19)  11,787.51  Reconciliation to Profit  before tax: Other income  888.89  Finance costs  (4,681.79) Foreign exchange gain/ (loss) (net)  1,185.28  Exceptional items  1,975.14  Profit before tax  11,155.03  Depreciation and  amortisation expense  3,240.38  18,257.09  -    21,497.47  56.12  -    21,553.59  Capital expenditure 3,512.92  39,093.99  -   42,606.90 84.16  (18.78) 42,672.29 Share of profit/(loss)  of equity accounted  investees (net)  30.18  2,138.92  -    2,169.10  109.16  -    2,278.26 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 333 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 For the year ended /as at March 31, 2018 Automotive and related activity Tata and other  brand vehicles  (including  financing  thereof) 1 Jaguar Land  Rover Intra- segment  eliminations Total Others Inter- segment  eliminations Total Segment assets  73,398.85  199,513.67  -    272,912.52  13.26  (886.02)  272,039.76  Assets classified as held  for sale  223.33  -    -    223.33  2,756.91  (395.05)  2,585.19  Investment in equity  accounted investees  385.50  4,502.39  -    4,887.89  -    -    4,887.89  Investment in equity  accounted investees (held  for sale)  -    -    -    -    497.35  -    497.35  Reconciliation to total  assets: Other Investments  15,427.51  Current and non-current  tax assets (net)  1,108.81  Deferred tax assets (net)  4,158.70  Other unallocated  financial assets 2  30,645.30  Total assets  331,350.51  Segment liabilities  20,298.72  107,864.26  -    128,162.98  84.01  (315.22)  127,931.77  Liabilities classified as  held-for-sale  -    -    -    -    1,070.18  -    1,070.18  Reconciliation to total  liabilities: Borrowings  88,950.47  Current tax liabilities (net)  1,559.07  Deferred tax liabilities  (net)  6,125.80  Other unallocated  financial liabilities 3  9,760.25  Total liabilities  235,397.54   1 Tata and other brand vehicles include Tata Daewoo and Fiat brand vehicles.
2 Includes interest-bearing loans and deposits and accrued interest income.
3 Includes interest accrued and other interest bearing liabilities.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 334  (` in crores) For the year ended /as at March 31, 2017 Automotive and related activity Tata and other  brand vehicles  (including  financing  thereof) 1 Jaguar Land  Rover Intra- segment  eliminations Total Others Inter- segment  eliminations Total Revenues: External revenue  56,292.59  216,388.82  -    272,681.41  1,810.71  -    274,492.12  Inter-segment/intra- segment revenue  156.19  -    (145.19)  11.00  1,373.35  (1,384.35)  -    Total revenues  56,448.78  216,388.82  (145.19)  272,692.41  3,184.06  (1,384.35)  274,492.12  Earnings before other  income, finance cost, foreign  exchange gain / (loss) (net),  exceptional items and tax  207.05  15,117.07  -    15,324.12  471.90  (202.22)  15,593.80  Reconciliation to Profit  before tax: Other income  754.54  Finance costs  (4,238.01) Foreign exchange gain/ (loss) (net)  (3,910.10) Exceptional items  1,114.56  Profit before tax  9,314.79  Depreciation and  amortisation expense  3,157.71  14,650.51  -    17,808.22  96.77  -    17,904.99  Capital expenditure  4,018.58  27,783.03  -    31,801.61  124.12  (174.99)  31,750.74  Share of profit/(loss)  of equity accounted  investees (net)  25.21  1,384.37  -    1,409.58  83.42  -    1,493.00  Segment assets  64,890.05  154,654.50  -    219,544.55  2,205.13  (1,023.72)  220,725.96  Investment in equity  accounted investees  377.31  3,835.72  -    4,213.03  392.98  -    4,606.01  Reconciliation to total assets: Other investments  15,731.91  Current and non-current  income tax assets  1,195.67  Deferred income taxes  4,457.34  Other unallocated  financial assets 2  27,037.47  Total assets  273,754.36  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 335 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 For the year ended /as at March 31, 2017 Automotive and related activity Tata and other  brand vehicles  (including  financing  thereof) 1 Jaguar Land  Rover Intra- segment  eliminations Total Others Inter- segment  eliminations Total Segment liabilities  17,548.81  89,478.99  -    107,027.80  747.75  (250.44)  107,525.11  Reconciliation to total  liabilities: Borrowings  78,603.98  Current income tax  liabilities  1,392.58  Deferred income taxes  1,174.00  Other unallocated  financial liabilities 3  26,543.63  Total liabilities  215,239.30   1 Tata and other brand vehicles include Tata Daewoo and Fiat brand vehicles.
2 Includes interest-bearing loans and deposits and accrued interest income.
3 Includes interest accrued and other interest bearing liabilities.
Entity-wide disclosures    Information concerning principal geographic areas is as follows:   Net sales to external customers by geographic area by location of customers: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended  March 31, 2017 (a) India  59,593.18 47,101.21  (b) United States of America  44,991.88  42,935.31  ( c) United Kingdom  51,356.29  50,588.18  (d) Rest of Europe  46,393.27  47,122.48  (e) China  43,394.13  41,369.40  (f) Rest of the World  49,680.59  45,375.54  Total  295,409.34  274,492.12   Non-current assets (Property, plant and equipment, Intangible assets, other non-current assets and Goodwill) by geographic area: As At   March 31, 2018 As at   March 31, 2017 (a) India  27,222.38  28,347.32  (b) United States of America  299.00  251.84  ( c) United Kingdom  124,201.80  96,966.41  (d) Rest of Europe  7,242.06  1,306.66  (e) China  166.11  91.04  (f) Rest of the World  2,697.73  3,005.75  Total  161,829.08  129,969.02  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 336   Information about product revenues: (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 (a) Tata and Fiat vehicles  59,027.59  48,069.14  (b) Tata Daewoo commercial vehicles  4,828.79  5,793.30  ( c) Finance revenues  2,604.03  2,429.23  (d) Jaguar Land Rover vehicles  226,964.86  216,388.82  (e) Others  1,984.07  1,811.63  TOTAL  295,409.34  274,492.12  42.
Related-party transactions  The Company’s related parties principally consist of Tata Sons Limited, subsidiaries and joint arrangements of Tata Sons Limited,  the Company’s associates and their subsidiaries, joint operations and joint ventures of the Company.
The Company routinely enters  into transactions with these related parties in the ordinary course of business.
The Company enters into transactions for sale and  purchase of products and services with its associates, joint operations and joint ventures.
Transactions and balances with its own  subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
The following table summarizes related-party transactions and balances for the year ended/as at March 31, 2018: Associates  and its  subsidiaries Joint  ventures Joint  operations Tata Sons  Ltd, its  subsidiaries  and joint  ventures Total Purchase of products  2,605.70  -    3,163.10  171.30  5,940.10  Sale of products  201.60  6,008.21  545.49  709.10  7,464.40  Services received  8.90  550.09  0.16  1,735.30  2,294.45  Services rendered  19.00  1,207.72  4.34  24.10  1,255.16  Bills discounted  -    -    -    4,135.03  4,135.03  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  62.40  -    -    0.20  62.60  Purchase of Investments  -    2.50  -    -    2.50  Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/ paid, (net)  (9.50)  (1,764.49)  (4.60)  26.30  (1,752.29) Finance taken (including loans and equity)  489.00  -    -    -    489.00  Finance taken, paid back (including loans and  equity)  489.00  -    -    -    489.00  Amounts receivable in respect of loans and  interest thereon  -    -    -    4.00  4.00  Amounts payable in respect of loans and  interest thereon  56.00  -    -    4.80  60.80  Trade and other receivables  63.30  1,037.14  (0.07)  151.10  1,251.47  Trade payables  149.60  0.25  184.88  335.70  670.43 Acceptances  -    -    -    220.16  220.16  Deposits given as security  -    -    -    3.00  3.00   Note: With the introduction of GST from July 1, 2017, the related party transactions reported does not include indirect tax component.
The previous period figures to that extent are not comparable.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 337 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353   The following table summarizes related-party transactions included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended as at  March 31, 2017: (` in crores) Associates  and its  subsidiaries Joint  ventures Joint  operations Tata Sons  Ltd, its  subsidiaries  and joint  ventures Total Purchase of products  2,058.52  21.30  2,275.75  66.84  4,422.41  Sale of products  250.49  4,983.53  323.72  461.50  6,019.24  Services received  10.98  1,088.57  0.07  1,970.15  3,069.77  Services rendered  16.64  771.88  16.12  130.13  934.77  Bill discounted  -    -    -    3,202.77  3,202.77  Purchase of property, plant and equipment  13.79  -    -    0.11  13.90  Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/ paid, (net)  (11.10)  (594.36)  (12.12)  64.26  (553.32) Finance given (including loans and equity)  -    -    -    30.30  30.30  Finance given, taken back (including loans and  equity)  -    -    132.50  60.30  192.80  Finance taken (including loans and equity)  329.00  -    -    589.63  918.63  Finance taken, paid back (including loans and  equity)  300.00  -    -    626.95  926.95  Amounts receivable in respect of loans and  interest thereon  -    -    -    9.33  9.33  Amounts payable in respect of loans and  interest thereon  56.00  -    -    105.55  161.55  Trade and other receivables  49.52  565.86  -    160.01  775.39  Trade payables  39.76  22.63  123.96  471.11  657.46  Conversion of optionally convertible  preference shares into equity shares  160.00  -    -    -    160.00  Deposits given as security  -    -    -    3.00  3.00    Details of significant transactions are given below: Name of Related party Nature of relationship Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 i) Services rendered  Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company  Limited Joint venture  1,207.72  1,087.57  ii) Bill discounted  Tata Capital Tata Sons Ltd, its subsidiaries and  joint ventures                  4,135.03           3,202.77    Compensation of key management personnel: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 Short-term benefits 79.84  69.31  Post-employment benefits* 1.76  18.47   The compensation of CEO and Managing Director is ` 26.42 crores and ` 22.55 crores for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 338   The compensation of CEO at Jaguar Land Rover is ` 40.08 crores and ` 55.17 crores for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017,  respectively.
* Excludes provision for encashable leave and gratuity for certain key management personnel as a separate actuarial valuation is not  available.
Other transactions with key management personnel: Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 Sale of products  -    0.81   Dividend paid  -    - **     ** less than ` 50,000/-  Refer note 36 for information on transactions with post employment benefit plan.
43.
Earnings per Share (“EPS”) (` in crores) Year ended  March 31, 2018 Year ended   March 31, 2017 (a) Profit / (Loss) for the period ` crores  8,988.91  7,454.36  (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
2,887,348,357  2,887,218,310  ( c) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
508,502,336  508,483,714  (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and 'A' Ordinary) `  2.00  2.00  (e) Share of profit / (loss) for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS ` crores  7,638.57  6,333.80  (f) Share of profit / (loss) for 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS* ` crores  1,350.34  1,120.56  (g) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Basic) `  26.46  21.94  (h) Earnings Per 'A' Ordinary share (Basic) `  26.56  22.04  (i) Profit after tax for Diluted EPS ` crores  8,988.91  7,454.36  (j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
2,887,348,357  2,887,218,310  (k) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants and shares held in  abeyance Nos.
494,469  599,766  (l) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
2,887,842,826  2,887,818,076  (m) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
508,502,336  508,483,714  (n) Add: Adjustment for 'A' Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos.
233,774  252,396  (o) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
508,736,110  508,736,110  (p) Share of profit for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS ` crores  7,638.23  6,333.52  (q) Share of profit for 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS* ` crores  1,350.68  1,120.84  ( r) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Diluted) `  26.45  21.93  (s) Earnings Per 'A' Ordinary share (Diluted) `  26.55  22.03   * ‘A’ Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive dividend at 5 percentage points more than the aggregate rate of dividend  determined by the Company on Ordinary shares for the financial year.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 339 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 44.
Additional information as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of enterprises  consolidated as subsidiary / Associates / Joint Ventures Name of enterprises As % of  consolidated  net assets  Net Assets   (total assets  minus total  liabilities) As % of  consolidated   profit or loss Share of profit  or loss As % of  consolidated  OCI  Share of  OCI  As % of  comprehensive  income Amount Parent  Tata Motors Ltd 20.63%  19,683.32 (14.09)%  (1,266.19) 0.14%  42.18 (3.18)%  (1,224.01) Subsidiaries  Indian TAL Manufacturing Solutions  Ltd 0.10%  98.39 0.15%  13.39 0.00%  (0.42) 0.03%  12.97  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd 0.01%  11.22 (1.45)%  (130.24) 0.00%  0.07 (0.34)%  (130.17) Tata Motors Finance Ltd 1.85%  1,764.43 1.50%  135.08 0.03%  9.83 0.38%  144.91  Tata Technologies Ltd 0.76%  721.25 1.97%  177.47 (0.01)%  (1.51) 0.46%  175.96  Tata Motors Insurance Broking  & Advisory Services Ltd 0.03%  27.48 0.16%  14.13 0.00%  (0.43) 0.04%  13.70  TML Distribution Company Ltd 0.37%  354.44 0.56%  50.15 0.00%  0.23 0.13%  50.38  Tata Motors Finance Holdings  Ltd 3.45%  3,292.77 (0.20)%  (18.28) 0.00%  (0.08) (0.05)%  (18.36) Tata Motors Financial Solutions  Ltd 1.25%  1,196.34 17.19%  1,545.13 0.00%  0.68 4.01%  1,545.81  Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd 0.13%  120.77 0.11%  9.68 0.00%  0.34 0.03%  10.02  Jaguar Land Rover India Limited 0.29%  274.42 (0.04)%  (3.30) 0.00%  (0.10) (0.01)%  (3.40) Foreign Tata Daewoo Commercial  Vehicle Co. Ltd 2.66%  2,539.86 2.26%  202.91 0.38%  111.88 0.82%  314.79  Tata Motors European Technical  Centre Plc 0.35%  336.00 0.33%  29.88 0.00%  -   0.08%  29.88  Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary)  Ltd 0.02%  15.19 0.02%  1.83 0.00%  -   0.00%  1.83  Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd (0.53)%  (510.36) (1.48)%  (132.77) 0.00%  (0.09) (0.34)%  (132.86) TML Holdings Pte Ltd,  Singapore 9.99%  9,536.74 1.38%  123.78 (1.29)%  (379.80) (0.66)%  (256.02) Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera   S.A (0.80)%  (765.52) (0.10)%  (9.09) 0.00%  -   (0.02)%  (9.09) Tata Hispano Motors  Carroceries Maghreb (0.03)%  (29.27) (0.05)%  (4.38) 0.00%  -   (0.01)%  (4.38) Trilix S.r.l 0.05%  48.78 (0.13)%  (11.64) 0.00%  -   (0.03)%  (11.64) Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 0.00%  0.86 0.00%  (0.13) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (0.13) PT Tata Motors Indonesia 0.22%  210.10 (0.03)%  (2.92) 0.00%  0.04 (0.01)%  (2.88) INCAT International Plc.
0.05%  44.21 0.00%  (0.26) 0.02%  5.45 0.01%  5.20  Tata Technologies Inc.  (Including Midwest Managed  Services Inc.which got merged  into Tata Technologies Inc. w.e.f.
Feb 28, 2018) 0.37%  353.74 0.05%  4.84 0.01%  1.84 0.02%  6.69  Tata Technologies de Mexico,  S.A. de C.V.  0.01%  6.34 0.01%  0.53 0.00%  0.14 0.00%  0.67  Cambric Limited, Bahamas 0.02%  19.07 0.00%  (0.22) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (0.22) Cambric UK Limited (Dissolved  w.e.f.
May 23, 2017) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  0.43 0.00%  0.43  Cambric GmbH  (in process of  liquidation) 0.00%  1.96 0.00%  (0.31) 0.00%  0.30 0.00%  (0.01) Tata Technolgies SRL, Romania  (erstwhile Cambric Consulting  SRL was renamed w.e.f  February 4, 2015) 0.03%  27.03 0.07%  6.55 0.01%  2.37 0.02%  8.93  Tata Manufacturing  Technologies Consulting  (Shanghai) Limited 0.04%  38.91 0.11%  10.24 0.01%  3.10 0.03%  13.33  Tata Technologies Europe  Limited  0.75%  718.18 0.65%  58.63 0.33%  97.79 0.41%  156.42  Escenda Engineering AB (Tata  Technologies Europe Limited  acquired 100% stake in the  Company w.e.f.
May 1, 2017) 0.00%  (0.17) (0.12)%  (10.86) 0.00%  (1.33) (0.03)%  (12.19) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 340  Name of enterprises As % of  consolidated  net assets  Net Assets   (total assets  minus total  liabilities) As % of  consolidated   profit or loss Share of profit  or loss As % of  consolidated  OCI  Share of  OCI  As % of  comprehensive  income Amount INCAT GmbH (in process of  liquidation) 0.02%  18.12 0.01%  0.47 0.01%  2.55 0.01%  3.02  Tata Technologies (Thailand)  Limited 0.01%  10.10 0.02%  2.07 0.00%  0.80 0.01%  2.87  Tata Technologies ESOP Trust 0.00%  2.68 0.00%  0.20 0.00%  -   0.00%  0.20  Tata Technologies Europe  Limited ESOP Trust 0.01%  10.93 0.01%  1.32 0.00%  0.02 0.00%  1.34  TATA Technologies Pte Ltd. 0.76%  726.17 (0.03)%  (2.79) 0.01%  3.78 0.00%  0.99  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  plc 22.61%  21,572.85 47.66%  4,284.31 0.00%  -   11.12%  4,284.31  Jaguar Land Rover Limited  (previously Jaguar Cars Limited) 100.56%  95,959.27 60.71%  5,456.95 85.05%  25,121.23 79.37%  30,578.18  Jaguar Land Rover Holdings  Limited(formally known as Land  Rover) 43.44%  41,456.15 (0.64)%  (57.76) 0.00%  -   (0.15)%  (57.76) JLR Nominee Company Limited  (Formally known as Jaguar  Land Rover Exports Limited,  formerly Jaguar Cars Exports  Limited) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover (South  Africa) Holdings Limited 1.35%  1,290.38 1.93%  173.52 0.00%  -   0.45%  173.52  Jaguar Cars Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Land Rover Exports Limited  (Business transferred to Jaguar  Land Rover Exports Ltd) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    The Lanchester Motor Company  Limited  0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    The Daimler Motor Company  Limited 0.01%  13.84 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    S S Cars Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Daimler Transport Vehicles  Limited  0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    The Jaguar Collection Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover Pension  Trustees Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Cars (South Africa)  (Pty) Ltd 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia  s.r.o.
2.82%  2,693.47 0.72%  64.86 0.31%  91.83 0.41%  156.69  Jaguar Racing Limited 0.01%  7.60 0.04%  3.61 0.00%  -   0.01%  3.61  InMotion Ventures Limited (0.07)%  (67.63) (0.12)%  (10.64) 0.00%  -   (0.03)%  (10.64) InMotion Ventures 1 Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    InMotion Ventures 2 Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    InMotion Ventures 3 Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Land Rover Ireland (Services)  Limited 0.00%  1.62 0.02%  1.51 (0.01)%  (1.72) 0.00%  (0.21) Spark44 (JV) Ltd 0.27%  261.18 0.59%  52.80 0.05%  14.57 0.17%  67.37  Spark44 Limited (London &  Birmingham) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Spark44 Pty Ltd (Sydney) 0.00%  2.71 0.02%  1.39 0.00%  -   0.00%  1.39  Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) 0.02%  15.19 0.06%  5.27 0.00%  -   0.01%  5.27  Spark44 GLLC (LA & NYC) 0.04%  36.07 0.07%  6.65 0.00%  -   0.02%  6.65  Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) 0.02%  22.05 0.06%  5.72 0.00%  -   0.01%  5.72  Spark44 Middle East DMCC  (Dubai) 0.04%  35.96 0.24%  21.59 0.00%  -   0.06%  21.59  Spark44 Demand Creation  Partners Pte Ltd (Mumbai) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) 0.00%  1.70 0.01%  1.18 0.00%  -   0.00%  1.18  Spark44 Communicacions SL  (Madrid) 0.00%  2.46 0.02%  1.70 0.00%  -   0.00%  1.70  Spark44 SRL (Rome) 0.00%  0.15 0.00%  0.05 0.00%  -   0.00%  0.05  Spark44 Limited (Seoul) 0.00%  4.37 0.02%  1.95 0.00%  -   0.01%  1.95  Spark44 K.K.
(Tokyo) 0.00%  3.30 0.02%  1.50 0.00%  -   0.00%  1.50  Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) 0.03%  28.03 0.06%  5.19 0.00%  -   0.01%  5.19  Spark44 South Africa (Pty)  Limited 0.00%  1.18 0.00%  0.44 0.00%  -   0.00%  0.44  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 341 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Name of enterprises As % of  consolidated  net assets  Net Assets   (total assets  minus total  liabilities) As % of  consolidated   profit or loss Share of profit  or loss As % of  consolidated  OCI  Share of  OCI  As % of  comprehensive  income Amount Limited Liability Company  Jaguar Land Rover (Russia) 0.85%  812.28 2.00%  179.67 0.00%  -   0.47%  179.67  Jaguar Land Rover (China)  Investment Co Ltd (previously  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd ) 11.80%  11,263.51 47.39%  4,260.01 0.00%  -   11.06%  4,260.01  Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover  Automotive Service Co. Ltd (0.01)%  (11.84) (0.11)%  (9.70) 0.00%  -   (0.03)%  (9.70) Jaguar Land Rover Colombia  SAS (0.01)%  (6.07) (0.15)%  (13.92) 0.00%  -   (0.04)%  (13.92) Jaguar Landrover Mexico S.A.P  I de C.V 0.04%  36.91 0.03%  2.65 0.01%  2.70 0.01%  5.35  Jaguar Landrover Services  Mexico S.A C.V 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover France SAS 0.04%  39.22 0.12%  10.76 0.00%  -   0.03%  10.76  Jaguar Land Rover Portugal- Veiculos e Pecas, Lda.
0.09%  82.95 (0.03)%  (2.62) 0.00%  -   (0.01)%  (2.62) Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL  (merged company following the  absorption of Jaguar Hispania,  S.L.U by Land Rover Espana,  S.L.U) 0.56%  534.71 0.35%  31.21 0.00%  (0.56) 0.08%  30.65  Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA 0.64%  609.21 0.85%  76.76 0.00%  -   0.20%  76.76  Land Rover Ireland Limited - (no  longer a trading NSC) 0.01%  12.51 (0.01)%  (1.13) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (1.13) Jaguar Land Rover Korea Co.  Ltd. 0.13%  125.71 0.95%  84.99 0.00%  -   0.22%  84.99  Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland  GmbH 0.89%  849.14 1.48%  132.93 0.00%  -   0.35%  132.93  Jaguar Land Rover Austria  GmbH 0.12%  112.69 0.15%  13.73 0.00%  -   0.04%  13.73  Jaguar Land Rover Australia  Pty Limited 0.13%  122.88 0.37%  33.54 0.00%  -   0.09%  33.54  Jaguar Land Rover North  America, LLC.
1.69%  1,614.50 10.39%  933.77 0.03%  7.39 2.44%  941.16  Jaguar Land Rover Japan  Limited  0.28%  269.22 0.25%  22.26 0.00%  -   0.06%  22.26  Jaguar Land Rover Canada, ULC 0.03%  27.22 0.30%  27.02 0.00%  -   0.07%  27.02  Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil  Indústria e Comércio de  Veículos LTDA 0.53%  510.11 (3.68)%  (331.22) 0.00%  -   (0.86)%  (331.22) Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V.  (following the merger of Jaguar  Belux and Land Rover Belux)  0.12%  118.84 0.26%  23.20 0.00%  -   0.06%  23.20  Jaguar Land Rover Nederland  BV 0.06%  58.49 0.10%  8.68 0.00%  -   0.02%  8.68  Jaguar Land Rover (South  Africa) (Pty) Limited 0.22%  213.52 0.94%  84.39 0.00%  -   0.22%  84.39  Jaguar Land Rover Singapore  Pte.
Ltd 0.02%  15.59 0.04%  3.87 0.00%  -   0.01%  3.87  Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan  Company Pte.
Ltd 0.01%  6.96 (0.02)%  (1.58) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (1.58) Tata Daewoo Commercial  Vehicle  Sales and Distribution  Co. Ltd. 0.02%  19.79 (0.05)%  (4.29) 0.00%  0.81 (0.01)%  (3.48) PT Tata Motors Distribusi  Indonesia 0.02%  16.09 (0.37)%  (33.30) 0.00%  -   (0.09)%  (33.30) TMNL Motor Services Nigeria  Ltd (incorporated w.e.f  September 2, 2015) 0.00%  (0.10) 0.00%  (0.03) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (0.03) Minority Interests in all subsidiaries  Indian Concorde Motors (India) Ltd 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd (0.06)%  (59.08) (0.05)%  (4.74) 0.00%  (0.17) (0.01)%  (4.91) Tata Motors Finance Ltd 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00% 0.00%  -    Tata Technologies Ltd (0.42)%  (396.67) (0.96)%  (86.31) (0.09)%  (26.45) (0.29)%  (112.76) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 342  Name of enterprises As % of  consolidated  net assets  Net Assets   (total assets  minus total  liabilities) As % of  consolidated   profit or loss Share of profit  or loss As % of  consolidated  OCI  Share of  OCI  As % of  comprehensive  income Amount 0.00% 0.00% Foreign 0.00% 0.00% Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary)  Ltd (0.01)%  (6.08) (0.01)%  (0.73) 0.00%  (0.79) 0.00%  (1.52) Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 0.00%  (0.20) 0.00%  0.03 0.00%  (0.01) 0.00%  0.02  Spark 44 Ltd (0.08)%  (79.40) (0.21)%  (19.02) 0.00%  -   (0.05)%  (19.02) Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited 0.03%  27.75 0.07%  5.99 0.01%  2.19 0.02%  8.18  Trilix S.r.l (0.01)%  (11.38) 0.03%  2.33 (0.01)%  (1.67) 0.00%  0.66  Joint operations Indian Fiat India Automobiles Private  Limited 1.77%  1,687.53 2.04%  183.60 0.00%  0.27 0.48%  183.87  Tata Cummins Private Ltd 0.48%  458.44 0.96%  86.63 0.00%  0.78 0.23%  87.41  Adjustments arising out of  consolidation  (139.66)%  (133,278.66) (109.08)%  (9,805.48) 13.57%  4,006.70 (15.05)%  (5,798.79) Sub - total ( a )  90,042.67  6,710.65  29,117.17  35,827.81  Joint ventures (as per proportionate consolidation / investment as per the equity method Indian JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd 0.00%  2.50 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Foreign Spark 44 Ltd 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Chery Jaguar Land Rover  Automotive Co Ltd  4.66%  4,451.33 24.05%  2,161.73 1.42%  420.35 6.70%  2,582.08  Sub - total ( b )  4,453.83  2,161.73  420.35  2,582.08  Associates (Investment as per  the equity method) Indian Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd 0.22%  211.91 0.19%  17.12 0.01%  2.40 0.05%  19.52  Automobile Corporation of  Goa Ltd 0.15%  141.19 0.10%  9.42 0.00%  0.25 0.03%  9.67  Tata Hitachi Construction  Machinery Company Private Ltd 0.52%  497.35 1.21%  109.16 (0.02)%  (4.55) 0.27%  104.61  Foreign Nita Company Ltd 0.03%  29.54 0.04%  3.69 0.00%  -   0.01%  3.69  Tata Precision Industries (India)  Ltd  -    -    -    -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Synaptiv Limited 0.00%  1.48  -    -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    CloudCar Inc 0.05%  44.87 (0.25)%  (22.86) 0.00%  -   (0.06)%  (22.86) DriveClubService Pte.
Ltd. 0.00%  1.85 0.00%  -   - - - - Jaguar Cars Finance Limited 0.00%  3.23 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Sub - total ( c )  931.41  116.53  (1.90)  114.63  Total  ( b + c )  5,385.24 100.00%  2,278.26 100.00%  418.45 100.00%  2,696.71  Total  ( a + b ) 100.00%  95,427.91 100.00%  8,988.91 100.00%  29,535.61 100.00%  38,524.52  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 343 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 45.
Other Notes  (a) During the year ended March 31, 2014, legislation was enacted that allows United Kingdom (UK) companies to elect for the  Research and Development Expenditure Credit (RDEC) on qualifying expenditures incurred since April 1, 2013, instead of the  existing super-deduction rules.
As a result of this election by the Company’s subsidiary in the UK, ` 871.75 crores and ` 762.67  crores, for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, the proportion relating to capitalised product development  expenditure, have been off set against intangibles under development.
(b) The following subsidiaries have been considered on unaudited basis.
Details for the same as per individual entity’s financials are  as under : Net Worth   As at   March 31, 2018 Total Revenue for  the year ended   March 31, 2018  Net Increase /  (Decrease) in  Cash & Cash  equivalent during   2017-2018 Subsidiaries : Trilix S.R.L  48.79  68.09  10.00  Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd  0.87  -    (0.03) TML Holding Pte Ltd  9,536.74  -    538.63  TMNL Motor services Nigeria Limited  (0.10)  -    0.14  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd  11.21  1,183.83  10.73  Tata Technologies De Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  6.34  19.80  0.66  Incat International PLC  44.21  0.16  0.59  Incat Gmbh  18.12  0.30  0.27  Cambric Limited  19.07  1.78  0.07  Tata Technlogies SRL Romania  27.03  31.62  7.19  Cambric Gmbh  1.96  0.08  0.13  TOTAL  9,714.24  1,305.66  568.38  For the year ended / as at March 31, 2017  (311.26)  336.51  (46.11)  ( c) The assets and liabilities of Tata Technologies Limited, TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited, Company’s certain assets related to  defence business and investment in Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited (equity accounted investees)  are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind AS 105.
(d) Exceptional debit of ` 1,641.38 crores, relates to provision for impairment of certain intangibles under development and capital  work-in-progress.
The Company reviewed product development programs in capital work-in-progress and consequently  provided for impairment during the year ended March 31, 2018.
(e) The exceptional credit of ` 3,609.01 crores (GBP 437.40 million) for the year ended March 31, 2018, relates to the amendment of  the Defined Benefit scheme of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc.
On April 3, 2017, Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc approved  and communicated to its Defined Benefit scheme members that the Defined Benefit Scheme rules were to be amended with  effect from April 6, 2017 so that amongst other changes, retirement benefit will be calculated on a career average basis rather  than based upon a member’s final salary at retirement.
These changes were effective from April 6, 2017 and as a result of the  re-measurement of the scheme’s liabilities, the past service credit has been recognised in year ended March 31, 2018.
(f) Exceptional debit of ` 147.93 crores for the year ended March 31, 2017, relates to provision for inventory of BS III vehicles as at  March 31, 2017.
This does not include higher level of customer discounts and variable marketing expenses in March 2017, to  support higher level of retail sales, which have been netted off against ‘Income from operations.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 344  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner Membership No.
049265 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863]  Chairman N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] R SPETH [DIN:03318908]  Directors GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] CEO and Managing Director S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] ED and Chief Operating Officer P B BALAJI Group Chief Financial Officer H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Mumbai, May 23, 2018  (g) The exceptional credit of ` 11.19 crores (GBP 1.4 million) and ` 1,330.10 crores (GBP 151 million) for the years ended March 31, 2018  and 2017, respectively, relates to the explosion at the port of Tianjin (China) in August 2015.
This relates to the receipt of insurance  proceeds, recovery of import duties and taxes and to an updated assessment of the condition of the remaining vehicles, which led  to a reversal of the original provision recorded in the quarter ended September 30, 2015.
(h) The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material  foreseeable losses.
At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision are required under any law/ accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made  in the books of account.
345 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 Summarised statement of Assets and Liabilities (CONSOLIDATED) (` in crores) As at   March 31,  2018 As at   March 31,  2017 WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED (1) Property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets  161,330.91  128,969.60  (2) Goodwill  116.45  673.32  (3) Non-current Investments  5,651.65  5,296.77  (4) Non-current Finance receivables  15,479.53  10,753.13  (5) Non-current tax assets (net)  5,058.60  5,429.65  (6) Other non-current assets  7,740.53  6,512.14  (7) Current assets  135,972.84  116,119.75  TOTAL ASSETS  331,350.51  273,754.36  (` in crores) As at   March 31,  2018 As at   March 31,  2017 WHAT THE COMPANY OWED (1) Net worth  Equity share capital  679.22  679.22   Other equity  94,748.69  57,382.67  (2) Non-controlling interests  525.06  453.17  (3) Non-current borrowings  61,199.50  60,629.18  (4) Non-current provisions  10,948.44  9,004.46  (5) Deferred tax liabilities (net)  6,125.80  1,174.00  (6) Other non-current liabilities  13,904.33  28,802.14  (7) Current liabilities  143,219.47  115,629.52  TOTAL LIABILITIES  331,350.51  273,754.36  Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss (CONSOLIDATED) (` in crores) 2017-2018 2016-2017 1 INCOME Income from operations  295,409.34  274,492.12  Other income  888.89  754.54  Total  296,298.23  275,246.66  2 EXPENDITURE Cost of materials consumed  171,992.59  159,369.55  Purchase of products for sale  15,903.99  13,924.53  Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale  (2,046.58)  (7,399.92) Excise duty  790.16  4,799.61  Employee benefits expense  30,300.09  28,332.89  Finance costs  4,681.79  4,238.01  Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)  (1,185.28)  3,910.10  Depreciation and amortisation expense  21,553.59  17,904.99  Product development/Engineering expenses  3,531.87  3,413.57  Other expenses  60,184.21  55,430.06  Amount capitalised  (18,588.09)  (16,876.96) Total Expenses  287,118.34  267,046.43  Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax  9,179.89  8,200.23  Defined benefit pension plan amendment past service credit  (3,609.01)  -  Employee seperation cost  3.68  67.61  Provision for impairment of capital work in progress and intangibles under development  1,641.38  -  Others  (11.19)  (1,182.17) 3 PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS  11,155.03  9,314.79  4 Tax expense(net)  4,341.93  3,251.23  5 PROFIT AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4)  6,813.10  6,063.56  6 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net)  2,278.26  1,493.00  7 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR  9,091.36  7,556.56  8 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)  29,562.51  (27,494.57) 9 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR  38,653.87  (19,938.01) 346  Summarised statement of Assets and Liabilities (STANDALONE) (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED (1) Property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets  26,701.26  27,944.82  (2) Goodwill  99.09  99.09  (3) Non-current Investments  14,260.79  14,858.39  (4) Non-current tax assets (net)  695.75  772.67  (5) Other non-current assets  2,483.75  2,446.23  (6) Current assets  14,971.66  12,757.08  TOTAL ASSETS  59,212.30  58,878.28  WHAT THE COMPANY OWED (1) Net worth  Equity share capital  679.22  679.22   Other equity  19,491.76  20,483.39  (2) Non-current borrowings  13,155.91  13,686.09  (3) Non-current provisions  1,009.48  892.18  (4) Deferred tax liabilities (net)  154.61  147.58  (5) Other non-current liabilities  502.37  1,451.47  (6) Current liabilities  24,218.95  21,538.35  TOTAL LIABILITIES  59,212.30  58,878.28  Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss  (STANDALONE) (` in crores) As at   March 31, 2018 As at March 31, 2017 1 INCOME 2017-2018 2016-2017 Income from operations  59,624.69  49,054.49  Other income  1,557.60  981.06  Total  61,182.29  50,035.55  2 EXPENDITURE Cost of materials consumed  37,080.45  27,651.65  Purchase of products for sale  4,762.41  3,945.97  Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale  842.05  (252.14) Excise duty  793.28  4,738.15  Employee benefits expense  3,966.73  3,764.35  Finance costs  1,744.43  1,569.01  Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)  17.14  (252.78) Depreciation and amortisation expense  3,101.89  3,037.12  Product development/Engineering expenses  474.98  454.48  Other expenses  9,234.27  8,335.90  Amount capitalised  (855.08)  (941.60) Total Expenses  61,162.55  52,050.11  Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax  19.74  (2,014.56) Employee seperation cost  3.68  67.61  Provision for impairment of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development  962.98  -  Others  -  271.10  3 PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS  (946.92)  (2,353.27) 4 Tax expense(net)  87.93  76.33  5 PROFIT AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4)  (1,034.85)  (2,429.60) 6 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)  43.22  94.21  7 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR  (991.63)  (2,335.39) 347 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 FINANCIAL STATISTICS - CONSOLIDATED Year CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Capital Reserves  and Surplus Borrowings Gross Block Accumulated  Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profit/  (Loss)  Before  Taxes Taxes Profit/  (Loss) After  Taxes Dividend  including  tax PAT to  Sales Earnings Per Share  (Basic)* (`) Dividend Per  Share*# (`) Net Worth   Per Share* (`) Ordinary  Share ‘A’  Ordinary  Share Ordinary  Share ‘A’  Ordinary  Share 2001-02  31,982  183,617  282,031  634,984  252,475  382,509  932,220  39,222  (18,015)  (6,740)  (10,719)  45 -1.1% (3.95)  -  -  - 66 @ 2002-03  31,983  190,018  178,965  648,959  284,038  364,921  1,144,801  40,190  54,350  22,640  29,712  14,497 2.6% 9.29  - 4.00  - 66  2003-04  35,683  329,884  169,842  728,468  323,749  404,719  1,634,104  42,556  144,487  53,077  91,529  32,099 5.6% 27.88  - 8.00  - 104 @ 2004-05  36,179  403,537  271,420  834,162  375,933  458,229  2,284,217  53,101  184,809  49,062  138,534  52,346 6.1% 38.50  - 12.50!
- 121 @ 2005-06  38,287  574,860  337,914  1,027,949  484,356  543,593  2,750,725  62,331  234,898  64,000  172,809  58,439 6.3% 45.86  - 13.00  - 160 @ 2006-07  38,541  733,626  730,190  1,294,083  542,665  751,418  3,707,579  68,809  308,800  88,321  216,999  68,822 5.9% 56.43  - 15.00  - 200 @ 2007-08  38,554  831,198  1,158,487  1,892,393  606,049  1,286,344  4,060,827  78,207  308,629  85,154  216,770  67,674 5.3% 56.24  - 15.00  - 225 @ 2008-09  51,405  542,659  3,497,385  6,900,238  3,326,905  3,573,333  7,489,227  250,677  (212,925)  33,575  (250,525)  36,458 -3.3% (56.88) (56.88) 6.00 6.50 114 ++ 2009-10  57,060  763,588  3,519,236  7,291,985  3,441,352  3,850,633  9,736,054  388,713  352,264 100,575  257,106  100,185 2.6% 48.64 49.14 15.00 15.50 144 ^ 2010-11  63,771  1,853,376  3,281,055  8,291,975  3,969,870  4,322,105  12,684,370  465,551  1,043,717  121,638  927,362  148,130 7.3% 155.25 155.75 20.00 20.50 302 ^^ 2011-12  63,475  3,206,375  4,714,896  10,572,497  4,951,247  5,621,250  17,133,935  562,538  1,353,387  (4,004)  1,351,650  148,862 7.9% 42.58** 42.68** 4.00** 4.10** 103 ^^ 2012-13  63,807  3,699,923  5,371,571  12,158,556  5,172,265  6,986,291  19,451,406  760,128  1,364,733 377,666  989,261  75,614 5.1% 31.02 31.12 2.00 2.10 118 @ 2013-14  64,378  6,495,967  6,064,228  16,619,078  6,881,538  9,737,540 23,745,502  1,107,816  1,886,897 476,479  1,399,102  69,008# 5.9% 43.51 43.61 2.00 2.10 204 @ 2014-15  64,378  5,561,814  7,361,039 18,684,665  7,442,406  11,242,259 26,760,664  1,338,863  2,170,256 764,291  1,398,629  (3,319) 5.2% 43.44 43.54 - - 175  2015-16  67,918  8,010,349  7,046,849 21,639,756  8,754,689 12,885,067  28,107,844  1,701,418  1,398,087 287,260  1,102,375  11,052 3.9% 32.61 32.71 0.20 0.30  238 +++ 2016-17  67,922  5,738,267  7,860,398  19,653,773  6,756,813 12,896,960 27,524,666  1,790,499  931,479  325,123  745,436  - 2.7% 21.94 22.04 - -  171 ^^^ 2017-18  67,922  9,474,869  8,895,047 25,312,610  9,179,519  16,133,091 29,629,823  2,155,359  1,115,503 434,193  898,891  - 3.0%  26.46  26.56 - -  281  Notes @ On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares.
* To a face value of `10/- per share upto 2011-12.
# Includes Interim Dividend where applicable.
!
Includes a special dividend of ` 2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year.
++ On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^ On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^^ On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
** Consequent to sub-division of shares, figures for previous ye ars are not comparable ## Includes reversal of dividend distribution tax of earlier year +++ On increased capital base due to rights issue ^^^ The figures of FY 2016-17 onwards is as per Ind AS 348  FINANCIAL STATISTICS - STANDALONE CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Year Capital Reserves  and  Surplus Borrowings Gross  Block Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profit/  (Loss)  Before  Taxes Taxes Profit/  (Loss)  After  Taxes Dividend  including  tax PAT to  Sales Earnings Per Share  (Basic)* (`) Dividend Per  Share*# (`) Net Worth  Per Share*  (`)Ordinary  Share ‘A’  Ordinary  Share Ordinary  Share ‘A’  Ordinary  Share 1945-46  100  1  -  31  2  29  12  2  1  -  1  - 8.3% 0.07  -  -  -  10  1949-50  200  11  94  233  44  189  167  15  11  5  6  - 3.6% 0.03  -  -  -  10  1953-54  500  27  412  731  270  461  321  97  3  -  3  - 0.9% 0.11  -  -  -  11  1954-55  627  27  481  792  303  489  445  35  -  -  -  - 0.0% 0.00  -  -  -  11  1955-56  658  120  812  1,010  407  603  1,198  105  125  32  93  59 7.8% 1.32  - 0.60  -  12  1956-57  700  149  1,382  1,352  474  878  2,145  70  116  27  89  44 4.1% 1.64  - 0.80  -  13  1957-58  700  117  1,551  1,675  668  1,007  2,694  129  99  6  93  52 3.5% 1.72  - 0.90  -  12  1958-59  1,000  206  1,245  2,050  780  1,270  2,645  113  155  13  142  56 5.4% 1.68  - 0.90  -  12  1959-60  1,000  282  1,014  2,201  940  1,261  2,825  161  222  93  129  108 4.6% 1.50  - 1.25  -  13  1960-61  1,000  367  1,263  2,593  1,118  1,475  3,735  180  313  122  191  126 5.1% 2.26  - 1.45  -  14  1961-62  1,000  432  1,471  2,954  1,336  1,618  4,164  220  378  188  190  124 4.6% 2.28  - 1.45  -  15  1962-63  1,000  450  1,758  3,281  1,550  1,731  4,364  223  327  185  142  124 3.3% 1.68  - 1.45  -  15  1963-64  1,198  630  2,470  3,920  1,802  2,118  5,151  260  404  200  204  144 4.0% 1.97  - 1.45  -  16  1964-65  1,297  787  3,275  4,789  2,144  2,645  6,613  345  479  208  271  157 4.1% 2.39  - 1.45  -  17  1965-66  1,640  995  3,541  5,432  2,540  2,892  7,938  398  477  189  288  191 3.6% 2.20  - 1.45  -  18  1966-67  1,845  1,027  4,299  6,841  3,039  3,802  9,065  505  620  192  428  235 4.7% 2.80  - 1.45+  -  17  1967-68  1,845  1,121  5,350  7,697  3,608  4,089  9,499  572  395  66  329  235 3.5% 2.10  - 1.45  -  18  1968-69  1,845  1,295  5,856  8,584  4,236  4,348  10,590  630  582  173  409  235 3.9% 2.66  - 1.45  -  19  1969-70  1,845  1,333  6,543  9,242  4,886  4,356  9,935  662  274  -  274  221 2.8% 1.72  - 1.35  -  19  1970-71  1,845  1,516  6,048  10,060  5,620  4,440  13,624  749  673  270  403  251 3.0% 2.49  - 1.45  -  20  1971-72  1,949  2,020  6,019  10,931  6,487  4,444  15,849  758  885  379  506  273 3.2% 3.04  - 1.50  -  23  1972-73  1,949  2,194  5,324  12,227  7,491  4,736  15,653  820  832  360  472  266 3.0% 2.87  - 1.50  -  24  1973-74  1,949  2,394  6,434  13,497  8,471  5,026  16,290  902  1,007  450  557  180 3.4% 3.43  - 0.93  -  26  1974-75  1,949  2,827  9,196  15,838  9,593  6,245  22,510  1,134  677  136  541  266 2.4% 3.32  - 1.50  -  28  1975-76  2,013  3,691  9,399  18,642  10,625  8,017  27,003  1,054  855  91  764  276 2.8% 4.60  - 1.50  -  33  1976-77  2,328  3,833  11,816  20,709  11,685  9,024  28,250  1,145  1,056  -  1,056  323 3.7% 5.38  - 1.50+  -  30  1977-78  2,118  4,721  11,986  22,430  12,723  9,707  28,105  1,101  1,044  -  1,044  313 3.7% 5.37  - 1.50  -  35  1978-79  3,151  5,106  11,033  24,900  13,895  11,005  37,486  1,200  1,514  -  1,514  467 4.0% 5.36  - 1.60+  -  27  1979-80  3,151  6,263  17,739  28,405  15,099  13,306  44,827  1,300  1,762  -  1,762  605 3.9% 5.96  - 2.00  -  31  1980-81  3,151  8,095  15,773  33,055  16,496  16,559  60,965  1,616  2,437  -  2,437  605 4.0% 8.27  - 2.00  -  38  1981-82  4,320  10,275  25,476  38,819  18,244  20,575  79,244  1,993  4,188  -  4,188  839 5.3% 10.18  - 2.00+  -  35 @ 1982-83  4,226  12,458  23,361  43,191  20,219  22,972  86,522  2,187  3,481  460  3,021  827 3.5% 7.34  - 2.00  -  40  1983-84  5,421  14,103  25,473  46,838  23,078  23,760  85,624  2,923  2,163  235  1,928  923 2.3% 3.61  - 2.00  -  37 @ 1984-85  5,442  15,188  30,226  52,819  26,826  25,993  93,353  3,895  2,703  390  2,313  1,241 2.5% 4.32  - 2.30  -  39  1985-86  5,452  16,551  44,651  61,943  29,030  32,913  102,597  3,399  1,832  215  1,617  1,243 1.6% 3.00  - 2.30  -  41  1986-87  5,452  15,886  53,476  68,352  30,914  37,438  119,689  2,157  293  -  293  552 0.2% 0.51  - 1.00  -  40  1987-88  6,431  17,491  44,406  75,712  34,620  41,092  140,255  3,822  3,205  510  2,695  1,356 1.9% 4.25  - 2.30  -  38 @ 1988-89  10,501  30,740  32,396  83,455  38,460  44,995  167,642  4,315  8,513  1,510  7,003  2,444 4.2% 6.74  - 2.50  -  40 @ 1989-90  10,444  37,870  48,883  91,488  43,070  48,418  196,910  4,891  14,829  4,575  10,254  3,126 5.2% 9.87  - 3.00  -  47  1990-91  10,387  47,921  48,323  100,894  48,219  52,675  259,599  5,426  23,455  9,250  14,205  4,154 5.5% 13.69  - 4.00  -  56  1991-92  11,765  61,863  105,168  123,100  54,609  68,491  317,965  6,475  20,884  7,800  13,084  4,389 4.1% 12.45  - 4.00  -  67 @ 1992-93  12,510  64,207  144,145  153,612  61,710  91,902  309,156  7,456  3,030  26  3,004  3,642 1.0% 2.47  - 3.00  -  63  1993-94  12,867  70,745  141,320  177,824  70,285  107,539  374,786  9,410  10,195  20  10,175  5,020 2.7% 7.91  - 4.00  -  65  1994-95  13,694  128,338  115,569  217,084  81,595  135,489  568,312  11,967  45,141  13,246  31,895  8,068 5.6% 23.29  - 6.00  -  104  1995-96  24,182  217,400  128,097  294,239  96,980  197,259  790,967  16,444  76,072  23,070  53,002  14,300 6.7% 21.92  - 6.00  -  100  1996-97  25,588  339,169  253,717  385,116  117,009  268,107  1,012,843  20,924  100,046  23,810  76,236  22,067 7.5% 30.40  - 8.00  -  143  1997-98  25,588  349,930  330,874  487,073  141,899  345,174  736,279  25,924  32,880  3,414  29,466  15,484 4.0% 11.51  - 5.50  -  147  1998-99  25,590  350,505  344,523  569,865  165,334  404,531  659,395  28,132  10,716  970  9,746  8,520 1.5% 3.81  - 3.00  -  147  1999-00  25,590  349,822  300,426  581,233  182,818  398,415  896,114  34,261  7,520  400  7,120  7,803 0.8% 2.78  - 2.50  -  147  2000-01  25,590  299,788  299,888  591,427  209,067  382,360  816,422  34,737  (50,034)  -  (50,034)  - - (18.45)  -  -  -  127  2001-02  31,982  214,524  230,772  591,006  243,172  347,834  891,806  35,468  (10,921)  (5,548)  (5,373)  - - (1.98)  -  -  -  77 @ 2002-03  31,983  227,733  145,831  608,114  271,307  336,807  1,085,874  36,213  51,037  21,026  30,011  14,430 2.8% 9.38  - 4.00  -  81  2003-04  35,683  323,677  125,977  627,149  302,369  324,780  1,555,242  38,260  129,234  48,200  81,034  31,825 5.2% 24.68  - 8.00  -  102 @ 2004-05  36,179  374,960  249,542  715,079  345,428  369,651  2,064,866  45,016  165,190  41,495  123,695  51,715 6.0% 34.38  - 12.50!
-  114 @ 2005-06  38,287  515,420  293,684  892,274  440,151  452,123  2,429,052  52,094  205,338  52,450  152,888  56,778 6.3% 40.57  - 13.00  -  145 @ 2006-07  38,541  648,434  400,914  1,128,912  489,454  639,458  3,206,467  58,629  257,318  65,972  191,346  67,639 6.0% 49.76  - 15.00  -  178 @ 2007-08  38,554  745,396  628,052  1,589,579  544,352  1,045,227  3,357,711  65,231  257,647  54,755  202,892  65,968 6.0% 52.64  - 15.00  -  203 @ 2008-09  51,405  1,171,610  1,316,556  2,085,206  625,990  1,459,216  2,949,418  87,454  101,376  1,250  100,126  34,570 3.4% 22.70 23.20 6.00 6.50  238 ++ 2009-10  57,060  1,439,487  1,659,454  2,364,896  721,292  1,643,604  4,021,755  103,387  282,954  58,946  224,008  99,194 5.6% 42.37 42.87 15.00 15.50  262 ^ 2010-11  63,771  1,937,559  1,591,543  2,568,235  846,625  1,721,610  5,160,692  136,077  219,652  38,470  181,182  146,703 3.5% 30.28 30.78 20.00 20.50  315 ^^ 2011-12  63,475  1,899,126  1,588,057  2,902,206  996,587  1,905,619  5,979,502  160,674  134,103  9,880  124,223  146,372 2.5% 3.90** 4.00** 4.00** 4.10**  62  2012-13  63,807  1,849,677  1,679,895  3,181,998  1,161,144  2,020,854  5,140,793  181,762  17,493  (12,688)  30,181  72,423 0.6% 0.93 1.03 2.00 2.10  60 @ 2013-14  64,378  1,853,287  1,505,280  3,514,652  1,355,088  2,159,564  4,159,103  207,030 (102,580) (136,032)  33,452 66,627 0.8% 1.03 1.13 2.00 2.10  60 @ 2014-15  64,378  1,421,881  2,113,441  3,785,500  1,603,098  2,182,402  4,141,264  260,322 (397,472)  76,423 (473,895) (9,340) - (14.72) (14.72) - -  46  2015-16  67,918  2,168,890  1,588,725  4,077,235  1,852,749  2,224,486  4,877,959  245,375  15,039  (8,384)  23,423  7,300 0.5% 0.68 0.78 0.20 0.30  66 +++ 2016-17  67,922  2,012,993  1,957,398  4,591,464  1,853,922  2,737,542  5,007,925  296,939 (242,077)  5,922 (247,999)  - -5.0% (7.30) (7.30) - -  61 ^^^ 2017-18  67,922  1,949,176  1,846,384  4,826,322  2,156,196  2,670,126  6,118,229  310,189  (94,692)  8,793 (103,485)  - -1.7% (3.05) (3.05) - -  59  Notes : @ On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares.
$ On increased capital base due to issue of Bonus Shares.
Net Worth excludes ordinary dividends.
* Equivalent to a face value of ` 10/- per share.
# Includes Interim Dividend where applicable.
+ Including on Bonus Shares issued during the year.
!
Includes a special dividend of ` 2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year.
++ On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^ On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^^ On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
** Consequent to sub-division of shares, figures for previous years are not comparable ## Includes reversal of dividend distribution tax of earlier year +++ On increased capital base due to rights issue ^^^ The figures of FY 2016-17 onwards is as per Ind AS with Joint operation 349 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 (` in crores) Sr. No Subsidiary Country Reporting  currency Exchange  Rate Share  capital (incl.
advances  towards  capital where  applicable)  Reserves  and  Surplus  Total Assets Total  Liabilities  Turnover Profit/ (Loss)  Before Tax  Tax  Expense/  (Credit)  Profit/ (Loss) after  tax  Profit/  (Loss)for  the period/  year *  Proposed  dividend  and tax  thereon  Investments  (except in case  of investment  in the  subsidiaries)  % of  shareholding 1 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd (subsidiary  w.e.f March 13, 2000) India INR 1.00  115.00  (16.61)  534.76  436.37  379.67  11.05  (2.34)  13.39  13.39  -    -   100.00 2 Concorde Motors (India) Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f  July 3, 1999) India INR 1.00  144.18  (132.96)  722.94  711.73  1,183.83  (130.24)  -    (130.24)  (130.24)  -    -   100.00 3 Tata Motors Finance Ltd (Name changed  from Sheba Properties Limited w.e.f.
June  30, 2017) (subsidiary w.e.f January 24, 1989) India INR 1.00  538.73  1,225.70  22,975.23  21,210.79  2,381.22  68.23  (66.85)  135.08  135.08  -    92.04 100.00 4 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd  (subsidiary w.e.f March 30, 2004) South Korea KRW 0.06  57.57  2,482.29  4,054.88  1,515.03  5,035.02  242.87  39.92  202.95  202.95  -    -   100.00 5 Tata Technologies Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f  September 10, 1997) India INR 1.00  42.10  679.15  947.29  226.04  1,124.96  234.95  57.48  177.47  177.47  -    31.79 72.29 6 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory  Services Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f October  21, 2004) India INR 1.00  5.00  22.48  73.63  46.15  107.13  20.13  6.00  14.13  14.13  -    33.83 100.00 7 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc  (subsidiary w.e.f September 1, 2005) UK GBP 92.28  474.57  (138.57)  435.67  99.66  221.00  36.76  6.88  29.88  29.88  -    -   100.00 8 TML Distribution Company Ltd (subsidiary  w.e.f March 28, 2008) India INR 1.00  225.00  129.44  513.80  159.37  4,347.98  77.46  27.31  50.15  50.15  -    -   100.00 9 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd  (subsidiary w.e.f December 5, 2007) South Africa ZAR 5.54  12.98  2.21  146.29  131.10  103.93  2.52  0.69  1.83  1.83  -    -   60.00 10 TMF Holdings Ltd (Name changed from Tata  Motors Finance Ltd. w.e.f.
June 30, 2017)  (subsidiary w.e.f June 1, 2006) India INR 1.00  1,404.74  1,888.03  6,700.92  3,408.16  51.84  (17.16)  1.12  (18.28)  (18.28)  -    50.08 100.00 11 Tata Motors Financial Solutions Ltd  (subsidiary w.e.f January 19, 2015) India INR 1.00  1,700.50  (504.16)  5,014.55  3,818.21  378.81  1,546.92  1.78  1,545.13  1,545.13  -    1,192.81 100.00 12 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f  September 20, 2006) India INR 1.00  170.00  (49.23)  419.82  299.05  572.24  11.29  1.61  9.68  9.68  -    -   51.00 13 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f  February 28, 2008) Thailand THB 2.08  553.77  (1,064.13)  398.92  909.28  59.40  (132.77)  -    (132.77)  (132.77)  -    -   95.49 14 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore (subsidiary  w.e.f February 4, 2008) Singapore GBP 92.28  12,691.10  (3,154.36)  17,495.45  7,958.71  -    512.71  9.13  123.78  123.78  -    -   100.00 15 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera  S.A  (subsidiary w.e.f October 16, 2009) Spain EUR 80.81  2.88  (768.40)  35.17  800.70  6.12  (9.09)  -    (9.09)  (9.09)  -    -   100.00 16 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb  (subsidiary w.e.f June 23, 2014) Morocco MAD 7.08  146.30  (175.57)  43.87  73.13  2.60  (4.37)  0.01  (4.38)  (4.38)  -    -   100.00 17 Trilix S.r.l (subsidiary w.e.f October 4, 2010) Italy EUR 80.81  0.61  48.17  89.88  41.10  68.09  (11.64)  -    (11.64)  (11.64)  -    -   80.00 18 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd (subsidiary  w.e.f February 15, 2011) Singapore SGD 49.82  41.56  (40.70)  0.98  0.12  -    (0.13)  -    (0.13)  (0.13)  -    -   78.39 19 PT Tata Motors Indonesia (subsidiary w.e.f  December 29, 2011) Indonesia IDR 0.00  262.59  (52.49)  214.72  4.62  -    (2.92)  -    (2.92)  (2.92)  -    -   100.00 20 INCAT International Plc.
(subsidiary w.e.f  October 3, 2005) UK GBP 92.28  2.07  42.14  46.15  1.94  0.16  (0.26)  -    (0.26)  (0.26)  -    -   72.29 21 Tata Technologies Inc. (Including Midwest  Managed Services Inc.which got merged into  Tata Technologies Inc. w.e.f.
Feb 28, 2018)  (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) USA USD 65.18  780.20  (426.46)  449.45  95.70  676.93  14.82  9.98  4.84  4.84  -    -   72.35 22 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) Mexico MXN 3.56  1.01  5.33  11.88  5.54  19.80  0.53  -    0.53  0.53  -    -   72.35 23 Cambric Limited, Bahamas (subsidiary w.e.f  May 1, 2013) Bahamas USD 65.18  17.60  1.47  19.31  0.24  1.78  (0.22)  -    (0.22)  (0.22)  -    -   72.32 24 Cambric UK Limited (Dissolved w.e.f.
May  23, 2017) UK EUR 80.81  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    25 Cambric GmbH (subsidiary w.e.f May 1, 2013) Germany EUR 80.81  0.20  1.76  1.96  0.00  0.08  (0.10)  0.21  (0.31)  (0.31)  -    -   72.35 26 Tata Technolgies SRL, Romania (erstwhile  Cambric Consulting SRL was renamed  w.e.f February 4, 2015) (subsidiary w.e.f  May 1, 2013) Romania RON 17.23  8.84  18.20  35.20  8.16  65.03  8.55  2.00  6.55  6.55  -    -   72.32 27 Tata Manufacturing Technologies Consulting  (Shanghai) Limited .
(subsidiary w.e.f March  10, 2014) China CNY 10.35  3.05  35.86  77.55  38.66  111.97  13.72  3.48  10.24  10.24  -    -   72.29 28 Tata Technologies Europe Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) UK GBP 92.28  0.09  718.09  1,081.19  363.01  979.64  75.77  17.13  58.63  58.63  -    -   72.29 29 Escenda Engineering AB (Tata Technologies  Europe Limited acquired 100% stake in the  Company w.e.f.
May 1, 2017) Sweden SEK 7.82  0.17  (0.34)  86.94  87.11  132.96  (10.91)  (0.05)  (10.86)  (10.86)  -    -   72.29 30 INCAT GmbH (subsidiary w.e.f October  3, 2005) Germany EUR 80.81  0.95  17.17  18.38  0.26  0.30  0.30  (0.18)  0.47  0.47  -    -   72.29 31 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f October 10, 2005) Thailand THB 2.08  4.58  5.52  17.15  7.05  21.46  2.48  0.41  2.07  2.07  -    -   72.29 32 TATA Technologies Pte Ltd. (subsidiary w.e.f  December 7, 2005) Singapore USD 65.18  251.56  474.61  747.14  20.97  43.49  (2.60)  0.18  (2.79)  (2.79)  -    -   72.29 33 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  13,848.62  7,724.23  55,231.72  (33,658.87)  -    4,284.31  -    4,284.31  4,284.31  -    -   100.00 34 Jaguar Land Rover Limited (previously  Jaguar Cars Limited) (subsidiary w.e.f June  2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  32,858.33  63,100.94  2,39,955.73  (1,43,996.46)   1,87,897.40  5,605.45  148.50  5,456.95  5,456.95  -    13,022.66 100.00 35 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings  Limited(formally known as Land Rover)  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  46.14  41,410.01  50,279.72  (8,823.57)  -    (57.76)  -    (57.76)  (57.76)  -    -   100.00 36 JLR Nominee Company Limited (Formally  known as Jaguar Land Rover Exports  Limited, formerly Jaguar Cars Exports  Limited) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 37 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings  Limited (subsidiary w.e.f February 2, 2009) UK ZAR 5.54  1,079.46  210.92  1,320.60  (30.22)  -    175.42  1.90  173.52  173.52  -    -   100.00 Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule  5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies  Part - A 350  (` in crores) Sr. No Subsidiary Country Reporting  currency Exchange  Rate Share  capital (incl.
advances  towards  capital where  applicable)  Reserves  and  Surplus  Total Assets Total  Liabilities  Turnover Profit/ (Loss)  Before Tax  Tax  Expense/  (Credit)  Profit/ (Loss) after  tax  Profit/  (Loss)for  the period/  year *  Proposed  dividend  and tax  thereon  Investments  (except in case  of investment  in the  subsidiaries)  % of  shareholding 38 Jaguar Cars Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f June  2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 39 Land Rover Exports Limited (Business  transferred to Jaguar Land Rover Exports  Ltd) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 40 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited   (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 41 The Daimler Motor Company Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  13.84  -    13.84  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 42 S S Cars Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June  2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 43 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited   (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 44 The Jaguar Collection Limited (subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 45 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 46 Jaguar Cars (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) South Africa ZAR 5.54  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 47 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o.
(Incorporated w.e.f.
August 27, 2015)  (subsidiary w.e.f August 27, 2015) Slovakia EUR 80.81  2,666.71  26.76  7,220.23  (4,526.76)  531.88  83.58  18.72  64.86  64.86  -    -   100.00 48 Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
February 2, 2016) (subsidiary w.e.f February  2, 2016) UK GBP 92.28  -    7.60  249.26  (241.67)  84.81  4.56  0.95  3.61  3.61  -    -   100.00 49 InMotion Ventures Limited (Incorporated  w.e.f.
March 18, 2016) (subsidiary w.e.f  March 18, 2016) UK GBP 92.28  0.00  (67.63)  264.20  (331.83)  0.19  (10.64)  -    (10.64)  (10.64)  -    -   100.00 50 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 51 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 52 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 53 Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited UK EUR 80.81  -    1.62  43.43  (41.81)  31.70  1.51  -    1.51  1.51  -    -   100.00 54 Spark44 (JV) Ltd (Shareholding changed  from 50% to 50.50% w.e.f.
August 31, 2017)  UK GBP 92.28  18.57  242.61  593.61  (332.43)  (0.66)  66.67  13.87  52.80  52.80  -    -   50.50 55 Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) UK GBP 92.28  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   50.50 56 Spark44 Pty Ltd (Sydney) Australia AUD 50.04  -    2.71  7.58  (4.87)  32.10  3.32  1.93  1.39  1.39  -    -   50.50 57 Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) Germany EUR 80.81  -    15.19  44.25  (29.03)  167.36  8.09  2.82  5.27  5.27  -    -   50.50 58 Spark44 GLLC (LA & NYC) USA USD 65.18  -    36.07  59.29  (23.22)  213.47  12.58  5.93  6.65  6.65  -    -   50.50 59 Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) China CNY 10.35  1.03  21.02  58.69  (36.64)  137.49  7.34  1.62  5.72  5.72  -    -   50.50 60 Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai) UAE USD 65.18  0.33  35.64  52.84  (16.87)  88.27  41.22  19.63  21.59  21.59  -    -   50.50 61 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Pte  Ltd (Mumbai) India INR 1.00  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   50.50 62 Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) Singapore SGD 49.82  -    1.70  3.24  (1.53)  3.83  1.26  0.09  1.18  1.18  -    -   50.50 63 Spark44 Communicacions SL (Madrid) Spain EUR 80.81  0.02  2.44  11.41  (8.95)  33.80  2.41  0.71  1.70  1.70  -    -   50.50 64 Spark44 SRL (Rome) Italy EUR 80.81  0.08  0.06  9.62  (9.48)  29.15  0.08  0.02  0.05  0.05  -    -   50.50 65 Spark44 Limited (Seoul) Korea KRW 0.06  0.61  3.76  6.44  (2.07)  14.44  2.42  0.47  1.95  1.95  -    -   50.50 66 Spark44 K.K.
(Tokyo) Japan JPY 0.62  0.31  2.99  7.70  (4.40)  9.61  2.25  0.76  1.50  1.50  -    -   50.50 67 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) Canada CAD 50.66  -    28.03  46.08  (18.04)  166.50  9.81  4.63  5.19  5.19  -    -   50.50 68 Spark44 South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa ZAR 5.54  0.00  1.17  3.55  (2.37)  7.63  0.61  0.17  0.44  0.44  -    -   50.50 69 Limited Liability Company Jaguar Land  Rover (Russia) (incorporated on 25-5-2008)  (subsidiary w.e.f May 15, 2009) Russia RUB 1.13  5.45  806.83  1,557.88  (745.60)  5,278.79  238.01  58.35  179.67  179.67  -    -   100.00 70 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co Ltd  (previously Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd ) (subsidiary w.e.f  June 2, 2008) China CNY 10.35  69.35  11,194.17  17,920.24  (6,656.73)  47,431.70  5,737.36  1,477.35  4,260.01  4,260.01  -   100.00 71 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  Service Co. Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f March  10, 2014) China LRE CNY 10.35  16.56  (28.40)  73.81  (85.66)  101.27  0.01  9.71  (9.70)  (9.70)  -    -   100.00 72 Jaguar Land Rover Colombia SAS  (subsidiary w.e.f August 22, 2016) Colombia COP 0.02  8.34  (14.41)  148.42  (154.49)  125.77  (19.94)  (6.01)  (13.92)  (13.92)  -   100.00 73 Jaguar Landrover Mexico S.A.P I de C.V Mexico MXN 3.56  13.70  23.21  248.96  (212.05)  203.38  3.22  0.57  2.65  2.65  -   100.00 74 Jaguar Landrover Services Mexico S.A C.V Mexico MXN 3.56  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 75 Jaguar Land Rover France SAS (subsidiary  w.e.f February 1, 2009) France EUR 80.81  35.27  3.95  1,533.20  (1,493.98)  6,225.06  43.39  32.64  10.76  10.76  -   100.00 76 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal-Veiculos e  Pecas, Lda.
(subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) Portugal EUR 80.81  10.75  72.20  234.29  (151.35)  647.07  6.43  9.05  (2.62)  (2.62)  -   100.00 77 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL (merged  company following the absorption of Jaguar  Hispania, S.L.U by Land Rover Espana, S.L.U)  (formerly known as Land Rover Espana SL)  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) Spain EUR 80.81  356.95  177.76  1,656.56  (1,121.84)  4,239.11  42.24  11.04  31.21  31.21  -   100.00 78 Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA (subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) Italy EUR 80.81  202.02  407.19  2,598.40  (1,989.18)  9,718.58  106.88  30.12  76.76  76.76  -   100.00 79 Land Rover Ireland Limited - (no longer a  trading NSC) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) Ireland EUR 80.81  0.00  12.51  15.68  (3.18)  -    (1.13)  -    (1.13)  (1.13)  -   100.00 80 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Co. Ltd.(subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) Korea KRW 0.06  0.30  125.41  2,090.06  (1,964.34)  5,913.01  108.65  23.66  84.99  84.99  -   100.00 81 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH  (subsidiary w.e.fJune 2, 2008) Germany EUR 80.81  107.63  741.51  3,584.40  (2,735.26)  10,452.51  168.15  35.22  132.93  132.93  -   100.00 82 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH (subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) Austria EUR 80.81  1.88  110.80  545.08  (432.40)  1,827.70  19.41  5.68  13.73  13.73  -   100.00 83 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited  (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) Australia AUD 50.04  3.50  119.38  2,390.21  (2,267.32)  5,758.47  92.52  58.98  33.54  33.54  -   100.00 Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule  5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies  Part - A 351 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 (` in crores) Sr. No Subsidiary Country Reporting  currency Exchange  Rate Share  capital (incl.
advances  towards  capital where  applicable)  Reserves  and  Surplus  Total Assets Total  Liabilities  Turnover Profit/ (Loss)  Before Tax  Tax  Expense/  (Credit)  Profit/ (Loss) after  tax  Profit/  (Loss)for  the period/  year *  Proposed  dividend  and tax  thereon  Investments  (except in case  of investment  in the  subsidiaries)  % of  shareholding 84 Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC.
(subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) USA USD 65.18  260.71  1,353.79  9,927.99  (8,313.50)  48,081.79  1,821.35  887.58  933.77  933.77  -   100.00 85 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited   (subsidiary w.e.f October 1, 2008) Japan JPY 0.62  29.60  239.62  1,327.39  (1,058.18)  2,472.94  30.28  8.02  22.26  22.26  -   100.00 86 Jaguar Land Rover Canada, ULC (subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) Canada CAD 50.66  -    27.22  1,966.46  (1,939.24)  5,349.51  36.63  9.61  27.02  27.02  -   100.00 87 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e  Comércio de Veículos LTDA (subsidiary w.e.f  June 2, 2008) Brazil BRL 19.50  1,202.27  (692.16)  2,607.55  (2,097.44)  2,943.12  (340.37)  (9.15)  (331.22)  (331.22)  -   100.00 88 Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V. (subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) Belgium EUR 80.81  10.10  108.74  1,530.84  (1,412.00)  4,023.37  38.64  15.44  23.20  23.20  -   100.00 89 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV (subsidiary  w.e.f June 2, 2008) Holland EUR 80.81  0.36  58.13  621.11  (562.62)  1,500.90  11.50  2.81  8.68  8.68  -   100.00 90 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty)  Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) South Africa ZAR 5.54  0.00  213.52  1,096.85  (883.33)  2,657.96  116.24  31.85  84.39  84.39  -   100.00 91 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited  (subsidiary  w.e.f October 25, 2012) India INR 1.00  280.25  (5.83)  1,228.86  (954.44)  1,867.16  0.27  3.57  (3.30)  (3.30)  -   100.00 92 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte.
Ltd  (incorporated w.e.f November 25,2015) (subsidiary w.e.f November 25, 2015) Singapore SGD 49.82  3.74  11.85  259.63  (244.05)  340.17  4.99  1.12  3.87  3.87  -   100.00 93 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Pte.
Ltd Taiwan TWD 2.23  8.60  (1.64)  75.60  (68.64)  -    (1.58)  -    (1.58)  (1.58)  -   100.00 94 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd  (incorporated w.e.f September 2, 2015) (subsidiary w.e.f September 2, 2015) Nigeria NGN 0.18  0.18  (0.28)  0.14  0.23  -    (0.03)  (0.00)  (0.03)  (0.03)  -    -   100.00 95 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle  Sales  and Distribution Co. Ltd. (subsidiary w.e.f  April 9, 2010) South Korea KRW  0.06  4.00  15.79  63.33  43.54  137.56  (4.73)  (0.44)  (4.29)  (4.29)  -    -   100.00 96 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia  (subsidiary w.e.f February 11, 2013) Indonesia IDR 0.00  212.03  (195.94)  79.55  63.46  68.00  (33.14)  0.16  (33.30)  (33.30)  -    -   100.00 Details of Direct subsidiaries, on consolidated basis including their respective subsidiaries included above 1 Tata Technologies Limited (subsidiary w.e.f  September 10, 1997)  43.03  1,403.30  2,152.45  706.11  2,810.06  452.15  98.24  353.91  353.91  -    220.42 72.29 2 Tata Motors Holdings Finance Ltd (Name  changed from Tata Motors Finance Limited  w.e.f.
June 17, 2017) (subsidiary w.e.f June  1, 2006)  1,404.74  (557.72)  29,123.07  28,276.06  2,783.17  1,488.39  (49.32)  1,537.70  1,537.70  -    1,440.74 100.00 3 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore**  (subsidiary w.e.f February 4, 2008)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00 4 PT Tata Motors Indonesia (subsidiary w.e.f  December 29, 2011)  220.38  (231.49)  51.55  62.66  38.67  (46.31)  0.11  (46.42)  (46.42)  -    -   100.00 **TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore holds fully Jaguar Land Rover Automtive Plc and Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd., the consolidated accounts of which are given below : 1 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc  Consolidated (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008)  13,848.23  77,973.13  2,49,875.40  1,57,973.75    2,27,104.40  13,614.34  3,974.20  9,640.14  9,640.14  -    13,022.66 100.00 2 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd  (subsidiary w.e.f March 30, 2004)  0.03  2,218.74  3,715.86  1,497.10  4,843.51  238.14  39.48  198.66  198.66  -    -   100.00 * Profit for the year is after share of minority interest and share of profit/(loss) in respect of investment in associate companies.
Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule  5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies  Part - A 352  Sr.  No  Name of Associates/Joint  Ventures Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the Company on the year end Profit/(loss) for the year Latest audited  Balance  Sheet Date No.
Amount of  Investment in  Associates/  Joint Venture  (` in crore) Extent of  Holding % Networth  attributable to  Shareholding  as per latest  audited  Balance  Sheet  (` in crore) Considered in  Consolidation  (` in crore) Not  Considered in  Consolidation  (` in crore) Description  of how there  is significant  influence Reason why  the associate/  joint venture  is not  consolidated Joint ventures  1 Fiat India Automobiles  Private Limited* March 31,2018 12,22,57,983  1,567.04 50%  1,687.53  183.60  -    Note (a)  -    2 Tata Cummins Private Ltd March 31,2018 9,00,00,000  90.00 50%  458.44  86.63  -    Note (a)  -    Joint ventures  1 JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd. March 31,2018 25,00,000  2.50 36.16%  2.50  -    Note (a)  -    2 "Chery Jaguar Land  Rover Automotive Co Ltd  (subsidiary w.e.f  November 16, 2012)" March 31,2018 -  1,326.62 50%  4,451.33  2,161.73  -    Note (a)  -    3 Tata HAL Technologies  Limited March 31,2018 1,01,40,000 50.00%  -    -    -   There is no  significant  influence.
Provision for  impairment  was  considered  in full in FY  16-17 Associates 1 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd March 31,2018 5,23,33,170  77.47 26.00%  211.91  17.12  -    Note (b)  -    2 Nita Company Ltd March 31,2018 16,000  1.27 40%  29.54  3.69  -    Note (b)  -    3 Automobile Corporation of  Goa Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f  May 21, 2007) March 31,2018 29,82,214  109.63 47.19%  141.19  9.42  -    Note (b)  -    4 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited March 31,2018 49,900  3.30 49.90%  3.23  -    -    Note (b)  -    5 Synaptiv Limited March 31,2018 1,56,00,000  1.44 33.33%  1.48  -    Note (b)  6 CloudCar Inc March 31,2018 13,32,55,012  111.36 26.30%  44.87  (22.86)  Note (b)  7 DriveClubService Pte.
Ltd. March 31,2018 251  1.66 25.07%  1.85  -    Note (b)  8 Tata Hitachi Construction  Machinery Company Private  Ltd March 31,2018 4,54,28,572  240.20 39.99%  497.35  109.16  -    Note (b)  -    * Unaudited financials considered for Consolidation  Note :  (a) - There is a significant influence by virtue of joint control     (b) - There is a significant influence due to percentage (%) of share capital Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule  5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies  Part - B 353 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT 1-65 STATUTORY REPORTS 66-184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185-353 354 NOTICE (PURSUANT TO SECTION 101 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013) Dear Member, NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE SEVENTY THIRD ANNUAL  GENERAL MEETING OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED will be held on  Friday, August 3, 2018 at 3:00 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19,  Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Mumbai 400 020 to transact the  following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone  Financial Statement of the Company for the financial year  ended March 31, 2018 together with the Reports of the Board  of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Consolidated  Financial Statement of the Company for the financial year ended  March 31, 2018 together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Mr Guenter Butschek (DIN:  07427375) who, retires by rotation and being eligible, offers  himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 4.
Appointment of Ms Hanne Birgitte Sorensen (DIN: 08035439)  as a Director and as an Independent Director  To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED that Ms Hanne Birgitte Sorensen (DIN: 08035439),  who was appointed as an Additional Director of the Company  with effect from January 3, 2018 by the Board of Directors and  who holds office upto the date of this Annual General Meeting  of the Company under Section 161(1) of the Companies Act,  2013 (“the Act”) and Article 132 of the Articles of Association  of the Company, but who is eligible for appointment and in  respect of whom the Company has received a notice in writing  under Section 160(1) of the Act from a member proposing  her candidature for the office of Director, be and is hereby  appointed as a Director of the Company.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that pursuant to the provisions of  Sections 149, 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the  Act read with Schedule IV to the Act (including any statutory  modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being in  force) and the Companies (Appointment and Qualification  of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the  appointment of Ms Hanne Birgitte Sorensen (DIN: 08035439),  who has submitted a declaration that she meets the criteria  for independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act  and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 and who is eligible for appointment as an  Independent Director of the Company, not liable to retire by  rotation, for a term of five years commencing from January 3,  2018 upto January 2, 2023, be and is hereby approved.”  5.
Ratification of Cost Auditor’s Remuneration  To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 148(3)  and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  2013 (including any statutory modification or re-enactment  thereof for the time being in force) and the Companies (Audit  and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the  Company hereby ratifies the remuneration of `5,00,000/-  (Rupees Five Lakh Only) plus applilcable taxes, travel and out- of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the audit, as  approved by the Board of Directors, payable to M/s Mani &  Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No.
000004) who are  appointed as Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the relevant  cost records of the Company for the financial year ending  March 31, 2019.” 6.
Private placement of Non-Convertible Debentures/Bonds  To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as a Special Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 23, 42,  71 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies  Act, 2013 (“the Act”) (including any statutory modification  or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), the  Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules,  2014 and the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures)  Rules, 2014, both as amended from time to time, the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, SEBI (Issue and  Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and such other  regulations prescribed by SEBI (“SEBI Regulations”), as may  be amended from time to time, other applicable laws and  the Articles of Association of the Company, consent of the  Company be and is hereby accorded to the Board of Directors  (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’, which term shall be  deemed to include any Committee of the Board or executives,  as pemitted under the Act or the Rules thereunder, constituted  to exercise its powers, including the powers conferred by this  Resolution) for making offer(s) or invitation(s) to subscribe  to cumulative/non-cumulative, listed/unlisted, secured/ unsecured, redeemable non-convertible debentures/bonds  (‘‘NCDs’’) on private placement basis, in one or more series/ tranches during a period of one year from the date of passing  this Resolution, upto an amount not exceeding `2,500 crores  (Rupees Two Thousand and Five Hundred Crores Only) on  such terms and conditions as the Board may, from time to  time, determine and consider proper and most beneficial to  the Company including as to when the said NCDs be issued,  the consideration for the issue, utilization of issue proceeds  and all matters connected with or incidental thereto and that  such borrowing is within the overall borrowing limits of the  Company.” 355 73rd Annual Report 2017-18  “RESOLVED FURTHER that for the purpose of giving effect  to this Resolution, the Board be and is hereby authorised to  finalise, settle and execute such documents, deeds, writings,  papers or agreements as may be required and do all such acts,  deeds, matters and things as it may in its absolute discretion  deem necessary proper and desirable and to resolve any  question, difficulty or doubt that may arise in relation thereto  or otherwise considered by the Board to be in the best interest  of the Company.” 7.
Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 2018  and grant of stock options to the Eligible Employees under  the Scheme  To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as a Special Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 62(1)(b) and  other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)  read with the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules,  2014, the Articles of Association of the Company, the provisions  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based  Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (“SBEB Regulations”),  the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the  rules and regulations framed thereunder and any rules, circulars,  notifications, guidelines and regulations issued by the Reserve  Bank of India (“FEMA”), the provisions of any regulations/guidelines  prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”)  and other applicable laws for the time being in force (including any  amendment thereto or modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof  from time to time) and subject to any applicable approval(s),  consent(s), permission(s) and sanction(s) of any authority(ies) and  also any condition(s) and modification(s) as may be prescribed or  imposed by such authority(ies) while granting such approval(s),  consent(s), permission(s) and sanction(s), and subject to acceptance  of such condition(s) or modification(s) by the Board of Directors of  the Company (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, which term  shall include Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)  or their delegated authority to exercise its powers, including the  powers conferred by this Resolution), consent of the members  be and is hereby accorded to the Board to adopt and implement  “Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 201 8”  (“TML ESOP Scheme 2018”/“the Scheme”) and to create, offer  and grant such number of options and to issue and allot suc h  number of Ordinary Shares not exceeding 1,38,00,000 (One  Crore Thirty Eight Lakh Only) options (representing 0.406% of  the issued share capital of the Company), from time to time, to  the permanent employees of the Company, whether working in  India or out of India, present or future, as may be decided by the  Board and permitted under the SBEB Regulations but does not  include an employee who is a promoter or a person belonging  to the promoter group (“Eligible Employees”), with each option  giving a right, but not an obligation, to the Eligible Employees to  subscribe to one fully paidup Ordinary Share of the face value  of `2/- (Rupees Two Only) each in the Company, (a) at a price of   `345/- (Rupees Three Hundred and Forty Five Only) each per  Ordinary Share in respect of Eligible Employees as on this date;  and (b) at a price based on the average market price of the Ordinary  Shares quoted on the stock exchange of India having the highest  trading volumes for the Company’s Ordinary Shares during  the period of 90 days preceding the date of grant by the NRC in  respect of the new joinees who would become Eligible Employees  hereinafter, and that the grant of options, vesting and exercise  thereof shall be in one or more tranches and on such terms and  conditions, as may be determined by the Board in accordance  with the provisions of the Scheme, the accounting policies, SBEB  Regulations and in due compliance with the applicable laws and  regulations in force.”    “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Ordinary Shares to be issued  pursuant to the Scheme shall rank pari passu in all respects  with the existing Ordinary Shares of the Company.”   “RESOLVED FURTHER that in case of any corporate action(s)  such as rights issues, bonus issues, stock splits, consolidation  of shares, change in capital structure, merger, sale of division/ undertaking or other re-organization, the outstanding options  to be granted under the Scheme shall be suitably adjusted  for the number of options as well as the exercise price, as  applicable and that the Board  be and is hereby authorized to  do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem fit  in its absolute discretion and as permitted under applicable  laws, so as to ensure that fair and equitable benefits under the  Scheme are passed on to the Eligible Employees.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board be and is hereby  authorized to approve the Grant Letter, Application Form, ESOP  agreement and other related documents, to grant options to the  Eligible Employees (including deciding the number of options  to be granted to Eligible Employees at same work level), to  allot Ordinary Shares upon exercise of options by the Eligible  Employees, to take necessary steps for listing of the Ordinary  Shares allotted under the Scheme on the stock exchanges, to  make any modifications/changes/variations/alterations/revisions  in the Scheme or suspend/withdraw/revive the Scheme from time  to time, unless such change is detrimental to the interest of the  Eligible Employees, as may be required in case of any change in  applicable laws or as specified by any statutory authority, to do  all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may, in its absolute  discretion, deem necessary, expedient or proper and to settle all  questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in relation to the  implementation, administration and evolution of the Scheme.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Company shall conform to the  accounting policies prescribed from time to time under SBEB  Regulations and any other applicable laws and regulations to the  extent relevant and applicable to the TML ESOP Scheme 2018.” By Order of the Board of Directors   H K SETHNA  Company Secretary  FCS No: 3507 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 Registered Office: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: +91 22 6665 8282; Fax: +91 22 6665 7799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com; Website: www.tatamotors.com  CIN: L28920MH1945PLC004520 356 NOTES: 1.
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in respect of the business  under item nos.
4 to 7 set out above and details of Directors  seeking appointment/re-appointment as required under  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial  Standards on General Meetings issued by the Institute of  Company Secretaries of India in respect of directors seeking  appointment / re-appointment at this Annual General Meeting  (“AGM”/ “the meeting”) are annexed hereto.
2.
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE AGM IS  ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE ON  HIS/HER BEHALF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER.
The duly completed and signed instrument appointing proxy  as per the format included in the Annual Report should be  returned to the Registered Office of the Company not less  than forty-eight hours before the time for holding the AGM.
Proxies submitted on behalf of limited companies, societies,  partnership firms, etc.
must be supported by appropriate  resolution/authority, as applicable, issued by the member  organization.
A person can act as a proxy on behalf of members not exceeding  fifty (50) and holding in the aggregate not more than 10% of  the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
A  member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the  Company carrying voting rights may appoint a single person  as proxy and such person shall not act as a proxy for any other  person or member.
3.
Corporate members intending to send their authorised  representatives to attend the AGM are requested to send to the  Company, a certified copy of the Board Resolution authorising  their representative to attend and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
4.
Only registered members (including the holders of ‘A’ Ordinary  Shares) of the Company may attend and vote at the AGM.
The  holders of the American Depositary Receipts (the “ADR”) of the  Company shall not be entitled to attend the said AGM.
However,  the ADR holders are entitled to give instructions for exercise  of voting rights at the said meeting through the Depositary,  to give or withhold such consent, to receive such notice or to  otherwise take action to exercise their rights with respect to  such underlying shares represented by each such ADR.
A brief  statement, as to the manner in which such voting instructions  may be given, is being sent to the ADR holders by the Depositary.
5.
In case of joint holders attending the AGM, only such a joint  holder who is senior by the order in which the name stands in  the register of members will be entitled to vote.
6.
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and  their shareholding as maintained under Section 170 of the  Act, the Register of Contracts or Arrangement in which the  Directors are interested as maintained under Section 189 of the  Act and relevant documents referred to in the Notice and the  Explanatory Statement are open for inspection by the members  at the Registered Office of the Company on all working days,  except Saturdays, during business hours up to the date of the  meeting and also at the venue during the  meeting.
7.
As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility for  making nomination is available for the members in respect of the  shares held by them.
Members who have not yet registered their  nomination are requested to register the same by submitting  Form No.
SH-13.
Members are requested to submit the said  details to their Depository Participants in case the shares are  held by them in electronic form and to the Company’s Registrar  and Transfer Agent (“RTA”) in case the shares are held by them  in physical form.
8.
Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order  of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to  the Company’s RTA, the details of such folios together with  the share certificates for consolidating their holdings in one  folio.
A consolidated share certificate will be issued to such  members after making requisite changes.
9.
Non-Resident Indian members are requested to inform the  Company’s RTA immediately of:  a) Change in their residential status on return to India for  permanent settlement.
b) Particulars of their bank account maintained in India with  complete name, branch, account type, account number  and address of the bank with pin code number, if not  furnished earlier.
10.
Members holding shares in dematerialised mode are  requested to intimate all changes pertaining to their bank  details/NECS/mandates, nominations, power of attorney,  change of address/name, PAN details, etc.
to their  Depository Participant only and not to the Company’s RTA.
Changes intimated to the Depository Participant will then  be automatically reflected in the Company’s records which  will help the Company and its RTA provide efficient and  better service to the members.
In case of members holding shares in physical form, such  information is required to be provided to the Company’s RTA.
A form for capturing the above details is annexed hereto for  use by the members.
Members’ Referencer giving guidance on securities related  matters is put on the Company’s website and can be accessed  at link: https:/ /www.tatamotors.com/investors/ 11.
SEBI HAS MANDATED SUBMISSION OF PERMANENT  ACCOUNT NUMBER (PAN) BY EVERY PARTICIPANT IN  THE SECURITIES MARKET.
MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES  IN ELECTRONIC FORM ARE, THEREFORE, REQUESTED  TO SUBMIT THEIR PAN DETAILS TO THEIR DEPOSITORY  PARTICIPANTS.
MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES IN PHYSICAL  FORM ARE REQUESTED TO SUBMIT THEIR PAN DETAILS TO  THE COMPANY’S RTA.
12.
SECURITIES OF LISTED COMPANIES WOULD BE  TRANSFERRED IN DEMATERIALISED FORM ONLY, FROM  A CUT-OFF DATE, TO BE NOTIFIED BY SEBI.
IN VIEW OF  THE SAME MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES IN PHYSICAL  FORM ARE REQUESTED TO CONSIDER CONVERTING THEIR  HOLDINGS TO DEMATERIALIZED FORM TO ELIMINATE  ALL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH PHYSICAL SHARES AND  FOR EASE OF PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT.
MEMBERS CAN  CONTACT THE COMPANY’S RTA FOR ASSISTANCE IN THIS  REGARD.
13.
Members are requested to note that, dividends if not encashed  for a consecutive period of 7 years from the date of transfer  357 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be  transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund  (IEPF).
The shares in respect of such unclaimed dividends are  also liable to be transferred to the demat account of the IEPF  Authority.
In view of this, members are requested to claim their  dividends from the Company, within the stipulated timeline.
The members, whose unclaimed dividends/shares have  been transferred to IEPF, may claim the same by making an  application to the IEPF Authority in Form No.
IEPF-5 available  on www.iepf.gov.in.
For details, please refer to Corporate  Governance Report which is a part of this Annual Report.
14.
Members desiring any information as regards the Accounts are  requested to write to the Company at an early date so as to enable  the management to keep the information ready at the meeting.
15.
To support the “Green Initiative” announced by the Government  of India, electronic copies of the Annual Report and this Notice  inter alia indicating the process and manner of e-voting along  with Attendance Slip and Proxy Form are being sent by e-mail  to those members whose e-mail addresses have been made  available to the Company / Depository Participants unless  the member has specifically requested for a hard copy of  the same.
In other cases, hard copy of the Abridged Annual  Report is being sent to the members by the permitted mode.
The members who are desirous of receiving the full Annual  Report may write to the Company’s RTA for a copy of the same.
MEMBERS WHO HAVE NOT REGISTERED THEIR EMAIL  ADDRESSES WITH COMPANY’S RTA /DEPOSITORIES ARE  REQUESTED TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE GREEN INITIATIVE BY  REGISTERING THEIR EMAIL ADDRESS, FOR RECEIVING ALL  FUTURE COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH E-MAIL.
16.
Attendance Slip, Proxy Form and the route map showing  directions to reach the venue of the AGM are annexed hereto.
17.
Members may note that the Notice and Annual Report  2017-18 will also be available on the Company’s website viz.
www.tatamotors.com.
18.
VOTING BY MEMBERS: A.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the Act, the  Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 and  Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is  pleased to provide members the facility to exercise their right  to vote on resolutions proposed to be considered at the AGM  by electronic means either by (a) remote e-voting (by using  the electronic voting system provided by NSDL as explained  at ‘para F’ herein below) or (b) Electronic/Physical Ballot at the  AGM venue (as provided at ‘para G’ herein below).
Resolution(s)  passed by members through e-voting is/are deemed to have  been passed as if they have been passed at the AGM.
B.
The voting rights of the Ordinary Shareholders shall be in the  same proportion to the paid up Ordinary share capital and in  case of voting rights on the ‘A’ Ordinary shares, the holder shall  be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held.
C. A person, whose name is recorded in the Register of  Members or in the Register of Beneficial Owners maintained  by the depositories as on July 27, 2018 (“the cut-off date”),  shall be entitled to vote in respect of the shares held, by  availing the facility of remote e-voting / voting through  electronic ballot at the meeting.
Any person who is not a  member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for  information purposes only.
D. The members can opt for only one mode of voting i.e.
either  by remote e-voting or electronic ballot at the meeting.
The  members attending the meeting who have not already cast  their vote by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise their right  at the meeting through electronic ballot.
The members who  have cast their vote by remote e-voting are eligible to attend the  meeting but shall not be entitled to cast their vote again.
E. The Board of Directors has appointed Mr P N Parikh  (Membership No.
FCS 327) and failing him Mr Mitesh  Dhabliwala (Membership No.
FCS 8331) of M/s Parikh &  Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, as the Scrutinizer  to scrutinize the remote e-voting and voting process at the  venue, in a fair and transparent manner.
F. INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING:  Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and  becomes a member of the Company after dispatch of the  Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may  obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at   evoting@nsdl.co.in.
The remote e-voting period starts on Tuesday, July 31, 2018  (9.00 a.m. IST) and ends on Thursday, August 2, 2018 (5.00  p.m. IST).
Remote e-voting shall be disabled by NSDL at 5:00  p.m. on August 2, 2018 and members shall not be allowed to  vote through remote e-voting thereafter.
The procedure to login to e-voting website consists of two  steps as detailed hereunder.
Step 1 : Log-in to NSDL e-voting system  i.
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL.
Open web browser by  typing the  URL: https:/ /www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on  a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
ii.
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click  on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholders’  section.
iii.
A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User  ID, your Password and a Verification Code as shown on  the screen.
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e.
IDeAS, you can log-in at https:/ /eservices.nsdl.com/ with  your existing IDeAS login.
Once you log in to NSDL eservices  after using your log in credentials, click on e-voting and you  can proceed to step 2 i.e.
Cast your vote electronically.
iv.
Your User ID details will be as per details given below :   a)   For members who hold shares in demat account with  NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client  ID (For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client  ID is 12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******).
b)   For members who hold shares in demat account  with CDSL:  16 Digit Beneficiary ID (For example if  your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your  user ID is 12**************).
c)  For members holding shares in Physical Form:  EVEN Number followed by Folio Number  registered with the company (For example, for  members holding Ordinary Shares, if folio number  is 001*** and EVEN is 108491 then user ID is  108491001***.
For members holding ‘A’ Ordinary  Shares, if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is  108492 then user ID is 108492001***).
358  v. Your password details are given below:   a) If you are already registered for e-voting, then you can  use your existing password to login and cast your vote.
b) If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the first  time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’  which was communicated to you.
Once you retrieve  your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial  password’ and the system will force you to change  your password.
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
(i) If your email ID is registered in your demat  account or with the Company, your ‘initial  password’ is communicated to you on your  email ID.
Trace the email sent to you from NSDL  from your mailbox.
Open the email and open  the attachment i.e.
a .pdf file.
Open the .pdf file.
The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 digit  client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of client  ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares  held in physical form.
The .pdf file contains your  ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
(ii) If your email ID is not registered, your ‘initial  password’ is communicated to you on your  postal address.
vi.
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the   “initial password” or have forgotten your password:   a) Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?” option  available on www.evoting.nsdl.com (If you are holding  shares in your demat account with NSDL or CDSL).
b)  Click on “Physical User Reset Password?” option  available on www.evoting.nsdl.com (If you are  holding shares in physical mode).
c) If you are still unable to get the password by  aforesaid two options, you can send a request at  evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat account  number/folio number, your PAN, your name and  your registered address.
vii.
After entering your password, tick on ‘‘I here by agree to  all Terms and Conditions’’.
viii.
Click on “Login” button.
ix.
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of  e-voting will open.
Step 2 : Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system   i.
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see the  Home page of e-voting.
Click on e-voting.
ii.
Click on Active Voting Cycles.
You will be able to see all  the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares  and whose voting cycle is in active status.
iii.
Select “EVEN” of the Company for casting your vote:   a.
EVEN for Ordinary Shares is 108491   b.
EVEN for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares is 108492  iv.
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
v. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e.
assent  or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which  you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also  “Confirm” when prompted.
vi.
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully”  will be displayed.
vii.
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by  clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
viii.
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will  not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for shareholders  • Institutional shareholders (i.e.
other than individuals,  HUF, NRI, etc.)
are required to send a scanned copy (PDF/ JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/Authority  letter etc.
with attested specimen signature of the duly  authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to  the Scrutinizer by email to tml.scrutinizer@gmail.com  with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
• It is strongly recommended not to share your password  with any other person and take utmost care to keep your  password confidential.
Login to the e-voting website  will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key  in the correct password.
In such an event, you will need  to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or  “Physical User Reset Password?” option available on  www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
• In case of any queries, you may refer to the Frequently  Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user  manual for Shareholders available at the ‘‘Downloads’’  section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no.
:  1800-222-990 or send a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
G. VOTING AT AGM:  Members who are present at the AGM, but have not  casted their votes by availing the remote e-voting facility,  would be entitled to vote at the end of the discussion on  the resolutions on which voting is to be held, by way of  electronic/physical ballot.
19.
DECLARATION OF RESULTS ON THE RESOLUTIONS:   • The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of  voting at the AGM, count the votes cast at the meeting,  thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote  e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not in  the employment of the Company and make, not later than  48 hours from conclusion of the meeting, a consolidated  Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour and  against the resolution, invalid votes, if any, and whether  the Resolution(s) has/have been carried or not, to the  Chairman or a person authorized by him in writing who  shall countersign the same.
• The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s  Report shall be placed on the Company’s website   www.tatamotors.com and on the website of NSDL   www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately after the result is  declared.
The Company shall simultaneously forward the  results to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of  India Ltd., where the securities of the Company are listed.
The results shall also be displayed on the notice board at  the Registered Office of the Company.
• Subject to the receipt of requisite number of votes, the  Resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on the date of  the meeting i.e.
August 3, 2018.
359 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), given hereunder sets out all  material facts relating to the special business mentioned at Item  Nos.
4 to 7 of the accompanying Notice dated May 23, 2018.
Item No.
4 The Board of Directors (“the Board”), based on recommendation of  the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), appointed  Ms Hanne Birgitte Sorensen as an Additional Director as also an  Independent Director of the Company on January 3, 2018 and she  holds office as a Director up to the date of this AGM, pursuant to the  provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act.
Ms. Sorensen (52) is a Danish national and holds an MSc.
in  Economics and Management from the University of Aarhus.
She is  on the Boards and Committees of various international companies.
Previously, she has held various positions in finance business  within the A.P.
Moller – Maersk A/S Group in Denmark between  1994 and 2016, including as the CEO of Damco, the CEO of Maersk  Tankers, and the Senior Vice-President and Chief Commercial  Officer of Maersk Line.
Ms Sorensen has given her declaration to the Board that she meets  the criteria of independence as provided under Section 149 (6) of  the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and is eligible to be  appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 of the Act.
She has  also given her consent to act as a Director.
Ms Sorensen, being eligible and offering herself for appointment, is  proposed to be appointed as an Independent Director of the Company  for a term of five consecutive years from January 3, 2018 up to January  2, 2023 in compliance with Section 149 of the Act read with Schedule  IV to the Act.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 (1) of the Act, the  Company has received notice from a member signifying his intention  to propose the appointment of Ms Sorensen as a Director.
In the opinion of the Board, Ms Sorensen is a person of integrity,  possesses the relevant expertise / experience and fulfills the conditions  specified in the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations for appointment as  Independent Director and she is independent of the management.
Given her global experience and the Company’s adherence to  policy on diversity, gender and geographical, the Board considers  it desirable and in the interest of the Company to have Ms  Sorensen on the Board of the Company and accordingly the Board  recommends the appointment of Ms Sorensen as an Independent  Director as proposed in the resolution set out at Item No.
4 for  approval by the members.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Independent Director  shall be open for inspection by the members at the Registered  Office of the Company on all working days, except Saturdays,  during business hours up to the date of the meeting and also at the  venue during the meeting.
Except for Ms Sorensen and/or her relatives, no other Director, Key  Managerial Personnel or their relatives are, in any way, concerned  EXPLANATORY STATEMENT or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at  Item No.
4 of the Notice.
Item No.
5 Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies  (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time,  the Company is required to have the audit of its cost records for  specified products conducted by a Cost Accountant.
Based on  the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board had on  May 23, 2018, approved the appointment and remuneration  of M/s Mani & Co., the Cost Auditors (Firm Registration No.
000004) to conduct the audit of the Cost records maintained by  the Company, pertaining to the relevant products prescribed  under the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, for  the financial year ending March 31, 2019 at a remuneration of   `5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh Only).
It may be noted that the records of the activities under Cost Audit  is no longer prescribed for “Motor Vehicles and certain parts and  accessories thereof”.
However, based on the recommendations of  the Audit Committee, the Board has also approved the appointment  of M/s Mani & Co. for submission of reports to the Company on  cost records pertaining to these activities for a remuneration of   `20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakh Only) for the said financial  year.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read  with Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as  amended from time to time, ratification for the remuneration payable  to the Cost Auditors to audit the cost records of the Company for  the said financial year by way of an Ordinary Resolution is being  sought from the members as set out at Item No.
5 of the Notice.
M/s Mani & Co. have furnished a certificate dated May 14, 2018  regarding their eligibility for appointment as Cost Auditors of the  Company.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No.
5 of the Notice for approval by the members.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives  are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in  the resolution set out at Item No.
5 of the Notice.
Item No.
6 The Company had obtained members’ approval for borrowing up  to `3,000 crores by way of Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”)   at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on August 22, 2017,  which is valid for a period of one year from date of the said approval.
The Company has borrowed `1,500 crores by way of unsecured  NCDs up to May 2018 in accordance with the aforesaid members’  approval.
As per the provisions of Section 42 of the Act read with Rule 14 of the  Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014, a  company making a private placement of its securities is required  to obtain approval of the members by way of a Special Resolution  for each offer or invitation before making such offer.
However, in  360 case of offer for NCDs, it shall be sufficient if the Company passes a  previous Special Resolution only once in a year for all the offers or  invitation for such debentures during the year.
The NCDs issued on private placement basis is one of the  cost effective sources of long term borrowings raised by the  Company.
The Company had obtained members’ approval  vide Postal Ballot on June 27, 2014 to borrow from time to time  any sum(s) of monies which, together with monies already  borrowed by the Company (apart from temporary loans  obtained or to be obtained from the Company’s Bankers in the  ordinary course of business) upto an amount not exceeding   `30,000 crores.
The borrowings of the Company (on standalone  basis excluding joint operations) as at March 31, 2018 aggregate  approximately `17,494 crores, of which outstanding NCDs  aggregate to `8,097 crores.
The Company’s Net Debt-Equity  ratio (on standalone basis excluding joint operations) as at March  31, 2018 is 1.13:1 and the Company believes that the aggregate  borrowings would be well within acceptable levels.
In continuation of its efforts to strengthen its capital structure,  the Company intends to augment the resources through a mix of  internal accruals and long-term borrowings to ensure that they  are aligned in terms of quantum, risk, maturity and cost with its  earning profile.
Accordingly, it is proposed to issue NCDs on a  private placement basis aggregating upto `2,500 crores, in one or  more series/tranches during the period of one year from the date of  passing of this Resolution, with an intention to finance, inter-alia, the  repayment of certain NCDs/term loans from Banks, to fund part of  the ongoing capital expenditure and for general corporate purposes.
The Company intends to raise NCDs for tenures ranging between 2  to 10 years and expects the borrowing cost of NCDs to be lower than  1 year MCLR rate of State Bank of India (prevailing at 8.15% p.a.
as  on March 31, 2018) plus a spread of 100 bps, considering the current  credit rating of the Company of AA by ICRA and AA+ by CARE.
It is therefore proposed to pass an enabling resolution authorizing  the Board of Directors to make specific issuances based on the  Company’s requirements, market liquidity and appetite at the  opportune time.
In the opinion of the Board, the above proposal as set out in Item  No.
6 of the Notice is in the interest of the Company and accordingly  the Board recommends the same for approval by the members.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives  are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in  the resolution set out at Item No.
6 of the Notice.
Item No.
7: Stock options in the hands of the employees have since long been  recognised as an effective instrument to align the interests of the  employees with that of the Company.
With a view to ring fence and  incentivize key talent to drive long term objectives of the Company, to  ensure that employee payoff match the long gestation period of certain  key initiatives, to drive ownership behavior and collaboration amongst  employees, it is proposed to approve and adopt Tata Motors Limited  Employees Stock Option Scheme 2018 (“TML ESOP Scheme 2018” /  “the Scheme”).
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (‘‘NRC’’) at its  meeting held on May 23, 2018 formulated the detailed terms and  conditions of the Scheme which was duly approved by the Board of  Directors at its meeting held on the even date, subject to approval  of the members.
Jaguar land Rover (“ JLR”) currently has a long term incentive  plan, which provides cash payment to certain employees based  on the JLR’s performance against long-term metrics related to  performance and strategic priorities (over a period of three years).
The Board believes that the above two initiatives to link the  employees performance in Tata Motors and JLR together with other  initiatives taken in the Tata Motors group would assist in improving  the financials of the Company, both standalone and consolidated.
The Scheme has been formulated in accordance with the provisions  of the Act and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (“SBEB Regulations”).
The salient features of the Scheme are as under:  a.
Brief description of the Scheme :    The Scheme is intended to reward, retain and motivate the  Eligible Employees of the Company for their performance  and participation in the growth and profitability of the  Company.
The Eligible Employees shall be granted all the  stock options in one tranche, as determined by the NRC,  which will vest on particular dates and could be exercisable  into Ordinary Shares, on the terms and conditions as  provided hereunder, in accordance with the provisions of  the applicable laws and regulations for the time being in  force.
b.
Total number of options to be granted:   Not exceeding 1,38,00,000 (One Crore Thirty Eight Lakh Only)  options may, in aggregate, be granted that would entitle the  grantees to acquire, in one or more tranches, not exceeding  1,38,00,000 (One Crore Thirty Eight Lakh Only) Ordinary  Shares of the Company of the face value of `2/- (Rupees Two  Only) each fully paid up (representing 0.406% of the issued  share capital of the Company as on date).
The total aggregate  limit of 1,38,00,000 (One Crore Thirty Eight Lakh Only) options  may be adjusted for any corporate action(s), as may be decided  by the Board.
c.  Identification of classes of employees entitled to participate  in the Scheme:    The following Eligible Employees, as may be decided by the  NRC, shall be granted options under the Scheme:   •  Employees of the Company in the levels of LC, L1, L2 and  select L3 (around 200 employees forming 2% of the white  collar population).
•  Employees falling in the above level by way of new  appointments or promotions over the next 3 years, i.e.
by  July 1, 2021, shall be granted options on a pro-rata basis  for the period from the date of his/her joining/promotion  upto the remaining time to vest.
•  Expatriates and existing Whole-Time Directors would  be excluded in terms of their individually negotiated  contracts.
As per SBEB Regulations, the following category of  employees/directors shall not be eligible to participate in  361 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 the Scheme:   •  An employee of the Company who is a promoter or  belongs to the promoter group;   •  A director who either by himself or through his relatives  or through any body corporate, directly or indirectly,  holds more than 10% of the outstanding equity shares of  the Company; and   • Independent Directors of the Company.
d. Requirements of vesting and period of vesting:    The options shall vest in employees subject to continuing  employment with the Company or any Tata Company (as  defined in the Scheme) on the Company achieving certain  performance matrices (such as market share, EBITDA  and positive cash flows as per the Company’s standalone  financials).
NRC would determine the said matrices, detailed  terms and conditions relating to such vesting including the  proportion in which options granted would vest.
The Options would vest in three tranches i.e.
June 2021, June  2022 and June 2023 where after the grantees would have the  right to subscribe to the Ordinary Shares during the Exercise  Period.
Where an Eligible Employee discontinues to be in the  permanent employment of the Company due to:  •  Resignation or Termination of services:  All the options  which are granted and yet not vested as on that day shall  expire and the vested options should be exercised on or  before the date of such discontinuation.
For employees  whose office has been terminated due to misconduct  during the period, the number of options vested as on  that day would lapse in accordance with the terms and  conditions detailed in the Scheme.
•  Retirement: The number of options granted would be  pro-rated to the employee’s remaining years of service as  on the date of the grant.
The vesting and exercise period  would be as per the Scheme.
•  Transfer to a Tata Company: Options would vest on pro- rata basis for the period served with the Company, subject  to the employee continuing to serve a Tata Company on  the date of vesting.
The vesting and exercise period would  be as per the Scheme.
•  Death: All the options granted to the employee  till such date shall vest in his/her legal heirs or  nominees.
•  Permanent incapacity: All the options granted to the  employee as on the date of permanent incapacitation,  shall vest in him/her on that day.
An employee can be granted long leave (defined as a  period of not more than one year in line with the Company’s  Sabbatical Policy).
Where an Eligible Employee is on long  leave at any time during the period of grant of options up  till the vesting date, the options would be granted or vested  on pro-rata basis for the period (after adjusting the period of  long leave).
e.  Maximum period within which the options shall be vested:   Options granted under TML ESOP Scheme 2018 would vest  within a maximum period of 5 (five) years from the date of  grant of such options.
f. Exercise Price or pricing formula:    The Exercise Price shall be `345/- (Rupees Three Hundred  and Forty Five Only) per option, which is based on the 90  days average market price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares  as of May 23, 2018 (the date of approval of the Scheme by  NRC and Board).
In case of new appointments or promotions,  the Exercise Price would be based on the average market  price of the Ordinary Shares quoted on the stock exchange of  India having the highest trading volumes for the Company’s  Ordinary Shares during the period of 90 days preceding the  date of grant by the NRC.
The Exercise Price may be adjusted for any corporate action(s),  as may be decided by the Board.
g. Exercise Period and the process of Exercise:    The Exercise Period would commence from the date of vesting  of options and will expire at the end of one year from the date  of vesting of options.
NRC may extend the Exercise Period by a  further period of two years, as it may deem fit.
The options will be exercisable by the employees by a written  application to the Company accompanied by payment of  the Exercise Price in such manner and on execution of such  documents, as may be prescribed by the NRC from time to time.
The options will lapse if not exercised within the specified  Exercise Period.
Lapsed options cannot be re-issued by the  Company.
h.  Appraisal process for determining the eligibility of employees:    The appraisal process for determining the eligibility of the  employees to the options at the time of grant and to the  number of Ordinary Shares at the time of vesting will be  decided by the NRC from time to time.
i.
Maximum number of options to be issued per employee and  in aggregate:    The number of options that may be granted to an Eligible  Employee under the Scheme in any one year would not  exceed 3,35,000 options and in aggregate the maximum  number of options would not exceed 1,38,00,000 options  (representing 0.406% of the total issued share capital of the  Company).
The options granted and the Exercise Price shall  be adjusted for any corporate action(s) such as rights issues,  bonus issues, stock splits, consolidation of shares, change in  capital structure, merger, sale of division/undertaking or other  re-organization, as applicable under the terms and conditions  detailed in the Scheme and the decision of the Board shall be  final in respect of such adjustment.
j.
Maximum Quantum of benefits to be provided per employee:    The maximum quantum of benefits underlying the options  issued to an Eligible Employee shall depend upon the  number of options held by him/her and the market price of  the Ordinary Shares as on the date of sale.
362 k. Route of Scheme implementation:    The Scheme shall be implemented and administered directly  by the Company.
l. Source of Shares:    The Scheme contemplates issue of new Ordinary Shares by  the Company.
m.  The amount of loan provided for implementation of the  Scheme by the Company to the Trust, its tenure, utilisation,  repayment terms, etc.
:    Not applicable.
Company would not provide any loan for  implementation of the Scheme.
n.  Maximum percentage of Secondary Acquisition (subject to  limits specified under the Regulations) that can be made by  the Trust for the purchase under the scheme:  This is not applicable under the present Scheme.
o.
Accounting and Disclosure Policies:    The Company shall follow Ind AS 102 ‘Employee Share-based  Payments’,  the Guidance Note on Accounting for Employee  Share based Payments, as applicable, and/or any relevant  Accounting Standards/Guidance Note as may be prescribed  by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India from time  to time, including the disclosure requirements prescribed  therein.
p. Method of Valuation:    The Company will determine the fair value of the options  using the Black-Scholes model when the same are issued to  the employees.
The fair value will be recognized as employee  costs over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in  equity.
q.
The following statement, if applicable:    In case the Company opts for expensing of share based  employee benefits using the intrinsic value, the difference  between the employee compensation cost so computed  and the employee compensation cost that shall have been  recognized if it had used the fair value, shall be disclosed in  the Board’s Report and the impact of this difference on profits  and on earnings per share (‘EPS’) of the Company shall also  be disclosed in the Board’s Report.
The said Statement is not applicable to the Company since the  Company is opting for the Fair Value Method.
Regulation 6(1) of SBEB Regulations and Rule 12(1) of the  Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 requires  that every employee stock option scheme shall be approved by  the members of the Company by passing a special resolution in a  general meeting.
Further, as the Scheme would entail further issue  of shares, consent of the members is required by way of a special  resolution pursuant to Section 62(1)(b) of the Act.
Issue of the said Ordinary Shares would be well within the  Authorised Share Capital of the Company.
The Board recommends the special resolution set out at Item No.
7  of the Notice for approval by the members.
The draft TML ESOP Scheme 2018 shall be open for inspection  by the members at the Registered Office of the Company on all  working days, except Saturdays, up to the date of the meeting and   also at the venue during the meeting.
None of the Directors of the Company or their relatives is  concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the  resolution set out at Item No.
7 of the Notice.
Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company or their relatives may be deemed  concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the said  resolution only to the extent of any stock options that may be  granted to them and the resultant Ordinary Shares issued, as  applicable.
By Order of the Board of Directors   H K SETHNA  Company Secretary  FCS No: 3507 Mumbai, May 23, 2018 Registered Office: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: +91 22 6665 8282; Fax: +91 22 6665 7799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com; Website: www.tatamotors.com  CIN: L28920MH1945PLC004520 363 73rd Annual Report 2017-18 Details of Directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting  [Pursuant to Regulations 26(4) and 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standards on General Meetings] Particulars Mr Guenter Butschek Ms Hanne Birgitte Sorensen Director Identification  Number (DIN) 07427375 08035439 Date of Birth / Age October 21, 1960  57 years September 18, 1965  52 years Date of first appointment on  the Board February 15, 2016 January 3, 2018 Educational Qualification Mr Butschek graduated in Business Administration  and Economics with a diploma from the University  of Cooperative Education Stuttgart, Germany.
Ms Sorensen holds an MSc in Economics and  Management from the University of Aarhus.
Experience (including  expertise in specific  functional areas) / Brief  Resume Mr Butschek is the Chief Executive Officer and  Managing Director of the Company.
Mr. Butschek  has 25+ years of global experience in international  automotive management across multiple  functions such as production, industrialisation and  procurement.
Besides Daimler AG, he has worked in  the Airbus Group as its Chief Operating Officer (COO)  and a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Ms Sorensen, a Danish national, is on the Boards  and Committees of various international companies.
Previously, she has held various positions in finance  business within the A.P.
Moller – Maersk A/S Group  in Denmark between 1994 and 2016, including as  the CEO of Damco, the CEO of Maersk Tankers, and  the Senior Vice-President and Chief Commercial  Officer of Maersk Line.
Directorships held   in other companies • Tata Cummins Private Ltd. • Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd. • Tata Motors European Technical Center Plc.
• Tata Technologies Ltd. • TMF Holdings Ltd. • Delhivery Private Ltd. • Ferrovial S.A • LafargeHolcim Ltd. • Sulzer Ltd. Memberships/  Chairmanships  of  committees across  companies  •  Tata Motors Ltd.  - Member of Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee, Risk Management  Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility  Committee and Safety, Health and Sustainability  Committee.
•  Tata Motors European Technical Center, PLC.
-  Member of Remuneration Committee.
•  TMF Holdings Ltd. - Member of Nomination and  Remuneration Committee.
•  Tata Motors Ltd.  - Member of Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee and Chairperson of Risk  Management Committee.
•  Ferrovial S.A - Member of Nomination and  Remuneration Committee.
•  LafargeHolcim Ltd. - Member of Health, Safety  and Sustainability Committee and Nomination  and Governance Committee.
•  Sulzer Ltd.  - Chairperson of Audit Committee  and Member of Nomination and Remuneration  Committee.
Relationship with other  Directors/Key Managerial  Personnel Not related to any Director / Key Managerial  Personnel  of the Company.
Not related to any Director / Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company.
No.
of shares held in the  Company either by self or  on a beneficial basis for any  other person Nil Nil For details regarding the number of meetings of the Board/Committees attended by the above Directors during the year and remuneration  drawn/sitting fees received, please refer to the Boards’ Report and the Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report.
In terms of the provisions of Section 152(6) of the Act, Mr Guenter Butschek (DIN: 07427375), retires by rotation at the meeting.
The Board  of Directors recommends his re-appointment.
Notes   695,699 EMPLOYEES 1 50 YEARS 150+ COUNT RIES 600 MILLION + CONSUMERS ` 656,973 CRORE REVENUE 3.9 8 MILLION SHAREHOLDERS ` 27,346 CRORE PROFIT AFTER TAX 66% OF PARENT COMPANY  TATA SONS’ EQUITY  SHARE CAPITAL HELD BY  PHILANTHROPIC  TRUSTS               In a free enterprise,                         the community is not just another    stakeholder in business, but is in fact                             the very purpose of its existence.
- Jamsetji Tata The f igures are aggregated for Tata companies for the f inancial year ended 31.03.2017.
LEADERSHIP WITH  TRUST SINCE 1868 tata150.com Picture (lef t to right): The four par tners - Jamsetji Tata, Founder of the Tata Group; R. D. Tata, father of J. R. D. Tata;  Sir Ratan Tata,  younger son of the Founder; and Sir Dorabji Tata, elder son of the F ounder.
From pioneering businesses , to pioneering welfare prac tices ,  to pioneering national institutions,  the Tata Group remains committed to improving the lives of communities we ser ve globally , based on leadership with trust .
Bombay House, 24 Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001, India ww w.tatamotors.com /TataMotorsGroup  /user/TataMotorsGroup /tatamotorsgroup/tatamotors  /company/tata-motors