BOMBAY HOUSE, 24 HOMI MODY STREET, MUMBAI 400 001 www.tatamotors.com Tata Motors Jamshedpur Manufacturing Facility TOWARDS   TOMORROW 71st ANNUAL REPORT 2015-2016 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Jaguar Land Rover’s Business The strengths of Jaguar Land Rover  include iconic globally positioned  brands, a strong product portfolio  of award winning luxury and high  performance cars and premium  all-terrain vehicles, a global  distribution network, strong product  development and engineering  capabilities and a strong  management team.
WHAT’S INSIDE CORPORATE OVERVIEW 01  Mission, Vision and Values 02 Corporate Information  04    Chairman’s Message 06  Managing Director’s Message 08    Board of Directors  12 Highlights 16 Innovation at Tata Motors 18 Design Language 20 Product Sustainability 22 Connected Vehicles 24 Advances in Engines 26 Corporate Social Responsibility 30 Awards + Accolades 32 Presence Across Markets 34 Financial Performance 38 Summarised Balance Sheet and        Statement of Profi  t and Loss      (Consolidated) 40 Summarised Balance Sheet and      Statement of Profi  t and Loss      (Standalone) 42 Funds Flow — Last Five Years 43 Financial Statistics STATUTORY REPORTS 46 Notice 74 Board’s Report 118 Management Discussion &    Analysis 166 Corporate Governance Report 185 Business Responsibility Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Standalone Financial Statements F.1 Independent Auditors’ Report F.8 Balance Sheet F.9 Statement of Profi  t and Loss F.10 Cash Flow Statement F.12 Notes to Accounts Consolidated Financial Statements F.43 Independent Auditors’ Report F.48 Balance Sheet F.49 Statement of Profi  t and Loss F.50 Cash Flow Statement F.52 Notes to Accounts Subsidiary Companies F.87 Financial Highlights ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  Date: Tuesday, August  9, 2016  Time:  3.00 p.m. Venue: Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg,      Mumbai 400 020 Tata Motors’ Business Tata Motors have progressed in key  areas of  engineering, manufacturing,  world-class sales and service support, for  an overall superior customer experience.
VISION As a High Performance   Organization, we are, by  FY2019 • Among the T op 3 in Global   CV and Domestic PV • Achieving Sustainable  Financial Performance • Delivering Exciting  Innovations We innovate, with  passion, mobility solutions to enhance quality of life MISSION • Integrity • Teamwork • Accountability • Customer Focus • Excellence • Speed VALUES 01 71st Annual Report 2015-1602 CHAIRMAN EMERITUS Mr Ratan N Tata   BOARD OF DIRECTORS  Mr Cyrus P Mistry Non Executive Director and Chairman Mr N N Wadia Non Executive, Independent Director  Dr R A Mashelkar Non Executive, Independent Director  Mr S Bhargava Non Executive, Independent Director  Mr N Munjee Non Executive, Independent Director  Mr V K Jairath Non Executive, Independent Director  Ms Falguni Nayar Non Executive, Independent Director  Dr Ralf Speth Non Executive Director  Mr Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director Mr Ravindra Pisharody Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles)  Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director (Quality)  ExCom Mr Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director  Mr Ravindra Pisharody Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles)  Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director (Quality)  Mr C Ramakrishnan Group Chief Financial Officer  CORPORATE INFORMATION Mr Mayank Pareek President  (Passenger Vehicle Business Unit)  Dr Timothy Leverton President and Head,  Advanced and Product Engineering  Mr Gajendra Chandel Chief Human Resource Officer  Mr Shailesh Chandra Vice President Corporate Strategy & Business Transformation  Ms Minari Shah  Head - Corporate Communications  (Associate Member of ExCom)  OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT Mr Prasann Chobe Sr Vice President (Head Mfg Operations, CVBU)  Mr Girish Wagh Sr Vice President (PPPM, PVBU)  Mr Abhijit Gajendragadkar Sr Vice President (Business Planning and Controlling)  Mr R Ramakrishnan Sr Vice President  (Product Strategy and Planning & Customer Value) Mr Nagesh Pinge Vice President (Internal Audit)  COMPANY SECRETARY  Mr H K Sethna 03 Board of DirectorsChairman’s Message (02-03) Managing Director’s MessageCorporate Information REGISTERED OFFICE  Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001  Tel: +91-22-66658282  Fax: +91-22-66657799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com  Website: www.tatamotors.com  AUDITORS Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP   (Registration No.
117366W/W — 100018) CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER (CIN)  L28920MH1945PLC004520 WORKS  Jamshedpur   Pune    Lucknow     Pantnagar Sanand Dharwad   SHARE REGISTRARS TSR Darashaw Limited 6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate 20, Dr E Moses Road, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011  Tel: +91-22-66568484  Fax: +91-22-66568494  Email: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com  Website: www.tsrdarashaw.com  BANKERS  Allahabad Bank  Andhra Bank  Bank of America  Bank of Baroda  Bank of India  Bank of Maharashtra  Central Bank of India  Citibank NA  Corporation Bank  Deutsche Bank  Federal Bank  HDFC Bank  Hongkong and Shanghai         Banking Corporation  ICICI Bank  IDBI Bank  Indian Bank  Kotak Mahindra Bank Karur Vysya Bank  Punjab National Bank  Standard Chartered Bank  State Bank of India  State Bank of Mysore  State Bank of Patiala  Union Bank of India  United Bank of India  04 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Dear Shareholders, The Financial Year 2015-16 was one of continued global volatility  across different markets.
The fall in oil prices and commodities  have had varied impact across different companies and countries.
The China slowdown continues to be an important global  economic factor.
The news was more positive for India with robust GDP growth,  making the country one of the fastest growing economies  worldwide.
The sustained start-up environment has also played  an important role in bringing in global and domestic investment,  opening up new opportunities and also helping to carry economic  development beyond just the tier one cities.
Moreover, there is,  rightly so, a greater thoughtfulness towards investing in new or  emerging companies with a greater attention to the right business  models.
This is a positive sign of a more mature and responsible  economy.
Nonetheless there remain key challenges.
The continued delay of  some of the tax reforms continue to pose operational bottlenecks  in a more streamlined movement of goods and services across the  Jaguar Land Rover’s  solid financial performance  through last year was clearly  showcased by its selling more  than half a million cars in one  year for the first time.
Last year, it  thus produced and sold more  cars than at any time in its  history.
country.
The shadow of NPAs continue to haunt the Indian financial  sector even as the sector is all set to grow with new financial  institutions.
For the Tata Motors Group, 2015-16 was a year of mixed results but  it was important to note the return to profitability.
It was therefore  a turnaround year, backed by strong Jaguar Land Rover growth  despite challenges, as well as the start of the turnaround for Tata  Motors standalone.
Jaguar Land Rover continued to show strong global sales, despite  the China slowdown.
It showed a strong growth in the key markets  of North America and Europe.
Its strong revenue growth reflected  the demand for the new models such as Land Rover Discovery  Sport, Jaguar XE and XF, that helped the Company add new  customers to both brands across UK, Europe and North America.
Jaguar Land Rover’s solid financial performance through last year  was clearly showcased by its selling more than half a million cars in  one year for the first time.
Last year, it thus produced and sold more cars than at any time  in its history.
Its vehicles have received more than 140 awards  for design, technology, safety and environmental sustainability.
Besides winning the accolade of ‘Best UK Employer’ by Bloomberg,  Jaguar Land Rover is one of the UK’s largest exporters, with more  than 80 percent of its revenue coming from exports.
There was good news for the Tata Motors standalone business  as well.
Tata Motors M&HCV business showed sustained growth  for a year to lead the turnaround of the Indian business.
Within  this while some segments like the multi-axle vehicles and tractor  05 (04-05) Chairman’s MessageCorporate Information Board of DirectorsManaging Director’s Message trailers emerged as the key growth drivers, the tipper segment  also started showing signs of recovery with demand coming  primarily from coal mining regions.
After the launch of advanced  new platforms like Prima and Ultra, the launch of Signa in the last  quarter of 2015-16 ensures that we lead from the front in bringing  the most advanced technology to mainstream trucking.
We expect  this growth to sustain especially with the planned infrastructure  projects now getting into execution.
Strong GDP growth and  consumer sentiment will also help sustain this momentum as will  the upcoming regulatory changes.
As one of the world’s largest bus manufacturers, with the most  complete range of transit vehicles, meeting  every need arising from day-to-day travel, Tata  Motors continued to bring global technology  for safe, comfortable and economical travel.
The Company’s push towards electric hybrid  buses and articulated buses to meet the  future transport needs for the envisaged  Smart Cities got a significant validation  with the order from MMRDA for 25 hybrid  buses for Mumbai’s modernistic business  hub, the Bandra Kurla Complex.
We have witnessed some encouraging  growth in LCVs and will continue to lead and  grow in this space with new product introductions,  also reaching out to customers in smaller cities and  towns through new sales and service points.
2015-16 also saw a strong growth in defence as the Company  transitions from a supplier of defence logistics solutions to a design  and development company providing a comprehensive range of  solutions including armoured combat vehicles.
This has opened up  significant domestic as well as international opportunities as Tata  Motors joins hands with global partners to develop solutions for  defence agencies everywhere.
The year was an exciting one for PV — not only did it mark the  launch of the stylishly designed hatchback Tiago but it also was the  first preview for what’s coming.
Since its launch, Tiago as the first  completely new product marking the PV transformational journey  has received strong bookings and great customer response.
I was  also delighted personally by the response that our new cars Hexa,  Nexon and Kite-5 received from the industry and customers at  the Greater Noida (Delhi) Auto Expo 2016.
Our continued efforts  towards enhanced customer experience also bore results as we  Our continued  efforts towards enhanced  customer experience also  bore results as we saw strong  improvement in the JD Power  Customer Satisfaction Index,  as we moved up to the third  rank in the industry.
saw strong improvement in the JD Power Customer Satisfaction  Index, as we moved up to the third rank in the industry.
We are all becoming used to unpredictable and dynamic market  environments, learning to manage by anticipating customer  needs, leveraging strong processes and building competitive  product portfolios and networks.
The new financial year will not  be any different in the challenges it will pose, especially as the  continued sway of technology is impacting the entire industry as  consumer behaviour undergoes significant change.
The recent  Brexit Referendum will also add some uncertainty to the world of  global business, but we are confident we can see through it with  careful understanding of its long-term impact and strong robust  processes to handle volatility.
At Jaguar Land Rover, we will  continue to invest in a sustainable, profitable growth  strategy with a market defining product portfolio.
The Company remains the largest investor in  automotive research in the UK, with cutting- edge innovation as the key to its future growth.
For the Tata Motors standalone business, this  will mark a milestone year of growth, great  launches and transformation.
There continues  to be the growing pressure of competition and  we will look to bring in significant launches in  PV and CV with focus on cost efficiencies to remain  competitive.
A very important aspect of this transformational journey is the  appointment of Guenter Butschek as the new CEO and MD for the  Tata Motors standalone business.
He brings tremendous global  experience and expertise as well as operational insights to lead  this transformation.
I am delighted to welcome him on board.
I am optimistic about the future — it may be challenging but  offers many positive opportunities across Tata Motors and Jaguar  Land Rover.
We remain committed to all our stakeholders and to  the communities we work in, for sustainable profitable growth  with continual community engagement.
Thank you all for your continued support, which I gently  appreciate and cherish.
Chairman  06 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE The Financial Year 2015-16 has been a year of recovery for Tata  Motors with focus on introducing exciting mobility solutions and  keeping customers central to our plans.
Last year marked the  start of the transformational journey of Tata Motors.
A journey to  leverage our global resources of people, design and R&D to offer  differentiated products, with a comprehensive commercial and  passenger vehicle offering.
I see the previous financial year as  the building base for this transformational journey to make Tata  Motors future-ready.
A strong part of being prepared for the future is our product story.
The Prima, Ultra and Signa platforms offer new paradigms for  mainstream M&HCV markets and are well-timed to leverage the  sustained growth in this segment from the last few quarters.
These  new launches represent the new technology- oriented Tata Motors, for instance with Telematics  now a mandated feature on the Signa trucks.
These are future-proofed platforms that can  serve the Company’s interests as new regulatory  changes come into effect for trucks and buses,  enabling the Company to continue leading  and gaining market share.
The new Bus  Code and the government focus on smart  cities offer clear opportunities for our well- established investments in Tata Marcopolo.
With the versatile Ace platform and the improved  macro-economic trends, we should also see an  improved growth there, including the pick-up segment  where we expect to bring in new products.
We expect SCVs to  grow in the coming year, with greater proliferation of the Hub-N- Spoke logistics model and the implementation of GST.
Relatively  untapped potential in semi-urban and rural areas and improving  urbanisation levels will further help improve volumes in this  segment.
Defence is the other major segment for growth and an opportunity  in the years to come, as it opens up to greater private sector  participation.
Tata Motors has long been a Defence partner, in no  small reason because of its ability to work closely for multi-year  product development cycles.
With its ever-greater technology  orientation and the ability to bring in global partnerships, as seen  in recent agreements with Bharat Forge and General Dynamics, the  Company will continue to widen its product portfolio that allows  it to take advantage of domestic as well as international market  opportunities.
The launch of  the new mid-segment  hatchback Tiago and the  overwhelming customer  response mark the start of a  completely new product  portfolio for our  cars.
Dear Shareholders, Global expansion will in fact be an important theme for going  forward as it offers economies of scale and returns on our R&D  investment, longer product cycles across markets and is the best  de-risking strategy to reduce dependence on cyclical markets.
The  previous year saw us increase our exports and the comprehensive  CV portfolio offers us multiple opportunities to grow these further,  especially in emerging markets of Asia, Africa and Latin America.
It  also offers the added benefit of an enhanced global mindset in our  products, services and processes.
The launch of the new mid-segment hatchback Tiago and the  overwhelming customer response mark the start of a completely  new product portfolio for our cars.
At the Noida (New Delhi)  Auto Expo in February 2016, we provided a sneak preview of the  exciting range of cars coming up.
These cars from the lifestyle  SUV Hexa to the compact SUV Nexon; as well as the new compact  sedan currently code-named Kite 5 all won acclaim from the  public and critics alike.
We look forward to continually  bringing these and more disruptive and exciting  new offerings for passenger vehicle customers.
Across CV and PV, we are determined to  bring product offerings that lead the change  the true hallmark of an innovator.
Our well- defined plan includes developing multiple  new platforms with advanced technologies,  constantly working on improving the  performance and reliability of existing ones,  keeping in mind changing customer preferences and  regulations.
Additionally, we continue to work towards  network enhancement to ensure unremitting focus on customer  service.
We will provide greater on- ground and virtual access to  our customers for new products as well as after-sales services while  constantly upgrading the delight quotient.
Building a “FUTUREADY ” organisation However, it is important to emphasise that the transformation goes  beyond just the products — we have launched a holistic journey  that will touch upon all the key aspects of our business.
We have  recently re-articulated the Tata Motors Mission and Vision in clear  and differentiated terms to clearly explain who we are, as well  as to put forth a tangible action plan with defined results for the  immediate future.
Our Mission is to innovate mobility solutions with passion to  enhance quality of life.
We are a company that has consistently  07 (06-07) Chairman’s MessageCorporate Information Board of DirectorsManaging Director’s Message    We have         launched a holistic journey  that will touch upon all the  key aspects of our business.
We  have recently re-articulated the Tata  Motors Mission and Vision in clear and  differentiated terms to clearly explain  who we are, as well as to put forth  a tangible action plan with  defined results for the  immediate future.
innovated across passenger and commercial vehicles to  provide mobility solutions for people and goods.
With  deep insight into customer needs, we offer the widest  portfolio of solutions.
We have regularly created new  categories to fulfil latent needs, bringing in the most  advanced technologies to offer relevant solutions.
As a part of the Tata group, we believe in making  a difference for our people, for the communities  we are part of and for the country.
This Mission  statement clearly defines our raison d etre and  our passionate commitment to bring innovation  into everything we do.
Our Vision defines more specific targets: to  achieve sustainable financial profitability in  the next three years.
We are working towards  growing, not just the volumes and top line but the  bottom line as well.
We aim to be among the top 3  global CV and domestic PV and lastly, deliver exciting  innovations.
There is a well defined roadmap to achieve these  with a  deep focus on robust processes, cost efficiencies and people  management to enhance productivity and align business  goals across the Company.
These initiatives will help us  build a faster, leaner, more agile organisation with focus on  globally benchmarked design, technology and quality.
Last  but certainly not the least, these will be backed by a well- considered brand strategy to guide and prioritise business  planning ahead.
In short, we had the start of a turnaround last year.
We  have an exciting journey ahead in the coming years.
I am  delighted to be a part of and leading this journey.
With  a result-oriented plan ahead, I am sure the coming year  will be as fulfilling for all of us at Tata Motors as for our  shareholder family.
Managing Director  08 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mr Cyrus P Mistry Non-Executive Director and Chairman Mr Mistry was appointed as a Director of Tata Motors with effect from May 29, 2012, and  as deputy chairman of the Company with effect from November 7, 2012.
Mr Mistry took  over as Chairman from Mr Ratan N Tata on his retirement with effect from December  28, 2012.
Mr Mistry was earlier managing director of the Shapoorji Pallonji group.
He was also  responsible for building the infrastructure development vertical in the Shapoorji  Pallonji group.
Mr Mistry is a Graduate of Civil Engineering from the Imperial College London (1990) and  has an MSc in Management from the London Business School (1997).
He was recently  bestowed with the Alumni Achievement Award by the London Business School.
Mr Nusli N Wadia Non-Executive, Independent Director Educated in the UK, Mr Wadia is the Chairman of the  Bombay Dyeing & Manufacturing Company Limited and  heads the Wadia Group.
He is also the Chairman / Trustee of  various charitable institutions and non-profit organisations.
Mr Wadia has been on the Company’s Board since  December 1998 as an Independent Director.
Dr Raghunath A Mashelkar Non-Executive, Independent Director Dr Mashelkar is an eminent chemical engineering scientist who retired  from the post of Director General from the CSIR and is the President of  Indian National Science Academy (INSA), National Innovation Foundation,  Institution of Chemical Engineers, UK and Global Research Alliance.
The President of India honoured Dr Mashelkar with the Padma Shri (1991),  the Padma Bhushan (2000) and the Padma Vibhushan (2014).
Dr Mashelkar  holds a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering from the Bombay University.
He was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company w.e.f.
August 28, 2007.
09 (08-11) Chairman’s MessageCorporate Information Board of DirectorsManaging Director’s Message Mr Nasser Munjee Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Nasser Munjee served with HDFC for over 20 years at various positions including  as its Executive Director.
He was the Managing Director of Infrastructure Development  Finance Co. Ltd. (IDFC) up to March 2004.
He has been the Chairman of Development  Credit Bank (DCB) since June 2005 and is also on the Board of various multinational  companies and Trusts.
Mr Munjee is a Technical Advisor on the World Bank Public-Private Partnership  Infrastructure and Advisory Fund.
Mr Munjee holds a Bachelor’s degree and a Master’s  degree from the London School of Economics, UK.
He was appointed as an Independent Director w.e.f.
June 27, 2008.
Mr Subodh Bhargava Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Bhargava retired from Eicher Group of Companies as Group Chairman and Chief  Executive in March 2000.
He was the past President of the Confederation of Indian  Industry (CII) and the Association of Indian Automobile Manufacturers, and the Vice  President of the Tractor Manufacturers Association.
He is currently associated as a Director of several Indian corporates, including Tata  Communications Limited and Tata Steel Limited.
Mr Bhargava holds a degree in  Mechanical Engineering from the University of Roorkee.
He was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company w.e.f.
June 27, 2008.
Mr Vinesh K Jairath Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Jairath served as the Principal Secretary (Industries), Government of Maharashtra,  and has over 25 years of experience in public administration, rural development,  poverty alleviation, infrastructure, finance, industry, urban development,  environmental management and a touch of the private sector occupying various  important positions in the Government of India and the State Government of  Maharashtra.
Mr Jairath holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Public Administration and Bachelor  of Laws degree, both from the Punjab University; Masters in Economics from the  University of Manchester, UK; and joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1982.
He was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company w.e.f.
March 31, 2009.
10 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements Dr Ralf Speth Non-Executive Director Dr Ralf Speth was appointed to the post of Chief Executive Officer at Jaguar Land  Rover on February 18, 2010.
He is on the Board of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  PLC, UK.
Dr Speth earned a degree in Engineering from Rosenheim University  of Applied Sciences, Germany and is a Doctorate of Engineering in Mechanical  Engineering and Business Administration from Warwick University.
Having served BMW for 20 years, Dr Speth joined Ford Motor Company’s Premier  Automotive Group as Director of Production, Quality and Product Planning.
He was appointed as a Director of the Company w.e.f.
November 9, 2010.
Ms Falguni S Nayar Non-Executive, Independent Director Ms Falguni Nayar has spent over 19 years with Kotak Mahindra Bank with the last 6  years as Managing Director and CEO of Kotak Investment Bank.
She is currently the  founder and CEO of Nykaa.com, an online shopping website for beauty and wellness  products, which also offers an online magazine, expert advice and virtual makeover  tools.
She was recognised as the ‘Top Business Woman’ by Business Today in 2009 and 2011  and has received the FICCI Ladies Organisation award for ‘Top Woman Achiever’ in the  field of banking in 2008.
She holds a B.Com degree from the Mumbai University and a  PGDM from IIM, Ahmedabad.
She was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company w.e.f.
May 29, 2013.
Mr Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director Mr Guenter Butschek is the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the  Company.
Mr Butschek’s last assignment was with Airbus group where he served as  Chief Operating Officer and Member of the Group Executive Committee.
Prior to Airbus,  Mr Butschek worked at Daimler AG, where he gained more than 25 years of experience  in international automotive management, holding functions like production,  industrialisation and procurement.
He has rich global experience of growing  organisations and in developing new markets.
Mr Butschek graduated in Business Administration and Economics with a diploma  from the University of Cooperative Education Stuttgart, Germany.
Mr Butschek was  appointed as an Additional Director of Tata Motors with effect from February 15, 2016.
11 (08-11) Chairman’s MessageCorporate Information Board of DirectorsManaging Director’s Message Mr Ravindra Pisharody Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) Mr Ravindra Pisharody is the Executive Director (Commercial  Vehicles) since June 21, 2012, having joined Tata Motors as Vice  President Commercial Vehicles (Sales & Marketing) in 2007.
He  is also on the board of various Tata Motors Group Companies.
Before joining Tata Motors, he worked with Castrol Ltd., a  subsidiary of BP , and with Philips India, a subsidiary of the Dutch  company, in various roles.
Mr Pisharody is an alumnus of IIT- Kharagpur, and IIM Kolkata.
Mr Satish B Borwankar Executive Director (Quality) Mr Satish Borwankar started his career with Tata Motors in 1974 as  a Graduate Engineer Trainee and is currently the Executive Director  (Quality) w.e.f.
June 21, 2012.
He has worked in various executive  positions for overseeing and implementing product development,  manufacturing operations and quality control initiatives of the  Commercial Vehicles Business Unit.
He has played a significant role  in setting up Greenfield projects of the Company.
Mr Borwankar is a  Mechanical Engineer from IIT, Kanpur.
12 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements HIGHLIGHTS All eyes on the Tiago  One of the highlights of the year was the launch of Tata Motors’  cool new hatchback, the TIAGO.
With design inputs from Pune,  UK and Italy, the globally benchmarked Tiago sets a new and high  standard for the Indian hatchback segment.
The Tiago is the first  car to be launched under our Made Of Great campaign and the  first to embody our new Impact Design language.
#madeofgreat One of the year’s standout events was the signing up of football  legend Lionel Messi, voted Best Player of the World four times in  a row.
Messi is the brand ambassador for Tata Motors passenger  vehicles globally.
The association campaign, appropriately named  #madeofgreat, emphasises the strong consumer motivation of  ‘seeking excellence’ and ‘self belief’ .
The core idea of this campaign  is the inspiring thought – ‘What drives us from within is what makes  us great’ – the essence of Tata Motors.
A new design language The Passenger Vehicle Business’s new Impact Design language   was developed keeping the media-saturated customer in mind.
It  stands for ‘Immediate impact at first sight, lasting impact over time’ .
Impact design will be achieved through key design elements on  the exterior and interior of vehicles.
Exterior design will be defined  through ‘EXciting’ , ‘EXpressive’ and ‘EXtraordinary’ features such as  exciting architecture and pleasing proportions, expressive surfaces  and graphics, and details inspired by Indian architecture.
‘INviting’ ,  ‘INtelligent’ and ‘INtouch’ features such as intelligent cabin and  driver-focused layout and layered cockpit design will define the  interior of the vehicles.
GenX Nano is here  The ground-breaking Nano continues to innovate and evolve in  line with the needs of our customers.
Tata Motors launched the all- new GENX NANO range, which comes with advanced technological  features such as automated manual transmission, power steering,  bluetooth connectivity and much more, making the GenX Nano  the perfect city car.
Signa signals the future Tata Motors launched the new and future ready SIGNA range of  world class medium and heavy commercial vehicles, designed for  applications in haulage and construction.
With smartly designed  cabin space, improved ergonomics and NVH levels, best-in-class  fuel efficiency and the Tata Fleetman telematics system, the Signa  offers drivers and owners a superior driving experience unlike any  other.
13 Highlights Innovation at Tata Motors (12-15) Design Language Product Sustainability The ultimate Ultra  After the world-class range of Prima trucks, the ULTRA represents  the global standard in intermediate and light commercial vehicles.
Stylish and futuristic, with smart utility features, the Tata Ultra has  been engineered to meet changing customer needs.
The new Tata  Ultra 1518 launched recently is a fabulous combination of world- class performance parameters, with enhanced levels of durability,  reliability, driver comfort, high load carrying capacity and safety,  along with best life-cycle cost.
Mega superior The launch of the Tata ACE MEGA with its best-in-class combination  of power, speed and fuel efficiency stands to redefine the  benchmarks of the small commercial vehicle segment.
The Ace  Mega comes preloaded with enhanced looks, a strong cabin, rated  payload of one tonne, and lowest cost of ownership, which makes  it a valuable and an innovative cargo transport solution for both  intra and intercity transportation.
Jaguar Land Rover surges ahead  This year has been a big year for Jaguar Land Rover with  the launch of two vehicles, increasing the offering and  creating new growth opportunities: the Range Rover Evoque  Convertible – the most capable convertible ever, and the  Jaguar F-PACE – the ultimate practical sports car.
Other  highlights included the Jaguar XE and XF winning a host of  awards.
The new Jaguar F-TYPE SVR made its global debut at the  Geneva Motor Show and will go on sale in summer 2016.
Capable of 200mph, the new F-TYPE SVR is the first Jaguar  SVR and is developed to exploit the two-seat aluminium  sports car’s full potential while retaining its day-to-day  usability.
Lighter, faster and more powerful, the new F-TYPE  SVR takes performance, dynamics and driver involvement to  a new level yet retains the comfort and duality of character  inherent to all Jaguar cars.
14 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements Land Rover goes convertible  Launched in 1948, the Land Rover line is now 68 years old.
The  landmark six-millionth Land Rover was a Range Rover Vogue SE,  which rolled off Jaguar Land Rover’s Solihull production line in  April.
Range Rover took a new step by launching the new Range  Rover Evoque Convertible in London, heralding the dawn of a new  era in all-season convertible driving.
Lowering its roof for the first  time, the vehicle opened up the world of roof-down motoring all  year round for drivers all around the globe.
This was also an iconic year for the Land Rover Discovery Sport  with the 100,000th sold, and launched in China and India.
Winning  a host of awards, particularly in the prestigious safety category,  has confirmed the excellence of the vehicle’s design, versatility  and capability.
With a Discovery Sport rolling off the production  line every three minutes, strong demand continues to fill the order  books.
Combat vehicles Tata Motors Defence Solutions is participating in a programme  to make Future Infantry Combat Vehicles (FICV) for the Indian  Ministry of Defence (MoD).
For this Tata Motors has signed a  strategic agreement with India’s Bharat Forge Limited and US- based General Dynamics Land Systems (GDLS).
Tata Motors will  lead the consortium, with Bharat Forge Limited as a partner, while  General Dynamics Land Systems will bring in its much proven  expertise in combat vehicle platforms.
The FICV is a high mobility armoured battle vehicle.
It needs to be  compact, tracked and amphibious, no heavier than 18-20 tonnes,  so that it can be air-portable and transportable by other means,  onto combat zones.
The vehicle must fire anti-tank guided missiles  to ranges beyond four kilometers, with a capability to carry a crew  of three and eight combat-kitted infantrymen.
The FICV will replace  the Indian Army’s fleet of 2610 Russian-designed BMP (Sarath BMP- II) series armed vehicles, that are in operation since 1980.
Upping the ante on service Tata Motors has consistently tried to offer its customers an  enhanced service experience and its efforts have catapulted it  to the 3rd spot in the JD Power India Customer Service Index  Study 2015.
One of the new, industry-leading service initiatives  undertaken last year was a series of mega service camps which  were organised at all Tata Motors dealerships and authorised  T1 racing roars again Season 3 of the Tata Motors T1 Racing Championship opened  in Delhi with an added innovative element.
This time around  there were two separate categories of races, the Pro class with  internationally experienced racing truck drivers, and the Super  class featuring Indian talent.
This year Tata Motors introduced the  T1 Racer Program, which attracted over 550 driver nominations  from our customers’ businesses.
A dozen drivers, shortlisted based  on their driving experience, participated.
A crowd of over 50,000  cheered the powerful racing trucks at the Buddh International  Circuit in Delhi.
15 Highlights Innovation at Tata Motors (12-15) Design Language Product Sustainability service centres across 287 cities.
The third phase of the free  comprehensive vehicle health check-up camp was conducted at  over 1,000 locations.
Customers availed of discounts, special offers  and attractive exchange offers.
Superior service experiences Continuing its endeavour to get closer to its customers, Tata Motors  is expanding  its network, both for passenger and commercial  vehicles.
As a part of its commitment to increase its network by  three-fold in the next 5 years across the country, Tata Motors has  set up state-of-the-art dealerships in strategic locations such as  Jogeshwari in Mumbai, Salem in Tamil Nadu and Firozabad in Uttar  Pradesh.
These strategically located dealerships provide customers  with a complete ‘3S’ experience of sales, service and spare parts,  fulfilling their requirements and enabling an enhanced purchase  experience and quality after-sales support under one roof.
Investment in innovation Tata Motors is continuing to invest in auto technologies for the  future.
The new £150 million National Automotive Innovation  Centre (NAIC) coming up on the campus of the University of  Warwick in UK will be the largest automotive research centre of its  kind in Europe.
It is funded by Jaguar Land Rover, Tata Motors, the  University of Warwick and the UK Government.
NAIC’s 33,000 sq m complex, which seats 1,000 engineers and  designers, will help deliver breakthrough technologies in areas  such as carbon reduction, smart and connected vehicles, and  advanced propulsion systems including internal combustion  engines, hybrid and electric systems.
The high tech research  facilities will include a design and simulation space creating  innovative automotive solutions, an Advanced Propulsion Research  Laboratory, and the world’s most adaptable and advanced fully  immersive drive-in car simulator.
A year of milestones Tata Motors celebrated the 10th anniversary of Tata Ace, India’s  number one mini truck.
When it was launched in 2005, Tata Ace  pioneered the small commercial vehicle (SCV) category.
In just  a decade, the Ace family has crossed the 1.5 million sales mark  and captured 85% market share.
It is also the most successful SCV  brand -- one in every five commercial vehicles sold in India is from  the Ace family.
News from around the world   Tata Ace crosses 100,000 in sales in  international markets across South Asia,  Africa, and the ASEAN regions and is  currently available in over 20 countries   Sri Lanka is introduced to the GenX Nano   Tata Bolt is launched in South Africa   Zest and Bolt are launched in the Sri Lanka  and Nepal markets   Dubai gets the Tata Elanza bus    Bangladesh sees entry of Ultra range of  trucks    Tata Xenon and the Prima Prime Mover  launched in Malaysia   Tata Motors to assemble CVs in Tunisia Tata Motors achieved yet another feat in its last mile public  transport portfolio.
Its popular public transport vehicle, Tata Magic,  crossed the 3 lakh sales mark.
What makes this achievement  significant is that with Tata Magic, Tata Motors has been able to  capture the market despite the stringent regulations that have to  be met.
16 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements INNOVATION AT TATA MOTORS Innovation Plus     For years, Tata Motors has  consciously worked to embed  innovation deep in the organisation’s  culture.
Today over 4,500 engineers  and scientists work to push the edges of  innovative thinking in the company’s R&D  centres in India, UK and South Korea.
The  impact of this focus on innovation is  most evident in the company’s  expanding portfolio of  products.
Engineered for the customer Customer centricity is at the heart of several of our technology  innovations.
For example, the Zest, Bolt and Tiago cars now offer  customers the convenience of the multi-drive option – where  the customer can choose between three different drive modes  depending upon whether they need more power, higher fuel  efficiency or a blend of both.
The new engines, Revotron and  Revotorq, which have pushed the envelope for Indian diesel  and petrol cars were developed in the company’s R&D centres at  India and UK.
Our commercial vehicles are engineered to offer  customers the ideal mix of power, fuel efficiency and lowest cost  of ownership.
Technologically, they have advanced to offer fleet  owners the fingertip convenience of nationwide networking and  telematics through the Tata Fleetman telematics systems.
The organisation’s ability to develop new mobility solutions  extends to the defence sector.
Tata Motors designed and  developed the Kestrel, a futuristic combat vehicle, along with the  Defence Research and Development Organisation.
The amphibious  and wheeled infantry combat automobile was developed in a  record period of 18 months.
Green technologies Sustainability is one of the organisation’s pillars and also the heart  of the innovation programme – an example of this is the intensive  work being done on alternate fuels.
Tata Motors has developed  hydrogen fuel cell technology that can power both passenger and  commercial vehicles to reduce dependency on fossil fuels.
This  technology was developed with support from the Government of  India’s Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.
Cutting edge auto technologies are core to the company’s new  product development processes.
The Tiago car and Signa range  of trucks represent the most advanced vehicle architecture for  passenger and commercial vehicles developed in India today.
Our  new concept cars Hexa and Kite, and the Nexon SUV showcase the  innovative capabilities built up by the company.
17 Highlights Innovation at Tata Motors (16-17) Design Language Product Sustainability Environmental  innovation Our subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover has placed its  focus on environmental innovation at the centre of its  business vision.
As the UK’s biggest investor in automotive  R&D, Jaguar Land Rover has developed a range of solutions  to reduce the carbon footprint of vehicles and improve air  quality while maintaining the performance and refinement  standards expected by customers.
Other advances include enhancements to the customer value  proposition, such as the InControl Touch Pro infotainment  system.
This already leads the industry and Jaguar Land  Rover was the first to launch the UK’s real-world testing  of connected and autonomous vehicle technology.
Innovation is clearly the best platform to handle  challenges from transformative technologies  powered by new entrants such as Apple  and Google.
The hydrogen fuel cell technology works by combining  compressed hydrogen with oxygen to generate electricity in the  fuel cell.
This charges a battery that powers the motor, with water  vapour being the only emission.
This futuristic technology turned  heads when it was showcased at the Auto Expo 2016 on the Magic  Iris Ziva, our popular last mile passenger transport vehicle.
Tata Motors has already developed next-gen clean, green fuel  based commercial vehicles, such as the Magic Iris Electric, a zero- emission commercial passenger vehicle which uses solar  energy for supplementary charging, and the hybrid Starbus, a  clean fuel solution for public transport.
Culture of innovation Innovation at Tata Motors goes deep beyond product and  technology to encompass other aspects of operations such as  marketing and customer service.
The Madeofgreat campaign that  roped in football legend Lionel Messi as a brand ambassador for  Tata Motors cars created waves around the world.
Another case  in point is the path-breaking T1 racing championship event that  multiplies the excitement of Formula1 racing with the raw power  and force of truck engines.
Our customers get the benefit of the Tata Motors’ creative  approach at various touchpoints.
For example, the Tiago offers a  virtual test drive app that uses motion and gesture recognition  technology to give the user a virtual on-road driving experience,  while also showcasing the car’s noteworthy features.
India’s first service app –Tata Motors Connect – gives our customers  a stress-free driving experience by connecting instantly to the  dealer and workshop network through GPS navigation.
VTabs  is another new service-related application that tracks vehicles  that come in to our service centres through RFID readers; this  helps reduce time taken for servicing, thus directly benefiting our  customers.
Innovative thinking percolates through the organisation in many  ways.
Our people engage with each other through creative  platforms such as the enterprise social networking tool Yammer,  informal networking sessions, learning sessions and webinars, etc.
At Tata Motors, we constantly strive to offer the best vehicle  experience to our global customers.
Innovation is one of the drivers  of this journey.
18 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements DESIGN LANGUAGE Impact at first sight First impressions matter.
The latest vehicles from the Tata Motors  portfolio are designed to stand out from the crowd because of  their appearance and style.
Technology and user experience are  critical, but the first impression created in the customer’s mind  comes through exteriors and looks, making design a key factor in  purchase decisions.
Design at Tata Motors is not a standalone function, it is the first  step in the new product development process, thus ensuring that  aerodynamic fluidity, unique design elements and contemporary  styling are embedded in the basic exoskeleton of the vehicle.
Tata Motors has introduced its new Impact Design language for the  Passenger Vehicles division, a philosophy that creates a youthful,  The newly launched  Tiago embodies the  best of design with its ideal  segment size, perfect cabin-hood- body proportions and a dynamic  silhouette.
The Tiago interiors are  designed to offer a premium  experience along with best- in-class features and  technologies.
energetic and bold look and makes our cars stand out on the road.
The newly launched Tiago and the Signa range of trucks are the  first vehicles from the company that bear the unique Tata Motors’  signature stamp.
International styling Design@Tata Motors is a global function, operating out of its three  design studios in Pune, Italy and UK.
Our designers share a love for  automobiles along with the best of tools, training and experience,  globally.
From a strength of 80 a few years ago, the Design team is  now 200 strong.
The three centres work as a seamless team to deliver exciting and  compelling designs.
Each centre brings unique strengths and tools  to the table.
The Pune Design Studio has enormous experience  in bringing products to market.
Most of the CV designs are  created out of the Pune studio.
The UK Design Studio leverages its  proximity to some of the best design schools in the world to deliver  high quality capabilities in clay and digital modelling.
The Italy  Design Studio delivers high end styling and looks through its team  of creative engineers and craftsmen.
19 Highlights Innovation at Tata Motors (18-19) Design Language Product Sustainability Our Design Studios have together delivered the BOLT, ZEST and  the TIAGO, bringing international styling and flair to the Indian car  market.
The design process  Design is now an integral part of the NPI process at Tata Motors.
The Design team is involved from the early stages of the product  definition process.
This includes identifying the target customer,  core vehicle architecture, etc.
After an intense creative phase,  where the designers make hundreds of sketches, there is rigorous  shortlisting phase where only a handful of designs make it to the  final stage.
The next step is to go 3D!
The Design team uses 3D  modelling, creating both digital and physical models in foam and  clay, to give realistic representations of what the product will look  like.
The best design goes into production, and then on the road, to  earn auto awards!
Uniquely Tata Tata Motors’ Impact Design language integrates the best of style  and convenience to give the customer a look like no other.
Here are  some of the unique elements of the Design language:    New front façade with a signature grille that displays the 32  Trust and Humanity lines    Diamond shaped window graphic    Slingshot line that emphasises the rear architecture Intelligent design The Design Function is complemented by the capabilities of the  R&D centres at Pune and UK.
For example, through the UK-based  Tata Motors European Technical Centre (TMETC), Tata Motors is  developing body structures which are lightweight, cost effective,  and supply ever increasing levels of performance, quality and  refinement, the result of a diligent approach to intelligent Body in  White design.
Our subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover operates at the cutting edge  of automotive design, technology and innovation to create the  world’s best products and services for our customers.
Some of the  successes include a remote control Range Rover Sport which can  be operated through the user’s smartphone (useful for getting out  of tight parking spaces).
Thus, vehicles from Tata Motors are now being designed to be  more user-centric and intelligent, with better fuel efficiency and  stronger performance levels.
And, the new focus on design has  led to a global design language that is both customer centric  and innovative, thus redefining the company’s signature looks  and elevating the design standard across the passenger and  commercial vehicle car segments.
20 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY Zippy performance, zero emission Tata Motors showcased its futuristic hydrogen fuel cell technology  at the Auto Expo 2016 in the Magic Iris Ziva, its popular last  mile passenger transport vehicle.
The gearless vehicle will have  zero emissions due to the use of a hydrogen fuel cell.
It also  boasts of a powerful electric motor, powered by batteries, which  enables the vehicle to run up to 40km in pure electric mode.
The  perfect solution for smart connected cities, the Magic Iris Ziva  was developed with support from the Government of India’s  Department of Scientific and Industrial Research under the  Technology Development and Demonstration Programme.
Clean power,  green drives Tata Motors’ concern for the  environment and commitment to  sustainability has placed it at the  forefront of the Indian automobile  industry’s efforts to tackle pollution  and intensify its focus on  developing alternative fuel  engine technologies.
The future of transport Reiterating its commitment towards reducing  carbon emissions, Tata Motors showcased  Starbus Hybrid, the world’s first commercially  produced CNG hybrid bus, at the Auto Expo  2016.
A radical new transport option, the  Starbus Hybrid offers substantial improvement  in fuel economy and emits lower emissions as  compared to conventional buses.
The vehicle  produces zero emissions when it works on  electric mode, while the CNG mode is BS 4  compliant.
It also uses new-generation lithium  ion phosphate batteries (prismatic cell).
It is a matter of pride for Tata Motors that  it recently bagged the single largest order  awarded for hybrid electric vehicles.
It  signed a contract to supply 25 Starbus Diesel  Series hybrid electric buses to the Mumbai  Metropolitan Region Development Authority.
These buses will be used to connect Bandra  Kurla Complex to Sion, Bandra and Kurla  railway stations over the next year, improving  feeder services to Mumbai’s fastest-growing  business hub.
Highlights Innovation at Tata Motors (20-21) Design Language Product Sustainability 21 An electric ride The Ultra Electric Bus, the first fully electric bus  from Tata Motors, was introduced at the Auto  Expo 2016.
Built on the popular Tata Motors  Ultra platform, the electric bus is meant for  the urban commute.
With complete electric  drivetrain and zero emissions, the Ultra  Electric Bus ensures low noise and vibration  for a comfortable ride.
Other features include  roomy interiors which can be customised,  utility provisions like charging ports and Wi-fi  hotspot for on-the-go connectivity, high levels  of security with Intelligent Transport System  and security cameras, and new-generation  telematics for efficient and user-friendly vehicle  maintenance and tracking.
Clean speed Jaguar Land Rover has been working on  the electrification of powertrains over the last  seven years.
The company has developed a range  of advanced plug-in hybrid (PHEV), mild hybrid (MHEV)  and battery electric vehicle (BEV) propulsion systems.
As well as hybridisation and electrification, Jaguar Land Rover  is working to make internal combustion engines cleaner and  more energy efficient.
The highly efficient diesel Ingenium  engine achieves just 109g/km CO2 in the new Evoque,  and 99g/km of CO2 in the new Jaguar XE.
Moreover, the  company has made advances in lightweight aluminium  vehicle architecture to significantly reduce the weight  of the body.
Jaguar Land Rover is the largest user  of sheet aluminium in the UK, and a world  leader in aluminium recycling.
22 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements CONNECTED VEHICLES Intelligent transport systems Connected vehicles represent a big step forward in mobility  solutions by integrating vehicles with communication systems.
The technology platform allows users to connect to the vehicle via  smartphones, wi-fi networks, bluetooth technologies, etc.
It brings  the world of voice recognition, music, GPS systems, navigation  guides, vehicle tracking and much more, to the customer’s  fingertips.
Tata Motors’ collaboration with Harman brings some of the  industry best solutions for connectivity and convenience to our  customers.
The Tiago is the first car to roll out with these advanced  features.
Next-gen infotainment system  Recognising the customers’ increasing need for connectivity, Tata  Motors’ new hatchback, the Tiago, is equipped with an intelligent  infotainment system designed exclusively by Harman.
The audio  acoustics system can play music via radio, USB, iPod, auxiliary  cable and Bluetooth audio.
It also boasts of an eight-speaker  audio system with speed-dependent volume control.
The system,  also available in the Bolt and Zest, supports a rich multimedia  experience, video playback, smartphone-based navigation,  advanced Bluetooth technology, smart voice recognition,  advanced smartphone integration, and incoming SMS notification  and read-outs.
Navigation made simple The Tiago also introduces a segment-first application – the Turn- by-Turn Navi app that displays map navigation when connected  to a smartphone via Bluetooth.
Audio prompts and hard key  operations that control navigation enhance convenience.
The  app also provides guidance on the estimated time of arrival  and next manoeuvre, which simplifies navigation while driving.
Along with Bluetooth pairing, it also supports speed-dependent  volume control, steering wheel mounted information controls and  phonebook on-the-fly.
23 (22-23) Connected Vehicles Advances in Engines Corporate Social Responsibility Awards + Accolades Juke box car The Tiago also comes with the Juke-Car application, another first- in-segment feature, which utilises a mobile hotspot to create a  virtual network and host a service to share a list of songs in the  device.
All connected devices can view the song list on the hotspot  device and users can then queue their requested song.
The Juke- Car app then plays the songs one after the other.
Tata Fleetman expands In 2013, Tata Motors took a pioneering step forward by introducing  Tata Fleetman – a telematics technology based service offering – in  its commercial vehicles to offer fleet owners the convenience of  tracking their vehicles in real time.
Now fleet management services  have been technologically strengthened and expanded through  a partnership with Microlise, one of Europe’s leading telematics  services companies.
Since April 2015, the revamped telematics-based fleet  management solutions are being provided as a complimentary  bundled service on select heavy commercial vehicle models.
Tata Fleetman is a key differentiator for Tata Motors as the  customer gets significant added value in terms of enhanced fleet  productivity and reduced cost of operation.
Tata Motors is the first commercial vehicle OEM in India to have  launched these next generation services.
The connected Signa  The new Signa range of medium and heavy commercial vehicles  comes equipped with Tata Fleetman as an inbuilt telematics  system.
The fleet telematics service combines state-of-the-art  IT and telecom equipment and software with features like real- time fleet tracking, SMS and email alerts, geofencing and remote  unit management.
The service is currently installed as a standard  fitment in Tata Motors range of medium and heavy commercial  vehicles, and offers customers one of the most advanced telematics  solutions in the country.
Intelligent vehicles Jaguar Land Rover has designed  its ground-breaking InControl Touch  Pro Infotainment System entirely in- house.
The system leads the industry  with regard to connectivity technologies.
Jaguar Land Rover is also the first to  launch the UK’s real-world testing  of connected and autonomous  vehicle technology.
24 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements Tata 3L New  Generation  DICR Engine ADVANCES IN ENGINES Fuelled to drive In recent years, Tata Motors has been working to create Powertrains  that offer best-in-class driving experiences, while giving customers  the benefit of high value propositions with regard to fuel efficiency,  engine performance and cost of maintenance.
New Gen DICR Engines  Tata Motors is making strategic investments in developing and  manufacturing of new generation diesel engines of 3L and 5L  capacities for commercial vehicle applications.
With technology  at the fore front, these state of the art diesel engines are being  developed to deliver enhanced value to customers.
These engines offer best in class fuel economy, excellent  performance (flat torque curve & high low end torque etc.
), lower  total cost of ownership, better reliability and durability.
Both  engines are indigenously developed and incorporate several  innovative ideas and features (such as off-set crank, top-down  cooling, rear gear train, piezo injectors, cylinder block with bed  plate etc.)
and are design protected to meet future emission  requirements (BS-VI).
The new gen engines are being developed along with top  technology leaders like Delphi, Federal Mogul, BorgWarner among  others and are being manufactured in the company’s world class  Pune plant.
ISBe 6.7L  Engine ISLe 8.9L  Engine Tata 5L New  Generation  DICR Engine Tata Cummins Engines Tata Motors recently launched its range of Signa medium and  heavy commercial vehicles which are powered by Cummins  engines.
The Signa 4923.S ensures best-in-class fuel efficiency  due to its proven and reliable Cummins ISBe 5.9 common rail  engine that delivers power of 230PS and a torque of 850Nm.
The  Signa 3118.T and Signa 2518.K are powered by a world-class Tata  Cummins B5.9 L- 6 cylinder engine with an optimum combination  of 180PS and flat torque of 675Nm at the lowest RPM range,  delivering best-in-class fuel efficiency and the highest engine life.
Tata Motors is collaborating with Cummins Inc. for developing  state-of-art engines for the medium and heavy commercial vehicle  segment.
Tata-Cummins engines are manufactured in world-class  manufacturing facilities at Phaltan and Jamshedpur.
Tata-Cummins manufactures mechanical engines on 6B and 4B  and full authority electronic engines on ISB5.9, ISB6.7 and ISL8.9  platforms.
Various engine aggregates such as turbo chargers, filters,  fuel systems and emission solutions from Cummins coupled with  strong integration capabilities help in improving the reliability and  performance of our vehicles.
Cummins is a global technology leader with a century-old  legacy of engineering expertise and innovation.
It has a range  of best-in-class engines that deliver high value propositions like  fuel economy, reliability and durability.
Cummins engines offer  cost-effective methods to obtain fuel economy improvements  – for example the Load Based Speed Control (LBSC), Gear Down  Protection (GDP) and Vehicle Acceleration Management (VAM).
All these technologies combined give optimal output and hence,  better fuel economy.
Cummins also has experience in meeting   25 Connected Vehicles Advances in Engines (24-25) Corporate Social Responsibility Awards + Accolades Revotorq  1.05L Revotron  1.2T various emission norms across the globe.
It already has a BSIV  ready engine range to cater to the CV segment in India and Euro VI  products ready to meet forthcoming norms.
Revotron The Revotron 1.2T, indigenously developed by Tata Motors,  has been designed to deliver superior fuel economy and a  peppy driving experience.
India’s first 1.2L turbocharged multi- point fuel Injection petrol engine, the Revotron 1.2T has been  globally benchmarked for advanced performance on the road.
The extremely silent engine powers the Zest and Bolt.
It offers a  segment-first feature: the multi-drive mode – Sports, City and Eco  – which makes it equivalent to three engines in one.
An advanced  engine management system (EMS) supports the three drive modes.
The Revotron 1.2T engine’s design was optimised by AVL Austria, a  global engine consultant, and key technology partners — Bosch,  Honeywell and INA.
It has stiffened crank case to minimise noise,  vibration and harshness, while the smart electronic control unit  ensures precise control.
In short, the Revotron 1.2T engine offers an  optimum blend — of performance, refinement and fuel economy.
Revotorq Tata Motors’ Revotorq 1.05L diesel engine makes its debut with  the Tiago.
It has been built to endure extreme performance and  deliver a new level of driving experience.
The engine has been  globally benchmarked on various parameters such as performance,  economy and refinement.
Like the Revotron 1.2T, the Revotorq  1.05L has been programmed for superior fuel economy and refined  road performance.
The diesel engine also offers the multi-drive  mode which is supported by the advanced EMS.
At the recent Geared for Great Challenge, the Tiago underwent the  ultimate endurance test to complete an unbelievable 50,000km  under high-stress conditions.
This is something that an average car  consumer would take years to do in real life.
Conducted under the  aegis of the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India, the 18-day,  non-stop, high-speed drive saw the petrol and the diesel variants  average 120kmph.
Jaguar Land Rover’s new powertrains Jaguar Land Rover is focusing on vehicle light-weighting,  powertrain right-sizing and increasing the application of  electrification in their propulsion systems to successfully deliver  their environmental (CO2) strategy.
Jaguar Land Rover continues to engineer lightweight vehicles  by increasing the use of aluminium across their range of models  while also improving the performance of engines, including  the increased use of their own efficient Ingenium engines  manufactured at Wolverhampton in the UK.
Jaguar Land Rover’s  innovative Ingenium diesel engines already achieve just 99g/km of  CO2 in the Jaguar XE and 104g/km of CO2 in the Jaguar XF.
Jaguar Land Rover also continues to invest significantly in the  development of new powertrain technologies with plans to  introduce Mild Hybrids (MHEV’s), Plug in Hybrids (PHEV’s) and  Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV’s) into its product range.
It currently  offers diesel hybrid variants of the Range Rover and Range Rover  Sport.
Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover recently announced  that its Jaguar brand would be competing in the FIA Formula E  championship from August 2016 to create a test bed for future  Jaguar Land Rover electrification technology.
26 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Tata Motors has been at the forefront of productive community  engagement throughout its six decades of existence.
Our CSR  initiatives, in line with our philosophy of giving back to society,  have continued to improve the quality of people’s lives across India.
We focus on four areas: Health, Education, Employability and  Environment.
Moreover, in line with the Group’s Affirmative Action  framework, we work to help people from Scheduled Castes (SCs)  and Scheduled Tribes (STs) get access to better opportunities for  education and livelihoods.
Positive impact For this, we have forged synergetic partnerships with community  members, civil society organisations and concerned government  departments to undertake large-scale projects, which have helped  create a positive impact on the lives of people.
Health: Tackling malnutrition Our initiatives in Health focus on preventing and treating  malnutrition.
We work with young children (up to six years old),  adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers on  their overall well-being, nutritional supplements and dietary  requirements.
Health camps and awareness sessions are also  held for community members to drive preventive and curative  measures.
Access to safe drinking water is another concern that our initiative,  Amruthdhara, aims to address.
Amruthdhara has made a difference  to 16,000 people while 178,200 have benefitted from our health  programme.
27 Connected Vehicles Advances in Engines (26-29) Corporate Social Responsibility Awards + Accolades Education: Focus on secondary school students Education is yet another important area for us.
We aim to improve  the academic performance of secondary school students by  disbursing financial aid and conducting special coaching classes  for them.
We also aspire to enhance their retention capabilities  through the use of interesting audio-visual media.
Encouraging  students to participate in co-curricular activities ensures their  holistic growth.
Our education programme has helped 51,000  students.
Employability: Training youth in automotive trades  As part of our Employability or skill development programme, we  focus on training unemployed youth in automotive trades, mainly  as drivers and mechanics.
Once they complete their training,  they find ready employment in the Tata Motors’ ecosystem.
During the year, we skilled 73,000 youth.
We also engage with  community-based groups of women and farmers to help them  earn supplementary incomes through our agriculture and allied  programmes.
Environment: Building green awareness We regularly organise awareness sessions to help educate people  on the importance of various aspects of the Environment.
Our  sessions have witnessed 12,600 participants.
We have also planted  67,000 trees on wastelands in an attempt to increase the green  cover.
Measuring impact  A Social Return on Investment (SROI) study is conducted to  measure the impact of our CSR programmes.
We have also  voluntarily undertaken a CSR assurance audit to augment  the effectiveness of our programmes.
Through our employee  volunteering programme, we aim to encourage a culture of  empathy and action among our colleagues.
Under the Tata Engage  programme, Tata Volunteering Week was celebrated in September- October 2015 and March-April 2016.
Around 25 percent of our  colleagues volunteered for various social causes along with  their family members.
Our commitment to active community  engagement and social initiatives has gone from strength to  strength and we are convinced that it will only get stronger in the  future.
28 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements 178,200 beneficiaries  16,000 benefitted from  Amruthdhara The focus on Health Prevent and treat malnutrition  through sensitisation, health  camps and awareness sessions  Amruthdhara: An initiative to  provide access to safe drinking  water The impact The focus on Education Provide secondary school  students with financial aid,  audio-visual learning material  and special coaching classes 51,000 students  The impact 12,600 participants 67,000 trees planted The focus on  Environment Organise environmental  awareness sessions  Plant trees on wastelands to  increase the green cover The impact The focus on Employability Train unemployed youth from India  and other developing countries in  automotive trades Help community-based groups                of women and farmers earn  supplementary income 25 youth from  developing  countries  trained 73,000  Indian youth  trained The impact Global initiatives Going beyond India’s shores, we have also started skill  development programmes for youngsters from other developing  countries.
Our channel partners in other countries help us identify  youth who are then provided with intensive motor vehicle  mechanic training for six months at our Jamshedpur  training centre.
Once this is successfully completed,  the youngsters return home and undergo  further on-the-job training in the  workshops of our channel partners.
This year, we trained 25 youth from  Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal,  Bhutan, Myanmar, Nigeria and  Mozambique.
Tata Motors’ community initiatives 29 Connected Vehicles Advances in Engines (26-29) Corporate Social Responsibility Awards + Accolades  Highlights of the ITE initiative   More than three million young people have  participated in ITE activities since 2000, with 686,000  young people directly participating in 2015.
 4,900 employees donated 102,000 hours to support  the ITE school STEM education programme.
 Employees support Education Business Partnership  Centres (EBPCs) which run school visits and work  placements at the company’s sites by helping develop  curriculum materials, delivering presentations  to groups, supporting external careers events or  mentoring young people on work experience  placements.
 In 2015, 20,300 school children and 2,000 teachers  visited Jaguar Land Rover’s EBPCs and an additional  300 young people participated in work experience  placements.
 Jaguar Land Rover recruited 333 graduates, 244  apprentices and 230 undergraduates on industrial  placements in 2015 to develop the next generation of  engineers.
Some of them had previously participated  in the Inspiring Tomorrow’s Engineers programme.
Engaging with the world As well as being a good employer and industry leader, Jaguar Land  Rover is also committed to improving the lives of the communities  in which it operates.
Through our global CSR programme, the  company is on course to create opportunities for millions of people  through education and employability programmes, health and  well-being, and deploying technology for social good.
We believe in the power of engineering to improve lives.
Jaguar  Land Rover employees spend up to two days volunteering time per  year supporting community projects.
Our workforce donated over  100,000 hours of volunteering time in total last year.
For example, a  team of four apprentices applied their engineering skills to design  and make a set of aluminium steps to enable a young disabled  horse rider to realise her passion.
Our global CSR programme has improved the lives of over four  million people since 2013, including reaching over 500,000  vulnerable people through projects with the Red Cross; about  300,000 children in 375 schools in Bungoma, Kenya now have  clean water to drink.
This year, the UK Ministry of Defence gave the company their  Gold Award for our support of ex-armed forces men and  women, reinforcing our position as an employer of choice for  those who have served their country.
Jaguar Land Rover is  proud to be serving them as the presenting partner of the  Invictus Games.
Inspiring Tomorrow’s Engineers (ITE) Jaguar Land Rover has a wide range of educational  initiatives with the aim of getting young people excited  about engineering and crucially, to encourage them to  pursue STEM subjects at GCSE-level and beyond.
Our  STEM challenges (Jaguar Maths in Motion, Land Rover  4x4 in Schools and Jaguar Primary Schools Challenge)  give teams of students hands-on experience of engineering  practices and principles and engaged more than 500,000  students last year.
Education Business Partnership Centres are a vital element of  our education programme and offer tours of our manufacturing,  design and engineering sites to over 20,000 young people each  year.
Jaguar Land Rover is the only automotive manufacturer  in the UK to run EBPCs at its facilities.
There are now 6 EBPCs at  UK sites, which provide an interactive and practical approach to  learning across all stages of the national curriculum.
EBPCs aim to  raise students’ aspirations and attainment, improve employability  skills and inspire young people to consider engineering careers.
Activities relate schoolwork to practical situations, and provide  an insight into the world of work in the manufacturing sector.
At  least 60 young people who have participated in our  education programme over the past  five years are now apprentices  and graduates at  Jaguar Land  Rover.
30 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements AWARDS+ACCOLADES Corporate   Tata Motors won the Tata  Affirmative Action Programme Jury  Award, for exemplary work in positive  discrimination and affirmative action  towards underprivileged communities in  India   The company was awarded the  Bronze in SSON Excellence Awards  2015, for Excellence in  Customer Service in  India Jaguar Land Rover   Jaguar Land Rover was handed the Queen’s  Award for Sustainable Development by the UK  Government   Jaguar Land Rover also won the Gold Award, for its active support of  the UK Armed Forces community  The company was ranked Best Employer in the UK by Bloomberg  Range Rover Evoque was declared the ‘Best in Compact SUV’ by Autonis Design  Awards, Germany  Range Rover Sport was awarded the ‘Best Large SUV of the Year’ by Autocar, South  Africa   Discovery Sport was declared ‘Family Car of the Year’ by Top Gear Magazine,  UK   Jaguar XF won the Design Award from Auto Bild, Germany  Jaguar XE was awarded the ‘Best Large Car’ by 2015  Diesel Car Magazine Awards, UK 31 Connected Vehicles Awards + Accolades (30-31) Advances in Engines Corporate Social Responsibility CVBU   Season 2 of the path- breaking T1 Prima Truck Racing  Championship won a Gold at  EEMAX GLOBAL Awards 2015 for Best  Execution of a Sports Event   The event also won a Gold at  WOW Awards 2015 for Sport  Event Property of the  YearPVBU   The Nano was declared the Most  Trusted Brand in Car (Hatchback category) by  The Brand Trust Report, India Study 2013 & 2014   The Zest won the Compact Sedan of the Year award at  Flywheel Auto Awards 2015   The company’s ‘Madeofgreat’ campaign won 1st position at  NDTV Car & Bike Awards for Integrated communications   Tata Motors’ pavilion at Auto Expo India was declared  the best at NDTV Car & Bike Awards    The Zest Record Run event made it into the  Asia Book of Records for Largest  Convoy of Single Brand  Vehicles Plants   Tata Motors’ Jamshedpur plant received the Srishti Good  Green Governance Award for the sixth consecutive year   The Lucknow plant received the Srishti Good Green  Governance Award    The Ahmedabad plant won the CII’s Best Kaizen  Competition 2015 at Gujarat state level   The Dharwad plant won the First Prize National Energy  Conservation Award   The Pantnagar plant won the Golden Peacock Award 2015   The Pune plant won the CII Green Co Best Practice Award in  Life Cycle Assessment   The Dharwad and Pantnagar plants received the WCQ Level  II certification   The Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Dharwad and Pune plants all  won Excellent Energy Efficient Unit Awards 32 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements PRESENCE ACROSS MARKETS We operate in 163 countries across the world and  have over 6,000 sales and service touch points.
Central and  South America North America Antigua And Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba,  Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Cayman Islands,  Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican  Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Falkland Islands,  Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica,  Netherland Antilles, Nicaragua, Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru, St. Kitts And Nevis, Suriname,  Tahiti, Trinidad And Tobago,  Turks And Caicos Islands, Uruguay Bahamas, British Virgin Islands,  Canada, Guam, Mexico,  Puerto Rico, St Barthelemy, USA SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES & JVS Australia Austria Bahamas Bangladesh Belgium Brazil Canada China France Germany India Indonesia Ireland Italy Japan Mexico MANUFACTURING Bangladesh Brazil  China   India  Senegal South Africa South Korea Thailand Ukraine UK R & D AND DESIGN Germany India Italy Spain Sweden UAE UK USA Morocco Netherlands Nigeria Portugal Romania Russia Slovakia Singapore South Africa South Korea Spain Thailand UAE UK USA 33 Presence Across MarketsAdvances in Engines Corporate Social Responsibility (32-33) Awards + Accolades Russia & CIS Middle East Europe Africa Russia, Ukraine Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Dubai,  Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait,  Lebanon, Oman, Palestine,  Qatar, Saudi Arabia Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus (North), Cyprus (South),  Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Gibraltar,  Gran Canaria, Greece, Guadeloupe, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kosovo, Latvia, Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malaysia, Malta, Martinique, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia,  Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Reunion, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia,  Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tenerife, Turkey, UK Algeria, Angola, Botswana, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Ivory Coast,  Kenya, Libya, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Seychelles,  South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe Asia & Oceania Afghanistan, Australia, Azerbaijan,  Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei,  Cambodia, China, Fiji, Hong  Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan,  Kazakhstan, Laos, Macau, Malaysia,  Myanmar, Nepal, New Caledonia,  New Zealand, Pakistan,  Papua New Guinea, Philippines,  Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka,  Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam 34 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (COMPANY STANDALONE) Volume Growth 3% -7% 16% 1% 327 318 127 137 58 50 512 504 CV Domestic 2016 (in thousands) PV Domestic Export Total 2015 (in thousands) GROWTH Vehicle Sales (Domestic) and  Market Share 378 318 137 142 327 127 2012 2013 530 333 536 229 13 59.8 59.6 9 CV VOLUMES (in thousands)  PV VOLUMES (in thousands)  CV MARKET SHARE(%) PV MARKET SHARE(%) 2014 2015 2016 5.8 5.3 4.6 36,302 34,295 42,370 54,307 44,766 NET INCOME* (` crores) EBITDA MARGIN (%) PAT AS A % OF TURNOVER *Excludes other income 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net Income, EBITDA   Margin, Net Margin R&D EXPENDITURE (` crores)  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1,549 1,759 2,144 2,204 2,217 R&D Expenditure Product Mix (Volumes) 63 CV (%) PV(%) 37 7129 7426 7228 7426 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Profits (EBITDA, PBT, PAT) EBIDTA PBT PAT (` crores)   1.03   0.68   0.93  EPS (`) DIVIDEND (%) DIVIDEND PAYOUT (as % to PAT) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dividend & EPS  (14.72)  3.90  BORROWINGS (Net ) (` crores) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016  14,361   16,593   14,854   20,272   15,675  Borrowings (Net of surplus cash)  & Interest as % of Sales INTEREST AS A % OF TOTAL INCOME DEBT EQUITY RATIO DEBT (net of surplus cash)  Equity ratio   4,422    1,341   1,242    2,157     175    302     (467)    (1,026)   335     (800)    (3,975)   (4,739)    2,740     150    234  54.1 49.4 46.4 2.3 0.7 (13.1) 118 240 222 0 0.74 0.87 0.75 1.36 0.70 31 2.24 2.99 3.55 4.22 3.33 1.0 0.6 8.1 4.8 (1.4) 200 100 100 0 10 0.82 0.88 0.76 1.42 0.71 (2.2) 6.5 35 Summarised Balance Sheet (34-37) Financial performance Funds Flow ` crores % Domestic vehicle sale  37,124.27 76.1 Exports  4,372.15 9.0 Domestic Spare Part Sales  2,829.06 5.8 Dividend/Other Income  2,132.92 4.4 Vehicle Financing  2.80 - Others  2,318.39 4.7 Total  48,779.59 100.0 ` crores % Materials  27,041.65 65.3 Operations & Other Exp.
7,525.39 18.2 Taxes and Duties  4,278.19 10.3 Employees  3,091.46 7.5 Interest  1,611.68 3.9 Depreciation  2,603.22 6.3 Shareholders  -   - Reserves  (4,738.95) -11.5 Total  41,412.64 100.0 ` crores % Materials  29,595.29 60.7 Operations & Other Exp.
7,643.24 15.7 Taxes and Duties  4,345.22 8.9 Employees  3,026.75 6.2 Interest  1,481.11 3.1 Depreciation  2,453.75 5.0 Shareholders  73.00 0.1 Reserves  161.23 0.3 Total  48,779.59 100.0 TOTAL ASSETS (` crores)  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016  54,261   52,185   49,734   49,943   52,426  Total Assets & Asset   Turnover Ratio TOTAL ASSETS TURNOVER (Times) 2015-16 NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS (` crores) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016  3,654   2,258   2,463   (2,214)  2,346 Net Cash from Operations 0.92 1.08 1.35 1.26 1.10 Distribution of Revenue 2014-15 Sources of Revenue 2015-16 ` crores % Domestic vehicle sale 30,417.18 73.5 Exports  3,980.18 9.6 Domestic Spare Part Sales  2,687.12 6.5 Dividend/Other Income  1,881.41 4.5 Vehicle Financing  5.89 - Others  2,440.86 5.9 Total 41,412.64 100.0 2014-15 36 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements  1,994   2,190   2,028   2,550   2,500  (436) (657) (1,431) (1,713) (2,151) 13,512 TURNOVER (£ millions) 15,784 19,386 21,866 22,208 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE - AS PER IFRS (JAGUAR LAND ROVER GROUP) Turnover Profits  2,095   1,479   1,460   2,339   1,674   1,214   3,393   2,501   1,879   4,132   2,614   2,038   3,147   1,557   1,312  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 EBITDA PBT (£ millions) PAT 2012 2013  10,217   12,837   15,589   18,563   20,567   4,387   5,857   7,424   9,426   10,672  2014 2015 2016 R & D Expenditure Assets 900 R & D EXPENDITURE (£ millions) 1,058 1,266 1,411 1,560 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016  85  FINANCE COST (£ millions) 18  185 135 90 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Finance Cost TOTAL ASSETS (£ millions) FIXED ASSETS (£ millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 BORROWINGS (£ millions) BORROWINGS (net of surplus cash) (£ millions) Borrowings 37 Summarised Balance Sheet (34-37) Financial performance Funds Flow  165,654  NET REVENUE (` crores) EBITDA Margin (%)  188,793  233,028 263,159  275,561  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net Revenue, EBITDA Margin 16.06 16.00 14.60 14.10 14.31  13,517  PROFIT (` crores)  9,893   13,991  13,986  11,024  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Profit for the year  18,513  NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS (` crores)  22,163   36,151  35,531 39,167 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net Cash from Operations 52 RETURN ON EQUITY (%) 28 27 23 16 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Return on Equity  144,931  TOTAL ASSETS (` crores) TOTAL ASSETS TURNOVER (Times)  170,378   219,998   238,658   269,298 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total Assets & Assets        Turnover Ratio 0.74 0.84 0.84 0.87 0.92 BORROWINGS (Net ) (` crores) DEBT EQUITY RATIO DEBT (net of surplus cash) RATIO INTEREST AS A % OF TOTAL INCOME 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Borrowings ( Net of surplus cash )  & Interest as % of Sales 1.44 0.72 0.72 0.34 1.8 1.9 2.0 1.8 1.7 0.50 0.24 1.43 1.31 0.87 0.92  23,636   26,972   22,043   27,989   19,131  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (TATA MOTORS GROUP) 38 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 1.
Fixed assets 128,850.67 112,422.59 2.
Goodwill (on consolidation) 4,836.52 4,696.99 3.
Non-current investments 1,253.15 1,240.50 4.
Deferred tax assets (net) 2,726.43 2,733.20 5.
Long-term loans and advances 13,940.82 14,948.31 6.
Other non-current assets 2,374.88 858.00 7.
Current assets 115,315.13 101,758.40 Total Assets 269,297.60  238,657.99 WHAT THE COMPANY OWED 1.
Long-term borrowings 51,876.31 56,071.34 2.
Other long-term liabilities 9,946.52 9,141.92 3.
Long-term provisions 11,817.30 15,134.27 4.
Net worth      Share capital 679.18 643.78      Reserves and surplus 80,103.49 55,618.14 5.
Minority interest 888.26 433.34 6.
Deferred tax liabilities (net) 3,166.08 1,343.20 7.
Current liabilities 110,820.46 100,272.00 Total Liabilities 269,297.60 238,657.99 Summarised Balance Sheet TATA MOTORS GROUP (CONSOLIDATED) (` crores) 39 Summarised Balance Sheet (38-41) Financial performance Funds Flow 1.
INCOME 2015-2016 2014-2015 Revenue from operations 280,096.72 266,707.90 Less: Excise duty 4,535.61 3,548.92 275,561.11 263,158.98 Other income 981.72 898.74 Total 276,542.83 264,057.72 2.
EXPENDITURE Cost of material consumed 152,445.39 149,956.54 Purchase of products for sale 12,850.27 13,293.82 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale (2,876.62) (3,330.35) Employee benefits expense 29,198.89 25,548.96 Finance Cost 4,623.35 4,861.49 Depreciation and amortisation expense 17,014.18 13,388.63 Product development / engineering expenses 3,480.43 2,875.17 Other expenses 60,424.95 50,980.37 Expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts (16,718.43) (15,404.18) Total Expenses 260,442.41 242,170.45 Profit before exceptional items, extraordinary items and tax 16,100.42 21,887.27 Exchange loss (net) including on revaluation of foreign currency borrowings,  deposits and loans 240.19 91.72 Employee separation cost 32.72 92.99 Provision for costs associated with closure of operations and impairment of  intangibles of a subsidiary company 44.31 - Impairment of capitalised fixed assets 163.94 - Others 1,638.39 - 3.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 13,980.87 21,702.56 4.
Tax expense (net) 2,872.60 7,642.91 5.
PROFIT AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4) 11,108.27 14,059.65 6.
Share of profit/(loss) of associates (net) 21.34 13.42 7.
Minority interest (105.86) (86.78) 8.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 11,023.75 13,986.29 Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss  (` crores) 40 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements COMPANY (STANDALONE) WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 1.
Fixed assets 22,244.86 21,824.02 2.
Non current investments 16,975.46 16,966.95 3.
Long-term loans and advances 2,363.22 2,403.56 4.
Other non-current assets 136.80 175.67 5.
Current assets 10,705.91 8,572.97 Total Assets  52,426.25  49,943.17  WHAT THE COMPANY OWED 1.
Long-term borrowings 10,687.94 12,318.96 2.
Other long-term liabilities 210.12 286.80 3.
Long-term provisions 1,409.05 2,104.19 4.
Net worth      Share capital 679.18 643.78      Reserves and surplus 21,688.90 14,218.81 5.
Current liabilities 17,751.06 20,370.63 Total Liabilities  52,426.25  49,943.17  Summarised Balance Sheet (` crores) 41 Summarised Balance Sheet (38-41) Financial performance Funds Flow 1.
INCOME 2015-2016 2014-2015 Revenue from operations 46,646.67 39,531.23 Less: Excise duty 4,276.85 3,229.60 42,369.82 36,301.63 Other Income 2,132.92 1,881.41 Total 44,502.74 38,183.04 2.
EXPENDITURE Cost of material consumed 24,313.08 22,155.23 Purchase of products for sale 5,259.27 5,765.24 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 22.94 (878.82) Employee cost/benefits expense 3,026.75 3,091.46 Finance cost 1,481.11 1,611.68 Depreciation and amortisation expense 2,453.75 2,603.22 Product development / engineering expenses 424.61 437.47 Other expenses 8,041.81 8,087.28 Expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts (1,034.18) (1,118.75) Total Expenses 43,989.14 41,754.01 Profit / (Loss) before exceptional items, extraordinary items and tax 513.60 (3,570.97) Exchange loss (net) including on revaluation of foreign currency borrowings,  deposits and loans 91.37 320.50 Provision for investments and costs associated with closure of operations of  a subsidiary 97.86 - Impairment of capitalised fixed assets 163.94 - Employee Seperation Cost 10.04 83.25 3.
PROFIT / (LOSS) BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 150.39 (3,974.72) Tax expense / credit (net) (83.84) 764.23 4.
PROFIT / (LOSS) AFTER TAX FOR THE YEAR FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 234.23 (4,738.95) Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss  (` crores) 42 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Corporate Overview Financial Statements FUNDS FLOW - LAST FIVE YEARS SOURCES OF FUNDS FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 FY 2011-12 1.
Funds generated from operations A.
Profit / (Loss) after tax 234.23 (4,738.95) 334.52 301.81 1,242.23 B.
Depreciation (including Lease Equalisation) 2,453.75 2,600.95 2,065.78 1,813.10 1,602.23 C. Provision / (Reversal) for diminution in value of investments (net) 49.59 - 19.43 (9.67) - D. Net deferred tax charge / (credit) 4.68 (50.29) (1,920.32) (127.44) 98.24 E. Credit for Dividend Distribution Tax of Subsidiary Companies - - - 1.48 1.48 F. Exchange gain (net) on Long term Foreign currency monetary items  deferred consequent to amendment to AS-11 (82.50) 186.29 13.77 43.35 (258.35) G. Marked to Market Exchange loss on Forward contracts transferred  to Hedging Reserve Account on adoption of principles of hedge  accounting under AS30 [Note (a) and b(iii)below] (13.98) 25.28 - - - H. Profit on sale of division - - - (82.25) -  Total 2,645.77 (1,976.72) 513.18 1,940.38 2,685.83 2.
Proceeds from Rights issue of Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares 7,490.49 - - - - 3.
Proceeds from FCCN, Warrants and Convertible Debentures converted  into Ordinary Shares and premium thereon - - 413.43 233.00 0.02 4.
(a) Decrease in Working Capital 178.84 - 4,069.76 292.96 - (b) Decrease in Finance receivables 20.57 1.38 14.99 64.77 144.96 5.
Increase in Borrowings (net of repayments) - 6,081.61 - 918.38 - 6.
Investment sold (net of investment made) - 1,471.25 1,456.54 568.83 2,130.66 7.
Decrease in short term deposits with banks - - 223.87 576.08 525.86 8.
Proceeds from sale of division - - - 110.00 - Total 10,335.67 5,577.52 6,691.77 4,704.40 5,487.33 APPLICATION OF FUNDS 9.
Capital Expenditure (net) 2,976.89 2,806.33 3,568.10 2,952.38 3,346.88 10.
Repayment of Borrowings (net of additional borrowings) 5,247.16 - 1,746.15 - 34.86 11.
Investments made (net of sales) 1,773.88 - - - - 12.
Payment of Redemption Premium on NCD - 744.18 658.05 96.55 - 13.
Increase in short term deposits with banks 210.31 5.58 - - - 14.
Increase in Working Capital - 2,243.34 - - 571.38 15.
Dividends (including tax thereon) 73.00 (93.40) 666.27 724.23 1,463.72 16.
Premium paid on redemption of CARS - - - 843.37 - 17.
Miscellaneous Expenditure (to the extent not written off or adjusted)  and utilisation of Securities Premium Account[Note (a) below] 54.43 128.51 53.20 87.87 70.49 10,335.67 5,577.52 6,691.77 4,704.40 5,487.33 Notes : (a) Utilisation of Securities Premium Account includes FCCN / CARS /  Rights issue expenses and premium  on redemption of Debentures 54.43 128.51 53.20 87.87 70.49 (b) The Sources and Application of funds does not include (i)    Provision for premium on redemption of CARS / FCCN - - (0.46)* 83.19* 929.46*  (ii)   Liability towards premium on redemption of NCD - - (919.23) (1,577.28) 1,673.83 (iii)  Deferred Tax on account of item 1(G) (4.68) 8.59 - - - * net of deferred tax (c) Figures for the previous years have been regrouped wherever  necessary.
(` crores) 43 Managing Director’s Message (43-45) Chairman’s Message Financial Statistics FINANCIAL STATISTICS COMPANY (STANDALONE) CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Year Capital Reserves  and Surplus Borrowings Gross Block (including  CWIP) Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profi  t/ (Loss)  Before  Taxes Taxes Profi  t/ (Loss)  After Taxes Dividend  including  tax PAT to  Sales Earnings Per Share  (Basic)* (`) Dividend Per  Share*(#) Net Worth  Per Share*  (`) Ordinary  Share 'A'  Ordinary  Share Ordinary  Share 'A'  Ordinary  Share 1945-46  100  1  -  31  2  29  12  2  1  -    1  -   8.3% 0.07  -    -    -    10  1949-50  200  11  94  233  44  189  167  15  11  5  6  -   3.6% 0.03  -    -    -    10  1953-54  500  27  412  731  270  461  321  97  3  -    3  -   0.9% 0.11  -    -    -    11  1954-55  627  27  481  792  303  489  445  35  -    -    -    -   0.0% 0.00  -    -    -    11  1955-56  658  120  812  1,010  407  603  1,198  105  125  32  93  59 7.8% 1.32  -   0.60  -    12  1956-57  700  149  1,382  1,352  474  878  2,145  70  116  27  89  44 4.1% 1.64  -   0.80  -    13  1957-58  700  117  1,551  1,675  668  1,007  2,694  129  99  6  93  52 3.5% 1.72  -   0.90  -    12  1958-59  1,000  206  1,245  2,050  780  1,270  2,645  113  155  13  142  56 5.4% 1.68  -   0.90  -    12  1959-60  1,000  282  1,014  2,201  940  1,261  2,825  161  222  93  129  108 4.6% 1.50  -   1.25  -    13  1960-61  1,000  367  1,263  2,593  1,118  1,475  3,735  180  313  122  191  126 5.1% 2.26  -   1.45  -    14  1961-62  1,000  432  1,471  2,954  1,336  1,618  4,164  220  378  188  190  124 4.6% 2.28  -   1.45  -    15  1962-63  1,000  450  1,758  3,281  1,550  1,731  4,364  223  327  185  142  124 3.3% 1.68  -   1.45  -    15  1963-64  1,198  630  2,470  3,920  1,802  2,118  5,151  260  404  200  204  144 4.0% 1.97  -   1.45  -    16  1964-65  1,297  787  3,275  4,789  2,144  2,645  6,613  345  479  208  271  157 4.1% 2.39  -   1.45  -    17  1965-66  1,640  995  3,541  5,432  2,540  2,892  7,938  398  477  189  288  191 3.6% 2.20  -   1.45  -    18  1966-67  1,845  1,027  4,299  6,841  3,039  3,802  9,065  505  620  192  428  235 4.7% 2.80  -   1.45+  -    17  1967-68  1,845  1,121  5,350  7,697  3,608  4,089  9,499  572  395  66  329  235 3.5% 2.10  -   1.45  -    18  1968-69  1,845  1,295  5,856  8,584  4,236  4,348  10,590  630  582  173  409  235 3.9% 2.66  -   1.45  -    19  1969-70  1,845  1,333  6,543  9,242  4,886  4,356  9,935  662  274  -    274  221 2.8% 1.72  -   1.35  -    19  1970-71  1,845  1,516  6,048  10,060  5,620  4,440  13,624  749  673  270  403  251 3.0% 2.49  -   1.45  -    20  1971-72  1,949  2,020  6,019  10,931  6,487  4,444  15,849  758  885  379  506  273 3.2% 3.04  -   1.50  -    23  1972-73  1,949  2,194  5,324  12,227  7,491  4,736  15,653  820  832  360  472  266 3.0% 2.87  -   1.50  -    24  1973-74  1,949  2,394  6,434  13,497  8,471  5,026  16,290  902  1,007  450  557  180 3.4% 3.43  -   0.93  -    26  1974-75  1,949  2,827  9,196  15,838  9,593  6,245  22,510  1,134  677  136  541  266 2.4% 3.32  -   1.50  -    28  1975-76  2,013  3,691  9,399  18,642  10,625  8,017  27,003  1,054  855  91  764  276 2.8% 4.60  -   1.50  -    33  1976-77  2,328  3,833  11,816  20,709  11,685  9,024  28,250  1,145  1,056  -    1,056  323 3.7% 5.38  -   1.50+  -    30  1977-78  2,118  4,721  11,986  22,430  12,723  9,707  28,105  1,101  1,044  -    1,044  313 3.7% 5.37  -   1.50  -    35  1978-79  3,151  5,106  11,033  24,900  13,895  11,005  37,486  1,200  1,514  -    1,514  467 4.0% 5.36  -   1.60+  -    27  1979-80  3,151  6,263  17,739  28,405  15,099  13,306  44,827  1,300  1,762  -    1,762  605 3.9% 5.96  -   2.00  -    31  1980-81  3,151  8,095  15,773  33,055  16,496  16,559  60,965  1,616  2,437  -    2,437  605 4.0% 8.27  -   2.00  -    38  1981-82  4,320  10,275  25,476  38,819  18,244  20,575  79,244  1,993  4,188  -    4,188  839 5.3% 10.18  -   2.00+  -    35@ 1982-83  4,226  12,458  23,361  43,191  20,219  22,972  86,522  2,187  3,481  460  3,021  827 3.5% 7.34  -   2.00  -    40  1983-84  5,421  14,103  25,473  46,838  23,078  23,760  85,624  2,923  2,163  235  1,928  923 2.3% 3.61  -   2.00  -    37@  1984-85  5,442  15,188  30,226  52,819  26,826  25,993  93,353  3,895  2,703  390  2,313  1,241 2.5% 4.32  -   2.30  -    39  1985-86  5,452  16,551  44,651  61,943  29,030  32,913  102,597  3,399  1,832  215  1,617  1,243 1.6% 3.00  -   2.30  -    41  1986-87  5,452  15,886  53,476  68,352  30,914  37,438  119,689  2,157  293  -    293  552 0.2% 0.51  -   1.00  -    40  1987-88  6,431  17,491  44,406  75,712  34,620  41,092  140,255  3,822  3,205  510  2,695  1,356 1.9% 4.25  -   2.30  -    38@ 1988-89  10,501  30,740  32,396  83,455  38,460  44,995  167,642  4,315  8,513  1,510  7,003  2,444 4.2% 6.74  -   2.50  -    40@ 44 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Notes : @  On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares.
$  On increased capital base due to issue of Bonus Shares.
Net Worth excludes ordinary dividends.
*  Equivalent to a face value of  `10/- per share.
#  Includes Interim Dividend where applicable.
+  Including on Bonus Shares issued during the year.
!
Includes a special dividend of `2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year.
++  On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^  On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^^  On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
**  Consequent to sub-division of shares, ﬁ  gures for previous years are not comparable.
## Includes reversal of dividend distribution tax of earlier year.
+++  On increased capital base due to Rights issue.
FINANCIAL STATISTICS COMPANY (STANDALONE) CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Year Capital Reserves  and Surplus Borrowings Gross Block Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profi  t/ (Loss)  Before  Taxes Taxes Profi  t/ (Loss)  After Taxes Dividend  including  tax PAT to  Sales Earnings Per Share  (Basic)* (`) Dividend Per  Share*(#) Net Worth  Per Share*  (`)Ordinary  Share 'A'  Ordinary  Share Ordinary  Share 'A'  Ordinary  Share 1989-90  10,444  37,870  48,883  91,488  43,070  48,418  196,910  4,891  14,829  4,575  10,254  3,126 5.2% 9.87  -   3.00  -    4 7  1990-91 10,387 47,921 48,323 100,894 48,219 52,675 259,599 5,426 23,455 9,250 14,205 4,154 5.5% 13.69 - 4.00 - 56 1991-92  11,765  61,863  105,168  123,100  54,609  68,491  317,965  6,475  20,884  7,800  13,084  4,389 4.1% 12.45  -   4.00  -    67@  1992-93  12,510  64,207  144,145  153,612  61,710  91,902  309,156  7,456  3,030  26  3,004  3,642 1.0% 2.47  -   3.00  -    63  1993-94  12,867  70,745  141,320  177,824  70,285  107,539  374,786  9,410  10,195  20  10,175  5,020 2.7% 7.91  -   4.00  -    6 5  1994-95  13,694  128,338  115,569  217,084  81,595  135,489  568,312  11,967  45,141  13,246  31,895  8,068 5.6% 23.29  -   6.00  -    104  1995-96  24,182  217,400  128,097  294,239  96,980  197,259  790,967  16,444  76,072  23,070  53,002  14,300 6.7% 21.92  -   6.00   -    100  1996-97  25,588  339,169  253,717  385,116  117,009  268,107  1,012,843  20,924  100,046  23,810  76,236  22,067 7.5% 30.40  -   8.00  -    143  1997-98  25,588  349,930  330,874  487,073  141,899  345,174  736,279  25,924  32,880  3,414  29,466  15,484 4.0% 11.51  -   5.50   -    147  1998-99  25,590  350,505  344,523  569,865  165,334  404,531  659,395  28,132  10,716  970  9,746  8,520 1.5% 3.81  -   3.00  -    147  1999-00  25,590  349,822  300,426  581,233  182,818  398,415  896,114  34,261  7,520  400  7,120  7,803 0.8% 2.78  -   2.50  -    147  2000-01  25,590  299,788  299,888  591,427  209,067  382,360  816,422  34,737  (50,034)  -    (50,034)  -   - (18.45)  -    -    -    127  2001-02  31,982  214,524  230,772  591,006  243,172  347,834  891,806  35,468  (10,921)  (5,548)  (5,373)  -   - (1.98)  -    -    -    77@  2002-03  31,983  227,733  145,831  608,114  271,307  336,807  1,085,874  36,213  51,037  21,026  30,011  14,430 2.8% 9.38  -   4.
00  -    81  2003-04  35,683  323,677  125,977  627,149  302,369  324,780  1,555,242  38,260  129,234  48,200  81,034  31,825 5.2% 24.68  -   8.00  -    102@  2004-05  36,179  374,960  249,542  715,079  345,428  369,651  2,064,866  45,016  165,190  41,495  123,695  51,715 6.0% 34.38  -   12.50!
-    114@  2005-06  38,287  515,420  293,684  892,274  440,151  452,123  2,429,052  52,094  205,338  52,450  152,888  56,778 6.3% 40.57  -   13.00  -    145@  2006-07  38,541  648,434  400,914  1,128,912  489,454  639,458  3,206,467  58,629  257,318  65,972  191,346  67,639 6.0% 49.76  -   15.00  -    178 @ 2007-08  38,554  745,396  628,052  1,589,579  544,352  1,045,227  3,357,711  65,231  257,647  54,755  202,892  65,968 6.0% 52.64  -   15.00  -    203 @ 2008-09  51,405  1,171,610  1,316,556  2,085,206  625,990  1,459,216  2,949,418  87,454  101,376  1,250  100,126  34,570 3.4% 22.70 23.20 6.00 6.50  238++  2009-10  57,060  1,439,487  1,659,454  2,364,896  721,292  1,643,604  4,021,755  103,387  282,954  58,946  224,008  99,194 5.6% 42.37 42.87 15.00 15.50  262^  2010-11  63,771  1,937,559  1,591,543  2,568,235  846,625  1,721,610  5,160,692  136,077  219,652  38,470  181,182  146,703 3.5% 30.28 30.78 20.00 20.50  315^^  2011-12  63,475  1,899,126  1,588,057  2,902,206  996,587  1,905,619  5,979,502  160,674  134,103  9,880  124,223  146,372 2.5% 3.90** 4.00** 4.00** 4.10**  62  2012-13  63,807  1,849,677  1,679,895  3,181,998  1,161,144  2,020,854  5,140,793  181,762  17,493  (12,688)  30,181  72,423 0.6% 0.93 1.03 2.00 2.10  60@  2013-14  64,378  1,853,287  1,505,280  3,514,652  1,355,088  2,159,564  4,159,103  207,030  (102,580)  (136,032)  33,452 66,627 ## 0.8% 1.03 1.13 2.00 2.10  60@  2014-15  64,378 1,421,881  2,113,441  3,785,500  1,603,098  2,182,402  4,141,264  260,322  (397,472)  76,423  (473,895) (9,340) ## - (14.72) (14.72) - -  46  2015-16 67,918 2,168,890 1,588,725 4,077,235 1,852,749 2,224,486 4,877,959 245,375 15,039 (8,384) 23,423 7,300 0.5% 0.68 0.78 0.20  0.30 66+++  45 Managing Director’s Message (43-45) Chairman’s Message Financial Statistics Notes : @  On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares.
*  Equivalent to a face value of `10/- per share.
#  Includes Interim Dividend where applicable.
!
Includes a special dividend of `2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year.
++  On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^  On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^^  On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
**  Consequent to sub-division of shares, ﬁ  gures for previous years are not comparable.
## Includes reversal of dividend distribution tax of earlier year.
+++  On increased capital base due to Rights issue.
FINANCIAL STATISTICS COMPANY (CONSOLIDATED) CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Year Capital Reserves  and Surplus Borrowings Gross Block (including  CWIP) Accumulated  Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profi  t/ (Loss)  Before  Taxes Taxes Profi  t/ (Loss)  After Taxes Dividend  including tax  (including  group’s share  of Subsidiaries  dividend tax) PAT to  Sales Earnings Per Share  (Basic)* (`) Dividend Per  Share*# (`) Net Worth  Per Share*  (`)Ordinary  Share ‘A’  Ordinary  Share Ordinary  Share ‘A’  Ordinary  Share 2001-02  31,982  183,617  282,031  634,984  252,475  382,509  932,220  39,222  (18,015)  (6,740)  (10,719)  45 -1.1% (3.95)  -    -    -   66@ 2002-03  31,983  190,018  178,965  648,959  284,038  364,921  1,144,801  40,190  54,350  22,640  29,712  14,497 2.6% 9.29  -   4.00  -   66  2003-04  35,683  329,884  169,842  728,468  323,749  404,719  1,634,104  42,556  144,487  53,077  91,529  32,099 5.6% 27.88  -   8.00  -   104@ 2004-05  36,179  403,537  271,420  834,162  375,933  458,229  2,284,217  53,101  184,809  49,062  138,534  52,346 6.1% 38.50  -   12.50!
-   121@ 2005-06  38,287  574,860  337,914  1,027,949  484,356  543,593  2,750,725  62,331  234,898  64,000  172,809  58,439 6.3% 45.86  -   13.00  -   160@ 2006-07  38,541  733,626  730,190  1,294,083  542,665  751,418  3,707,579  68,809  308,800  88,321  216,999  68,822 5.9% 56.43  -   15.00  -   200@  2007-08  38,554  831,198  1,158,487  1,892,393  606,049  1,286,344  4,060,827  78,207  308,629  85,154  216,770  67,674 5.3% 56.24  -   15.00  -   225@  2008-09  51,405  542,659  3,497,385  6,900,238  3,326,905  3,573,333  7,489,227  250,677  (212,925)  33,575  (250,525)  36,458 -3.3% (56.88) (56.88) 6.00 6.50 114++  2009-10  57,060  763,588  3,519,236  7,291,985  3,441,352  3,850,633  9,736,054  388,713  352,264  100,575  257,106  100,185 2.6% 48.64 49.14 15.00 15.50 144^  2010-11  63,771  1,853,376  3,281,055  8,291,975  3,969,870  4,322,105  12,684,370  465,551  1,043,717  121,638  927,362  148,130 7.3% 155.25 155.75 20.00 20.50 302^^  2011-12  63,475  3,206,375  4,714,896  10,572,497  4,951,247  5,621,250  17,133,935  562,538  1,353,387  (4,004)  1,351,650  148,862 7.9% 42.58** 42.68** 4.00** 4.10** 103  2012-13  63,807  3,699,923  53,71,571 121,58,556  5,172,265  6,986,291  19,451,406  760,128  1,364,733  377,666  989,261  75,614 5.1% 31.02 31.12 2.00 2.10 118@  2013-14  64,378  6,495,967  6,064,228  16,619,078  6,881,538  9,737,540  23,745,502  1,107,816  1,886,897  476,479  1,399,102  69,008 ## 5.9% 43.51 43.61 2.00 2.10 204@  2014-15  64,378  5,561,814  7,361,039  18,684,665  7,442,406  11,242,259  26,760,664  1,338,863  2,170,256  764,291  1,398,629  (3,319) ## 5.2% 43.44 43.54 - - 175  2015-16 67,918 8,010,349 7,046,849 21,639,756 8,754,689 12,885,067 28,107,844 1,701,418 1,398,087 287,260 1,102,375 11,052 3.9% 3 2.61 32.71 0.20 0.30 238+++  Members’ approval is now being sought (vide Special  Resolutions) for:-    Appointment of Mr Guenter Butschek, as Director as set out in  the Resolution No.
5 and CEO and MD w.e.f.
February 15, 2016,  for a tenure of 5 years and payment of remuneration, including  minimum remuneration as set out in the Resolution No.
6.
   Re-appointment of Mr Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) for a tenure from July 1, 2016 to  November 24, 2020 and Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive Director  (Quality) for a tenure from July 1, 2016 to July 15, 2017 and  payment of remuneration, including minimum remuneration  to them on terms similar to the Ordinary Resolutions passed by  the Members at the Annual General Meeting held on August  10, 2012, except for certain changes as set out in the Resolution  and Explanatory Statement at Item  Nos.
7 and 8.
In respect of proposals at Resolution Nos .
5 and 6  The proposals for the appointment of Mr Guenter Butschek, as  Director w.e.f.
the date of Annual General Meeting and CEO and  MD w.e.f.
February 15, 2016, for a tenure of 5 years and payment of  remuneration, including minimum remuneration are in the context  of the following: -     Over the last couple of years, the Company has been going  through a set of unprecedented circumstances i.e.
sustained  industry wide lower demand, heightened competitive  pressures from global OEM’s, ﬂ  ux in regulatory environment,  drop in proﬁ  tability & productivity and a sudden demise of the  Late Karl Slym, Managing Director on January 26, 2014.
Given  below are the ﬁ  nancial highlights on the turnover and proﬁ  ts  for the last 5 years: PREFACE TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE I.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSALS UNDER ITEM NOS.
5 TO 8 OF THE NOTICE:   A.
APPROVAL FOR APPOINTMENT AND PAYMEMT OF REMUNERATION TO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND  MANAGING DIRECTOR (CEO and MD)  B. RE-APPOINTMENT AND PAYMENT OF REMUNERATION TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Name of Whole Time Directors Designation Date of previous  Shareholders’ Approval Date of  Appointment Tenure Mr Guenter Butschek CEO and MD NA February 15, 2016 5 Years Mr Ravindra Pisharody Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) August 10, 2012 July 1, 2016 Upto November 24, 2020 Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director  (Quality) August 10, 2012 July 1, 2016 Upto July 15, 2017    Previous year ﬁ  gure have been regrouped wherever  necessary to correspond with the current year classiﬁ  cation     The Company is in the midst of an organizational  transformational initiative in response to the above     Given these challenges and strategic priorities, the  Company was looking for an outstanding organizational  level leader, who could provide strategic direction and  create suitable execution framework to ensure the  organisation’s success, both for short term and long term  basis.
After interviews by Nomination and Remuneration  Committee (“NRC”) Members of various Executives with  large scale global automotive experience along with some  exposure to complex restructuring/turnaround programs  and cultural transformation initiatives, Mr Butschek had  been identiﬁ  ed and the Board appointed Mr Butschek as  CEO and MD w.e.f.
February 15, 2016.
Mr Butschek, aged 55, graduated in Business Administration and  Economics with a diploma from the University of Cooperative  Education Stuttgart, Germany.
Mr Butschek joined the  Company after his last assignment at Airbus Group where  he served as Chief Operating Oﬃ   cer and Member of the  Group Executive Committee.
Prior to Airbus, Mr Butschek  worked at Daimler AG for more than 25 years in international  automotive management.
He held several positions in  logistics, human resources and procurement in the  automotive and aerospace industries in various geographies,  signiﬁ  cantly being South Africa, Netherlands, China and  France.
He was responsible for various restructuring and  transformational turnaround initiatives with signiﬁ  cant  improvements in performance, quality, and productivity.
For detailed information on Mr Butschek’s proﬁ  le and  achievements, please refer to Mr Butschek’s proﬁ  le given in the  Particulars FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 FY 2011-12 Consolidated Revenue from Operations (Gross) 280,096.72 266,707.90 236,820.78 193,559.01 170,677.58 Standalone Revenue from Operations (Gross) 46,646.67 39,531.23 37,764.64 49,319.66 59,220.94 Consolidated Proﬁ  t for the period 11,023.75 13,986.29 13,991.02 9,892.61 13,516.50 Standalone Proﬁ  t for the period 234.23 (4,738.95) 334.52 301.81 1,242.23 Standalone Net Proﬁ  t/(Loss) under Section 198 of the Act (465.05) (3,981.54) (2,570.99) 449.31 1,349.81 (` in crores) Note: Previous year fi  gures have been regrouped wherever necessary to correspond with the current year classifi  cation.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 46 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports hold oﬃ  ce at the ensuing Annual General Meeting but would  be eligible for appointment as a Director.
Notice under Section  160 of the Act has been received from a Member signifying his  intention to propose Mr Butschek’s appointment as a Director  and the Members’ approval is sought for the said proposal given  in the Resolution No.
5 .
At the said meeting, the Board also  appointed Mr Butschek as the CEO and MD of the Company  for a period of 5 years pursuant to Sections 196, 197 and other  applicable provisions, if any, read together with Schedule V  to the Act and the Rules framed thereunder on the terms and  conditions as given in the Resolution No.
6.
While details on remuneration of Mr Butschek have been stated  in the Resolution No.
6  of the Notice, the remuneration in  monetary terms is as under: (` in lakhs) Description 15.2.2016  to 15.2.2017 15.2.2017 to 15.2.2018 15.2.2018  to 15.2.2019 Salary 248.70 248.39 248.39 Perquisite and  allowances (includes  payment in lieu of  pension)# 1442.44 1342.99 1344.22  Commission, Bonus  and Performance  Linked Incentive*  @1004.00 1190.21  1241.96 Retirals  29.84 29.81 29.81  Total Remuneration 2724.98 2811.40  2864.38  # Certain Perquisites and Allowances are based on realistic assumptions *  Incentive assumed at maximum level of €825,000, whereas the Agreement provides  a range from €550,000 to €825,000 @  Includes joining bonus and relocation expenses.
Note: Remuneration of R2724.98 lakhs from February 15, 2016 to February 15, 2017 in  US$ equivalent is US$ 4,057,221 (1USD=R67.1687 as on May 30, 2016) The remuneration is denominated in € converted into R on the date of payment.
Foreign  Exchange Rate is assumed at a constant of 1€ = 75, except for FY2015-16 where it is  paid on actual basis.
Remuneration of Mr Butschek is commensurate with the  remuneration of expatriates appointed at CEO/MD levels of similar  sized multinationals taking into consideration the responsibilities  shouldered by him.
Mr Butschek’s remuneration is based on  his past remuneration and has been subjected to peer level  benchmarks for global automotive OEMs as per survey conducted  by Aon Hewitt, an independent consultant.
The table below  illustrates the requisite comparative data of the CEO remuneration  in the global industry at the time of his appointment: (` in lakhs) 10th  percentile 25th  percentile Median 75th  percentile 90th  percentile 2152 2913 3450 5187 6209 Exchange rate:1 € = R70.467  (Data Source: Aon Hewitt Compensation Study, Positions of Business Heads who are  Direct reports to the CEO for global automotive OEM’s.)
Note: It may be observed that the remuneration decided for Mr Butschek is comparable  with global auto OEM’s and be commensurate with the set benchmarks taking into  consideration the responsibilities being shouldered by him.
“Statement containing Additional Information” as part of the  Explanatory Statement.
   The Company has taken various initiatives, to maintain  its leadership, improve market share and ﬁ  nancial  performance.
It has been aggressively pursuing and  implementing its strategies to improve volumes and  reduce costs through launch of new products (particularly  in passenger vehicles planned since July 2014) coupled  with sales, services, marketing campaigns and customer  engagement programs.
In particular, the following initiatives are being taken by  Mr Butschek alongwith the leadership team:     Major strategic and operational transformation for  signiﬁ cant and sustained improvement in the overall  business and ﬁ  nancial performance comprehensively  covering all areas of the Company’s operations like  Company strategy, platform and product strategy,  manufacturing, supply chain, employee and managerial  productivity, cost reduction and eﬃ  ciency improvements,  improved eﬀ ectiveness in sales & marketing and customer  satisfaction/relationships and breakthrough improvements  in achieving world class quality standards.
  The 8 pillars of transformation initiatives under the  following categories for setting the agenda and targets are  under implementation:   i.
Enhancing the brand perception of Tata Motors    ii.
Providing unique and delightful customer experience   iii.
Excellence in delivery of new products   iv.
Delivering reliable and high quality products with focus  on world-class quality processes   v. World-class manufacturing   vi.
Agile and cost-eﬀ  ective supply chain   vii.
Cost competitiveness   viii.
People processes and organization structure  It will be worthwhile to note that under the above 8 pillars, the  Company has over a 100 individual initiatives on which various  cross functional teams of high performers across the organization  have been identiﬁ  ed and deployed.
Mr Butschek leads all operations of Tata Motors in India which,  inter-alia, include South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia and South  Africa, but excluding Jaguar Land Rover which continues to be  managed independently.
The consolidated revenues from these  operations is above R50,000 crores.
Taking into consideration the size and complexity of the  Company’s global operations, the enormous responsibility for  oversight of the Tata Motors’ Group (excluding Jaguar Land Rover  business) and the qualiﬁ  cations and accomplishments of Mr  Butschek and based on the recommendation of the NRC, the  Board of Directors (the “Board”), at its meeting held on January  18, 2016, subject to the approval of the Members and the Central  Government, appointed Mr Butschek as an Additional Director.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Companies  Act, 2013 (Act), the Rules framed thereunder and the Articles  of Association of the Company, Mr Butschek would cease to  47 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) R In respect of proposals at Resolution Nos.
7 and 8  The proposals for the re-appointment of Mr Ravindra Pisharody,  Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) for a tenure from July 1,  2016 to November 24, 2020 and Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive  Director (Quality) for a tenure from July 1, 2016 to July 15, 2017  and payment of remuneration, including minimum remuneration  to them on terms similar to the Ordinary Resolutions passed by  the Members at the Annual General Meeting held on August  10, 2012, except for the following changes in the terms of  appointment and remuneration:  a) The tenure of appointment (which was upto June 2017 for  both the Executive Directors) has been changed so as to  be co-terminus with their respective dates of retirement -  completion of 65 years as under:    Mr Pisharody – July 1, 2016 to November 24, 2020   Mr Borwankar – July 1, 2016 to July 15, 2017. b) The salary scale of the Executive Directors has been changed  as under:     Mr Pisharody - upto a maximum of r10 lakhs per month  (from r 7 lakhs earlier)   Mr Borwankar - upto a maximum of r7 lakhs per month    (unchanged).
The increment which was previously uncapped would be  limited to 20% of basic salary per annum.
c) Commission which was previously uncapped, now has a  limit of 400% of salary as under:  Commission would be within the applicable limits under  Section 197 of the Companies Act but will in any case not  exceed 400% of the basic salary.
d) Incentive Remuneration which was previously uncapped,  now has a limit of 200% of salary as under:  Incentive remuneration would be paid in case of inadequacy  of proﬁ  ts/losses in any ﬁ  nancial year which shall not exceed  200% of the basic salary.
Despite adverse macro-economic market conditions, the  Company made a recovery in the second half of Fiscal 2016 and  recorded proﬁ  ts for the said Fiscal under the able stewardship  at that time, of the said two executive directors of its Senior  Management.
The Company showcased a line-up of cutting edge new  products in the Auto Expo 2016.
The passenger vehicle line-up  comprised Tiago, Hexa SUV, Kite 5 compact sedan and Nexon  compact SUV which received an overwhelming response from  all market participants, including the potential customer base.
The GenX-Nano and Safari Storme 400Nm from the existing  platform launched during the year too were well received.
The commercial vehicle line-up at the Auto Expo 2016,  comprising SIGNA range of M&HCV Trucks, Tata ULTRA 1518  Sleeper, ACE MEGA XL, MAGIC IRIS ZIVA – gearless, clutchless  with futuristic hydrogen fuel cell technologies for zero emission,  ULTRA 1415 4X4–A 4X4, STARBUS HYBRID – World’s ﬁ  rst  commercially produced CNG Hybrid Bus, using Electric & CNG  modes (BS IV compliant) as fuel, ULTRA ELECTRIC bus – First full- electric bus with zero emission and noiseless operations received  immense enthusiasm from the customers and dealer fraternity.
The leadership team, including  the CEO and MD and the two  executive directors would drive the operational transformation  through initiaives identiﬁ  ed under the said 8 critical success  factors.
The Company expects this journey of transformation to  take 2 to 3 years and will help the Company achieve signiﬁ  cant  growth, improve market share in all segments, be amongst the  top in India in terms of quality through cost eﬃ  cient operations  and a highly motivated and engaged team.
Mr Pisharody aged 61, is a B.
Tech (Elec.
), PG Diploma in  Management (Marketing), with wide and varied experience  in business and the automobile industry.
Mr Pisharody is the  Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) since June 21, 2012  having joined the Company in 2007 as Vice President, Sales and  Marketing.
Before joining the Company, he worked with Castrol  Ltd., a subsidiary of British Petroleum and with Philips India in  various roles.
He is responsible for the Commercial Vehicle  Business Unit of the Company involving product design and  development, manufacturing, sales and marketing functions.
Since the time he took over as the Head of Commercial Vehicles,  he has held the business strong in the midst of intensifying  competition in every product segment.
Under his able  leadership the Company has maintained a strong and innovative  product pipeline, pioneered novel customer service initiatives  and restructured network management bringing end-to-end  accountability.
Mr Pisharody has charted out the Company’s  long-term strategy for preserving the Company’s lead position  in the commercial vehicle segment in the Indian automobile  market and concurrently increasing market penetration in  international markets.
His eﬀ  ective leadership coupled with his  multi-industry experience and stellar academic record makes  him a valuable resource for the Company and would be best  suited for delivering the vision of the Company.
During Fiscal  2016, he was the Chairman of the Board of Tata Cummins Pvt.
Ltd., Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Co. Ltd., Tata Marcopolo  Motors Ltd. and Tata Motors SA (Pty) Ltd.
It is worthy to note  that the Company or these subsidiaries (except Tata Daewoo  Commercial Vehicles Ltd. in view of his signiﬁ  cant contributions  as its Board Member, to its improved performance) do not  additionally compensate him, in any manner, for these additional  activities.
For detailed information on Mr Pisharody’s proﬁ  le and  achievements, please refer to Mr Pisharody’s proﬁ  le given in the  “Statement containing Additional Information” as part of the  Explanatory Statement.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 48 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports  Mr Borwankar aged 63, is a B.
Tech (Hons.)
Mech, with wide  experience in automobile industry, particularly in manufacturing  and quality functions.
Having started his career with the  Company in 1974, as a Graduate Engineer Trainee, he has worked  in various executive positions, for overseeing and implementing  product development, manufacturing operations and quality  control initiatives of the commercial vehicle business unit  of the Company.
He has played a signiﬁ  cant role in setting  up Greenﬁ  eld projects of the Company.
Mr Borwankar is the  Executive Director (Quality) since June 21, 2012 and is responsible  for the quality function for the Company for both commercial  and passenger vehicles.
He also shoulders responsibility for  reviewing and overseeing the implementation of Safety,  Health and Environment related practices of the Company  and the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) guidelines.
Also “Sankalp” a suppliers’ improvement project, mentored  by him, is expected to transform the Company’s supplier  quality standards.
The Company’s future strategy emphasises  on Quality Excellence as an important pillar for achieving its  Vision.
Mr Borwankar, with several years of multi-functional  experience spanning across the Company’s value chain, has  consistently delivered exceptional results throughout his career.
As a Director, nominated on the Board of certain subsidiary  companies, he provides valued direction and insight.
It is  worthy to note that the Company or these subsidiaries (except  Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company for his signiﬁ  cant  contribution as its Board member) do not compensate him,  in any manner, for these additional activities undertaken by  him.
He is an ideal candidate to help fructify the Vision of  achieving par-excellence in product and process quality.
For detailed information on Mr Borwankar’s proﬁ  le and  achievements, please refer to Mr Borwankar’s proﬁ  le given in  the “Statement containing Additional Information” as part of the  Explanatory Statement.
While details on remuneration of Mr Pisharody and Mr Borwankar have been stated in the Resolutions at Item No.
7 and 8 of the  Notice respectively, the remuneration in monetary terms since their appointment as Executive Directors is as under: $ Appointed as ED on June 21, 2012 and remuneration paid is for the period upto March 31, 2013, approximately 9.5 months @  Includes long term cash award pertaining to performance for FY2010-11 which on vesting was paid in FY2013-14 #   Excludes provision for special retirement benefi  ts in view of his eligibility under the applicable guidelines, but is payable at the discretion of the Board for FY2012-13- r229.17  lakhs; FY2013-14- r52.81 lakhs; FY2014-15- r10.61 lakhs and FY2015-16- r62.56 lakhs.
$ Appointed as ED on June 21, 2012 and Remuneration paid is for the period upto March 31, 2013, approximately 9.5 months @ Includes long term cash award pertaining to performance for FY2010-11 which on vesting was paid in FY2013-14 * Includes leave encashment #  Excludes provision for special retirement benefi  ts in view of his eligibility under the applicable guidelines, but is payable at the discretion of the Board for  FY2012-13- r497.32 lakhs; FY2013-14- r26.79 lakhs; FY2014-15 - credit of r47.90 lakhs and FY2015-16 - r41.54 lakhs.
It may be seen from the tables of remuneration and benchmarks that in view of the muted ﬁ  nancial performance of the Company  on a standalone basis since FY 2013-14, the Company had signiﬁ  cantly reduced the variable portion of the two EDs remuneration, viz  incentive remuneration.
The salary increments too in these years were on the lower side as compared to the industry benchmarks and  took into consideration the Company’s performance and growth plans but with a view to retain talent.
Mr R Pisharody FY12-13($ ~9.5 months) FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 Basic Salary 42.00 57.24 62.40 66.84 Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances 40.25 @135.39 60.71 62.22 Commission/Incentive Remuneration 160.00 114.48 120.00 130.00 Retirement Beneﬁ  ts# 11.34 15.45 16.85 18.05 Total Remuneration 253.59 322.56 259.96 277.11 Less: Permissible Deductions under relevant Schedule XIII/Schedule V N.A.
(7.87) (8.49) (9.03) Total Remuneration under relevant Schedule XIII/Schedule V 253.59 314.69 251.47 268.08 (` in lakhs) Mr S Borwankar FY12-13($ ~9.5 months) FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 Basic Salary 33.13 45.12 49.20 52.68 Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances 47.02 @123.69 71.36 76.45* Commission/Incentive Remuneration 85.00 75.00 80.00 100.00 Retirement Beneﬁ  ts# 8.95 12.18 13.28 14.22 Total Remuneration 174.10 255.99 213.84 243.35 Less:Permissible Deductions under relevant Schedule XIII/ Schedule V N.A.
(6.41) (6.90) (7.32) Total Remuneration under relevant Schedule XIII/Schedule V 174.10 249.58 206.94 236.03 (` in lakhs) 49 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73)  Remuneration paid/payable to EDs in particular for FY 2015-16 is commensurate with industry standards and Board level position s held  in similar sized companies, taking into consideration the individual responsibilities shouldered by them.
The tables below illu strate the  comparative data: [Data Source: Aon Hewitt Compensation Study, Positions similar to Mr Pisharody (Business Heads with P&L responsibility) and Mr Borwankar (Business Heads with a functional  responsibility) in companies with Revenues in excess of r10,000 crores for FY 2015-16.
The value represented above refers to Cost to Company, which includes basic salary, all  allowances, benefi  ts valuations, performance bonuses / commissions and Long term incentives.]
Note: A percentile is a measure used in statistics, indicating the value under which a given percentage of observations in a group of observations fall.
For example, the  25th percentile is the value (or score) under which 25% of the observations may be found.
Considering the various business cycles wherein the Company  may have a situation of inadequate proﬁ  ts as calculated under  the provisions of Section 198 of the Act in any ﬁ  nancial year  during a period of 3 years w.e.f.
April 1, 2016, the approval for  the payment of remuneration being sought would include the  payment of minimum remuneration as per the terms stated in  the Resolution No.
7 and 8.
It is in this context that the Board, based on the recommendations  of the NRC, approved of the reappointment of the 2 Executive  Directors on the said revised terms of appointment and  remuneration.
In respect of proposals at Resolution Nos.
5 to 8  Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Act, the  remuneration payable to any one managing director or whole- time director shall not exceed 5% of its proﬁ  ts as calculated under  Section 198 of the Act and if there is more than one such director  then the remuneration to them shall not exceed 10% of such  proﬁ  ts.
In case of loss or inadequacy of proﬁ  ts as per Section 198  of the Act, a company may pay remuneration within the limits  prescribed under Schedule V of the Act based on its eﬀ  ective  capital, subject to shareholders’ approval vide a Special Resolution  which would be valid for a period of 3 years.
Further, any sums  paid in excess of the said statutory limits become refundable to  the company and is held in trust for the company by the said  director, unless the company waives the recovery of the said  amount by way of a special resolution passed by the Members  and such waiver is approved by the Central Government.
The Company recorded a net proﬁ  t of r11,023.75 crores on a  consolidated basis and r234.23 crores on a standalone basis  for the ﬁ  nancial year ended March 31, 2016.
However, as per  the provisions of Section 198 of the Act, the Company on  a standalone basis, had a loss of r465.05 crores for the said  ﬁ  nancial year.
Further, whilst the Company has improved its  performance in Fiscal 2016, it may be likely that the Company  may have a scenario wherein there are inadequacy of proﬁ  ts  under the said provisions of the Act in any of the ﬁ  nancial years  during the 3 years’ period from the date of their appointment.
As  a matter of abundant caution Members’ approval is being sought  for payment of minimum remuneration as deﬁ  ned in the said  resolutions.
Based on the Company’s Eﬀ  ective Capital of r10,169.76  crores as at March 31, 2015, the Company is permitted to pay,  on an individual basis, the Executive Directors a maximum  remuneration of r3.18 crores and in respect of the CEO & MD r40  lacs (pro-rated for period from February 15, 2016 to March 31,  2016) for FY 2015-16.
Based on the Company’s Eﬀ  ective Capital  of r14,411.75 crores as at March 31, 2016, the Company would  be permitted to pay r4.02 crores per director for FY 2016-17 in  case if the Company has inadequate proﬁ  ts in the ﬁ  nancial year.
The Executive Directors remuneration would be within the said  limits in case of no/inadequacy of proﬁ  ts during their said tenure.
Considering that Mr Butschek’s remuneration would exceed the  said limits in case of no/inadequacy of proﬁ  ts in any ﬁ  nancial year  and that he is a German citizen and non-resident of India, the  approval of the Central Government is being sought.
The Company remains committed to pursue the long term  interest of all stakeholders, including the Company’s Members  and employees.
It is necessary to balance this with recruiting  and retaining industry proven management team through the  long term.
This involves ensuring that the Company’s leadership  and talent base is appropriately remunerated, notwithstanding  cyclical phases.
This is particularly important when the Company  has ongoing signiﬁ  cant turnaround and growth strategies under  execution.
It is in this context that the Board have recommended  the Resolution Nos.
5 to 8 for approval by the Members.
Name 10th percentile 25th percentile Median 75th percentile 90th percentile Mr Pisharody 670 790 925 1141 1445 Mr Borwankar 298 359 375 523 693 (` in lakhs) II.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSALS FOR THE OTHER ITEM Nos.
1 to 4, 9 and 10 OF THE NOTICE:   ITEM Nos.
1 and 2 pertain to approval of the Company’s  Financial Statements and declaration of dividend, respectively  for FY 2015-16.
ITEM No.
3 pertains to the appointment of Mr R Pisharody who  retires at this Annual General Meeting pursuant to Section 152  of the Act and being eligible the proposal for his appointment  as Director has been included in the Notice for approval of  the Members.
A proposal for his re-appointment as Executive  Director is included in Resolution No.
7.
ITEM Nos.
4 and 9 pertain to the ratiﬁ  cation by the Members of  the appointment of the C ompany’s Statutory Auditors and the  Cost Auditors, respectively for FY 2016-17.
ITEM No.
10 pertains to the raising of funds by way of private  placement of NCDs upt o R3,000/- crores as part of the  Company’s ongoing eﬀ  orts to strengthen the capital structure.
The proposed Resolution is in lieu of the Resolution No.
5  passed by the Members at the last Annual General Meeting held  on August 13, 2015 which was valid for a period of 12 months  and would expire on August 12, 2016.
Note: For further information on the proposals, kindly refer the notice  and explanatory statement appended hereto.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 50 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports (PURSUANT TO SECTION 101 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013) Dear Member, NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE SEVENTY FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL  MEETING OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED will be held on Tuesday, August 9,  2016, at 3 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey  Marg, Mumbai 400 020 to transact the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive, consider and adopt   (a)  the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the  Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2016  together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and  the Auditors thereon; and  (b)  the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the  Company for the Financial year ended March 31, 2016  together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.
To declare a dividend on Ordinary Shares and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Mr Ravindra Pisharody (DIN:  01875848), who retires by rotation and being eligible, oﬀ  ers  himself for re-appointment.
4.
Ratifi  cation of Auditors’ Appointment   To consider and if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution as  an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 139 and  such other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as  amended from time to time and pursuant to the resolution  passed by the Members at the Sixty-Ninth Annual General  Meeting (AGM) held on July 31, 2014 in respect of appointment  of the auditors, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Chartered Accounts  (ICAI Firm Registration No.117366W/W-100018) (DHS) till  the conclusion of the AGM to be held in the year 2017, the  Company hereby ratiﬁ  es and conﬁ  rms the appointment of DHS,  as Auditors of the Company to hold oﬃ   ce from the conclusion  of this AGM till the conclusion of the Seventy- Second AGM of  the Company to be held in the year 2017 to examine and audit  the accounts of the Company for the Financial Year ending  March 31, 2017 on such remuneration as may be mutually  agreed between the Board of Directors of the Company and  the Auditors.” SPECIAL BUSINESS 5.
Appointment of Mr Guenter Butschek as a Director  To consider and, if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution as  an Ordinary Resolution:-  “RESOLVED that Mr Guenter Butschek (DIN: 07427375), who was  appointed by the Board of Directors as an Additional Director of the  Company with eﬀ  ect from February 15, 2016 and who holds oﬃ  ce  upto the date of this Annual General Meeting of the Company  under Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), but  who is eligible for appointment and in respect of whom the  Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under  Section 160(1) of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment  and Qualiﬁ  cations of Directors) Rules, 2014, proposing his  candidature for the oﬃ   ce of Director of the Company, be and is  hereby appointed as a Director of the Company.” 6.
Appointment of Mr Guenter Butschek as the Chief  Executive Offi  cer and Managing Director   To consider and, if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution  as a Special Resolution: -  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197,  203 and other applicable provisions, if any, read alongwith  Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), and the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, including any statutory modiﬁ  cations  thereof and subject to the approval of the Central Government  and on such conditions and modiﬁ  cations as may be prescribed  or imposed, if any, whilst granting such approval, the Company  do hereby accord their approval for the appointment and terms  of remuneration of Mr Guenter Butschek (DIN: 07427375) as the  Chief Executive Oﬃ   cer and Managing Director (“MD”) of the  Company for a period of 5 years with eﬀ  ect from February 15,  2016 (the date of appointment) till February 14, 2021, upon the  following terms and conditions, including the remuneration  to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of proﬁ  ts in any  ﬁ  nancial year during the period of 3 years from the date of  appointment, with liberty to the Directors to alter and vary the  terms and conditions of the said appointment in such manner  as may be agreed to between the Directors and Mr Butschek: I.
NATURE OF DUTIES:  The MD shall, devote his whole time  and attention to the business of the Company and carry out  such duties as may be entrusted to him by the Board from time  to time and separately communicated to him.
Subject to the  superintendence, control and directions of the Board, the MD be  entrusted with substantial powers of management which are in  connection with and in the best interests of the business of the  Company and the business of any one or more of its subsidiaries  and/or associate companies, including performing duties as  assigned by the Board from time to time by serving on the  boards of such associate companies and/or subsidiaries or any  other executive body or any committee of such a company.
II.
REMUNERATION:  a) Basic Salary:  €27,500 per month;  b) Benefi ts, Perquisites and Allowances:     Details of Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances are as follows:   i.
Living allowance of €110,000 intended to support the  transition for Mr Butschek (who is a German citizen) to India.
A  NOTICE 51 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) one-time cost for his relocation from Toulouse, France will be  borne by the Company   ii.
Rent-free residential accommodation (furnished or  otherwise) with the Company bearing the cost of repairs,  maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g.
gas, electricity  and water charges) for the said accommodation   iii.
Reimbursement of hospitalization and major medical  expenses incurred as per Rules of the Company   iv.
Two Company maintained cars with drivers as per Company  Policy.
v.  Telecommunication facility as per Rules of the Company   vi.
Other perquisites and allowances given below: -     -  Medical Insurance Plan with global cover for self and spouse     -  Business Class travel, four times a year for self and spouse  to Austria     - Personal Accident Insurance Premium     - Premium towards policy for compensating loss of life     - Annual club membership fees  vii.
Retirement beneﬁ  ts will be limited to contributions to  Provident Fund and Gratuity Fund only as per the Rules of  the Company  viii.
Additional payment of €204,000 per annum in lieu of loss  of pension in home country.
This payment will be made  after adjusting for contributions made towards elements of  pension in India, listed in (vii) above  ix.
Leave entitlement of 30 days of privilege leave, 10 days of  sick leave and 8 days of casual leave will be available.
Whilst  unavailed casual leave would lapse if not availed during the  calendar year, unavailed privilege and sick leave would lapse  if not availed during the said term.
c) Incentive Remuneration in the form of:    i.
Performance Linked Bonus: The target performance linked  bonus will be €5,50,000 per annum upto a maximum of  €8,25,000 per annum.
This performance linked bonus  would be payable subject to the achievement of certain  performance criteria and such other parameters as may  be considered appropriate from time to time by the Board  which will be payable after the Annual Accounts have been  approved.
An indicative list of factors that may be considered  for determining the extent of performance linked bonus  by the Board as recommended by the Nomination and  Remuneration Committee of Directors are:       Company performance on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative  and quantitative parameters as may be decided by the  Board from time to time       Industry benchmarks of remuneration      Performance of the individual.
ii.
Long Term Incentive: With the objective of achieving long  term value creation through retention and continuity of  the leadership, it is intended that a long term incentive  plan would be made available.
The value of the long term  incentive plan is intended to be a target of €5,50,000 per  annum but not exceeding €8,25,000 per annum.
This  incentive would be payable subject to the achievement of  certain performance criteria and such other parameters as  may be considered appropriate from time to time by the  Board.
No amount would be payable if termination of the  agreement is initiated by the Managing Director prior to  completion of the term.
For the period from the date of joining upto March 31, 2017,  the amount for Performance Linked Bonus and Long Term  Incentive will be the target annual performance amount of  €5,50,000 for each of the said Performance Linked Bonus and  the Long Term Incentive, prorated for the actual period worked.
d)  One time Joining Bonus:  €2,50,000 payable in the ﬁ  rst  month of joining.
III.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONVERSION AND TAXES:   The above remuneration would be paid in rupee equivalent  according to the prevalent €/ r rate at the time of each  payment and would be subject to deduction of all applicable  taxes at source.
All applicable taxes would be payable by and  to the account of Mr Butschek, except for certain categories of  beneﬁ  ts and perquisites.
IV.
MINIMUM REMUNERATION:   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained,  where in any ﬁ  nancial year during the period of 3 years in the  currency of the term of the MD, the Company has no proﬁ  ts  or its proﬁ  ts are inadequate, the Company will pay to the MD,  remuneration by way of basic salary, beneﬁ  ts, perquisites and  allowances, incentive remuneration and retirement beneﬁ  ts as  speciﬁ  ed above.
V. OTHER TERMS OF APPOINTMENT:  i.
The terms and conditions of the said appointment may be  altered and varied from time to time by the Board as it may,  in its discretion deem ﬁ  t, irrespective of the limits stipulated  under Schedule V to the Act or any amendments made  hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed to  between the Board and the MD, subject to such approvals  as may be required  ii.
The MD shall not become interested or otherwise  concerned, directly or through his spouse and/or children,  in any selling agency of the Company   iii.
The Contract with the MD may be terminated earlier,  without any cause by either party giving to the other party  six months’ notice of such termination or the Company  paying six months’ remuneration which shall be limited  to provision of basic salary, beneﬁ  ts, perquisites and  allowances (including Living Allowance) and any pro-rated  incentive remuneration, in lieu of such notice.
Additionally,  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 52 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports in case of termination initiated by the Company before the  end of the Term for the reasons other than Tata Code of  Conduct (“TCoC”), the MD shall be entitled to severance pay  for a period of 12 months or balance term of the agreement  whichever is less and which shall be limited to provision of  basic salary, living allowance and any pro-rated incentive  remuneration  iv.
This appointment may not be terminated by the Company  without notice or payment in lieu of notice except for  reasons of breach of TCoC.
In case of breach of TCoC, MD  shall not be entitled to Severance  v.  In the event the MD is not in a position to discharge his  oﬃ  cial duties due to any physical or mental incapacity, he  shall be entitled to receive notice pay and the severance as  mentioned above and this contract shall stand terminated  vi.
Upon the termination by whatever means of employment  of the MD:    the MD shall immediately cease to hold oﬃ   ces held by  him in any subsidiaries or associate companies without  claim for compensation for loss of oﬃ   ce by virtue of  Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and shall resign as trustee of  any trust connected with the Company    the MD shall not without the consent of the Board at  any time thereafter represent himself as connected  with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or associate  companies.
vii.
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the related Rules  which are applicable to other employees of the Company  shall also be applicable to the MD, unless speciﬁ cally provided  otherwise   viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for any  reason whatsoever, the appointee will cease to be the Chief  Executive Oﬃ   cer and MD and also cease to be a Director.
If at any time, the appointee ceases to be a Director of the  Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be  the MD and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
If at  any time, the appointee ceases to be in the employment  of the Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease  to be a Director and Chief Executive Oﬃ   cer and MD of the  Company  ix.
The terms and conditions of appointment with the MD also  include clauses pertaining to adherence with the TCoC, no  conﬂ  ict of interest with the Company, protection and use of  Intellectual Properties, non-solicitation post termination of  agreement and maintenance of conﬁ  dentiality.”   “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors or a Committee  thereof, be and is hereby, authorized to take all such steps as  may be necessary for obtaining necessary approvals - statutory,  contractual or otherwise, in relation to the above and to settle  all matters arising out of and incidental thereto and to sign  and execute deeds, applications, documents and writings that  may be required, on behalf of the Company and generally to  do all such other acts, deeds, matters and things that may be  necessary, proper, expedient or incidental for giving eﬀ  ect to this  Resolution.” 7.
Re-appointment of Mr Ravindra Pisharody –  Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) and  payment of remuneration    To consider and, if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution  as a Special Resolution: -   “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196,  197 and other applicable provisions, if any, read alongwith  Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), and the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, including any statutory modiﬁ  cations  thereof, the Company do hereby accord their approval  for the re-appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr Ravindra Pisharody (DIN:01875848) as the Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) of the Company with eﬀ ect from July 1,  2016 to November 24, 2020, upon the following terms and  conditions, including the remuneration to be paid in the event  of loss or inadequacy of proﬁ  ts in any ﬁ  nancial year during the  period of 3 years from the date of re-appointment, with liberty  to the Directors to alter and vary the terms and conditions of  the said re-appointment in such manner as may be agreed  to between the Directors and Mr Pisharody and also the  payment of remuneration from April 1, 2016 to June 30, 2016,  as approved by the Members at their Annual General Meeting  (“AGM”) held on August 10, 2012: I.
NATURE OF DUTIES:  The Executive Director shall, devote  his whole time and attention to the business of the Company  and carry out such duties as may be entrusted to him by the  Board from time to time and separately communicated to him  and exercise such powers as may be assigned to him, subject  to superintendence, control and directions of the Board in  connection with and in the best interests of the business of the  Company and the business of any one or more of its subsidiaries  and/or associate companies, including performing duties as  assigned by the Board from time to time by serving on the  boards of such companies or any other executive body or any  committee of such a company.
II.
REMUNERATION:  a.
Basic Salary:  r6,00,000/- per month; upto a maximum of  r10,00,000/- per month.
The annual increment which will be eﬀ  ective 1st April each year,  will be decided by the Board based on the recommendation  of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) in  consonance with individual performance and the performance  of the Company, within the aforementioned maximum basic  salary limit.
The annual increment that would be eﬀ  ective on  1st April every year, would be limited upto an amount not  53 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) exceeding 20% of the basic salary as may be decided by the  Board in the above manner.
b. Benefi  ts, Perquisites and Allowances:   Details of Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances are as follows:  i.  Rent-free residential accommodation (furnished or  otherwise) with the Company bearing the cost of repairs,  maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g.
gas, electricity  and water charges) for the said accommodation OR     House Rent and Maintenance Allowance (in case  residential accommodation is not provided by the  Company) of 85% of Basic Salary.
ii.
Reimbursement of hospitalisation and major medical  expenses incurred as per Rules of the Company (this includes  mediclaim insurance premium)  iii.
Car facility as per Rules of the Company  iv.
Telecommunication facility as per the rules of the Company  including broadband, internet and fax  v.  Other perquisites and allowances given below subject to a  maximum of 55% of Basic Salary, which includes:    - Medical allowance  - Leave Travel Concession/Allowance  - Other Allowances  - Personal Accident Insurance Premium  - Annual club membership fees   vi.
Retirement beneﬁ  ts: Contribution to Provident Fund,  Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund  as per the Rules of the Company.
Provision of Special  Retirement Beneﬁ  ts viz.
Pension and Medical Beneﬁ  ts upon  his superannuation, only if he continues with the Company  or any Tata Company till that time.
The Special Retirement  Beneﬁ  ts are discretionary and can be withdrawn by the  Board in case of conviction by the judicial authorities for  any oﬀ  ences and include clauses on non-compete after  superannuation  vii.
Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per the Rules of  the Company.
c.  Commission:    Such remuneration by way of proﬁ  t linked commission, in  addition to the salary and perquisites and allowances payable,  calculated with reference to the net proﬁ  ts of the Company in  a particular ﬁ  nancial year, as may be determined by the Board  of the Company at the end of each ﬁ  nancial year, subject to the  overall ceilings stipulated in Section 197 of the Act, but in any  case will not exceed 400% of the said basic salary.
d.  Incentive Remuneration:   In case where the net proﬁ  ts of the Company are inadequate  for payment of proﬁ  t-linked commission in any ﬁ  nancial year,  an incentive remuneration may be paid upto an amount not  exceeding 200% of Basic Salary paid at the discretion of the  Board.
This incentive remuneration would be payable subject  to the achievement of certain performance criteria and such  other parameters as may be considered appropriate from time  to time by the Board.
An indicative list of factors that may be considered for  determining the extent of commission/incentive remuneration,  by the Board (recommended by the NRC) which will be payable  annually after the Annual Accounts have been approved are:   -   Company performance on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative and  quantitative parameters as may be decided by the Board  from time to time    - Industry benchmarks of remuneration    - Performance of the individual.
III.
MINIMUM REMUNERATION:   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained,  wherein any ﬁ  nancial year during the period of 3 years in the  currency of the tenure of the Executive Director, the Company  has no proﬁ  ts or its proﬁ  ts are inadequate, the Company will  pay remuneration by way of basic salary, beneﬁ  ts, perquisites  and allowances, incentive remuneration and retirement  beneﬁ  ts as speciﬁ  ed above.
IV.
OTHER TERMS OF APPOINTMENT:  i.
The terms and conditions of the said re-appointment may be  altered and varied from time to time by the Board as it may,  in its discretion deem ﬁ  t, irrespective of the limits stipulated  under Schedule V to the Act or any amendments made  hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed  to between the Board and the Executive Director, subject to  such approvals as may be required  ii.
The Executive Director shall not become interested or  otherwise concerned, directly or through his spouse and/or  children, in any selling agency of the Company  iii.
T his appointment may be terminated by either party by giving  to the other party six months’ notice of such termination or the  Company paying six months’ remuneration in lieu of the Notice  iv.
The employment of the Executive Director, may be  terminated by the Company without notice or payment in  lieu of notice:     if the Executive Director, is found guilty of any gross  negligence, default or misconduct in connection with or  aﬀ ecting the business of the Company or any subsidiary or  associate company to which he is required by the Agreement  to render services; or      in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach  (after prior warning) or non-observance by the Executive  Director, of any of the stipulations contained in the  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 54 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Agreement to be executed between the Company and the  Executive Director; or     in the event the Board expresses its loss of conﬁ  dence in the  Executive Director.
v.  In the event the Executive Director is not in a position  to discharge his oﬃ   cial duties due to any physical or  mental incapacity, the Board shall be entitled to terminate  his contract on such terms as the Board may consider  appropriate in the circumstances  vi.
Upon the termination by whatever means of employment of  the Executive Director:     the Executive Director shall immediately cease to hold  oﬃ  ces held by him in any subsidiaries or associate  companies without claim for compensation for loss  of oﬃ  ce by virtue of Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and  shall resign as trustee of any trust connected with the  Company     the Executive Director shall not without the consent of  the Company at any time thereafter represent himself as  connected with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or  associate companies.
vii.
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the related Rules  which are applicable to other employees of the Company  shall also be applicable to the Executive Director, unless  speciﬁ  cally provided otherwise  viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for  any reason whatsoever, the appointee will cease to be the  Executive Director and also cease to be a Director.
If at any  time, the appointee ceases to be a Director of the Company  for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be the Executive  Director and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
If at  any time, the appointee ceases to be in the employment of  the Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be  a Director and Executive Director of the Company  ix.
The terms and conditions of re-appointment with the  Executive Director also include clauses pertaining to  adherence with the Tata Code of Conduct, no conﬂ  ict of  interest with the Company, protection and use of Intellectual  Properties, non-solicitation post termination of agreement  and maintenance of conﬁ  dentiality.”   “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors or a Committee  thereof, be and is hereby, authorized to take such steps as may  be necessary for obtaining necessary approvals - statutory,  contractual or otherwise, in relation to the above and to settle  all matters arising out of and incidental thereto and to sign  and execute deeds, applications, documents and writings that  may be required, on behalf of the Company and generally to  do all such other acts, deeds, matters and things as may be  necessary, proper, expedient or incidental for giving eﬀ  ect to  this Resolution.” 8.
Re-appointment of Mr Satish Borwankar – Executive  Director (Quality) and payment of remuneration    To consider and, if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution  as a Special Resolution: -  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196,  197 and other applicable provisions, if any, read alongwith  Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), and the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014, including any statutory modiﬁ  cations  thereof, the Company do hereby accord their approval for  the re-appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr Satish  Borwankar (DIN:01793948) Executive Director (Quality) of the  Company with eﬀ  ect from July 1, 2016 to July 15, 2017 upon the  following terms and conditions, including the remuneration  to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of proﬁ  ts in  any ﬁ  nancial year during his said tenure, with liberty to the  Directors to alter and vary the terms and conditions of the said  re-appointment in such manner as may be agreed to between  the Directors and Mr Borwankar and also the payment of  remuneration from April 1, 2016 to June 30, 2016, as approved  by the Members at their Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held  on August 10, 2012:   I.
NATURE OF DUTIES:  The Executive Director shall, devote his  whole time and attention to the business of the Company and carry  out such duties as may be entrusted to him by the Board from time  to time and separately communicated to him and exercise such  powers as may be assigned to him, subject to superintendence,  control and directions of the Board in connection with and in the  best interests of the business of the Company and the business  of any one or more of its subsidiaries and/or associate companies,  including performing duties as assigned by the Board from time  to time by serving on the boards of such companies or any other  executive body or any committee of such a company.
II.
REMUNERATION:   a.
Basic Salary:  R4,75,000/- per month; upto a maximum of  R7,00,000/- per month.
The annual increment which will be eﬀ  ective 1st April each  year, will be decided by the Board based on the recommendation  of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) in  consonance with individual performance and the performance  of the Company, within the aforementioned maximum basic  salary limit.
The annual increment that would be eﬀ ective on  1st April every year, would be limited upto an amount not  exceeding 20% of the basic salary as may be decided by the  Board in the above manner.
b. Benefi  ts, Perquisites and Allowances:     Details of Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances are as follows:     i.  Rent-free residential accommodation (furnished or  otherwise) with the Company bearing the cost of repairs,  55 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) maintenance, society charges and utilities (e.g.
gas,  electricity and water charges) for the said accommodation OR        House Rent and Maintenance Allowance (in case  residential accommodation is not provided by the  Company) of 85% of Basic Salary.
ii.
Reimbursement of hospitalisation and major medical  expenses incurred as per Rules of the Company (this  includes mediclaim insurance premium)     iii.
Car facility as per Rules of the Company     iv.
Telecommunication facility as per the rules of the  Company including broadband, internet and fax     v.  Other perquisites and allowances given below subject to  a maximum of 55% of Basic Salary, which includes:       Medical allowance       Leave Travel Concession/Allowance       Other Allowances       Personal Accident Insurance Premium       Annual club membership fees.
vi.
Retirement beneﬁ  ts: Contribution to Provident Fund,  Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund  as per the Rules of the Company.
Provision of Special  Retirement Beneﬁ  ts viz.
Pension and Medical Beneﬁ  ts  upon his superannuation, only if he continues with  the Company or any Tata Company till that time.
The  Special Retirement Beneﬁ  ts are discretionary and can  be withdrawn by the Board in case of conviction by the  judicial authorities for any oﬀ  ences and include clauses on  non-compete after superannuation     vii.
Leave and encashment of unavailed leave as per the Rules  of the Company.
c.  Commission:     Such remuneration by way of proﬁ  t linked commission, in  addition to the salary and perquisites and allowances payable,  calculated with reference to the net proﬁ  ts of the Company in  a particular ﬁ  nancial year, as may be determined by the Board  of the Company at the end of each ﬁ  nancial year, subject to the  overall ceilings stipulated in Section 197 of the Act, but in any  case will not exceed 400% of the said basic salary.
d.  Incentive Remuneration:    In case where the net proﬁ  ts of the Company are inadequate  for payment of proﬁ  t-linked commission in any ﬁ  nancial year,  an incentive remuneration may be paid upto an amount not  exceeding 200% of Basic Salary paid at the discretion of the  Board.
This incentive remuneration would be payable subject  to the achievement of certain performance criteria and such  other parameters as may be considered appropriate from time  to time by the Board.
An indicative list of factors that may be considered for  determining the extent of commission/incentive remuneration,  by the Board (recommended by the NRC) which will be payable  annually after the Annual Accounts have been approved, are:    Company performance on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative and   quantitative parameters as may be decided by the Board  from time to time   Industry benchmarks of remuneration   Performance of the individual.
III.
MINIMUM REMUNERATION:    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained,  wherein any ﬁ  nancial year during the currency of the tenure of  the Executive Director, the Company has no proﬁ  ts or its proﬁ  ts  are inadequate, the Company will pay remuneration by way  of basic salary, beneﬁ  ts, perquisites and allowances, incentive  remuneration and retirement beneﬁ  ts as speciﬁ  ed above.
IV.
OTHER TERMS OF APPOINTMENT:   i.
The terms and conditions of the said re-appointment may  be altered and varied from time to time by the Board as  it may, in its discretion deem ﬁ  t, irrespective of the limits  stipulated under Schedule V to the Act or any amendments  made hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be  agreed to between the Board and the Executive Director,  subject to such approvals as may be required  ii.
The Executive Director shall not become interested or  otherwise concerned, directly or through his spouse and/ or children, in any selling agency of the Company  iii.
This appointment may be terminated by either party  by giving to the other party six months’ notice of  such termination or the Company paying six months’  remuneration in lieu of the Notice  iv.
The employment of the Executive Director, may be  terminated by the Company without notice or payment in  lieu of notice:       if the Executive Director, is found guilty of any gross  negligence, default or misconduct in connection  with or aﬀ  ecting the business of the Company or  any subsidiary or associate company to which he is  required by the Agreement to render services; or        in the event of any serious repeated or continuing  breach (after prior warning) or non-observance by the  Executive Director, of any of the stipulations contained  in the Agreement to be executed between the  Company and the Executive Director; or       in the event the Board expresses its loss of conﬁ  dence  in the Executive Director.
v.  In the event the Executive Director is not in a position  to discharge his oﬃ   cial duties due to any physical or  mental incapacity, the Board shall be entitled to terminate  his contract on such terms as the Board may consider  appropriate in the circumstances  vi.
Upon the termination by whatever means of employment  of the Executive Director: Corporate Overview Financial Statements 56 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports       the Executive Director shall immediately cease to hold oﬃ  ces  held by him in any subsidiaries or associate companies  without claim for compensation for loss of oﬃ  ce by virtue of  Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and shall resign as trustee of any  trust connected with the Company       the Executive Director shall not without the consent  of the Company at any time thereafter represent  himself as connected with the Company or any of its  subsidiaries or associate companies.
vii.
All Personnel Policies of the Company and the related Rules  which are applicable to other employees of the Company  shall also be applicable to the Executive Director, unless  speciﬁ  cally provided otherwise.
viii.
If and when the Agreement expires or is terminated for  any reason whatsoever, the appointee will cease to be the  Executive Director and also cease to be a Director.
If at any  time, the appointee ceases to be a Director of the Company  for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be the Executive  Director and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
If at  any time, the appointee ceases to be in the employment of  the Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to  be a Director and Executive Director of the Company.
ix.
The terms and conditions of re-appointment with the  Executive Director also include clauses pertaining to  adherence with the Tata Code of Conduct, no conﬂ  ict  of interest with the Company, protection and use of  Intellectual Properties, non-solicitation post termination of  agreement and maintenance of conﬁ  dentiality.”   “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors or a Committee  thereof, be and is hereby, authorized to take such steps as may  be necessary for obtaining necessary approvals - statutory,  contractual or otherwise, in relation to the above and to settle  all matters arising out of and incidental thereto and to sign and  execute deeds, applications, documents and writings that may be  required, on behalf of the Company and generally to do all such  other acts, deeds, matters and things as may be necessary, proper,  expedient or incidental for giving eﬀ ect to this Resolution.” 9.
Payment of Remuneration to the Cost Auditor      To consider and if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution as  an Ordinary Resolution: -  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 148(3) and  such other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules 2014, as  amended from time to time, the remuneration of r5,00,000/-  (Rupees Five Lakhs) plus service tax, out-of-pocket, travelling  and living expenses incurred in connection with the audit,  as recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by  the Board payable to M/s Mani & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm  Registration No.
000004) as Cost Auditors to conduct the Audit  of the relevant cost records of the Company as prescribed  under the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 as  amended from time to time, for the ﬁ  nancial year ending March  31, 2017 be and is hereby ratiﬁ  ed and conﬁ  rmed.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the Company  be and is hereby authorised to do all acts, deeds and things and  take all such steps as may be necessary, proper or expedient to  give eﬀ ect to this Resolution.” 10.
Off er or invite for Subscription of Non-Convertible  Debentures on private placement basis   To consider and, if thought ﬁ  t, to pass the following resolution  as a Special Resolution: -  “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 42, 71  and such other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies  Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Prospectus and  Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014, as may be amended from  time to time and such other regulations as may be applicable,  the approval of the Members be and is hereby granted to  the Board of Directors of the Company for making oﬀ  er(s)  or invitation(s) to subscribe to the issue of Non-Convertible  Debentures on a private placement basis, ﬁ  xing the terms and  conditions of the issue as the Board of Directors may from time  to time, determine and consider proper and most beneﬁ  cial  to the Company, in one or more tranches such that that the  aggregate amount does not exceed R3,000 crores (Rupees  Three Thousand crores) during a period of one year from the  date of passing of this Resolution and that the said borrowing  is within the overall borrowing limit of the Company.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER that for the purpose of giving eﬀ  ect to this  Resolution, the Board of Directors, including any committee  thereof be and is hereby authorized to ﬁ  x the terms and  conditions of the issue and from time to time, do all such acts,  deeds and things and give such directions as may be deemed  necessary or expedient in the interest of the Company.” By Order of the Board of Directors   H K SETHNA Mumbai   Company Secretary May 30, 2016  FCS No.
: 3507 Registered Offi  ce: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: +91 22 6665 8282; Fax: +91 22 6665 7799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com; Website: www.tatamotors.com  CIN - L28920MH1945PLC004520 NOTES: a.
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in respect of the business under  Item Nos.
5 to 10 set out above and details as required under  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) in respect of  Directors seeking appointment and reappointment at this  Annual General Meeting are annexed hereto 57 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) b.
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE IS ENTITLED TO  APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE ON A POLL INSTEAD  OF HIMSELF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER.
The  instrument appointing Proxy as per the format included in the  Annual Report should be returned to the Registered Oﬃ  ce of  the Company not less than FORTY-EIGHT HOURS before the  time for holding the Meeting.
Proxies submitted on behalf of  limited companies, societies, partnership ﬁ  rms, etc.
must be  supported by appropriate resolution/authority, as applicable,  issued by the Member organization   A person can act as a proxy on behalf of Members (not  exceeding 50 Members) and holding in the aggregate not  more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company  carrying voting rights.
A Member holding more than 10% of  the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights  may appoint a single person as proxy and such person shall not  act as a proxy for any other person or a Member.
c.  Corporate Members intending to send their authorised  representatives to attend the Meeting are requested to send  to the Company, a certiﬁ  ed copy of the Board Resolution  authorising their representative to attend and vote on their  behalf at the Meeting d.  Only registered Members (including the holders of ‘A’ Ordinary  Shares) of the Company may attend and vote at the Annual  General Meeting.
The holders of the American Depositary  Receipts (the “ADRs”) of the Company shall not be entitled  to attend the said Annual General Meeting.
However, the  ADR holders are entitled to give instructions for exercise of  voting rights at the said Meeting through the Depositary , to  give or withhold such consent, to receive such notice or to  otherwise take action to exercise their rights with respect to  such underlying shares represented by each such American  Depositary Share.
A brief statement as to the manner in which  such voting instructions may be given is being sent to the ADR  holders by the Depositary .
e.  In case of joint holder attending the Meeting, only such joint  holder who is higher in the order of names will be entitled to vote f.  Relevant documents referred to in the Notice and the  accompanying Statement are open for inspection by the  Members at the Registered Oﬃ   ce of the Company on all  working days, except Saturdays, during business hours up to  the date of the Meeting.
g.  The Register of Members and Transfer Books of the Company  will be closed from Wednesday, July 20, 2016 to Tuesday, August  9, 2016, both days inclusive.
If the dividend as recommended  by the Board of Directors is approved at the Annual General  Meeting, payment of such dividend will be made on or after  August 11, 2016 as under:     i.
To all Beneﬁ  cial Owners in respect of shares held in  electronic form, as per the data made available by the  National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL ”) and the  Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL ”), as of  the close of business hours on July 19, 2016    ii.
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical form,  after giving eﬀ  ect to valid transfers in respect of transfer  requests lodged with the Company on or before the close  of business hours on July 19, 2016.
The ‘A’ Ordinary Shareholders will receive dividend for any ﬁ  nancial  year at ﬁ  ve percentage points more than the aggregate rate of  dividend declared on Ordinary Shares for that ﬁ  nancial year.
h.  Members who hold shares in single name and physical form are  advised to make nomination in respect of their shareholding in  the Company.
i.  Non-Resident Indian Members are requested to inform the  Company’s Registrars and Transfer Agents, immediately of:  a)  Change in their residential status on return to India for  permanent settlement.
b)  Particulars of their bank account maintained in India with  complete name, branch, account type, account number  and address of the bank with pin code number, if not  furnished earlier.
j.  SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account  Number (PAN) for participating in the securities market, deletion  of name of deceased holder, transmission/transposition of  shares.
Members are requested to submit the PAN details to  their Depository Participant in case of holdings in dematerialized  form and to the Company’s Registrars and Transfer Agents,  mentioning their correct reference folio number in case of  holdings in physical form.
k.   Updation of Members’ Details:   The format of the Register of Members prescribed by the   Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ airs under the Act requires the Company/ Share Registrars and Transfer Agents to record additional details of  Members, including their PAN details, email address, bank details  for payment of dividend, etc.
A form for capturing the additional  details is included in the Annual Report.
Members holding shares  in physical form are requested to submit the ﬁ  lled in form to the  Company or its Share Registrars and Transfer Agents.
Members  holding shares in electronic form are requested to submit the  details to their respective Depository Participants.
l.  Members holding shares in dematerialised mode are requested  to intimate all changes pertaining to their bank details, NECS,  mandates, nominations, power of attorney, change of address/ name, PAN details, etc.
to their Depository Participant only  and not to the Company’s Registrars and Transfer Agents.
Changes intimated to the Depository Participant will then be  automatically reﬂ  ected in the Company’s records which will help  the Company and its Registrars and Transfer Agents to provide  eﬃ   cient and better service to the Members.
m.  Members’ attention is particularly drawn to the “Corporate  Governance” section in respect of unclaimed and unpaid dividends.
n.  Members desiring any information as regards the Accounts are  requested to write to the Company at an early date so as to enable  the Management to keep the information ready at the Meeting.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 58 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports o.
As an austerity measure, copies of the Annual Report will not  be distributed at the Annual General Meeting.
Members are  requested to bring their attendance slip alongwith a copy of  Annual Report to the Meeting.
p.  To support the ‘Green Initiative’ , the Members who have not  registered their email addresses are requested to register  the same with Company’s Registrars and Transfer Agents/ Depositories.
In other cases, an Abridged Annual Report is  being sent to the members.
The Members who are desirous of  receiving the full Annual Report may write to the Company’s  Registrar for a copy of the same.
q.
Voting by Members: A.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR E-VOTING  (i)   In compliance with provisions of Section 108 of the Act  and the Rules framed thereunder and Regulation 44 of the  SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is pleased to provide  Members the facility to exercise their right to vote on  resolutions by electronic means either by (a) remote e-voting  (by using an electronic voting system provided by CDSL as  explained in the Remote e-voting at para B herein below) or  (b) electronic ballot at the AGM venue, (as provided in C for  electronic ballot below).
Resolution(s) passed by Members  through e-voting is/are deemed to have been passed as if  they have been passed at the AGM.
(ii)  The voting rights of the Ordinary Shareholders shall be in  the same proportion to the paid up Ordinary share capital  and in case of voting rights on the ‘A’ Ordinary share, the  holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary  shares held as on the cut-oﬀ   date.
A person, whose name  is recorded in the Register of Members or in the register  of beneﬁ  cial owners maintained by the depositories as on  the cut-oﬀ   date only shall be entitled to avail the facility of  remote e-voting as well as voting through electronic ballot  at the meeting.
(iii)  In this regard, the Member’s demat account/folio number  as on August 2, 2016 i.e.
cut-oﬀ  date has been enrolled by  the Company for participation in voting on resolutions  placed by the Company on the voting system.
(iv)  The Members can opt for only one mode of voting, i.e.,  either by remote e-voting or electronic ballot at the  meeting.
The Members attending the meeting who have  not already cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be able  to exercise their right at the meeting through electronic  ballot.
The Members who have cast their vote by remote  e-voting are eligible to attend the meeting but shall not be  entitled to cast their vote again.
(v)  The Board of Directors have appointed Mr P N Parikh of  M/s Parikh & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries  (Membership No.
FCS327) as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize  the remote e-voting and electronic ballot process at the  venue, in a fair and transparent manner.
(vi)  An y person, who acquires shares of the Company and  becomes a member of the Company after dispatch of the  Notice and holding shares as of cut-oﬀ  date, should follow  the same instructions mentioned in “B.
Instructions for  Remote E-Voting” .
However, if you are already registered  with CDSL for remote e-voting then you can use your existing  user ID and password for casting your vote.
If you forget your  password, you can reset it by using “Forget User Details/ Password” option available on www.evotingindia.com.
B.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING:   (i)  The period for remote e-voting starts on Thursday, August  4, 2016 at 9:00 a.m. and ends on M onday, August 8, 2016  at 5:00 p.m..
Remote e-voting shall be disabled by CDSL at  5:00 p.m. on Monday, August 8, 2016 and Members shall not  be allowed to vote through remote e-voting thereafter.
Any  person who is not a member as on the cut-oﬀ  date should  treat this Notice for information purposes only.
(ii)  Log on to www.evotingindia.com.
(iii)  Click on “SHAREHOLDERS/ MEMBERS” tab.
(iv)  Enter your User ID.
For CDSL- 16 digits beneﬁ  ciary ID; for  NSDL- 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID; and  for Members holding shares in Physical Form - Folio Number  registered with the Company.
Thereafter, enter the Captcha  code as displayed and click on Login.
(v)  If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged on  to www.evotingindia.com and voted on an earlier voting of  any company, then your existing password is to be used.
(vi) If you are a ﬁ  rst time user, follow the steps given below: For Members holding shares in Demat Form and Physical Form PAN Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric PAN issued by Income Tax Department (applicable for both demat Shareholders/  Members as well as physical shareholders).
Kindly note: Members who have not updated their PAN with the Company/ Depository Participant are requested to  use the ﬁ  rst two letters of their name and the 8 digits of the sequence number in the PAN ﬁ  eld or the demat account/ folio number in the PAN ﬁ  eld.
In case the sequence number is less than 8 digits enter the applicable number of 0’s before the number after the ﬁ  rst  two characters of the name in CAPITAL letters.
Eg.
If your name is Ramesh Kumar with sequence number 1 then enter  RA00000001 in the PAN ﬁ  eld.
Bank Details  OR Date of Birth(DOB) Enter the Bank Details or Date of Bir th (in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded in your demat account or in the company  records in order to login.
Kindly note that if both the details are not recorded with the depository or Company, please enter the member id / folio  number in the Bank details ﬁ  eld as mentioned in instruction (iv).
59 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73)  (vii) After entering these details, click on “SUBMIT” tab.
(viii)  Members holding shares in physical form, will directly  reach the Company selection screen.
Kindly note  that the details can be used only for e-voting on the  resolutions contained in this Notice.
(ix)  Members holding shares in demat form, will reach  ‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are required  to mandatorily enter their login password in the new  password ﬁ  eld.
Kindly note that this password is to be  also used by the demat holders for voting for resolutions  of any other company on which they are eligible to  vote, provided that company opts for e-voting through  CDSL platform.
It is strongly recommended not to share  your password with any other person and take utmost  care to keep your password conﬁ  dential.
(x)  If a demat account holder has forgotten the login  password, the forgot password option code can be  availed to reset the password.
(xi)  Click on the EVSN for Tata Motors Limited.
Kindly  note that there are separate EVSN for Ordinary  Shares (160701007) and for “A” Ordinary Shares  (160701008).
In case you are holding both classes of  shares, please complete your voting for one EVSN and  then cast your vote for another EVSN.
(xii)  On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION  DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option “YES  / NO” for voting.
Select the option YES (assent to the  Resolution) or option NO (dissent to the Resolution).
(xiii)  Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE” link if you wish to view  the entire Resolution details.
(xiv)  After selecting the resolution, you have decided to  vote on, click on “SUBMIT” .
A conﬁ  rmation box will be  displayed.
If you wish to conﬁ  rm your vote, click on  “OK” , else to change your vote, click on “CANCEL ” and  accordingly modify your vote.
(xv)  Kindly note that once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the  resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
(xvi) You can also take a print of the voting done by you.
(xvii)  Shareholders can also cast their vote using CDSL ’s  mobile app m-Voting available on Google Play Store,  App Store and Windows Phone Store.
Please follow  the instructions as prompted by the mobile app while  voting on your mobile.
(xviii) Note for Institutional Members and Custodians     Institutional Shareholders/Members (i.e.
other  than I ndividuals, HUF, NRI, etc.)
and Custodians are  required to log on to www.evotingindia.com and  register themselves as Corporates.
  A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the  stamp and sig n of the entity should be emailed to  helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com.
 After receiving the login details a Compliance  User should be cr eated using the admin login and  password.
The Compliance User would be able to  link the account(s) for which they wish to vote on.
  The list of accounts linked in the login should be  mailed t o helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com and on  approval of the accounts they would be able to cast  their vote.
  A scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power  of Attorney (POA) which they have issued in favour  of the Custodian, if any, should be uploaded in PDF  format in the system for the scrutinizer to verify the  same.
(xix)  In case you have any queries or issues regarding e-voting,  you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”)  and e-voting manual available at www.evotingindia.
com, under help section or write an email to helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com.
You can also send your queries/ grievances relating to e-voting at:- Name : Mr Rakesh Dalvi, Deputy Manager Address :  Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  16th Floor, Dalal Street,  Mumbai - 400001 Email Id Phone Number(s) :   rakeshd@cdslindia.com 022 22728588  Toll free no: 18002005533 C.  VOTING AT AGM:   The Chairman at the Annual General Meeting, shall at the end  of the discussion on the resolution, on which voting is to be  held, allow voting with the assistance of Scrutinizer, by use of  electronic ballot system for all the members who are present  at the Annual General Meeting but have not cast their votes by  availing the remote e-voting facility.
D. DECLARATION OF RESULTS ON THE RESOLUTIONS:  (i) The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at  the AGM, count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter unblock the  votes cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at least two  witnesses not in the employment of the Company and make, not  later than 48 hours from conclusion of the meeting, a consolidated  Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast in favour or against the  resolution, invalid votes, if any and whether the Resolution(s) has/ have been carried or not, to the Chairman or a person authorized by  him in writing who shall countersign the same.
(ii) The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall be  placed on the Company’s web-site www.tatamotors.com and on  the web-site of CDSL www.evotingindia.com immediately after  the result is declared.
The Company shall simultaneously forward  the results to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India  Ltd., where the securities of the Company are listed.
(iii) Subject to the receipt of requisite number of votes, the  Resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on the date of  Meeting i.e.
August 9, 2016.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 60 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports (PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013) EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies  Act, 2013 (“the Act”), given hereunder sets out all material facts  relating to the special business mentioned at Item Nos.
5 to 10 of the  accompanying Notice dated May 30, 2016.
As additional information,  the Explanatory Statement also contains material facts pertaining to  ordinary business mentioned at Item No.
4 of the said Notice: Item No.4 This explanatory statement is provided, though statutorily not  required as per Section 102 of the Act.
In the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on July 31, 2014,  Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP (DHS) Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm  Registration No.117366W/W-100018), Mumbai had been appointed  as the Statutory Auditors of the Company for a period of 3 years to  hold oﬃ  ce from the conclusion of the sixty-ninth Annual General  Meeting held on July 31, 2014 till the conclusion of the seventy- second Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in the  year 2017, subject to the ratiﬁ  cation of their appointment at every  Annual General Meeting by Members.
Accordingly, ratiﬁ  cation of the Members is being sought for  appointment of the Statutory Auditors as per the proposal contained  in the Resolution set out at Item No.
4 of the Notice.
As per the  requirement of the Act, DHS have conﬁ  rmed that the appointment  if made would be within the limits speciﬁ  ed under Section 141(3)(g)  of the Act and it is not disqualiﬁ  ed to be appointed as Auditor in  terms of the provisions of Sections 139 and 141 of the Act and the  Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
In view of the above, DHS continuing to be eligible to act as Auditors  of the Company and based on the recommendation of the Audit  Committee at its Meeting held on May 30, 2016 and pursuant to  Rule 3 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the Board  commends the Resolution at Item No.
4 for approval by the Members.
It may be noted that the Board on recommendation of the Audit  Committee had approved the payment of r5.05 crores to audit the  Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements and Results  prepared by the Company on quarterly basis for the ﬁ  nancial year  ended March 31, 2016.
For further details on fees paid to the auditors  for services rendered by them, Members attention is drawn to the  Notes forming part of Financial Statements.
The Company has in place a Policy for pre-approval of services to be  rendered by the Auditors across its subsidiaries by the Audit Committee  to ensure that the Auditors function in an independent manner.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives are  concerned or interested, ﬁ  nancially or otherwise in the Resolution at  Item No.
4 of the Notice.
Item Nos.
5 to 8 In respect of Item Nos.
5 and 6 of the Notice dealing with  the appointment of Mr Guenter as a Director and the Chief  Executive Offi  cer and Managing Director, it is stated that: Mr Guenter Butschek was appointed as an Additional Director and  the Chief Ex ecutive Oﬃ   cer and Managing Director (the “MD”) of  the Company w.e.f.
February 15, 2016 (the “Date of Appointment”)  and was entrusted with the overall responsibility of Tata Motors’  operations in India and international markets (but excluding Jaguar  Land Rover operations) which, inter alia, included South Korea,  Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa.
Mr Butschek, 55, graduated  in Business Administration and Economics with a diploma from the  University of Cooperative Education Stuttgart, Germany.
Having joined the Airbus Group in March 2011, Mr Butschek’s last  position in this Group was of the Chief Operating Oﬃ   cer wherein  he was also a Member of the Group Executive Committee.
He  was also responsible for its global operations leading a team of  42,000 employees spread across 20 locations (engineering centers,  production plants) in 8 countries/geographies and a global supplier  network.
He reshaped the industrial strategy, empowered operational  units, implemented a global operating system, enhanced the end- to-end supply chain performance and launched new aircraft types  to structurally improve productivity and ﬂ  exibility.
Prior to Airbus, Mr Butschek worked at Daimler AG since 1984,  where he gained more than 25 years of experience in international  automotive management.
At Daimler, he held several positions in  logistics, human resources and procurement in various geographies  signiﬁ  cant being South Africa, Netherlands and China and was  responsible for various restructuring and transformational turnaround  initiatives with signiﬁ  cant improvements in performance, quality,  and productivity.
He launched several new production lines for  Mercedes, Chrysler, and Mitsubishi products setting the footprint for  future proﬁ  table growth.
For detailed information on Mr Butschek’s  proﬁ  le and achievements, please refer to Mr Butschek’s proﬁ  le given  in the statement containing additional information.
Taking into consideration the size and complexity of the Company’s  global operations, the enormous responsibility for oversight of the  Tata Motors’ Group (excluding Jaguar Land Rover business), the  qualiﬁ  cations and accomplishments of Mr Butschek and based  on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration  Committee, the Board of Directors (the “Board”), at its Meeting held  on January 18, 2016, subject to the approval of the Members and  the Central Government, appointed Mr Butschek as an Additional  Director.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161(1) of the  Companies Act, 2013 (Act), the Rules framed thereunder and the  Articles of Association of the Company, Mr Butschek would cease  to hold oﬃ  ce at the ensuing Annual General Meeting but would be  eligible for appointment as a Director.
Notice under Section 160 of  the Act has been received from a Member signifying his intention to  propose Mr Butschek’s appointment as a Director and the Members’  approval is sought for the said proposal given in the Resolution No.
5.
At the said meeting, the Board also appointed Mr Butschek as the MD  of the Company for a period of 5 years pursuant to Sections 196, 197  and other applicable provisions, if any, read together with Schedule  V to the Act and the Rules framed thereunder on the terms and  conditions as given in Resolution No.
6.
61 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) In respect of Item Nos.
7 and 8 of the Notice dealing with the re- appointment of Mr Pisharody and Mr Borwankar as Executive  Directors and payment of remuneration, it is stated that: The Members at the 67th Annual General Meeting held on  August 10, 2012 had vide Ordinary Resolutions Nos.
9 and 11  approved the appointment of Mr Ravindra Pisharody, Executive  Director (Commercial Vehicles) and Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive  Director (Quality) of the Company respectively for a period of  5 years commencing from June 21, 2012, including the terms of  remuneration payable to them, as enumerated below for ease of  reference: Remuneration: (i)  Basic Salary: Upto a maximum of r7,00,000/- per month with  authority to the Board or a Committee thereof to ﬁ  x the salary  and annual increments, which would be eﬀ ective April 1 every  year, as may be decided by the Board, based on merit and  taking into account the Company’s performance, within the  said maximum basic salary amount; (ii)  Incentive remuneration, if any, and/or commission, based on  certain performance criteria to be laid down by the Board; and  (iii)  Beneﬁ  ts, perquisites and allowances as may be determined by  the Board from time to time.
Minimum Remuneration: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary  herein contained, where in any ﬁ  nancial year during the currency of  the tenure of the Appointee(s), the Company has no proﬁ  ts or its  proﬁ  ts are inadequate, the Company will pay remuneration by way  of basic salary, incentive remuneration, beneﬁ  ts, perquisites and  allowances, as speciﬁ  ed above.
Further, the Members have vide Postal Ballot - Notice dated December  9, 2014, also by Special Resolutions approved of the payment of  minimum remuneration to the above Executive Directors in view of  inadequacy of losses as calculated under the provisions of Section 198  of the Act, for the FY 2014-15 and FY 2015-16, which remuneration was  within the prescribed limits.
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration  Committee, the Board of Directors at its Meeting held on May 30,  2016 approved of the re-appointment of the said Executive Directors  with the following changes and have recommended the same to the  Members of the Company, including the termination of their existing  agreements with eﬀ  ect from July 1, 2016: a)  Tenure (being co-terminus with their respective dates of  retirement - completion of 65 years):    Mr R Pisharody – July 1, 2016 to November 24, 2020   Mr S Borwankar – July 1, 2016 to July 15, 2017. b) Salar y scale:    Mr R Pisharody - upto a maximum of R10 lak hs per month  (increased from R 7 lakhs)   Mr S Borwankar - upto a maximum of R7 lak hs per month  (unchanged).
The increments, which were previously uncapped, would be  limited to 20% of basic salary per annum.
c)  Commission, which was previously uncapped, would be within the  applicable limits under Section 197 of the Act, but will in any case not  exceed 400% of the basic salary.
d)  Incentive r emuneration, which was previously uncapped, would  be paid in case of inadequacy of proﬁ  ts/losses in any ﬁ  nancial  year which shall not exceed 200% of the basic salary.
Considering the various business cycles wherein the Company  may have a situation of inadequate proﬁ  ts as calculated under the  provisions of Section 198 of the Act in any ﬁ  nancial year during a  period of 3 years w.e.f.
April 1, 2016, the approval for the payment of  remuneration being sought would include the payment of minimum  remuneration as per the terms stated in the Resolutions Nos.
7 and  8 of the Notice.
In respect of Item Nos.
6 to 8 of the Notice, it is stated that: Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Act, the remuneration  payable to any one managing director or whole-time director shall  not exceed 5% of its proﬁ  ts as calculated under Section 198 of the  Act and if there is more than such director then the remuneration  to them shall not exceed 10% of such proﬁ  ts.
In case of loss or  inadequacy of proﬁ  ts as per Section 198 of the Act, a company may  pay remuneration within the limits prescribed under Schedule V of  the Act based on its eﬀ ective capital, subject to shareholders’ approval  vide a Special Resolution which would be valid for a period of 3 years.
Further, any sums paid in excess of the said statutory limits become  refundable to the company and is held in trust for the company by  the said director, unless the company waives the recovery of the said  amount by way of a Special Resolution passed by the Members and  such waiver is approved by the Central Government.
The Company recorded a net proﬁ  t of R11,023.75 crores on a  consolidated basis and R234.23 crores on a standalone basis for the  ﬁ  nancial year ended March 31, 2016.
However, as per the provisions  of Section 198 of the Act, the Company on a standalone basis, had  a loss of R 465.05 crores for the said ﬁ  nancial year.
Further, whilst  the Company has improved its performance in FY 2015-16, it may  be likely that the Company may have a scenario wherein there are  inadequacy of proﬁ  ts under the said provisions of the Act in any of  the ﬁ  nancial years during the 3 years’ period from the date of their  appointment/re-appointment.
As a matter of abundant caution  Members’ approval is being sought for payment of minimum  remuneration as deﬁ  ned in the said resolutions.
For details pertaining  to relevant proﬁ  ts, the reasons for losses for FY 2015-16 and steps  taken to improve the performance of the Company please refer to  Point Nos.
1 and 2 of Item III on ‘Other Information’ in ‘The Statement  containing Additional Information as required under Schedule V of  the Act’ provided below.
Based on the Company’s Eﬀ ective Capital of R10,169.76 crores as at  March 31, 2015, the Company is permitted to pay, on an individual  basis, the Executive Directors a maximum remuneration of R3.18  crores and in respect of the MD R40 lacs (pro-rated for period from  February 15, 2016 to March 31, 2016) for FY 2015-16.
Based on the  Company’s Eﬀ ective Capital of R14,411.75 crores as at March 31, 2016,  the Company would be permitted to pay R4.02 crores per director  for FY 2016-17 in case if the Company has inadequate proﬁ  ts in the  ﬁ  nancial year.
The Executive Directors’ remuneration would be within  the said limits in case of no/inadequacy of proﬁ  ts during their said  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 62 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports tenure.
Considering that Mr Butschek’s remuneration would exceed  the said limits in case of no/inadequacy of proﬁ  ts in any ﬁ  nancial  year and that he is a German citizen and non-resident of India, the  approval of the Central Government is being sought.
THE STATEMENT CONTAINING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE V OF THE ACT I.
GENERAL INFORMATION: 1.
Nature of industry:  The Company is mainly engaged in the business of  manufacture, assembly and sale of automobile products  consisting of all types of commercial and passenger vehicles  including spare parts.
2.
Date or expected date of commencement of commercial  production:  The Company was incorporated on September 1, 1945 and  Commencement of Business Certiﬁ cate was granted on November  20, 1945.
The Company had since commenced its business.
3.
In case of new companies, expected date of  commencement of activities as per project approved by  fi  nancial institutions appearing in the prospectus:  Not Applicable 4.
Financial performance based on given indicators: It may be noticed from the above table that the Company has  signiﬁ  cantly improved its operating performance and ﬁ  nancial  results in Fiscal 2016.
Coinciding with the improvements in the  macro economic scenario and as may be seen from the Company’s  ﬁ  nancial results, the Company has posted EBITDA of R2,740.15 crores  in Fiscal 2016 as compared to negative EBITDA of R800.01 crores  in the Fiscal 2015.
New product launches have been stepped up,  particularly in the Passenger Vehicle business with the launch of Bolt  and Zest in Fiscal 2016 and the Tiago in early Fiscal 2017.
Further,  in order to deleverage the Company to reduce the borrowing costs,  the Company has raised equity from the Promoters and Shareholders  to the extent of about R7,498 crores in May 2015.
This helped to  curtail the borrowings and reduce interest costs.
With more and  improved products in the pipeline and the number of initiatives/ actions underway, the Company expects to signiﬁ  cantly step up its  operating and ﬁ  nancial performance in the next few quarters and in  the coming ﬁ  nancial years.
It may be worthwhile to note that Tata Motors’ Standalone ﬁ  nancial  performance reﬂ  ects positive results as compared to previous year’s  loss as stated above under Section 198 of the Act, signifying a  turnaround in the Company’s performance.
Tata Motors’ Consolidated  ﬁ  nancial performance continues to show improvements (except for  Q2FY15-16 due to weaker sales in China and product mix and JLR  vehicles being damaged due to explosion at Tianjin port).
5.
Foreign investments or collaborations, if any:  The Company has not entered into any material foreign  collaboration and no direct capital investment has been made  in the Company.
Foreign investors, mainly comprising FIIs and  ADR holders, are investors in the Company on account of past  issuances of securities and secondary market purchases.
II.
INFORMATION ABOUT THE APPOINTEE(S): A. Mr Guenter Butschek, Chief Executive Offi   cer and  Managing Director 1.
Background details:  Mr Butschek, aged 55, graduated in Business Administration and  Economics with a diploma from the University of Cooperative  Education Stuttgart, Germany.
Mr Butschek’s last position in the Airbus Group was of the Chief  Operating Oﬃ  cer wherein he was also a Member of the Group  Executive Committee.
Mr Butschek joined Airbus on March 1,  2011, as Executive Vice President of Operations, Member of  the Airbus Executive Committee and Chairman of the Board of  Management of Airbus in Germany.
He was responsible for its  global operations leading a team of 42,000 employees spread  across 20 locations (engineering centers, production plants)  in 8 countries/geographies and a global supplier network.
He  reshaped the industrial strategy, empowered operational units,  implemented a global operating system and enhanced the  end-to-end supply chain performance in order to master the  rate increases, launch of new aircraft types and to structurally  improve productivity and ﬂ  exibility.
Prior to Airbus, Mr Butschek worked at Daimler AG, where  he gained more than 25 years of experience in international  automotive management, e.g.
production, industrialization and  procurement.
Mr Butschek began his professional career in 1984  at Mercedes-Benz AG in Stuttgart, Germany, as Project Engineer  Central Material Management.
After several positions at the  Mercedes-Benz Passenger Cars division, Mr Butschek became a  Member of the Management Board of DaimlerChrysler South  Particulars FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 FY 2011-12 Consolidated Revenue from Operations (Gross) 280,096.72 266,707.90 236,820.78 193,559.01 170,677.58 Standalone Revenue from Operations (Gross) 46,646.67 39,531.23 37,764.64 49,319.66 59,220.94 Consolidated Proﬁ  t for the period 11,023.75 13,986.29 13,991.02 9,892.61 13,516.50 Standalone Proﬁ  t for the period 234.23 (4,738.95) 334.52 301.81 1,242.23 Standalone Net Proﬁ  t/(Loss) under Section 198 of the Act (465.05) (3,981.54) (2,570.99) 449.31 1,349.81 (` in crores) Note: Previous year fi  gures have been regrouped wherever necessary to correspond with the current year classifi  cation.
63 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) Africa (DCSA) with full operational responsibility in 2000.
In 2002,  Mr Butschek moved to the Netherlands as President and Chief  Executive Oﬃ  cer of Netherlands Car B.V., a contract manufacturer  within the global manufacturing network of DaimlerChrysler and  Mitsubishi Motors Corporation.
As part of a holistic transformation,  he successfully managed the restructuring of processes and a  turnaround program.
The last role he held was President and  Chief Executive Oﬃ  cer of Beijing Benz Automotive Co., Ltd,  a joint venture between Daimler AG and Beijing Automotive  Industrial Holding in Beijing, China.
Leading the joint venture, he  relocated the operations to an all new state-of-the-art facility and  increased productivity and ﬂ  exibility of the plant.
2.
Job Profi  le and his suitability:  The appointment of Mr Butschek is in the context of following: -    Over the last couple of years, the Company is going  through a set of unprecedented circumstances i.e.
sustained industry-wide lower demand, heightened  competitive pressures from global OEM’s, ﬂ  ux in regulatory  environment, drop in proﬁ  tability & productivity and a  sudden demise of the Managing Director.
  The Company is in the midst of a organizational  transformational initiatives in response to the above.
Given these challenges and strategic priorities, a search  was undertaken on a global basis and multiple candidates  were interviewed for the CEO & Managing Director’s role.
  The Company was looking for an outstanding  organizational level leader, who could provide strategic  direction and create suitable execution framework to  ensure the organization’s success, both for short term  and long term basis.
Executives with large scale global  automotive experience along with some exposure to  complex restructuring/turnaround programs and cultural  transformation initiatives were considered.
After interviewing by NRC members of multiple Executives  with large scale global automotive experience alongwith some  exposure to complex restructuring/turnaround programs  and cultural transformation initiatives, Mr Butschek had been  identiﬁ  ed.
It may be appreciated from the above that the NRC  and Board have considered Mr Butschek appropriate for heading  the Company.
Tata Motors Limited is India’s largest automobile company,  with consolidated revenues (net) of r2,75,561.11 crores  (US$ 41.6 billion) in Fiscal 2016.
Through subsidiaries and  associate companies, Tata Motors has operations in the UK,  South Korea, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia.
Among  them is Jaguar Land Rover, the business comprising the two  iconic British brands.
It also has an industrial joint venture with  Fiat in India.
With over 8 million Tata vehicles plying in India, Tata  Motors is the country’s market leader in commercial vehicles  and among the top in passenger vehicles.
Tata cars, buses and  trucks are being marketed in several countries in Europe, Africa,  the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia, South America,  Australia, CIS and Russia.
Mr Butschek leads all operations of Tata Motors in India which,  inter-alia, include South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia and South  Africa, but excluding Jaguar Land Rover which continues to  be managed independently.
The consolidated revenues from  these operations is above R50,000 crores.
Mr Butschek provides Tata Motors with profound knowledge  in complex restructuring/turnaround programs and cultural  transformation initiatives by onboarding employees and  creating ownership in the organization.
His leadership creates  international teams and fosters a culture of cross-functional  teamwork, agility and accountability.
Taking into consideration the size of the Company, the  complex nature of its operations, the strategic and operational  restructuring and transformation required and Mr Butschek’s  broad functional and general management skills, his rich  global experience of growing organizations and developing  new markets, the Board appointed Mr Guenter Butschek.
Also  as a Director, he is nominated on the Board of certain subsidiary  companies.
It may be noted that the Company or its subsidiaries  does not additionally compensate him in any manner for these  additional activities.
3.
Remuneration proposed:  Details on remuneration have been stated in the Resolution  No.
6 of the Notice.
In monetary terms the remuneration for  the 3 year period from the date of his appointment is given  hereunder: (` in lakhs) Description 15.2.2016  to 15.2.2017 15.2.2017 to 15.2.2018 15.2.2018  to 15.2.2019 Salary 248.70 248.39 248.39 Perquisite and  allowances (includes  payment in lieu of  pension)# 1442.44 1342.99 1344.22  Commission, Bonus  and Performance  Linked Incentive*  @1004.00 1190.21  1241.96 Retirals  29.84 29.81 29.81  Total Remuneration 2724.98 2811.40  2864.38  # Certain Perquisites and Allowances are based on realistic assumptions * Incentive assumed at maximum level of €825,000, whereas the Agreement provides  a range from €550,000 to €825,000 @  Includes joining bonus and relocation expenses.
Note:   Remuneration of R2724.98 lakhs from February 15, 2016 to February 15, 2017 in US$  equivalent is US$ 4,057,221 (1USD=R67.1687 as on May 30, 2016)    The remuneration is denominated in € converted into R on the date of payment.
Foreign Exchange Rate is assumed at a constant of 1€ = R75, except for FY2015- 16 where it is paid on actual basis.
4.
Comparative Remuneration profi  le with respect to the  industry, size of the Company, profi  le of the position and  person (in case of expatriates, the relevant details would  be with respect to the country of its origin):  Remuneration of Mr Butschek is commensurate with the  remuneration of expatriates appointed at CEO/MD levels of similar  sized multinationals taking into consideration the responsibilities  shouldered by him.
Mr Butschek’s remuneration is commensurate  with his past remuneration and has been subjected to peer level  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 64 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports benchmarks for global automotive OEMs as per survey conducted  by Aon Hewitt, an independent consultant.
The table below  illustrates the requisite comparative data of the CEO remuneration  in the global industry at the time of his appointment: (` in lakhs) 10th  percentile 25th  percentile Median 75th  percentile 90th  percentile 2152 2913 3450 5187 6209 Exchange rate:1 € = R70.467  (Data Source: Aon Hewitt Compensation Study, Positions of Business Heads who are  Direct reports to the CEO for global automotive OEM’s.)
Note: It may be observed that the remuneration decided for Mr Butschek is  comparable with global auto OEM’s and be commensurate with the set benchmarks  taking into consideration the responsibilities being shouldered by him.
5.
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with the  company, or relationship with the managerial personnel,  if any:  Mr Butscheck has joined the Company in a professional capacity  and meets the criteria of a professional director with appropriate  qualiﬁ cations, does not hold any securities of the Company and is  not related to the promotors or any director of the Company.
Besides the remuneration paid/payable to Mr Butschek, there is  no other pecuniary relationship with the Company or with the  managerial personnel of the Company.
B. Mr Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) 1.
Background details: Mr. Pisharody aged 61, is a B.
Tech (Elec.
), PG Diploma in Management  (Marketing), with wide and varied experience in business and the  automobile industry.
2.
Past Remuneration: Financial Year 2015-16 2014-15 Basic Salary 66.84 62.40 Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances 62.22  60.71  Commission/ Incentive Remuneration 130.00  120.00  Retirement Beneﬁ  ts* 18.05 16.85 Total Remuneration 277.11 259.96 Less: Permissible Deductions under Schedule V (9.03) (8.49) Total Remuneration under Schedule V 268.08 251.47 Applicable Limits on remuneration under  Schedule V 318.39 327.86 *Excludes (a) provision for Special Retirement Benefi  ts of  r62.56 lakhs for FY 2015-16 and  r10.61 lakhs for Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015 respectively in view of their eligibility under the  applicable guidelines but would be payable only at the discretion of the Board (b) provision  for encashable leave and gratuity as separate actuarial valuation for Executive Directors is  not available.
Note: Remmuneration of R277.10 Lakhs for Fiscal 2016 in USD equivalent to $412,543  (1US$=R67.1687 as on May 30, 2016) It may be noted that in view of the ﬁ  nancial performance of  the Company on a standalone basis for the past few years,  the Company had signiﬁ  cantly reduced the variable portion  of the remuneration, viz.
incentive remuneration.
The salary  increments were decided based on industry benchmarks, the  Company’s growth plans and with a view to retain talent.
For  further information, please refer to point no.
5 pertaining to  ‘Comparative Remuneration Proﬁ  le’ .
The Company does not have an Employee Stock Option  Scheme for any of its employees or directors.
3.
Job profi  le and his suitability:  Mr Pisharody is the Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles)  since June 21, 2012.
He joined the Company in 2007 as Vice  President, Sales and Marketing.
He is responsible for the  Commercial Vehicle Business Unit of the Company involving  product design and development, manufacturing, sales and  marketing functions.
Since the time he took over as the Head of  Commercial Vehicles, he has held the business strong in the midst  of intensifying competition in every product segment.
Before  joining the Company, he worked with Castrol Ltd., a subsidiary  of British Petroleum and with Philips India, a subsidiary of the  Dutch company in various roles.
Mr Pisharody is an alumnus  of IIT, Kharagpur and IIM, Kolkata.
He actively participates as  a Member of National Council of the Confederation of Indian  Industry and is currently the Vice President of Society of Indian  Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM).
Under his able leadership  the Company has maintained a strong and innovative product  pipeline, pioneered novel customer service initiatives and  restructured network management bringing end-to-end  accountability.
Mr Pisharody has charted out the Company’s  long-term strategy for preserving the Company’s lead position  in the commercial vehicle segment in the Indian automobile  market and concurrently increasing market penetration in  international markets.
His eﬀ  ective leadership coupled with his  multi-industry experience and stellar academic record makes  him a valuable resource for the Company and would be best  suited for delivering the vision of the Company.
In addition to the above, he also Chairs the Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) Steering Committee of the Company and  participates in the CSR Committee of the Board.
Spearheads  and mentors the Critical Success Factor (CSF) initiatives of CVBU  focusing on improving internal eﬃ  ciencies, adopting globally  benchmarked best practices and increasing the proﬁ  tability  of the organization.
Reviews and oversees implementation  of Safety, Health and Environment related practices of the  Company and the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM)  guidelines.
He has also been mentoring the TBEM external  assessment team of other Tata companies over the years.
He  is part of the Company’s Diversity Council, apex body that  guides and reviews eﬀ orts to have a diversiﬁ  ed workforce.
As a  Director nominated on the Board of 10 subsidiary companies,  which includes the international subsidiaries in Thailand, South  Korea and Indonesia, he provides valued direction and business  (`in Lakhs) 65 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) acumen.
During the Fiscal 2016, he was the Chairman of the  Board of Tata Cummins Pvt.
Ltd., Tata Daewoo Commercial  Vehicles Co. Ltd., Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd. and Tata Motors  SA (Pty) Ltd.
It is worthy to note that the Company or these  subsidiaries (except Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Ltd. in  view of his signiﬁ  cant contributions as a Board Member, to its  improved performance) do not additionally compensate him,  in any manner, for these additional activities.
Achievements and Performance Highlights during FY 2015-16:  A robust leadership ensured that the Company maintained  industry leadership in the most challenging environment  with increased competition, as more and more global players  inﬁ  ltrated the industry.
The Company has been able to maintain  strong market share of 56% in the critical M&HCV truck segment.
 Oversaw 327 vehicle launches during the year in domestic as well  as international business, comprising of new generation vehicles  as well as derivatives and enhancements of existing product line,  covering various segments.
Prominent amongst these were the  SIGNA range of M&HCVs and ACE Mega, the all-new Smart and  Small Pick-up Truck.
Our products won 3 prestigious awards at the  Apollo CV Awards:  - Cargo carrier of the year - Tata LPS 4923   - School Bus of the year - Tata Cityride Skool Bus   - Special Application CV of the year - Tata MHC 2038  Development and implementation of the Commercial Vehicle  Business Unit (C VBU) Strategy, which included brand building,  focusing on organizational and leadership development to build  a cohesive CVBU team with aligned views, achieving enhanced  customer satisfaction and loyalty.
 Was instrumental in the expansion of global footprint through the  launch of Tata Prima in Kenya, Uganda and Bangladesh; Ultra Bus  in Sri Lanka; Ultra trucks in Bangladesh; Elanza bus in UAE and Ace  Express, Ace Mega in Sri Lanka and Nepal.
Continuing the journey  to be a true global player, the company also opened Assembly  units with third party vendors in Tunisia and Vietnam.
The Company  participated in key motor shows and conclaves around the world  such as the Colombo Motor Show, Nepal Automobile Dealers’  Association (NADA) Auto Show, Thailand Motor Expo, Thailand  Defense Expo and Malaysia Truck and Bus Components Expo.
 Continued the success of Prima Truck Racing Championship with  its Season 3 which attracted over 50,000 spectators.
The highlight  this year was the ﬁ  rst ever race of Indian truck racing talent,  trained and nurtured in India.
Tata Motors has conceptualized and  introduced an Indian Driver Training and Selection program - “T1  Racer Program” to induct and mould Indian truck drivers as ‘racers’ .
 Participated in SIAM Auto Expo 2016 and showcased future  technology solutions including Magic Iris Ziva, Starbus Hybrid  and Ultra Electric along with the SIGNA M&HCV range, ULTRA  1518 Sleeper, ACE MEGA XL and ULTRA 1415 4X4.
 Signed a contract to supply 25 Tata Starbus Diesel Series Hybrid  Electric Buses with Full Low ﬂ  oor conﬁ  guration, with the Mumbai  Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) – the  single largest order awarded for Hybrid Electric vehicle technology.
 The business was honored with the ‘Best Telematics Product or  Launch in the Emerging market’ award for its Telematics solution,  based on the popular Android platform developed for the Tata  Magic Iris Electric.
 Pioneered industry ﬁ  rst Marketing Service Initiatives such as Tata  Kavach, Tata Zippy, Truck World Advanced Trucking Expo and  driver engagement initiative ‘Ek Shaam Saarthi Ke Naam’ .
Tata  Motors Loyalty Program (Tata Delight and Tata Emperor) was  recognized by DMA Asia ECHO™ Awards and PMAA Dragons of  Asia.
 Leading growth of the critical Defense business with over r1,000  crores in revenue and over r1400 crores in order books.
The  business bagged an order to supply 1,239 units of high-mobility  6X6 multi-axle trucks, from the Indian Army – the single largest  order awarded to an Indian private OEM in land systems under the  DPP by the Indian Army, followed up with an additional order for  619 units.
Submitted the EOI for the USD 12 billion Future Infantry  Combat Vehicle (FICV) with Bharat Forge as the Consortium  Partner & General Dynamics as the Platform Integration Partner.
 Improved safety of working conditions across the CVBU and  reduced the frequency of accidents by 20% surpassing targets.
 Promoting energy eﬃ   cient manufacturing practices with our  plants winning several accolades - Golden Peacock Environment  Management award for Pantnagar plant, Lucknow plant won  the Bureau Energy Eﬃ   ciency National Energy Conservation  Award fourth time this year, Pune plant received CII-GBC Green  Co Best Practices Award-2015, First Prize titled ‘Excellence in  Energy Eﬃ  cient Unit-2015’ Award’ by CII for Dharwad plant and  Jamshedpur Plant has been rated ‘Green Co Gold’ by CII-Godrej  GBC Jamshedpur Plant became the ‘First Company in Eastern  India’ to achieve this prestigious rating.
Taking into consideration the qualiﬁ  cations, achievements and varied  experience, the Board continues to bestow upon Mr Pisharody the  responsibilities of Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles).
4.
Remuneration proposed:  Details on remuneration have been stated in the Resolution at  Item No.
7 of the Notice.
5.
Comparative remuneration profi le with respect to industry,  size of the company, profi  le of the position and person (in  case of expatriates the relevant details would be with respect  to the country of his origin):  In view of the ﬁ  nancial performance of the Company on a  standalone basis for the past few years, the Company had  signiﬁ  cantly reduced the variable portion of the remuneration, viz.
incentive remuneration.
The salary increments to the Executive  Director for FY 2015-16 of 7% was decided based on industry  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 66 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports benchmarks, the Company’s performance and growth plans and  with a view to retain talent.
The metrics used by the Nomination  and Remuneration Committee while deciding the salary increase  of 8% for FY 2016-17 were inter alia based on a survey conducted  by Aon Hewitt, an independent consultant, depicting an average  salary increase in India averaging around 10.6% and the Indian  automotive manufacturing industry the salary increment was  around 10%.
Remuneration paid/payable to Mr Pisharody, is commensurate  with industry standards and Board level positions held in  similar sized domestic companies, taking into consideration the  responsibilities shouldered by him.
The table below illustrates the  requisite comparative data: (` in lakhs) 10th  percentile 25th  percentile Median 75th  percentile 90th  percentile 670 790 925 1141 1445 (Data Source: Aon Hewitt Compensation Study, Positions of Business Heads (with P&L  responsibility) in companies with Revenues in excess of R10,000 crores in FY 2015-16.
The value represented above refers to Cost to Company, which includes basic salary, all  allowances benefi  ts valuations, performance bonuses / commissions and Long term  incentives.)
Note: A percentile is a measure used in statistics, indicating the value under  which a given percentage of observations in a group of observations fall.
For example, the  25th percentile is the value (or score) under which 25% of the observations may be found.
6.
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with the company,  or relationship with the managerial personnel, if any:  Besides the remuneration paid/payable to Mr Pisharody, there is  no other pecuniary relationship with the Company or with the  managerial personnel of the Company.
C. Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive Director (Quality) 1.
Background details:  Aged 63, is a B.
Tech (Hons.)
Mech, with wide experience in automobile  industry, particularly in manufacturing and quality functions.
2.
Past Remuneration: (` in Lakhs) Financial Year 2015-16 2014-15 Basic Salary  52.68 49.20 Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites and Allowances# 76.45 71.36 Commission/ Incentive Remuneration  100.00 80.00 Retirement Beneﬁ  ts*  14.22 13.28 Total Remuneration  2,43.35 213.84 Less: Permissible Deductions under Schedule V  (7.32) (6.90) Total remuneration under Schedule V 236.03 206.94 Applicable Limits on remuneration under Schedule 318.39 327.86 #Includes leave encashment *Excludes (a) provision for Special Retirement Benefi  ts of r41.54 lakhs for FY 2015-16 and credit  of r47.90 lakhs for FY 2014-15 in view of their eligibility under the applicable guidelines but  would be payable only at the discretion of the Board (b) provision for encashable leave and  gratuity as separate actuarial valuation for Executive Directors is not available.
It may be noted that in view of the ﬁ  nancial performance of  the Company on a standalone basis for the past few years, the  Company had signiﬁ  cantly reduced the variable portion of the  remuneration, viz.
incentive remuneration.
The salary increments  were decided based on industry benchmarks, the Company’s  growth plans and with a view to retain talent.
For further  information, please refer to point no.
5 pertaining to ‘Comparative  Remuneration Proﬁ  le’ .
The Company does not have an Employee Stock Option Scheme  for any of its employees or directors.
3.
Job profi le and suitability:  Mr Borwankar is the Executive Director (Quality) since June 21,  2012 and is responsible for the quality function for the Company  for both commercial and passenger vehicles.
Having started his  career with the Company in 1974, as a Graduate Engineer Trainee,  he has worked in various executive positions, for overseeing and  implementing product development, manufacturing operations  and quality control initiatives of the commercial vehicle business  unit of the Company.
He has played a signiﬁ  cant role in setting up  Greenﬁ  eld projects of the Company.
He also shoulders responsibility for reviewing and overseeing  the implementation of Safety, Health and Environment related  practices of the Company and the Tata Business Excellence  Model (TBEM) guidelines.
As a Director, nominated on the Board  of certain subsidiary companies, he provides valued direction  and insight.
Also “Sankalp” a suppliers’ improvement project,  mentored by him, is expected to transform the Company’s  supplier quality standards.
It is worthy to note that, the Company  or these subsidiaries do not additionally compensate him, in  any manner, for these additional activities undertaken by him.
The Company’s future strategy emphasises upon Quality  excellence as an important pillar for achieving its Vision.
Mr  Borwankar, an engineer from lIT Kanpur, with several years of  multi-functional experience spanning across the Company’s  value chain and has consistently delivered exceptional results  throughout his career.
He is an ideal candidate to help fructify  the vision of achieving par-excellence in product quality, as  envisioned by the Company.
Achievements and Performance Highlights during  FY 2015-16:  Introduced forward model quality and quality assessment  processes for the ﬁ  rst time in Tata Motors in 13-14, has now  developed the maturity.
This approach has helped in launching  defect free products like Zest, Bolt, Tiago in PV segment and Ultra  and Prima Variants in CV segment.
 Introduced Digital Craftsmanship assessment for new launches  started prior to the physical assessment as per the new rolled out  process, for PV, new product development.
67 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73)  Initiated Supplier Quality improvement through “Project Sankalp”  and “Supplier Quality Improvement Initiative (SQIT)” resulting  into substantial improvement of the selected suppliers on Safety,  Quality, Cost front.
 IT enablement has helped in strengthening the product Quality  through initiatives like Project Tantra & DDMS.
 Proactive ﬁ  eld, customer and dealer visits by plant teams are  continuing with r igor to understand the opportunities for  improvement and also to understand improvements carried are  meeting the customer satisfaction.
 In the recently held dealer Conference in May 2016, the Company’s  products were appreciated for signiﬁ  cant improvement in  quality, reliability & durability.
Dealers also mentioned about the  noteworthy reduction in warranty failures and warranty expenses  on these products.
 ‘Tata Motors Limited (India Operations)’ has been conferred the  ‘Golden Peacock National Quality Award’ for the year 2016 for its  signiﬁ  cant improvement in product & process Quality.
 During FY 16, Dharwad, Pantnagar, Lucknow & Jamshedpur plants  achieved WCQ Level 2, whereas subsidiaries like Pro-life & TMLDL  achieved WCQ Level 1.
 Product Quality improvement has resulted into Retro costs  reduction by more than 65%, resulting in a value creation of more  than r50 crores for the company.
 Aggressive actions to arrest thermal incidences has yielded very  good r esults in reducing the thermal instances and increased  customer safety.
 Perceived Quality of vehicles is observed to have taken a  quantum leap of improvement after the introduction of CPA and  Craftsmanship audits at all plants.
 Pune CV plant has achieved 6MMA IPTV of 85 and Dharwad Plant  has achieved IPTV of 70 & EPV 95.
These are below 100 for the ﬁ  rst  time ever.
 Zest and Bolt have reached 6 Months IPTV levels of 55~60 IPTV.
Storme and Sumo have reached their best IPTV performance in  the history, this year.
 Engine replacement within 30K Kms has been drastically reduced  on account of improved Quality.
 Due to sustained eﬀ orts on Chassis Transportation on Trailer, the  number of transit accidents have been reduced by 65% in 2 years.
 Dealer PDI time for rework & rectiﬁ  cation has been signiﬁ  cantly  reduced from 2 days to same day delivery within few hours.
 JDP IQS performance: TML PV products performance improved  from 13th rank, at the bottom of the chart to move up to 8th rank  in the 2015 IQS results.
The TML performance improved by 37 PPH  while the overall industry improved by 3 PPH.
 Nano stood second rank in the entry compact segment at 91 PPH,  the best performance by Nano so far in the JDP IQS.
Taking into consideration the qualiﬁ  cations, achievements  and varied experience, the Board continues to bestow upon  Mr Borwankar the responsibilities of Executive Director (Quality).
4.
Remuneration proposed:  Details on remuneration have been stated in the Resolution at  Item No.
8 of the Notice.
5.
Comparative remuneration profi le with respect to industry,  size of the company, profi  le of the position and person (in  case of expatriates the relevant details would be with respect  to the country of his origin):  In view of the ﬁ  nancial performance of the Company on a  standalone basis for the past few years, the Company had  signiﬁ  cantly reduced the variable portion of the remuneration,  viz.
incentive remuneration.
The salary increments to the  Executive Director for FY2015-16 of 7% was decided based on  industry benchmarks, the Company’s performance and growth  plans and with a view to retain talent.
The metrics used by the  Nomination and Remuneration Committee while deciding the  salary increase of 8% for FY2016-17 were inter alia based on a  survey conducted by Aon Hewitt, an independent consultant,  depicting an average salary increase in India averaging around  10.6% and the Indian automotive manufacturing industry the  salary increment was around 10%.
Remuneration paid/payable to Mr Borwankar, is commensurate  with industry standards and Board level positions held in  similar sized domestic companies, taking into consideration the  responsibilities shouldered by him.
The table below illustrates  the requisite comparative data: (`in lakhs) 10th  percentile 25th  percentile Median 75th  percentile 90th  percentile 298 359 375 523 693 (Data Source: Aon Hewitt Compensation Study, Positions of Business Heads (with a  functional responsibility) in companies with Revenues in excess of r10,000 crores in  FY 2015-16.
The value represented above refers to Cost to Company, which includes basic  salary, all allowances, benefi  ts valuations, performance bonuses / commissions and Long  term incentives.)
Note: A percentile is a measure used in statistics, indicating the value under which a  given percentage of observations in a group of observations fall.
For example, the 25th  percentile is the value (or score) under which 25% of the observations may be found.
6.
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with the company,  or relationship with the managerial personnel, if any:  Besides the remuneration paid/payable to Mr Borwankar, there  is no other pecuniary relationship with the Company or with the  managerial personnel of the Company.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 68 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports III.
OTHER INFORMATION 1.
Reasons of loss or inadequate profi ts:   For Fiscal 2016 the Consolidated revenue from operation (net of  Excise Duty) and Proﬁ  t After Tax was R2,75,561 crores and R11,024  crores respectively as against the Consolidated revenue and Proﬁ  t  After Tax of R2,63,159 crores and R 13,986 crores respectively, for  the corresponding period of the previous years.
The Standalone  revenue from operation (net of Excise Duty) and Proﬁ  t After Tax  for Fiscal 2016 was R42,370 crores and Proﬁ  t After Tax was R234  crores respectively as against the Standalone revenue and Loss  After Tax of R36,302 crores and R4,739 crores respectively for the  corresponding period of the previous year.
The loss as calculated  under Section 198 of the Act for FY 2015-16 was R456 crores.
The Indian economic environment has been very challenging  in the last few years i.e.
from FY 2012-13 to FY 2014-15 and the  downturn during this period has been one of the sharpest,  particularly the auto industry which shrunk by more than (8%),  within which, commercial vehicles (which account for more than  60% of the Company’s turnover), shrunk by 30%.
The Company was more severely impacted in view of certain  sectors performing more adversely, which impacted segments in  which the Company had larger volumes and higher market shares.
Small commercial vehicles wherein the Company has a market  share of more than 70% was severely challenged during this  period and is yet to show a recovery.
The Company’s Passenger  Vehicle business was also impacted by lack of new products in  the market and delays in product launches.
The Financial Year  2015-16 has seen a recovery of certain segments, noticeably the  M&HCV where the industry has grown by 9.6% in Fiscal 2016.
However, there is still low capacity utilization due to large installed  capacity and its impact is continuing to be felt in the ﬁ  nancial  performance.
In general, due to low capacity utilization amongst  automotive players and lower demand, there has been aggressive  competition in pricing, with marketing and selling cost increasing  substantially, thereby creating further pressure on the margins  and proﬁ  tability.
It may be worthwhile to note that Tata Motors’ Standalone  ﬁ  nancial performance reﬂ  ects positive results as compared to  previous year’s loss as stated above under Section 198 of the  Act, signifying a turnaround in the Company’s performance.
Tata  Motors’ Consolidated ﬁ  nancial performance continues to show  improvements (except for Q2FY15-16 due to weaker sales in  China and product mix and JLR vehicles being damaged due to  explosion at Tianjin port).
2.
Steps taken or proposed to be taken for improvement:    The Company has taken various initiatives, to maintain its  leadership, improve market share and ﬁ  nancial performance.
It has been aggressively pursuing and implementing its  strategies to improve volumes and reduce costs through  launch of new products, (particularly in passenger vehicles  planned since July 2014) coupled with sale, service, marketing  campaigns and customer engagement programs.
The Company has taken steps to strengthen its business  fundamentals through focused network engagements,  enhancing customer experience, thrust on rural programs and  Corporate: • SSON Excellence Awards 2015, Bronze for Excellence in  Customer Service • Maha-Entrepreneur 2015 awarded by Praj Industries and  Symbiosis International University.
Plants: Jamshedpur: • The Srishti Good Green Governance Award for the sixth  consecutive year • ‘Best Corporate Award’ for Jamshedpur Plant • Excellent Energy Eﬃ   cient Unit Award awarded by CII.
Lucknow: • CII Energy Eﬃ   cient Unit by Bureau of Energy Eﬃ   ciency,  Government of India  • “PARIVARTAN” (PE Shop) & “WARRIOR” (TCF Line 2) won  PAR Excellence Award (National Convention on Quality  concepts-2015) • National Energy Conservation Award –2015 for CVBU Lucknow Works  by CII.
Dharwad: • Excellent Energy Eﬃ   ciency awarded by CII • First Prize National Energy Conservation Award.
Pantnagar: • Conferred with the Golden Peacock National Quality Award for the  year 2016 for signiﬁ  cant improvement in product and process Quality • Best Company for CSR Initiatives in Uttarakhand 2015 by TV 100  Media Group and State Industrial Development Corporation of  Uttarakhand (SIDCUL) • Project ‘Sankalp’ in Supply Chain Category Awarded at PERP 2015.
Pune: • CII Green Co Best Practice Award in Life Cycle Assessment • CII Energy Eﬃ   cient Unit Award 2015.
CVBU:  Silver and Gold medals for T1 Prima Truck Racing Championship,  Season – 2, at EEMAX Global Awards 2015 for Best Public Event and  for Best Execution of a Sports Event, respectively.
Gold medals at  WOW Awards 2015 for the said events in the category of Sport Event  Property of the Year and New Property of the Year.
PVBU • Nano won 1st position at Brand Trust for Brand by The Brand Trust  Report, India Study 2013 & 2014 • Tata Motors made it to the ET best brands list for ET best brands 2016 • Tata Motors won Make in India award at T3 Awards for Make in India  category.
7.
Recognition or Awards:  Some of the signiﬁ  cant Awards and recognitions received by the Company during the year are given below: 69 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) improving working capital management.
On the International  front, the Company proposes to aggressively pursue its  traditional markets as also enter recently opened markets.
The  results of these initiatives are likely to be felt in the coming years.
Mr Guenter Butschek alongwith the Executive Directors will  be leading the Company in a major strategic and operational  transformation for signiﬁ  cant and sustained improvement  in the overall business and ﬁ  nancial performance.
This  transformation initiative under their leadership will  comprehensively cover all areas of the Company’s operations  in the Company like Company strategy, platform and  product strategy, manufacturing, supply chain, employee  and managerial productivity, cost reduction & eﬃ   ciency  improvements, improved eﬀ ectiveness in sales & marketing  and customer satisfaction / relationships and breakthrough  improvements in achieving world class quality standards.
The Company, under their leadership, will be drawing on  the 8 pillars of transformation initiatives under the following  categories for setting the agenda and targets:   i.
Enhancing the brand perception of Tata Motors- A  comprehensive exercise is being initiated to develop the  brand purpose and positioning of Tata Motors as a brand.
This will be then executed seamlessly across the value  chain to provide consistent and credible experience to the  stakeholders aligned to the Company’s brand promise.
ii.
Pro viding unique and delightful customer experience- Multiple  initiatives right from pre-sales stage to after sales have been  identiﬁ  ed to deliver high customer Satisfaction performance.
iii.
Excellence in delivery of new products- The initiatives  under this imperative focus on benchmarking with world  class new product development processes in order to  ensure consistency and adherence to the planned time,  cost and quality.
iv.
Delivering reliable and high quality products with focus on  world-class quality processes- There are several projects  initiated to deliver high quality products by improving  internal process capabilities and supplier processes.
v.  World-class manufacturing – This stream’s focus is to  improve the productivity performance and delivery  versus schedule.
There are additional projects undertaken  to reduce manufacturing related costs and yield  improvement.
The Company believes that this initiative  will enable it to support and strengthen the ‘Make in India  Campaign’ , for encouraging India to become a key center  for global manufacturing.
vi.
Agile and Cost-eﬀ  ective Supply Chain- This stream’s  focus will be to improve the supply-chain processes like  Material Requirement Planning, strengthen relationship  with Strategic suppliers, rationalize the supplier base for  agility, improve manufacturing and quality processes  and information systems.
Considering the size and scale  of the Company’s operations and the vast supply chain  relationships, this will again strengthen and support the  Government’s aim under the ‘Make in India Campaign’ .
vii.
Cost competitiveness – There are more than 50 initiatives,  addressing each and every cost element for cost  competitiveness, with clear targets in cost areas like Direct  Material, Marketing, Fixed Cost, Variable Conversion Cost,  Product Development Costs, etc.
These projects will help  in signiﬁ  cantly reducing the Company’s cost structure.
It  will be relevant to add that this cost reduction initiative  will help not only the Company, but the entire value  chain, including hundreds of vendors and other partners,  providing further strength and support to the ‘Make in  India Campaign’ .
viii.
People processes and organization structure- In this  initiative, projects have been undertaken to drive high- performance culture, improve functional competencies,  improve employee engagement, achieve benchmark  levels of employee productivity and build a pipeline of  talented workforce      It will be worthwhile to note that under the above  eight pillars, the Company has over a 100 individual  initiatives on which various cross functional teams of high  performers across the organization have been identiﬁ  ed  and deployed.
To support the Company in the pursuit  of above initiatives, the leadership team is also drawing  upon and will be drawing upon their vast international  experience, benchmark processes and approach, as well  as drawing upon their vast experience and expertise in  leading transformational programs.
The Company expects this journey of transformation  to take 2 to 3 years and will help the Company achieve  signiﬁ  cant growth, improve market share in all our  segments, be amongst the top in India in terms of quality  through cost eﬃ  cient operations and a highly motivated  and engaged team.
3.
Expected increase in productivity and profi  ts in measurable terms:  Coinciding with the improvements in the macro economic  scenario and as may be seen from the Company’s ﬁ  nancial  results, the Company has posted EBITDA R2,740 crores in  Fiscal 2016 as compared to negative EBITDA of R800 crores  in the previous FY2014-15.
New product launches have been  stepped up, particularly in the Passenger Vehicle business with  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 70 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports the launch of Bolt and Zest in FY2015-16 and the Tiago in early  FY2016-17.
Further, in order to deleverage the Company to  reduce the borrowing costs, the Company has raised equity  from the Shareholders (including Promoters) to the extent  of about R 7,498 crores in May 2015.
This helped curtail the  borrowings and reduce interest costs.
With more and improved  products in the pipeline and the number of initiatives/actions  underway, the Company expects to signiﬁ  cantly step up its  operating and ﬁ  nancial performance in the next few quarters  and in the coming ﬁ  nancial years.
With Mr Butschek and the Senior Leadership Team’s  broad functional, general management skills and wide  international experience, they would provide Tata Motors with  profound knowledge in complex restructuring/turnaround  programmes, provide inputs on robust world-class process  know-how in operations and accelerate transformation to  a high performance culture by onboarding employees and  creating ownership in the organization.
The Board is of the  view, that this leadership creates international, multinational  teams and fosters a culture of cross-functional teamwork,  agility and accountability.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee currently  comprising of three independent directors [viz.
Mr N Wadia  (as Chairman of the Committee), Mr S Bhargava and Dr R A  Mashelkar] and Mr Cyrus P Mistry, Non-Executive Chairman  of the Board, reviews and recommends the changes in the  remuneration on a yearly basis.
This review is based on the  Balance Score Card that includes the performances of the  Company and the individual director on certain deﬁ  ned  qualitative and quantitative parameters such as volumes,  EBITDA, cash ﬂ  ows, cost reduction initiatives, safety, strategic  initiatives and special projects as decided by the Board vis-à- vis targets set in the beginning of the year.
This review also  takes into consideration the benchmark study undertaken by  reputed independent HR agencies on comparative industry  remuneration and practices.
The decisions taken at the  Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board are  within the broad framework of remuneration as approved by  the Members.
The Company remains committed to pursue the long term  interest of all stakeholders, including the Company’s Members  and employees.
It is necessary to balance this with recruiting  and retaining industry proven management team through  the long term.
This involves ensuring that the Company’s  leadership and talent base is appropriately remunerated,  notwithstanding cyclical phases.
This is particularly important  when the Company has ongoing signiﬁ  cant turnaround and  growth strategies under execution.
Taking into consideration the above and the terms of  appointment (including payment of Minimum Remuneration)  agreed with the Mr Butschek, Mr Pisharody and Mr Borwankar  and based on the recommendation of the Nomination and  Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors have on May  30, 2016, accorded their approval to the said proposals and in  the interest of the Company have recommended the aforesaid  resolutions set out at Item Nos.
5 to 8 in this Notice for the  approval of the Members.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company and their relatives is in any way concerned or  interested in the said Resolutions, except for Mr Butschek, Mr  Pisharody and Mr Borwankar in the respective Resolutions at  Item Nos.5 to 8 of the Notice.
Item No.9 Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies (Cost  Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time,  the Company is required to have the audit of its cost records for  speciﬁ  ed products conducted by a Cost Accountant in Practice.
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board  had on May 27, 2016, approved the appointment and remuneration  of M/s Mani & Co., the Cost Auditors (ICAI Firm Registration No  000004) to conduct the audit of the Cost records maintained by  the Company, pertaining to the relevant products prescribed under  the aforesaid Rules, for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2017 at  a remuneration of r5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs) plus service tax,  out-of-pocket, travelling and living expenses.
It may be noted that the records of the activities under Cost Audit  is no longer prescribed for “Motor Vehicles and certain parts and  accessories thereof” .
However, based on the recommendations of  the Audit Committee, the Board has also approved the appointment  of M/s Mani & Co. for submission of reports to the Company on  cost records pertaining to these activities for a remuneration of  r15,00,000 (Rupees Fifteen Lakhs) for the said ﬁ  nancial year.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act  read along with Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)  Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, ratiﬁ  cation for the  remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors to audit the cost records  of the Company for the said ﬁ  nancial year by way of an Ordinary  Resolution is being sought from the Members as set out at Item No.
9 of the Notice.
M/s Mani & Co have furnished a certiﬁ  cate dated May 6, 2016  regarding their eligibility for appointment as Cost Auditors of the  Company.
The Board commends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item No.
9  of the Notice for approval by the Members.
71 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives are,  in any way, concerned or interested, ﬁ  nancially or otherwise, in the  resolution set out at Item No.
9 of the Notice Item No.
10 The Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) issued on private  placement basis is one of the cost eﬀ  ective sources of long term  borrowings raised by the Company.
The Company had obtained  the approval of the Members vide Postal Ballot on June 27, 2014  to borrow from time to time any sum(s) of monies which, together  with monies already borrowed by the Company (apart from  temporary loans obtained or to be obtained from the Company’s  Bankers in the ordinary course of business) upto an amount not  exceeding €30,000 crores.
The borrowings of the Company as  at March 31, 2016 aggregate approximately r15,887.25 crores,  of which outstanding NCDs aggregate to r5,550 crores.
The  Company’s Net Debt-Equity ratio (on stand-alone basis) as at March  31, 2016 is 0.61:1 and the Company believes that the aggregate  borrowings would be well within acceptable levels.
Further, the  Company had obtained Members’ approval for borrowing up to  r4,400 crores by way of NCDs at the Annual General Meeting held  on August 13, 2015, which is valid for a period of one year from  date of the said approval.
The Company has borrowed r600 crores  by way of unsecured NCDs up to May 2016, in accordance with the  aforesaid Members’ approval.
In continuation of its eﬀ  orts to strengthen its capital structure,  the Company intends to augment the resources through a mix  of internal accruals and long term borrowings.
Accordingly, it  is proposed to issue NCDs and/or Rupee Denominated Non- Convertible Foreign Currency Bonds on a private placement basis  aggregating upto r3,000 crores, in one or more series/tranches  during the 12 month period from the date of this Annual General  Meeting, with an intention to ﬁ  nance, inter alia the repayment  of certain NCDs/term loans from Banks and to fund part of the  ongoing capital expenditure during the next 12 months as  also for general corporate purposes.
The Company intends to  raise NCDs on face value (at par) for tenors ranging between  2 to 10 years and expects the coupon rate of NCDs to be lower  than 1 year MCLR rate of State Bank of India (prevailing at 9.15%  p.a.
as on June 1, 2016) plus a spread of 50 bps, considering the  current credit rating of the Company of AA by ICRA and AA+ by CARE.
Under Rule 14 of the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of  Securities) Rules, 2014 (“Rules”), a company making a private  placement of its securities is required to obtain the approval of the  Members by way of a Special Resolution for each oﬀ  er or invitation  before making such oﬀ er.
However, incase of oﬀ er for NCDs, it shall  be suﬃ  cient if the Company passes a previous Special Resolution  only once in a year for all the oﬀ  ers or invitation for such debentures  during the year.
Considering the above, the Company proposes to obtain  shareholders’ approval for borrowings up to r3,000 crores by way  of secured / unsecured NCDs and / or Rupee Denominated Foreign  Currency Bonds for tenors ranging between 2 to 10 years.
This  would be an enabling Resolution authorizing the Board of Directors  to make speciﬁ  c issuances based on the Company’s requirements,  market liquidity and appetite at the opportune time.
The above proposal as set out in Item No.
10 of the Notice is in the  interest of the Company and your Directors commend the same for  approval by the Members.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives  are in any way concerned or interested, ﬁ  nancially or otherwise in  the resolution set out at Item No.
10 of the Notice.
By Order of the Board of Directors   H K SETHNA Mumbai   Company Secretary May 30, 2016  FCS No.
: 3507 Registered Offi  ce: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: +91 22 6665 8282; Fax: +91 22 6665 7799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com; Website: www.tatamotors.com  CIN - L28920MH1945PLC004520 Corporate Overview Financial Statements 72 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Particulars Mr Guenter Butschek Mr Ravindra Pisharody Mr Satish Borwankar Director Identifi cation Number 07427375 01875848 01793948 Date of Birth October 21, 1960 November 24, 1955 July 15, 1952 Date of Appointment February 15, 2016 June 21, 2012 June 21, 2012 Qualifi cations Graduated in Business Administration and  Economics with a diploma from the University  of Cooperative Education Stuttgart, Germany Alumnus of IIT, Kharagpur and IIM,  Kolkata B.E (Mech) – IIT, Kanpur Expertise in specifi c functional  areas Global experience in international automotive  management, functional (in particular  manufacturing, logistics, human resources and  procurement) and general management skills Wide experience in sales, marketing  and business development Wide experience in  implementing product  development, manufacturing  operations and quality control  initiatives Directorships held in other  companies • Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company  Limited, South Korea • Tata Cummins Private Limited • Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited • Tata Cummins Private Limited • Tata International Limited • Tata Motors Finance Limited • Automobile Corporation of Goa  Limited • Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera SA • Tata Hispano Motors Carrosseries  Maghreb, Morocco • Tata International Singapore Pte  Limited • Nita Company Limited,  Bangladesh • Tata Daewoo Commercial  Company Limited, Korea • Tata Motors (SA) (PTY) Limited • Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited • PT Tata Motors Indonesia • PT Tata Motors Distribusi  Indonesia • TNML Motor Service Nigeria  Limited • TML Drivelines Limited • Tata Daewoo Commercial  Vehicle Company Limited • Tata Cummins Private Limited • Tata Motors (Thailand)  Limited • TAL Manufacturing Solutions  Limited Memberships/Chairmanships  of statutory committees across  companies Nil Audit  • Tata International Limited • Tata Cummins Private Limited NRC • Automobile Corporation of Goa  Limited CSR • Tata Motors Finance Limited NRC • TML Drivelines Limited No.
of shares held in the  Company Nil AOS-50 Nil For other details, such as number of meetings of the Board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other directors  and key managerial personnel in respect of the above directors please refer to the Board’s Report and the Corporate Governance Report.
Details of Directors seeking appointment and re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Pursuant to SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretaial Standard - 2 on General Meetings 73 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (46-73) BOARD’S REPORT  Tata  Motors (Standalone) Tata Motors Group  (Consolidated)  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 FINANCIAL RESULTS      Gross Revenue   46,646.67      39,531.23 280,096.72   266,707.90  Net Revenue (excluding excise duty)   42,369.82      36,301.63 275,561.11   263,158.98  Total expenditure   39,629.67      37,101.64 235,324.45  221,045.16  Operating proﬁ  t/(loss)      2,740.15       (800.01)  40,236.66     42,113.82  Other Income      2,132.92        1,881.41       981.72         898.74  Proﬁ  t before interest, depreciation, amortization, exceptional item and tax      4,873.07         1,081.40       41,218.38      43,012.56  Finance cost      1,481.11        1,611.68     4,623.35       4,861.49  Cash proﬁ  t/(loss)      3,391.96        (530.28)   36,595.03    38,151.07  Depreciation, amortization and product development/engineering expenses      2,878.36         3,040.69       20,494.61      16,263.80  Proﬁ  t/(loss) for year before exceptional items and tax         513.60    (3,570.97)  16,100.42     21,887.27  Exceptional Items - loss (net)         363.21           403.75    2,119.55         184.71  Proﬁ  t/(loss) before tax         150.39    (3,974.72)  13,980.87     21,702.56  Tax expenses/(credit) (net)         (83.84)           764.23    2,872.60      7,642.91  Proﬁ  t/(loss) after tax         234.23    (4,738.95)  11,108.27     14,059.65  Share of minority interest and share of proﬁ  t of associates (net) - -        (84.52)        (73.36) Proﬁ  t/(loss) for the year         234.23    (4,738.95)  11,023.75     13,986.29    APPROPRIATIONS Proﬁ  t/(loss) for the year         234.23     (4,738.95)  11,023.75    13,986.29  Add: Balance brought forward from previous year   (3,667.96)          977.59  54,487.17     40,530.48  Amount available for appropriations   (3,433.73)     (3,761.36)  65,510.92    54,516.77  Less: appropriations/(transfer from/to)      General Reserve         3,506.73                     -           3,483.73           (21.00)  Other Reserves                   -                     -           (32.98)            (39.52)  Dividend (including dividend distribution tax)            (73.00)            93.40         (111.28)        30.92 Balance carried to Balance Sheet   -    (3,667.96)  68,850.39     54,487.17   (` in crores) TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED The Directors present their Seventy First Annual Report alongwith the Audited Statement of Accounts for Fiscal 2016.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY DIVIDEND  Considering the Company’s ﬁ  nancial performance, the Directors  have recommended a dividend of r0.20 per share (10%) on the  capital of 2,887,203,602 Ordinary Shares of r2/- each (Nil for last year)  and r0.30 per share (15%) on the capital of 508,476,704 ‘A’ Ordinary  Share of r2/- each for Fiscal 2016 (Nil for last year) and the same will  be paid on or after August 11, 2016.
The said dividend, if approved by  the Members, would involve a cash outﬂ  ow of r73 crores including  dividend distribution tax (net of credit), resulting in a payout of 31.2%  of standalone proﬁ  ts for Fiscal 2016 of the Company.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES The proﬁ  t for the Fiscal 2016 is r234.23 crores.
As the dividend has  been declared from Reserves, a part of General Reserve has been  adjusted against the accumulated loss in the Proﬁ  t and Loss Account.
Accordingly, the balance of r3,506.73 crores is transferred from  General Reserves to the Proﬁ  t and Loss Account.
OPERATING RESULTS AND PROFITS The global macroeconomic landscape in Fiscal 2016 was rough  and uncertain and characterized by weak growth of world output.
The situation has been compounded by; (i) declining prices of a  number of commodities, with reduction in crude oil prices being  the most visible of them, (ii) turbulent ﬁ  nancial markets (specially  the equity markets) and (iii) volatile exchange rates.
Global growth  remained moderate with uneven prospects across the major  economies.
The outlook for advanced economies is improving,  while growth in emerging market and developing economies is  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 74 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports projected to be lower, primarily reﬂ  ecting weaker prospects for  certain large emerging market economies alongside oil and raw  material exporting economies.
Oil prices have declined during Fiscal  2016 due to weaker than expected global activity and a weaker  demand for oil.
Exchange rate movements in recent months have  been sizable, reﬂ  ecting changes in expectations about growth and  monetary policy across major economies.
Long-term government  bond yields have declined in major advanced economies, reﬂ  ecting  in part lower inﬂ  ation expectations, the sharp decline in oil prices  and weak domestic demand.
The US economy growth was stronger than with accompanying  job growth, resulting in a decline in the unemployment rate.
The  Eurozone showed signs of economic improvement in 2015, with  consumption supported by lower oil prices and higher net exports,  driven by lower energy prices, a weaker Euro and a loose monetary  policy by the European Central Bank.
In Fiscal 2015, GDP in the UK  slowed a little, but consumer spending growth remained relatively  strong, partially due to lower oil prices.
China recorded a pronounced  deceleration in growth in Fiscal 2015, which suggests that China’s   slowdown over the past few years shows little sign of abating.
The  GDP growth rate moderated to 6.9% for Fiscal 2015 and coincided,  with growing debt and  excess housing and factory capacity.
Brazil’s  economy sank into the deepest recession in recent history in 2015,  amid low prices for key exports, soaring inﬂ  ation and depressed  conﬁ  dence levels.
Economic performance in Russia was impacted  by the increase in geopolitical tensions, lower crude oil prices and  economic sanctions.
However, India has registered a robust and steady pace of economic  growth in Fiscal 2016 with GDP increased by 7.6%.
Wholesale price  inﬂ  ation has been in negative territory for more than a year and the  all important consumer prices inﬂ  ation has declined to nearly half  of what it was a few years ago.
However, weak growth in advanced  and emerging economies has taken its toll on India’s exports.
As  imports have also declined, principally on account of reduced prices  of crude oil for which the country is heavily dependent on imports,  trade and current account deﬁ  cits continue to be moderate.
Growth  in agriculture has slackened due to two successive years of less than- normal monsoon rains.
The rupee has depreciated vis-à-vis the US  dollar, like most other currencies in the world, although less so in  magnitude.
At the same time, it has appreciated against a number of  other major currencies.
The Tata Motors Group  registered a growth of 5.0% in gross  turnover to r280,097 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to r266,708  crores in Fiscal 2015.
The consolidated revenue (net of excise) for  Fiscal 2016 r275,561 crores grew by 4.7% over last year on the back  of strong growth in wholesale volumes across products of Jaguar  Land Rover and complemented by strong M&HCV sales in India.
The consolidated EBITDA margins for Fiscal 2016 stood at 14.6%.
Consequently, Proﬁ  t Before and After Tax were r13,981 crores and  r11,024 crores respectively.
Tata Motors Limited  recorded a gross turnover of r46,647 crores,  18.0% higher from r39,531 crores in the previous year.
Tailwinds  from improving macros - softening interest rates, lower fuel cost  and inﬂ  ation, steady replacement demand from large ﬂ  eet operators  has supported sales growth in M&HCV resulting in signiﬁ  cant  improvement in EBITDA margins to 6.5% in Fiscal 2016 as against  negative 2.2% in Fiscal 2015.
Proﬁ  t Before and After Tax for Fiscal 2016  was at r150 crores and r234 crores respectively, as compared to Loss  Before and After Tax of r3,975 crores and r4,739 crores, respectively  for last Fiscal.
Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) (as per IFRS) recorded revenue of GB£22,208  million ( r219,019 crores) for Fiscal 2016, up 1.6% from the £21,866  million (r215,646 crores) in the last Fiscal Year, primarily reﬂ  ecting the  successful introduction of new products.
Consolidated EBITDA for Fiscal 2016 was strong at GB£3,147 million  (r31,036 crores) but down compared to Fiscal 2015 of GB£4,132 million  (r40,750 crores), primarily driven by softer market and model mix and as  well as one-time reserves and charges of GB£166 million (r1,637 crores)  including the US recall of potentially faulty passenger airbags supplied  by Takata, doubtful debts and previously capitalised investment.
Proﬁ  t Before Tax (PBT) in Fiscal 2016 was GB£1,557 million ( r15,355  crores) down by GB£1,057 million compared to the record PBT of  GB£2,614 million (` 25,780 crores) in Fiscal 2015 primarily reﬂ  ecting  the lower EBITDA, higher depreciation and amortisation and the  net exceptional charge of GB£157 million ( r1,638 crores) related  to vehicles damaged or destroyed in the Tianjin port explosion in  August 2015, partially oﬀ  set by favourable revaluation of US Dollar  debt and unrealised FX and commodity hedges as well as proﬁ  ts  earned in the China Joint Venture.
Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) (consolidated) the Company’s  captive ﬁ  nancing subsidiary, registered a growth in revenues  by 8.0%   to r2,968  crores  (previous  year:  r2,743  crores) and reported a Proﬁ  t  After Tax of r267 crores in Fiscal 2016, as compared to Loss  after Tax   of r611 crores in Fiscal 2015.
TMFL ’s concerted eﬀ  orts on collection  and NPA management strategy has helped to reduce credit losses  and gross non-performing assets during Fiscal 2016.
Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (TDCV)  (as per Korean GAAP) South Korea registered revenues of KRW 880  billion (r5,096 crores), a decline of 11% over the previous year mainly  due to lower export sales partially oﬀ  set by increase in domestic  sales.
The Proﬁ  t after tax was KRW 46 billion ( r264 crores) compared  to KRW 54 billion ( r304 crores) of previous year which included  one-time reversal of provisions pertaining to ordinary wage lawsuit  KRW 24 billion ( r136 crores).
Better proﬁ  tability of Euro 6 vehicles,  better mix, favourable exchange realizations, continuous material  cost reduction, various cost control and inventory initiatives helped  in improving proﬁ  ts.
75 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) VEHICLE SALES AND MARKET SHARES  The Tata Motors Group sales for the year stood at 1,064,596 vehicles,  up by 6.7% as compared to Fiscal 2015.
Global sales of all Commercial  Vehicles were 390,953 vehicles, while sales of Passenger Vehicles were  at 673,643 vehicles.
TATA MOTORS Tata Motors recorded sales of 511,931 vehicles, a growth of 1.5%  over Fiscal 2015.
The Indian Auto Industry, grew in Fiscal 2016 by  8%, resulting in the Company’s market share decreasing to 13.1% in  Fiscal 2016 from 14.1% in the previous year.
The Company’s exports  on standalone basis grew by 16.3% to 58,058 vehicles in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to 49,936 vehicles in Fiscal 2015.
Commercial Vehicles Within the domestic market, the Company sold 326,755 Commercial  Vehicles (CV), a growth of 2.8% from Fiscal 2015 driven by volume  expansion across segments.
While M&HCVs have been growing  through the year, the LCV segment witnessed positive growth during  the second half of the Fiscal 2016, both in goods and passenger  carrier segment.
M&HCV trucks continued strong growth, registering  a 30.0% rise over last Fiscal Year and the Company has been able to  retain a strong market share of 56% in this category.
Some of the highlights for the year were:  Launched the new SIGNA range of M&HCV, at the SIAM Auto  Expo 2016.
Oﬀ  ered in various conﬁ  gurations, the SIGNA range  of commercial vehicles is engineered and built to oﬀ er M&HCV  buyers, a newly designed cabin, with proven Tata Motors  aggregates, for a world-class trucking experience   Launch of ACE Mega, the all-new Smart and Small Pick-up Truck  with superior performance, enhanced looks, strong cabin with  rated payload of 1Tonne, which oﬀ  ers the best-in-class fuel  eﬃ  ciency and lowest cost of ownership  Achieved a new feat in the last mile public transport portfolio  by reaching a remarkable sales mark of 3 Lakh Tata Magic, our  most popular public transport vehicle  Celebrated the 10 th anniversary of the Tata Ace (launched in  2005) as the ‘Decade of Trust’ throughout the country  The Company has been honoured with the ‘Best Telematics  Product or Launch in the Emerging Market’ Award for its  Telematics solution, based on the popular Android platform  developed for the Tata Magic Iris Electric  This year, the Company won 4 prestigious awards at the Apollo  CV Awards:   Cargo carrier of the year - Tata LPS 4923    School Bus of the year - Tata Cityride Skool Bus    Special Application CV of the year - Tata MHC 2038    CV dealer of the year - Bhandari Automotive (Tata Motors  dealership).
Organized the Prima Truck Racing Championship Season 3,  which drew in over 55,000 spectators.
The highlight this year  was the ﬁ  rst ever race of Indian truck racing talent, trained  and nurtured in India.
The Company has conceptualized and  introduced an Indian Driver Training and Selection program - “T1  Racer Program” to induct and mold Indian truck drivers as ‘racers’  Participated in the SIAM Auto Expo 2016 and the following  vehicles were showcased:  SIGNA range of M&HCV Trucks   Tata ULTRA 1518 Sleeper from the Ultra range with 15.7T  GVW and furnished with a spacious cabin and a fully trimmed  power steering, seating three, along with a bed, ensures a  safe and comfortable working design for the driver  ACE MEGA XL – Last mile cargo transport with a rated  payload of 1Ton, 8-feet loading deck, with a top speed of  80 km/hr  MAGIC IRIS ZIVA – gearless, clutchless with futuristic  Hydrogen Fuel Cell technologies, for zero emissions  ULTRA 1415 4X4 – A 4X4 rugged performer, with a snow  plough and a hydraulic crane  STARBUS HYBRID – World’s ﬁ  rst commercially produced  CNG H ybrid Bus, using Electric and CNG modes (BS IV  compliant) as fuel  ULTRA ELECTRIC – First full-electric bus from the Company,  with zero emissions and noiseless operations.
Participated in EXCON 2015 and showcased four new  construction vehicles - Tata PRIMA 3138.K 32 CuM Coal Tipper,  Tata PRIMA LX 2523.K RePTO, Tata PRIMA LX 3128.K 19 CuM  Scoop HRT and Tata SAK 1613  Tata Motors Loyalty Program (Tata Delight and Tata Emperor)  was recognized by DMA Asia ECHO™ Awards and PMAA  Dragons of Asia in December 2015  Awarded contract for 1,239 indigenously developed 6X6 high  mobility multi-axle vehicles, from the Indian Army which was  recently followed up with a repeat order for 619 units  Signed a contract to supply 25 Tata Starbus Diesel Series Hybrid  Electric Bus with Full Low ﬂ oor conﬁ guration, with the Mumbai  Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) – the  single largest order awarded for Hybrid Electric vehicle technology.
Passenger Vehicles The domestic passenger vehicle industry grew by 7.6% during  Fiscal 2016.
Correction in fuel prices and easing ﬁ  nancing cost  has resulted in lower operating cost, which should further aid  domestic PV growth in near to medium term.
During the year, the  Company’s Passenger Vehicles sales were lower by 7.0% at 127,118  vehicles, registering a 4.6% market share.
The Company sold 106,827  cars (lower by 3.8%) and 20,291 utility vehicles and vans (lower by  20.6%).
The Company’s sales in the Utility Vehicle segment suﬀ  ered  as competitive activity intensiﬁ  ed with multiple new launches  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 76 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports mainly in the soft-roader category in this segment.
The Company  has taken various initiatives to improve its performance such as  product refreshes/launch programs, operational eﬃ   ciency, dealer  eﬀ ectiveness, working capital management and restructuring  customer facing functions.
Some of the highlights of this year’s performance were:  Product Launches/Refreshes continued under the Horizonext  Strategy  GenX-Nano range was launched in May 2015, with latest  technological advancements and design upgrade  Safari Storme 400Nm was launched in November 2015, with  high power/torque engine and new six speed manual gearbox.
The Made of Great Brand Campaign was launched to uplift the  Tata Motors brand in conjunction with Lionel Messi  Hexa SUV, Kite 5 compact sedan and Nexon compact SUV were  displayed at Auto Expo 2016.
As a part of the overall social responsibility, the Company had  to postpone the launch of  “Tiago” , due to the change in name  responding against the epidemic “Zika” .
The above new/refreshed product launches were in-line with  the Company’s objective of taking the brand to a higher level,  while making it relevant for the younger buyer.
The Company  continued to focus on building brand strengths, refreshing  products and enhancing sales and service experience.
Exports The Company exported 58,058 vehicles (Fiscal 2015: 49,936  vehicles) comprising 54,052 units of Commercial Vehicles and 4,006  units of Passenger Vehicles during Fiscal 2016.
Export of Commercial Vehicles grew by 16.5% in Fiscal 2016 with  54,052 units exported compared to 46,416 in Fiscal 2015.
The  traditional markets of SAARC remained stronger than last year  growing by 26% with Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal contributing  to the growth.
However, the mid-term duty change in Sri Lanka and  the lockdown in Nepal impacted the growth momentum.
However,  the subsequent opening of border and easing of pent up demand  led to record shipments to Nepal in Q4 of Fiscal 2016.
Low crude  oil prices, Middle East geo-political situation, currency devaluations  and political strife cast a big shadow over our strong markets of  Middle East and Africa this year.
The Company was able to grow  market share in the key markets of Sri Lanka, Kenya, Nepal, Ghana,  Congo and Senegal.
In Fiscal 2016, the Company successfully  bagged and executed several prestigious orders including 450  units Xenon troop carriers for the Ministry of Defence Myanmar  taking the total order count to 1,450 units; 87 units of Elanza school  buses in Saudi Arabia; 50 units Prima 4,438 in Saudi Arabia; 44 units  Ultra truck delivery to Pran RFL Bangladesh and more that 1,000  units Tata Saathi, an application on the ACE platform to Bangladesh.
Some of the key events in Fiscal 2016 were the launch of Tata Prima in  Kenya, Uganda and Bangladesh; Ultra Bus in Sri Lanka; Ultra trucks in  Bangladesh; Elanza bus in UAE and Ace Express, Ace Mega in Sri Lanka  and Nepal.
The Company also opened Assembly units with 3rd party  vendors in Tunisia and Vietnam.
In Fiscal 2016, the Company achieved  a key milestone of 1,000 Prima retails in export markets.
During the period Fiscal 2016, the Company’s exports of Passenger  Vehicles at 4,006 units were 13.8% higher than in Fiscal 2015, mainly  due to improved sales in key markets like Sri Lanka and South Africa.
Aggressive eﬀ orts on the back of the launch of Nano GenX and  retails of Indica Xeta gave us strong volume growth in Sri Lanka,  whereas in South Africa sales were boosted by the launch of the  Bolt (hatchback) and Zest (compact sedan).
In Nepal, the launch of Bolt has helped the Company to improve  its share of the hatch segment whereas Zest helped to augment  Company’s presence in the compact sedan segment and Sumo  continues to be the Number One selling brand in UVs in Nepal.
Indigo also found an increased acceptance in the commercial  segment in Bangladesh, the Philippines and Uruguay.
JAGUAR LAND ROVER (JLR) In Fiscal 2016, JLR continued to experience growth in all  geographical markets, except China with total wholesale sales of  544,085 units, a growth of 15.6% as compared to Fiscal 2015.
JLR  total retail sales were up 12.8%, with Jaguar up 22.8% and Land  Rover up 10.9%.
Sales were higher in the majority of markets in  Fiscal 2016 as retails in the UK increased by 23.8% year on year,  North America by 27.1% and Europe by 42.0% whilst sales growth in  other Overseas markets were broadly similar to last year.
However,  retail sales in China were down 16.4% primarily reﬂ  ecting softer  economic conditions in China at the beginning of the year, the  timing of new product launches and the transition of production  to our China Joint Venture.
Some of the highlights of this year were:  The new Jaguar XE went on general retail sale in May 2015  The refreshed 16 Model Year Range Rover Evoque  went on  sale in August 2015  Launch of the all new lightweight Jaguar XF went on sale in  September 2015  Production of the Land Rover Discovery Sport  commenced  at the China Joint Venture and went on sale locally in  November 2015  Launch of the refreshed 16 Model Year Jaguar XJ went on sale  in December 2015  Jaguar’s all new luxury performance SUV was revealed to the  public and went on sale at the end of the year  Very own 4 cylinder diesel engine produced at the Engine  Manufacturing Centre in Wolverhampton in the UK was ﬁ  rst  introduced into the Jaguar XE and is now available in some of  other vehicles such as the Jaguar XF, Range Rover Evoque  and Land Rover Discovery Sport 77 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117)  Announced an additional GB£450 million investment in the  Engine Manufacturing Centre in Wolverhampton to double  capacity bringing total investment to almost GB£1 billion  Announcement that an investment agreement has been  signed to build a manufacturing plant in the city of Nitra in  Slovakia with annual capacity of 150,000 units with production  commencing in Fiscal 2018.
The initial investment will be  GB£1 billion with the option to invest a further GB£500 million  to double capacity to 300,000 units per annum subject to a  further feasibility study  Jaguar will be competing in the FIA Formula E championship  from August 2016 which presents a unique and exciting  opportunity for Jaguar Land Rover to further the development  of its future electric powertrain technology  Announcement that the all new  Jaguar XF L (Long wheel  base XF) will be the third vehicle to be produced at the China  Joint Venture.
Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (TDCV) sold 9,116  vehicles, lower by 22.2% over Fiscal 2015, mainly due to lower export  sales partially compensated by increase in domestic sales.
TDCV  continued the strong performance, in the domestic market inspite of  increased competition by selling 7,036 vehicles, 2nd highest in its history,  registering a growth of 3.3% compared to sales of 6,808 vehicles in  Fiscal 2015.
The newly introduced Euro 6 models were well accepted  in the market resulting in an increase in the market share for both HCV  and MCV Segments put together increasing to 31.0% as compared to  28.7% in Fiscal 2015.
However, the export market scenario was very  challenging.
Factors like low oil prices, local currency depreciation  against the US Dollar, new statutory regulations to reduce imports,  slowdown in Chinese economy impacting commodity exporting  countries, increased dealer inventory etc.
adversely impacted TDCV’s  exports in major markets like Algeria, Russia, Vietnam, South Africa,  GCC etc.
The export sales were 2,080 units, 57.6% lower compared to  4,902 units in Fiscal 2015.
Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited (TMTL) sold 1,312 units in Fiscal 2016  as compared to 1,305 units in Fiscal 2015.
The domestic retail sales  ﬁ  gure was 1,124 units.
The Thai Automobile Industry has witnessed  the 3rd year of drop of 9.0% in Fiscal 2016 due to poor performance  of the economy but witnessed a slew of new pickup launches  by major OEMs during the year.
In spite of the slow-down, TMTL  domestic volume decline was 6.0% compared to 9.0% of industry.
TMTL has increased its market share in “CNG and Bi-Fuel Pickups  segment” to 25.2% (Previous Year 24.0%) to become the second  largest player in the segment.
TMTL has taken the opportunity to refresh its products, services and  network as well as to expand the range of oﬀ  erings to the Thailand  customers.
Fiscal 2016 saw the launch of the Xenon 150N Series with  a host of new features, TDCV Novus and Super Ace Mint.
During the  year, TMTL exported 253 vehicles to Malaysia against speciﬁ  c order  from POS Malaysia.
TMTL is exploring similar opportunities in other  parts of South East Asia and neighbouring continents.
Tata Motors (SA) (Pty) Limited Tata Motors (SA) (Pty) Ltd (TMSA) sold 765 chassis in the South  Africa market in Fiscal 2016 as compared to 839 chassis in Fiscal  2015.
TMSA is in the process of homologating and introducing a  range of new products including Prima and Ultra trucks as well as a  couple of bus models for sale in South Africa.
Tata Motors Finance Limited Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) is a wholly owned subsidiary company is  carrying out vehicle ﬁ  nancing activity under the brand “Tata Motors Finance” .
On March 31, 2016, TMFL has acquired from the Company, 100%  shareholding in Sheba Properties Limited, a NBFC registered with  the Reserve Bank of India as a part of restructuring and consolidation  of ﬁ  nancial services companies under the TMFL group.
The commercial vehicle business saw a growth during Fiscal 2016,  majorly contributed by the M&HCV segment.
As a result of which  TMFL ’s total disbursements (including reﬁ  nance) increased by  22.8% at  r8,985 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to r7,316 crores  in Fiscal 2015.
TMFL ﬁ  nanced a total of 1,12,114 vehicles reﬂ  ecting a  slight decline of 0.6% over 1,12,788 vehicles ﬁ  nanced in Fiscal 2015.
Disbursements for commercial vehicles increased by 30.4% and were  at r7,485 crores (75,970 units) as compared to r5,741 crores (72,853  units) of Fiscal 2015.
Disbursements of passenger vehicles declined  by 9.9% to r1,350 crores (33,185 units) from a level of r1,498 crores  (38,444 units).
Disbursements achieved under reﬁ  nance (through  Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limit ed, a 100% subsidiary of TMFL)  were at r150 crores (2,959 vehicles) during Fiscal 2016.
TMFL has increased its reach by opening limited services branches  exclusively in Tier 2 and 3 towns, which have helped in reducing  the turn-around-time to improve customer satisfaction.
TMFL had  245 branches at the end of Fiscal 2016.
The book size of TMFL ’s  corporate lending business, which includes providing ﬁ  nance to  TML ’s dealers & vendors, increased by 97.7%; r947 crores in Fiscal  2016 from r479 crores in Fiscal 2015.
MATERIAL CHANGES & COMMITMENT AFFECTING THE  FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY  There are no material changes aﬀ ecting the ﬁ  nancial position of the  Company subsequent to the close of the Fiscal 2016 till the date of  this report.
SHARE CAPITAL During the Fiscal 2016, the Company had issued on a Rights basis  Ordinary Shares (including the rights oﬀ  ering to ADR holders) and ‘A’  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 78 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Ordinary Shares aggregating r7,500 crores.
The particulars as required  under Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rule  4 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 on  issue of equity shares with diﬀ  erential voting rights on Rights basis  during the Fiscal Year is annexed as Annexure 1.
SIGNIFICANT & MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE  REGULATORS OR COURTS OR TRIBUNALS  There are no signiﬁ  cant material orders passed by the Regulators  or Courts or Tribunal which would impact the going concern  status of the Company and its future operation.
However, Members  attention is drawn to the Statement on Contingent Liabilities and  commitments in the Notes forming part of the Financial Statement.
RISK MANAGEMENT  The Risk Management Committee (RMC) comprising of  4 Independent Directors, has been entrusted with responsibility to  assist the Board in (a) overseeing the Company’s risk management  process and controls, risk tolerance and capital liquidity and funding;  (b) setting strategic plans and objectives for risk management and  review of risk assessment of the Company (c) review the Company’s  risk appetite and strategy relating to key risks, including credit risk,  liquidity and funding risk, market risk, product risk and reputational  risk as well as the guidelines, policies and processes for monitoring  and mitigating such risks.
The Committee operates as per its Charter approved by the Board  and within the broad guidelines laid down in it.
The Company  has a Risk Management Policy in accordance with the provisions  of the Act and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI  Listing Regulations).
It establishes various levels of accountability and  overview within the Company, while vesting identiﬁ  ed managers  with responsibility for each signiﬁ  cant risk.
The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk  management in the organisation.
Through Enterprise Risk  Management Programme, Business Units, Corporate functions address  opportunities and the attendant risks through an institutionalized  approach aligned to the Company’s objectives.
This is facilitated by  Internal Audit.
The business risk is managed through cross functional  involvement and communication across businesses.
The results of the  risk assessment and residual risks are thoroughly discussed with the  Senior Management before being presented to RMC.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO  THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT Details of internal ﬁ  nancial control and its adequacy are included in  the Management Discussion and Analysis Report, which forms part  of this Report.
HUMAN RESOURCES  The Tata Motors Group employed 76,598 permanent employees  (previous year: 73,485 employees) as of the year end.
The Company  employed 26,569 permanent employees (previous year: 27,997  employees) as of the year end.
The Tata Motors Group has generally  enjoyed cordial relations with its employees and workers.
All employees in India belonging to the operative grades are  members of labour unions except at our Sanand and Dharwad plants.
All the wage agreements have been renewed in a timely manner  and are all valid and subsisting.
Operatives and Unions support in  implementation of reforms that impact quality, cost erosion and  improvements in productivity across all locations is commendable.
Safety & Health – Performance and Initiatives As part of Company’s Safety Excellence Journey which aims to  achieve ultimate goal of Zero Injuries to its employees and all  stakeholders associated with the Company’s operations, Company  provides a safe and healthy workplace focusing on creating right  Safety Culture across the organization.
The Company has identiﬁ  ed four drivers behaviors which will help  keep moving in this journey and attain Zero Injury viz.
the drivers  are engaged at all levels; governance; robust safety processes and  improving safe behaviors.
The Company’s India operation, has achieved improved performance  with Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) being 0.17 for the Fiscal  2016, a reduction in injury rate by 15% over Fiscal 2015.
While overall  safety performance has improved but there was one fatality during  the year, involving a customer sales employee in a road incident  while on the job.
All Manufacturing Plants in India of the Company are certiﬁ  ed to ISO  14001 - Environment Management Systems and are also certiﬁ  ed to  OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management System.
Further, all CV Manufacturing Plants in India are certiﬁ  ed to ISO  50001 - Energy Management System.
The Company has undertaken  several initiatives for resource conservation such as re-cycling of  treated eﬄ   uents back to process, energy and material recovery from  hazardous wastes and rainwater harvesting.
Manufacturing plants  also generate in-house renewable power and source oﬀ  -site green  power where available.
The Senior Leadership is fully committed and engaged in safety  and health journey and has set up a very robust Governance and  Engagement model at various level right from having Safety Health  and Environment Committee at Board, Business, Site, Corporate, Sub- committees and Factory Implementation Committees.
The Company continued Campaign ‘i-drive safe’ – an initiative on  building a safe driving culture amongst its employee and associates  79 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) and have trained them Defensive Driving.
In excess of 19,103  employees and associates till date have been trained under this  campaign, initiated few years ago.
In line with Safety and Health Policy, to enhance safety standards of  its business partners, the Company engages supply chain for safety.
The objective of such engagement is to raise the Safety standards of  dealer workshops.
Jagruti – Safety Awareness Building Campaign   for Workshop Managers is a year-long campaign focused on building  awareness on safety and understanding of the Company’s expectations  on Dealers Workshop Safety.
This programme is collaboration of the  Company, Castrol and training partner ICECD.
The year-long campaign  aims to cover works managers/representatives of 2,000 workshops  (CV & PV) across India by January 2017.
In Fiscal 2016, 21 sessions are  conducted covering 565 workshops.
In health area, the Company under the ‘Health Plus Because you  matter!’ initiative engaged employees on various subject of Health.
Series of initiatives like awareness sessions, mailers, etc.
have been  conducted under this initiative.
For Food Safety, HACCP Certiﬁ  cation  process has been started at plant canteens.
The Jaguar Land Rover business drives its health and safety ambition  through its campaign - Destination Zero – A Journey to Zero Harm.
This is overseen by the statements on the Jaguar Land Rover, ‘Blueprint  for Lasting Success’ with the overall commitment that states “Our  most valuable asset is our people, nothing is more important than  their safety and wellbeing.
Our co-workers and families rely on this  commitment.
There can be no compromise” .
The business maintains  its accreditation to the external standard of OHSAS 18001, with all the  UK locations accredited to the standard through a series of annual  external assessments.
The business has reviewed and re-launched  its internal safety assessment process SHARP (Safety and Health  Assessment Review Process) within its manufacturing locations.
The  Lost Time Case Rate in terms of incidents has remained steady with  around 7.0% improvement over previous year’s performance, against  a backdrop of massive growth and increased headcount and volumes  within the business.
The activities deployed to deliver this ambition  of Zero Harm are underpinned with everyone being encouraged  to understand and take responsibility for their own and their fellow  workers safety and wellbeing.
Each functional area has ability to build  their own plans of activities to drive the performance within their own  area of responsibility.
During last year the business has launched the  Wellbeing Charter  – an externally assessed framework to deliver  excellence in wellbeing activities and strategies.
This is a journey Jaguar  Land Rover is embarking on, to achieve and sustain excellence in this  subject.
In the last quarter the business received its ﬁ  rst recognition  on this journey by being awarded the ‘ Commitment Level’ in the  framework.
TDCV Korea achieved an improvement in Safety Index to 0.33 from 1.15  in Fiscal 2016.
There has been continued leadership commitment and  engagement with focus in areas safety communication, risk assessment,  improving capabilities of employees for emergency situations.
TMTL, Thailand and TMSA, South Africa sustained good performance  in area of Safety and Health during Fiscal 2016.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment  The Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment at workplace  and has adopt ed a Policy on prevention, prohibition and redressal  of sexual harassment at workplace in line with the provisions of the  Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition  and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder for prevention  and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment at workplace.
The  Company is committed to providing equal opportunities without  regard to their race, caste, sex, religion, colour, nationality, disability,  etc.
All women associates (permanent, temporary, contractual  and trainees) as well as any women visiting the Company’s oﬃ   ce  premises or women service providers are covered under this Policy.
All employees are treated with dignity with a view to maintain a work  environment free of sexual harassment whether physical, verbal or  psychological.
During the Fiscal 2016, the Company has received 7 complaints on  sexual harassments, which have been substantiated and appropriate  actions were taken.
The Company organized 15 workshops or  awareness program against sexual harassment.
There were no  complaints pending for more than 90 days during the year.
Similar initiatives on Prevention of Sexual Harassment are in place  across the Tata Motors Group of companies.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f ) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  the Business Responsibility Report (BRR) initiatives taken from an  environmental, social and governance perspective, in the prescribed  format is available as a separate section of the Annual Report and  also hosted on the Company’s website www.tatamotors.com.
FINANCE  During the year, the free cash ﬂ  ows for Tata Motors Group were  r6,543 crores, post spend on capex, design and development of  r32,623 crores.
Tata Motors Group’s borrowing as at March 31, 2016  stood at r70,468 crores (as at March 31, 2015: r73,610 crores).
Cash  and bank balances and investments in mutual funds stood at r52,091  crores (as at March 31, 2015: r46,174 crores).
With healthy proﬁ  tability  and cash ﬂ  ow generation, the Consolidated Net Automotive Debt to  Equity Ratio stood at (0.01) as at March 31, 2016 as compared to 0.19  as at March 31, 2015.
The Cash ﬂ  ows from operations were positive r2,346 crores for  standalone operations of the Company.
Spend on capex, design  and development were r2,982 crores (net).
The borrowings of the  Company as at March 31, 2016 stood at r15,887 crores (as at March  31, 2015: r21,134 crores).
Cash and bank balances including mutual  funds stood at r2,188 crores (as at March 31, 2015: r945 crores).
The Company did a Rights Issue for r7,498 crores (US$1.2 billion) by  allotting 15,04,90,480 Ordinary shares (including 3,20,49,820 shares  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 80 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports underlying the ADRs) of r2 each at  a premium of r448 per share,  aggregating r6,772.07 crores and 2,65,09,759 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of  r2 each at a premium of r269 per share, aggregating r718.42 crores.
As per the object of the Issue, the proceeds of r500 crores from  the share issue have been used for funding expenditure towards  plant and machinery, r1,500 crores towards research and product  development, r4,000 crores towards repayment in full or in part of  certain long-term and short-term borrowings and r1,401.10 crores  towards general corporate purposes.
The Company prepaid r140 crores of its unsecured 10% NCD due  in  2019 and r10 crores of its unsecured 10.30% NCD due in 2018.
At JLR, post spend on capex, design and development of GB£2,806  million ( r27,673 crores), the free cash ﬂ  ows were GB£791 million  (r7,550 crores) for Fiscal 2016.
The borrowings of JLR as at March  31, 2016, stood at GB£2,500 million ( r23,863 crores) [previous year:  GB£2,550 million (r23,574 crores)].
Cash and ﬁ  nancial deposits stood  at GB£4,651million (r44,394 crores) [previous year: GB£4,263 million  (r39,411 crores)].
Additionally, JLR has undrawn committed long  term bank lines of GB£1,875 million (JLR data as per IFRS).
TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore, a 100% subsidiary of the Company,  holding the investment in Jaguar Land Rover and other foreign  subsidiaries has reﬁ  nanced existing unsecured multi currency loan  of US$600 million (US$250 million and SG$62.8 million maturing in  November 2017 and US$210 million and SG$114 million maturing  in November 2019) by a new syndicated loan of US$600 million  (US$300 million maturing in October 2020 and US$300 million  maturing in October 2022).
Subsequently TML Holdings Pte Ltd,  Singapore has also reﬁ  nanced the existing SG$350 million 4.25%  Senior notes due in May 2018 by a new syndicated loan of US$250  million maturing in March 2020.
Tata Motors Finance Limited has raised an amount aggregating to  r434 crores by way of Non-Participating Cumulative Compulsorily  Convertible Preference Shares which qualiﬁ  ed as Tier 1 capital to  meet growth and maintain capital adequacy ratio.
There has been  no fresh issuance of perpetual debt instruments or subordinated  debt instruments/debentures towards Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital in  Fiscal 2016.
Tata Motors Group has undertaken and will continue to implement  suitable steps for raising long term resources to match fund  requirements and to optimise its loan maturity proﬁ  le.
During the year, the Company’s rating for Foreign Currency  Borrowings was retained at “Ba2”/Stable by Moody’s and was  retained by Standard & Poors to “BB”/with change in outlook  to Stable.
For borrowings in the local currency, the ratings was  retained by Crisil at “AA”/Stable and by ICRA at “AA”/Stable.
The  Non-Convertible Debentures and Long Term Bank facilities i.e.
(Buyers Credit) rating by CARE was retained at “AA”/Stable.
During  the year, JLR’s rating was retained by Moody’s at “Ba2”/Positive and  was retained by Standard & Poors at “BB”/with change in outlook to  Stable for Tata Motors Finance, CRISIL has maintained its rating on  long-term debt instruments and bank facilities to CRISIL “AA/ A1+”/ Stable and ICRA has maintained its rating at AA/Stable for long term.
FIXED DEPOSITS The Company has not accepted any deposits from the public falling  in the ambit of Section 73 of the Act and The Companies (Acceptance  of Deposits) Rules, 2014.
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN  As provided under Section 92(3) of the Act, the details forming part  of the extract of the Annual Return is annexed herewith in Form  MGT 9 Annexure 2 .
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITAL PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES Information Technology Initiatives The Company is a forerunner in the Industry to adopt new  technologies in the evolving digital area.
The Company has a well- deﬁ  ned IT roadmap which revolves around user experience, mobility,  analytics and cloud driven ﬂ  exible infrastructure.
It leverages its  strong partnerships with product and services companies to harness  the potential of Information Technology for ensuring execution of  business initiatives towards a competitive advantage.
The major  highlights of IT at the Company are:  Major technology upgrades undertaken including ERP , CRM,  Analytics systems to make the systems current and leverage new  versions’ mobile friendly capabilities  Implemented key projects in Supplier Relationship Management,  comprehensively digitizing supplier processes to deliver speed,  optimum in-line inventory and transparency  Enabling World Class Quality initiative of the Company through  key IT interventions on the shop ﬂ  oor e.g.
Project Tantra for poka  yoke on key aggregates  IT has enabled customer care initiatives like implementation of  Theory of Constraints in Spare Parts to improve parts availability,  and reengineering the accident repair process for faster deliveries  of repaired vehicles to customers  Digital initiatives like job cards on tablets, customer self-service  app, a new mobile friendly intranet and device and browser  independent CRM in it upgraded avatar  The IT initiatives towards the journey to digital readiness have  been acknowledged with many industry awards including the  Digitalist, Jewels of Digital, IDC Insights Award for Employee  engagement, CIO Power List (Automotive Icon and Cloud Icon) 81 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117)  Greater systematic collaboration with subsidiaries leveraging IT  leadership in Tata Motors.
A key achievement has been extension  of collaboration solution to six subsidiaries   Strengthening information security through multiple initiatives  under ISO 27000 framework while covering mobiles under  enterprise security  Playing a leading role in AutoDx, the EDI initiative under the  SIAM ACMA umbrella.
AutoDX transactions have rapidly and  successfully scaled up in Fiscal 2016.
Information Technology initiatives and Digital Business roadmap  would help the Company in being forefront of automotive industry,  supporting business growth and innovation to strengthen the  Company’s core technology capabilities.
Digital Product Development Systems Initiatives The Company has constantly adopted new technologies and  practices in digital product development domain to improve the  product development process.
This has led to having a better  front loading of product creation, validation and testing towards  timely delivery and getting the new products ﬁ  rst time right.
Niche integration tools, systems and processes continue to be  enhanced in the areas of CAx, Knowledge Based Engineering (KBE),  Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) and Manufacturing Planning  Management (MPM) for more eﬃ  cient end-to-end delivery of the  product development process.
Some of the key enhancements done in digital product development  domain include:  Embedding manufacturing feasibility and DFx in engineering  and design to early detection and resolution of feasibility issues  Enhancement of virtual simulation capability leading to front  loading of activities, e.g.
in crash   Enhancement of PLM and addition of new functionality for  process control and collaboration like auto ﬂ  ashing of ECU at  dealer location, vehicle feature list release process and change  management  Implementation of 15 new KBE applications in the area of design  and safety, e.g.
dashboard reﬂ  ection analysis, seat comfort  analysis, etc  Enhancement of product visualization process for realistic  evaluations and showcasing the in-mobility applications   Development of new 3D product data visualization application  for aiding downstream agencies for better decision making  Improved utilisation of Digital Manufacturing Planning and  Factory Simulation shop ﬂ  oor in the form of 3D work instructions  for shop ﬂ  oor usage.
Subsidiaries Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) JLR continues its business transformational initiative, ‘i-PLM’ , delivered  through a strategic partnership with a leading software technology  provider.
At the core of i-PLM is the philosophy of ‘Single Source of  Truth’ , author once and consume everywhere.
This vision and the  close alignment with the software platform, delivers a simpliﬁ  ed  product creation landscape which eliminates ineﬃ   cient integration  issues at source.
This transformational journey has begun with the implementation of  the vision for one vehicle programme that has moved from its legacy  systems, with several more to follow over the next few months and the  support processes and team for the new solution are active with a very  high level of customer satisfaction.
Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles (TDCV) TDCV continued the momentum of focusing on quality and speed in  its digital product creation processes.
As part of this, PLM application  server infrastructure was refreshed, consolidated with the latest  hardware and virtualization technology, enabling implementation of  critical application suite resulting in improved availability.
Tata Technologies Limited (TTL) TTL continued to invest in new technological advancements as  part of the hardware and software upgrades.
It initiated a Virtual  Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) setup in the training area to facilitate  faster deployment of CAD/CAE/PLM software applications in a virtual  environment.
Tata Motors European Technical Centre (TMETC) TMETC upgraded its data center infrastructure for PLM to the best  in class virtualised environment.
It implemented high performance  computing to enable faster digital validation.
Knowledge Based  Engineering Applications were introduced in the engineering and  design areas.
TECHNOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY INITIATIVES The Company is working on several electriﬁ  cation, hybridisation and  alternate fuel technologies in addition to developing technologies  that improve the footprint of conventional powertrains.
Some of the  key areas are enlisted below:  Fully electric versions of small commercial vehicles aimed at  complying to regulatory environment in crowded areas of cities  where they ply, proving Company’s thrust on cutting edge  technologies  Hybrid electric vehicles for passenger cars which are at various  stages of maturity Corporate Overview Financial Statements 82 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports  Delivery of diesel series hybrid buses to the city of Mumbai in  near future based on successful ﬂ  eet operation of CNG hybrid  buses in Madrid, Spain which has covered close to a million  kilometers in revenue service  Fuel cell version of the hybrid bus as well as full electric buses, based  on large format battery packs and overhead current collectors  Dual fuel technology (CNG plus diesel) developed and limited  ﬁ  eld trials conducted  Development of fuel eﬃ   cient driveline oil (transmission and  axle) enhancing customer delight  Fuel eﬃ   ciency improvement by implementing variable valve  timing and variable oil pump technologies on passenger car  gasoline engine  Continuation of fuel eﬃ  ciency improvement initiatives on passenger  and commercial vehicles through software features in engine  management system & vehicle level parameter optimization.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tata Motors announces consolidated ﬁ  nancial results on a quarterly  basis.
As required under the SEBI Listing Regulations, consolidated  ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, prepared in  accordance with Accounting Standard 21 issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India, form part of the Annual Report and  are reﬂ  ected in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company.
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement containing the  salient features of the ﬁ  nancial statements of the subsidiary companies  is attached to the ﬁ  nancial statements in Form AOC-1.
The Company  will make available the said ﬁ  nancial statements and related detailed  information of the subsidiary companies upon the request by any  member of the Company or its subsidiary companies.
These ﬁ  nancial  statements will also be kept open for inspection by any member at  the Registered Oﬃ  ce of the Company and the subsidiary companies.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the Act, the ﬁ  nancial  statements of the Company, consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements along  with relevant documents and separate audited accounts in respect of  subsidiaries, are available on the website of the Company.
SUBSIDIARY , JOINT VENTURE AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES  The Company had 77 (direct and indirect) subsidiaries (11 in India and  66 abroad) as on March 31, 2016, as disclosed in the accounts.
During the year, the following changes have taken place in subsidiary  companies: Subsidiary companies formed/acquired:  TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited was incorporated with  eﬀ ect from September 2, 2015   Jaguar Land Rover Limited acquired Silkplan Limited with eﬀ ect  from April 16, 2015  Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o was incorporated with eﬀ  ect  from August 27, 2015  Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte.
Limited was incorporated with  eﬀ ect from November 25, 2015  Jaguar Racing Limited was incorporated with eﬀ  ect from  February 2, 2016  Inmotion Ventures Limited was incorporated with eﬀ  ect from  March 18, 2016.
Companies ceasing to be subsidiary companies/ceased  operations:  Land Rover Parts Limited  was dissolved and struck oﬀ   with  eﬀ  ect from July 14, 2015 Name changes  Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Importacao e Comercia de Veiculos  Ltda was renamed as Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Industria e  Comercio de Veiculos LTDA with eﬀ  ect from February 10, 2016 Capital Re-structuring/change in nature of Company  The Company’s entire shareholding in Sheba Properties  Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, was sold to Tata Motors  Finance Limited, another direct subsidiary of the Company with  eﬀ  ect from March 31, 2016  Tata Motors Finance Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. was converted into a  public limited company named Tata Motors Finance Solutions  Ltd. with eﬀ ect from June 4, 2015.
Besides the above, Jaguar Land Rover continued to integrate/ restructure legal entities for manufacturing and for exporting  globally as combined brand legal entities.
Other than the above,  there has been no material change in the nature of business of the  subsidiary companies.
Joint Ventures and Associate Companies  As at March 31, 2016, Tata Motors had 6 Associate Companies and  6 Joint Ventures.
One of these Joint Ventures has 13 wholly owned  subsidiaries, details of the same are disclosed in the accounts.
During  the year there were no changes in any of the Associates and Joint  Ventures of the Company.
The Company has adopted a Policy for determining Material  Subsidiaries and is available on the Company’s website (www.
tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/material.pdf ).
ENERGY , TECHNOLOGY & FOREIGN EXCHANGE The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption and  foreign exchange earnings and outgo stipulated under Section 134(3) (m) of the Act, read along with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts)  Rules, 2014, is annexed as Annexure 3.
83 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A separate section on Corporate Governance forming part of the  Board’s Report and the certiﬁ  cate from the Practicing Company  Secretary conﬁ  rming compliance of Corporate Governance norms  as stipulated in Regulation 34 read along with Schedule V of the SEBI  Listing Regulations is included in the Annual Report.
DIRECTORS Appointment During the year under review, on the recommendation of Nomination  and Remuneration C ommittee (“NRC”) and in accordance with  provisions of Section 161 of the Act, Mr Guenter Butschek was  appointed as an Additional Director with eﬀ  ect from February 15,  2016 and holds oﬃ   ce upto the date of the forthcoming Annual  General Meeting (“AGM”) and being eligible has oﬀ  ered himself for  appointment as Director.
Mr Butschek is appointed as Chief Executive  Oﬃ  cer and Managing Director of the Company for a period of 5 years  with eﬀ  ect from February 15, 2016, subject to approval of Members and  the Central Government.
Re-appointment Mr Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles)  is being r e-appointed w.e.f July 1, 2016 upto November 24, 2020  (upon the termination of the existing contract w.e.f July 1, 2016)  and in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Articles of  Association of the Company, Mr Pisharody retires by rotation and is  eligible for re-appointment.
Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive Director (Quality) is being re-appointed  w.e.f July 1, 2016 upto July 15, 2017 (upon the termination of the  existing contract w.e.f July 1, 2016).
There was no change in the composition of the Board during Fiscal  2016, other than appointment of Mr Butschek, CEO and Managing  Director of the Company.
The disclosures required pursuant to Regulation 36 of SEBI Listing  Regulations are given in the Notice of the AGM, forming part of the  Annual Report and disclosure pursuant to Schedule V, Part II, proviso of  Section II B(iv)IV of the Act and Schedule V of SEBI Listing Regulations is  annexed hereto as Annexure 4.
Attention of the Members is invited to the relevant items in the Notice  of the AGM and the Explanatory Statement thereto.
Independent Directors Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act read along with the  Rules framed thereunder and the Resolutions passed by the Members  at the Annual General Meeting held on July 31, 2014, Mr N Munjee, Mr V K Jairath and Ms Falguni Nayar would continue as Independent  Directors upto July 30, 2019.
Mr Nusli Wadia, Dr Raghunath Mashelkar  and Mr Subodh Bhargava would continue as Independent Directors  upto February 14, 2019, December 31, 2017 and March 29, 2017,  respectively, as per the Governance Guidelines adopted by the  Company.
All Independent Directors have given declarations that they  meet the criteria of independence as laid down under Section 149(6) of  the Act and Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL  During the year under review, the Company designated Mr Guenter  Butschek as Chief Executive Oﬃ   cer and Managing Director of the  Company as one of the Key Managerial Personnel (KMP), under  Section 203 of the Act, with eﬀ  ect from February 15, 2016.
The  following Directors/Executives continued as KMPs of the Company  during Fiscal 2016:  Mr Rav indra Pisharody, Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles)  Mr Satish Borwankar, Executive Director (Quality)  Mr C Ramakrishnan, Group Chief Financial Oﬃ  cer *   Mr Hoshang Sethna, Company Secretary  * (Superannuated on June 30, 2015 and  Re appointed as Group Chief Financial Offi  cer w.e.f.
July 1, 2015) GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES During the year under review, the Company adhered to the  Governance Guidelines on Board Eﬀ  ectiveness.
The Governance  Guidelines cover aspects related to composition and role of  the Board, Chairman and Directors, Board diversity, deﬁ  nition of  independence, director term, retirement age and Committees of the  Board.
It also covers aspects relating to nomination, appointment,  induction and development of directors, director remuneration,  subsidiary oversight, Code of Conduct, Board Eﬀ  ectiveness Review  and Mandates of Board Committees.
Selection and procedure for nomination and appointment of  Directors The NRC is responsible for developing competency requirements for  the Board based on the industry and strategy of the Company.
The  Board composition analysis reﬂ  ects in-depth understanding of the  Company, including its strategies, environment, operations, ﬁ  nancial  condition and compliance requirements.
The NRC conducts a gap analysis to refresh the Board on a  periodic basis, including each time a Director’s appointment or re- appointment is required.
The Committee is also responsible for  reviewing and vetting the CVs of potential candidates vis-à-vis the  required competencies, undertake a reference and due diligence and  meeting potential candidates, prior to making recommendations of  their nomination to the Board.
At the time of appointment, speciﬁ  c  requirements for the position, including expert knowledge expected,  is communicated to the appointee.
Criteria for Determining Qualifi  cations, Positive Attributes and  Independence of a Director The NRC has formulated the criteria for determining qualiﬁ  cations,  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 84 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports positive attributes and independence of Directors in terms of  provisions of Section 178 (3) of the Act and Regulation 19 read along  with Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations, which is annexed as  Annexure 5.
REMUNERATION POLICY  The Company has in place a Remuneration Policy for the Directors,  Key Managerial Personnel and other employees, pursuant to the  provisions of the Act and Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations,  and the same is annexed as Annexure 6.
BOARD EVALUATION Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Corporate Governance  requirements as prescribed by SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has  carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its  Committees and individual Directors.
The performance of the Board and individual Directors was evaluated  by the Board seeking inputs from all the Directors.
The performance  of the Committees was evaluated by the Board seeking inputs from  the Committee Members.
The NRC reviewed the performance of the  individual Directors, a separate meeting of Independent Directors was  also held to review the performance of Non-Independent Directors,  performance of the Board as a whole and performance of the  Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of CEO and  MD, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
This was followed  by a Board Meeting that discussed the performance of the Board, its  Committees and individual Directors.
The criteria for performance evaluation of the Board included aspects  like Board composition and structure, eﬀ ectiveness of Board processes,  information and functioning etc.
The criteria for performance evaluation  of Committees of the Board included aspects like composition of  Committees, eﬀ ectiveness of Committee meetings etc.
The criteria for  performance evaluation of the individual Directors included aspects on  contribution to the Board and Committee meetings like preparedness  on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive  contribution and inputs in meetings etc.
In addition, the Chairman was  also evaluated on the key aspects of his role.
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR INDEPENDENT  DIRECTORS The details of the programme for familiarisation of the Independent  Directors with the Company in respect of their roles, rights,  responsibilities in the Company, nature of the industry in which  Company operates, business model of the Company and related  matters are put up on the website of the Company.
(www.tatamotors.
com/investors/pdf/familiarisation-programme-independent- directors.pdf ).
BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION  Details of the composition of the Board and its Committees, Meetings  held, attendance of the Directors at such Meetings and other relevant  details are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
BOARD MEETINGS During the year under review, 10 Board Meetings were convened  and held.
VIGIL MECHANISM The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy establishing vigil  mechanism, to provide a formal mechanism to the Directors and  employees to report their concerns about unethical behaviour, actual  or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct  or Ethics Policy.
The Policy provides for adequate safeguards against  victimization of employees who avail of the mechanism and also  provides for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
It is aﬃ  rmed that no personnel of the Company has been denied  access to the Audit Committee.
The Policy of vigil mechanism is  available on the Company’s website (www.tatamotors.com/investors/ pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf/).
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES The information on employees who were in receipt of remuneration of  not less than `60 lakhs during the year or ` 5 lakhs per month during  any part of the said year as required under Section 197(12) of the Act  read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming  part of the Report.
In terms of proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act, the  Report and Accounts are being sent to the shareholders excluding  the aforesaid Annexure.
The said statement is also open for inspection  at the registered oﬃ  ce of the Company.
Any member interested in  obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary.
Disclosure pertaining to remuneration and other details as required  under Section 197(12) of the Act read with rule 5(1) of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014  are Annexed to the report as Annexure 4.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INITIATIVES The brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy of  the Company and the initiatives undertaken by the Company on CSR  activities during the year are set out in Annexure 7 of this Report in the  format prescribed in the Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014.
The Policy  is available on Company’s web-site (www.tatamotors.com/investors/ pdf/csr-policy-16-17.pdf ).
85 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS  WITH RELATED PARTIES All contracts/arrangements/transactions entered by the Company  during the ﬁ  nancial year with related parties were on an arm’s length  basis, in the ordinary course of business and were in compliance with  the applicable provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
There are no materially signiﬁ  cant Related Party Transactions made by  the Company with Promoters, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or  other designated persons which may have a potential conﬂ  ict with  the interest of the Company at large.
All Related Party Transactions are placed before the Audit Committee  comprising Mr N Munjee, Chairman, Dr R A Mashelkar, Mr V K Jairath and  Ms Falguni Nayar being Independent Directors of the Company, for its  approval.
A statement of all Related Party Transactions is placed before  the Audit Committee for its review on a quarterly basis, specifying the  nature, value and terms and conditions of the transactions.
The Company has adopted a revised Policy on Related Party  Transactions to mainly incorporate changes pertaining to substitution  of earlier Listing Agreement provisions with those of SEBI Listing  Regulations and providing the parameters for granting omnibus  approvals by the Audit Committee.
The Policy, as approved by the  Board, is uploaded on the Company’s website (www.tatamotors.
com/investors/pdf/rpt-policy.pdf ).
During the Fiscal 2016, there have been no materially signiﬁ  cant  related party transactions between the Company and Directors,  management, subsidiaries or relatives, as deﬁ  ned under Section 188  of the Act and Regulations 23 the SEBI Listing Regulations.
There are no transactions that are required to be reported in Form  AOC-2 and as such does not form part of the Report.
AUDIT  In the 69 th Annual General Meeting held on July 31, 2014, M/s.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , (DHS), Chartered Accountants have  been appointed Statutory Auditors of the Company for a period of 3  years.
At the AGM held on August 13, 2015, the Members ratiﬁ  ed the  appointment of DHS for the 2nd year.
Ratiﬁ  cation of appointment of  Statutory Auditors for the 3rd year is being sought from the Members  of the Company at this AGM.
Further, DHS have, under Section 139(1)  of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder furnished a certiﬁ  cate of  their eligibility and consent for appointment.
The report of the Statutory Auditors alongwith notes to Schedules  is enclosed to this Report.
The observations made in the Auditors’  Report are self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any further  comments.
The Auditor’s Report does not contain any qualiﬁ  cation, reservation,  adverse remark or disclaimer.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS BY THE COMPANY  The details of Loans, Guarantees or Investments made under Section 186 of the Act during the year are given below:    Sr No.
Companies Nature of Transaction Loans Guarantees Investments 1 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited Inter-corporate deposits 5.00 - - 2 Concorde Motors (India) Limited Inter-corporate deposits 15.00 - 3 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited Inter-corporate deposits 25.00 - - 4 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited Investment in Rights Issue - - 15.00 5 Concorde Motors (India) Limited Investment in Rights Issue - - 45.00 6 Tata Hispano Motors Carrosseries Maghreb Inv estment in loans 58.32 - - 7 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc Inv estment in loans/shares 19.66 158.45* 73.09 8 Tata Motors Finance Limited Compulsory Convertible Preference  Shares with call option to TML # Notes: (i) *Outstanding amount of Guarantee given to University of Warwick for development and funding of NAIC (ii) #The Company has not invested through CCPS of `434 crores The call option is available with the Company to acquire CCPS from investors.
(iii) Guarantees other than in connection with a loan given to any person is given under Note No.
30 (ii) (c) in the Standalone Financial Statements in the full Annual Report  (` in crores) Corporate Overview Financial Statements 86 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports COST AUDIT As per Section 148 of the Act, the Company is required to have the  audit of its cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant in practice.
The Board of the Company has on the recommendation of the Audit  Committee, approved the appointment of M/s Mani & Co. having  registration No.000004 as the Cost Auditors of the Company to  conduct cost audits pertaining to relevant products prescribed under  the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 as amended from  time to time for the year ending March 31, 2017 at a remuneration of  `5 lakhs plus out of pocket expenses.
It may be noted that the records of the activities under Cost Audit  is no longer pr escribed for “Motor Vehicles and certain parts and  accessories thereof” .
However, based on the recommendations of  the Audit Committee, the Board has also approved the appointment  of M/s Mani & Co. for submission of reports to the Company on cost  records pertaining to these activities for a remuneration of r15,00,000  (Rupees Fifteen Lakhs) for the said ﬁ  nancial year.
M/s Mani & Co., have vast experience in the ﬁ  eld of cost audit and  have conducted the audit of the cost records of the Company for the  past several years under the provisions of the erstwhile Companies  Act, 1956.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules,  2014, the Company has appointed M/s Parikh & Associates, a ﬁ  rm of  Company Secretaries in practice to undertake the Secretarial Audit of  the Company.
The Report of the Secretarial Audit is annexed herewith  as Annexure 8.
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any  qualiﬁ  cations, reservation, adverse remarks or disclaimer.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Based on the framework of internal ﬁ  nancial controls and  compliance systems established and maintained by the Company,  work performed by the internal, statutory, cost, external agencies  and secretarial auditors, including audit of internal ﬁnancial controls  over ﬁnancial reporting by the Statutory Auditors and the reviews  performed by Management and the relevant Board Committees,  including the Audit Committee, the Board is of the opinion that the  Company’s internal ﬁ  nancial controls were adequate and eﬀ  ective  during Fiscal 2016.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board to the  best of their knowledge and ability, conﬁ  rm that: (a) in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable  accounting standards have been followed and that there are  no material departures;  (b) they have, selected such accounting policies and have applied  them consistently and made judgments and estimates that are  reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the  state of aﬀ  airs of the Company at the end of the ﬁ  nancial year  and of the proﬁ  t of the Company for that period; (c) they have taken proper and suﬃ   cient care for the maintenance  of adequate accounting records in accordance with the  provisions of the Act, for safeguarding the assets of the  Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other  irregularities; (d) they have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern  basis; (e) they have laid down internal ﬁ  nancial controls to be followed by  the Company and such internal ﬁ  nancial controls are adequate  and were generally operating eﬀ ectively*; and (f ) they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with  the provisions of all applicable laws and such systems are  adequate and operating eﬀ ectively.
* please refer to the Section “Internal Control Systems and their Adequacy in  the Management Discussion and Analysis Report” .
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The Directors wish to convey their appreciation to all of the  Company’s employees for their enormous personal eﬀ  orts as well  as their collective contribution to the Company’s performance.
The  Directors would also like to thank the employee unions, shareholders,  customers, dealers, suppliers, bankers, Government and all the other  business associates for the continuous support given by them to the  Company and their conﬁ  dence in its Management.
On behalf of the Board of Directors CYRUS P MISTRY Chairman Mumbai,  May 30, 2016 87 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) ANNEXURE 1 Details of Issue of Equity Shares with Diff erential Rights completed during the Fiscal 2016  [Pursuant to Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 4 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014] (I) The details of the Rights Issue during the Fiscal Year 2016 are given hereunder: Particulars Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares Rights entitlement ratio 109:6 109:6 Issue Price (per share) r450/- r271/- Premium amount (per share) r448/- r269/- No of securities issued 15,06,44,759 2,65,30,290 Dividend and voting rights Pari-passu with  existing ordinary  shares Pari-passu with existing ‘A’ Ordinary Shares i.e.
The ‘A’ Ordinary Shares would  have diﬀ erential rights as to voting and dividend.
The ‘A’ Ordinary shareholders  shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ ordinary shares held and will  be entitled to receive dividend at 5 percent more than the rate of dividend  declared on the Ordinary shares.
Further, if no dividend is recommended for  Ordinary shares, ‘A’ Ordinary shares would also not receive any dividend  No of securities allotted on May 13, 2015  (excluding shares held in abeyance) 15,04,90,480 2,65,09,759 Amount raised r6,772.07 crores r718.42 crores   (II) Additional details on Issue of Equity Shares with Diff erential Rights as per the Companies (Share Capital and  Debentures) Rules, 2014: Particulars Disclosure Total number of shares allotted with diﬀ erential rights and  details of diﬀ erential rights relating to voting rights and  dividend Please see details in the table above.
Percentage of the shares with diﬀ  erential rights to the total  post issued equity share capital with diﬀ  erential voting rights  at any point of time; and Percentage of voting rights which the equity share capital  with diﬀ erential rights shall carry to the total voting right of  the aggregate equity share capital 5.21% 1.73% The price at which such shares have been issued r271/- (including premium of r269/-) The particulars of promoters, directors or key managerial  personnel to whom such shares are issued Details of shares issued No.
of AOS Promoters Tata Sons Limited 3,88,68,112 Directors Mr Ravindra Pisharody - Mr Satish B Borwankar 25 KMP Mr C Ramakrishnan 158 Mr H K Sethna 48 The change in control, if any, in the company consequent  to the issue of equity shares with diﬀ  erential voting rights There is no change in control consequent to issue of shares with diﬀ erential  voting rights The diluted Earning Per Share pursuant to the issue of each  class of shares, calculated in accordance with the applicable  accounting standard r0.68 for Ordinary Shares and r0.78 for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (for Fiscal 2016) The pre and post issue shareholding pattern along with  voting rights in the format speciﬁ  ed under sub-rule (2) of  Rule 4 Given over leaf Corporate Overview Financial Statements 88 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports (I) (a)  Pre Rights Issue Shareholding Pattern of ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (Scrip Code BSE-570001 and NSE-TATAMTRDVR) as on May 2, 2015 Cate-gory  code Category of shareholder Number of  share-holders Total number  of shares  Number of   shares held in  dematerialized  form Total shareholding as a percentage  of total number of shares As a percentage  of (A+B)[1] As a percentage  of (A+B+C) (A) Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group[2]  *1 Indian:  Bodies Corporate 4 2478587 2478587 0.51 0.51 Sub-Total (A)(1) 4 2478587 2478587 0.51 0.51 *2 Foreign: Nil Sub-Total (A)(2) Nil Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter  Group (A)= (A)(1)+(A)(2) 4 2478587 2478587 0.51 0.51 (B) Public shareholding[3]   1 Institutions  (a) Mutual Funds/ UTI 130 118504871 118504871 24.59 24.59 (b) Financial Institutions/ Banks 6 385055 385055 0.08 0.08 (c) Central Government/ State Government(s) 2 1445391 1445391 0.30 0.30 (d) Insurance Companies 15 8678066 8678066 1.80 1.80 (e) Foreign Institutional Investors 204 271893578 271893578 56.41 56.41 (f ) Any Other (specify) (f-1) Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corp) 47 25308875 25308875 5.25 5.25 Sub-Total (B)(1) 404 426215836 426215836 88.43 88.43 2 Non-institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 948 7719881 7719696 1.60 1.60 (b) Individuals  i.
Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital up to R1 lakh.
64727 29672085 29436121 6.16 6.16 ii.
Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital in excess of R1 lakh.
58 13139296 13139296 2.73 2.73 (c) Any Other (specify) (c-1) Non Resident Indians 1410 1675012 1671442 0.35 0.35 (c-2) Clearing Member 377 778583 778583 0.16 0.16 (c-3) Trusts 14 287156 287156 0.06 0.06 (c-4) Directors and Relatives 2 509 509 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (B)(2)  67536 53272522 53032803 11.06 11.06 Total Public Shareholding (B)= (B)(1)+(B)(2) 67940 479488358 479248639 99.49 99.49 TOTAL  (A)+(B) 67944 481966945 481727226 100.00 100.00 (C) Shares held by Custodians and  against which  Depository Receipts have been issued Nil GRAND TOTAL  (A)+(B)+(C) 67944 481966945 481727226 100.00 100.00 Shares pledged or otherwise encumbered - Nil for all categories.
* Category of shareholders who do not hold shares in the Company are dropped     [1] For determining public shareholding      [2] For defi  nitions of “Promoter” and “Promoter Group” , refer to Reg.
2(1)(w)    [3] For defi  nitions of “Public Shareholding” , refer to Reg.
2(1)(y).
89 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) (I) (b) Statement showing Shareholding of persons belonging to the category “Promoter and Promoter Group” (I) (c) (i)  Statement showing Shareholding of persons belonging to the category “Public” and holding more than 1%   of the total number of shares    Name of the shareholder Number of  shares Shares as a percentage of total number of shares {i.e., Grand  Total (A)+(B)+(C) indicated in Statement at para (I)(a) above} Tata Sons Limited 1995907 0.41 Ewart Investments Limited 417655 0.09 Af-Taab Investment Company Limited 48360 0.01 Tata Global Beverages Limited 16665 0.00 TOTAL 2478587 0.51 HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Gif Mauritius 24878664 5.16 HDFC Trustee Company Limited-Hdfc Equity Fund 19987750 4.15 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 18843138 3.91 Matthews Asia Dividend Fund 17472106 3.63 Copthall Mauritius Investment Limited 17366917 3.60 Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte 15201347 3.15 HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Top 200 F 14457057 3.00 Government Of Singapore 11147978 2.31 Swiss Finance Corporation (Mauritius) Limited 10708865 2.22 Government Pension Fund Global 9804032 2.03 Skagen Global Verdipapirfond 8181421 1.70 SBI Magnum Taxgain Scheme 7600000 1.58 Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana S.a. S.v 7523142 1.56 HSBC Indian Equity Mother Fund 7002596 1.45 Eastspring Investments India Equity Open Limited 6846182 1.42 HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Tax Saver 6685418 1.39 Nordea Emerging Market Equities Fund 6251657 1.30 D. E. Shaw Oculus Investments Bi-Fi 1 Mauritius 5500000 1.14 DSP Blackrock Top 100 Equity Fund 5345396 1.11 HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Prudence 5141965 1.07 TOTAL 225945631 46.88 (I) (c) (ii)  Statement showing holding of securities (including shares, warrants, convertible securities) of persons  (together with PAC) belonging to the category “Public” and holding more than 5% of the total number of  shares of the company   HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Gif Mauririus 24878664 5.16 TOTAL 24878664 5.16 (I) (d)  Statement showing details of locked-in  shares: Nil (II) (a)    Statement showing details of Depository  Receipts (DRs): Nil (II) (b)  Statement showing Holding of Depository  Receipts (DRs), where underlying shares  are in excess of 1% of the total number of  shares: Nil Corporate Overview Financial Statements 90 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Cate- gory Category of shareholder  Number of Voting Rights held  in each class of securities Total Voting Rights Code   (I) (II) Class X   (III) Class Y (IV) Total Voting  Rights (III+IV)  (V) As a percentage  of (A+B)   (VI) As a percentage of  (A+B+C)   (VII) (A) Promoter and Promoter Group (1) Indian (a) Bodies Corporate 937781325 247858 938029183 42.59 33.68 (b) Any Other (specify) (b-1) Trusts 1774880 Nil 1774880 0.08 0.06 Sub-Total (A)(1) 939556205 247858 939804063 42.67 33.74 (2) Foreign Nil Sub-Total (A)(2) Nil Total Shareholding of Promoter and  Promoter Group (A)= (A)(1)+(A)(2) 939556205 247858 939804063 42.67 33.74 (B) Public shareholding   (1) Institutions  (a) Mutual Funds/UTI 64765429 11923223 76688652 3.48 2.75 (b) Financial Institutions/ Banks 1770891 38610 1809501 0.08 0.06 (c) Central Government/ State Government(s) 2033825 144539 2178364 0.10 0.08 (d) Insurance Companies 231346191 838564 232184755 10.54 8.34 (e) Foreign Institutional Investors 641443501 27075510 668519011 30.35 24.01 (f ) Any Other (specify) (f-1) Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corp) 65792527 2599158 68391685 3.11 2.46 (f-2) Foreign Bodies-DR 11062751 Nil 11062751 0.50 0.40 (f-3) Foreign Nationals-DR 991 Nil 991 Nil Nil (f-4) FII-DR 2213 Nil 2213 Nil Nil Sub-Total (B)(1) 1018218319 42619604 1060837923 48.16 38.09 (2) Non-institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 10031396 781985 10813381 0.49 0.39 (b) Individuals - i.
Individual shareholders holding nominal  share capital up to R 1 lakh.
157898559 2916700 160815259 7.30 5.77 ii.
Individual shareholders holding nominal  share capital in excess of R 1 lakh.
8218543 1314721 9533264 0.43 0.34 (c) Any Other (specify) (c-1) Non Resident Indians 10492370 168160 10660530 0.48 0.38 (c-2) Clearing Member 4618550 119447 4737997 0.22 0.17 (C-3) Trusts 4847441 28215 4875656 0.22 0.18 (c-4) Overseas Corporate Bodies 490 Nil 490 Nil Nil (c-5) Foreign Corporate Bodies  (including FDI) 571059 Nil 571059 0.03 0.02 Sub-Total (B)(2)  196678408 5329228 202007636 9.17 7.25 Total Public Shareholding (B)= (B)(1)+(B)(2) 1214896727 47948832 1262845559 57.33 45.34 TOTAL  (A)+(B) 2154452932 48196690 2202649622 100.00 79.08 (C) Shares held by Custodians and  against  which Depository Receipts have been issued  582260190 Nil 582260190 Nil 20.91 GRAND TOTAL  (A)+(B)+(C) 2736713122 48196690.3 2784909812 Nil 100.00 (III) (a)   Statement showing the voting pattern of shareholders, if more than one class of shares/securities is issued by the issuer.
Class X: Ordinary Shares; Class Y: ‘A’ Ordinary shares with diff  erential voting rights* 91 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) (I) (a)  Post Rights Issue Shareholding Pattern of ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (Scrip Code BSE-570001 and NSE-TATAMTRDVR) as on May 13, 2015 Cate- gory  code Category of shareholder Number of  share-holders Total number  of shares  Number of   shares held in  dematerialized form Total shareholding as a percentage  of total number of shares As a percentage  of (A+B)[1] As a percentage  of (A+B+C) (A) Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group[2]  *1 Indian:  (a) Bodies Corporate 4 2615022 2615022 0.51 0.51 Sub-Total (A)(1) 4 2615022 2615022 0.51 0.51 *2 Foreign: Nil Sub-Total (A)(2) Nil Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter  Group (A)= (A)(1)+(A)(2) 4 2615022 2615022 0.51 0.51 (B) Public shareholding[3]   1 Institutions  (a) Mutual Funds/UTI 130 125061858 125061858 24.60 24.60 (b) Financial Institutions/Banks 6 403642 403642 0.08 0.08 (c) Central Government/State Government(s) 2 1524953 1524953 0.30 0.30 (d) Insurance Companies 15 9189175 9189175 1.81 1.81 (e) Foreign Institutional Investors 204 287217034 287217034 56.49 56.49 (f ) Any Other (specify) (f-1) Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corp) 47 26628334 26628334 5.24 5.24 Sub-Total (B)(1) 404 450024996 450024996 88.50 88.50 2 Non-institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 955 8102421 8102236 1.60 1.60 (b) Individuals  i.
Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital up to R 1 lakh.
65297 30585431 30338425 6.02 6.02 ii.
Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital in excess of R1 lakh.
66 14334996 14334996 2.82 2.82 (c) Any Other (specify) Non Resident Indians 1410 1724601 1720902 0.34 0.34 Clearing Member 378 793748 793748 0.16 0.16 Trusts 14 294955 294955 0.06 0.06 Directors and Relatives 2 534 534 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (B)(2)  68122 55836686 55585796 10.98 10.98 Total Public Shareholding (B)= (B)(1)+(B)(2) 68526 505861682 505610792 99.49 99.49 TOTAL  (A)+(B) 68531 508476704 508225814 100.00 100.00 (C) Shares held by Custodians and  against which  Depository Receipts have been issued Nil GRAND TOTAL  (A)+(B)+(C) 68531 508476704 508225814 100.00 100.00 Shares pledged or otherwise encumbered - Nil for all categories.
* Category of shareholders who do not hold shares in the Company are dropped     [1] For determining public shareholding      [2] For defi  nitions of “Promoter” and “Promoter Group” , refer to Reg.
2(1)(w)    [3] For defi  nitions of “Public Shareholding” , refer to Reg.
2(1)(y).
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 92 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports (I) (b) Statement showing Shareholding of persons belonging to the category “Promoter and Promoter Group”    (I) (c) (i)  Statement showing Shareholding of persons belonging to the category “Public” and holding more than  1% of the total number of shares    Name of the shareholder Number of  shares Shares as a percentage of total number of shares {i.e., Grand  Total (A)+(B)+(C) indicated in Statement at para (I)(a) above} Tata Sons Limited 2105773 0.41 Ewart Investments Limited 440645 0.09 Af-Taab Investment Company Limited 51022 0.01 Tata Global Beverages Limited 17582 0.00 TOTAL 2615022 0.51 HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Gif Mauritius 26248131 5.16 HDFC Trustee Company Limited-Hdfc Equity Fund 21087993 4.15 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 19883265 3.91 Copthall Mauritius Investment Limited 18417573 3.62 Matthews Asia Dividend Fund 17472106 3.44 Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte 16120993 3.17 HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Top 200 F 15252858 3.00 Government Of Singapore 11822405 2.32 Swiss Finance Corporation (Mauritius) Limited 11356725 2.23 Government Pension Fund Global 10397152 2.04 Skagen Global Verdipapirfond 8676378 1.71 SBI Magnum Taxgain Scheme 8018348 1.58 Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana S.a. S.v 7971912 1.57 HSBC Indian Equity Mother Fund 7388060 1.45 Eastspring Investments India Equity Open Limited 7223036 1.42 HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Tax Saver 7053422 1.39 Nordea Emerging Market Equities Fund 6595784 1.30 D. E. Shaw Oculus Investments Bi-Fi 1 Mauritius 5802752 1.14 DSP Blackrock Top 100 Equity Fund 5639637 1.11 HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Prudence 5425008 1.07 TOTAL 237853538 46.78 (I) (c) (ii)  Statement showing holding of securities (including shares, warrants, convertible securities) of persons  (together with PAC) belonging to the category “Public” and holding more than 5% of the total number of  shares of the company HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Gif Mauritius Limited 26248131 5.16 TOTAL 26248131 5.16 (I) (d)  Statement showing details of locked-in shares: Nil (II) (a)  Statement showing details of Depository  Receipts (DRs): Nil (II) (b)  Statement showing Holding of Depository  Receipts (DRs), where underlying shares are in  excess of 1% of the total number of shares: Nil 93 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) Cate- gory Category of shareholder Number of Voting Rights held  in each class of securities Total Voting Rights Code   (I) (II) Class X (III) Class Y (IV) Total Voting  Rights (III+IV) (V) As a percentage  of (A+B)   (VI) As a percentage  of (A+B+C)   (VII) (A) Promoter and Promoter Group (1) Indian (a) Bodies Corporate 989884618 261502 990146120 42.61 33.70 (b) Any Other (specify) (b-1) Trusts 1774880 1774880 0.08 0.06 Sub-Total (A)(1) 991659498 261502 991921000 42.69 33.76 (2) Foreign Nil Sub-Total (A)(2) Nil Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter  Group (A)= (A)(1)+(A)(2) 991659498 261502 991921000 42.69 33.76 (B) Public shareholding   (1) Institutions  (a) Mutual Funds/UTI 70223311 12506185 82729496 3.56 2.82 (b) Financial Institutions/ Banks 1723709 40364 1764073 0.08 0.06 (c) Central Government/ State Government(s) 2033825 152495 2186320 0.10 0.07 (d) Insurance Companies 244316532 918917 245235449 10.55 8.35 (e) Foreign Institutional Investors 677768383 28721703 706490086 30.40 24.05 (f ) Any Other (specify) (f-1) Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corp) 70201115 2662833 72863948 3.14 2.48 (f-2) Foreign Bodies-DR 11671707 Nil 11671707 0.50 0.40 (f-3) Foreign Nationals-DR 991 Nil 991 0.00 0.00 (f-4) FII-DR 2334 Nil 2334 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (B)(1) 1077941907 45002497 1122944404 48.32 38.22 (2) Non-institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 10293013 810242 11103255 0.48 0.38 (b) Individuals - i.
Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital up to R1 lakh.
163488286 3058543 166546829 7.17 5.67 ii.
Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital in excess of R1 lakh.
9094710 1433499 10528209 0.45 0.36 (c) Any Other (specify) (c-1) Non Resident Indians 10618443 172460 10790903 0.46 0.37 (c-2) Clearing Member 4112366 79374 4191740 0.18 0.14 (c-3) Trusts 5057091 29495 5086586 0.22 0.17 (c-4) Directors and Relatives 25350 53 25403 0.00 0.00 (c-5) Overseas Corporate Bodies 490 Nil 490 0.00 0.00 (c-6) Foreign Corporate Bodies  (including FDI) 602438 Nil 602438 0.03 0.02 Sub-Total (B)(2)  203292187 5583666 208875853 8.99 7.11 Total Public Shareholding (B)= (B)(1)+(B)(2) 1281234094 50586163 1331820257 57.31 45.33 TOTAL  (A)+(B) 2272893592 50847665 2323741257 100.00 79.09 (C) Shares held by Custodians and  against which  Depository Receipts have been issued  Nil (a) Public 614310010 Nil 614310010 Nil 20.91 GRAND TOTAL  (A)+(B)+(C) 2887203602 50847665 2938051267 Nil 100.00 (III) (a)  Statement showing the voting pattern of shareholders, if more than one class of shares/securities is issued by the issuer.
Class X: Ordinary Shares;  Class Y: ‘A’ Ordinary Shares with diff  erential voting rights* On behalf of the Board of Directors CYRUS P MISTRY Chairman Mumbai,  May 30, 2016 Corporate Overview Financial Statements 94 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports FORM NO.
MGT-9 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN as on the fi nancial year ended on March 31, 2016  [Pursuant to Section 92(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 II.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY   All the business activities contributing 10 % or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:- III.
PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES AS ON MARCH 31, 2016 Sl.
No.
Name and Description of main products/services NIC Code of the  Product/Service % to total turnover of the company 1.
Manufacture of Motor Vehicles 2910 90.84% ANNEXURE 2  Sl.
no.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE COMPANY CIN / GLN HOLDING/SUBSIDIARY/ ASSOCIATE/JV % OF SHARES  HELD APPLICABLE  SECTION 1 Concorde Motors (India) Limited,  3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk,  Mumbai – 400001 U24110MH1972PLC015561 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 2 Sheba Properties Limited, C/o Tata Motors Limited, 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street,  Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai – 400001 U45200MH1989PLC050444 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 3 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited, PDO Building, TATA Motors Campus, Chinchwad, Pune - 411 033 U29100PN2000PLC130290 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 4 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC, 18 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7HS NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 5 Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited, 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody  Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai – 400001 U50300MH1997PLC149349 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 6 TML Holdings Pte.
Limited, 9 Battery Road, #15-01, Straits Trading Building, Singapore 049910 NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 7 TML Distribution Company Limited, 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk,  Mumbai – 400001 U63000MH2008PLC180593 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 8 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A., Carretera de Castellon, Km.
230,5 (poligono Empresarium), Zaragoza, Spain NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 9 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA, Zone Industrial - Berrechid, Rue Al Adrisa, Berrechid -26100,  Morocco NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 10 TML Drivelines Limited, C/oTata Motors Limited, 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma  Chowk, Mumbai – 400001 U34100MH2000PLC124874 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 11 Trilix S.r.l., Via Teano 3, 10042 Nichelino, Torino, Italy NA SUBSIDIARY 80.00 2(87) 12 Tata Precision Industries Pte.
Limited, 1 Robinson Road, #19-01, AIA Towers, Singapore 048 542 NA SUBSIDIARY 78.39 2(87) 13 Tata Technologies Limited, Plot No.
25, Pune Infotechpark, MIDC Taluka - Mulshi Hinjawadi, Pune - 27 U72200PN1994PLC013313 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 14 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited, Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody street, Mumbai-400001 U34101MH2006PLC164771 SUBSIDIARY 51.00 2(87) 15 Tata Motors Finance Limited, 10th ﬂ  oor, 106 A and B, Maker Chambers III, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 U65923MH2006PLC162503 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 16 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 6477691 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 17 Jaguar Land Rover Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 1672070 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 18 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH, Fuerbergstrasse 51, Salzburg, A5020, Austria FN84604v SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 19 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited, 3-13 Toranomon 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan45 0104-01-075166 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 20 JLR Nominee Company Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England UK 1672065 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) vii) Name, Address and contact details of Registrar & Transfer Agents:  TSR Darashaw Limited,   6/10 Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate,  20, E Moses Road, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai - 400 011 Tel: 91 22 6656 8484; Fax: 91 22 6656 8494,  Email: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com; Website: www.
tsrdarashaw.com  For Rights Issue 2015 :  Link InTime India Private Limited No.
C-13, Pannalal Silk Mill Compound, Lal Bahadur Shastri Road,  Bhandup (W), Mumbai - 400078 Tel: (91 22) 6171 5400/9167779196 /97 /98/ 99  Fax: (91 22) 2596 0329 Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.co.in  Website: www.linkintime.co.in I.
REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i) CIN: L28920MH1945PLC004520 ii) Registration Date: 01-09-1945 iii) Name of the Company: Tata Motors Limited iv) Category / Sub-Category of the Company: Public Company/ Limited by shares v) Address of the Registered Oﬃ   ce and contact details: Bombay House,  24 Homi Mody Street, Mumbai-400 001  Tel: +91 22 66658282 Fax +91 2266657799  Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com  Website: www.tatamotors.com vi) Whether listed company: Yes 95 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) 21 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Am Kronberger Hang 2a 65824 Schwalbach/Ts Germany HRB 2408 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 22 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC “555 MacArthur Blvd.
Mahwah, New Jersey 07430, USA” 2075961 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 23 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV, “PO Box 40, 4153 ZG Bessd Stationsweg 8, Netherlands” 23074977 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 24 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veículos e Peças, Lda.
Ediﬁ cio Escritorios do Tejo, Rua do Polo Sul, Lote 1.10.1.1 – 3.
*  B-3, Parish of Santa Maria dos Olivais, Municipality of Lisboa, Portugal 504 998 803 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 25 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited, 65 Epping Road, North Ryde, New South Wales, 2113, Australia 4352238 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 26 Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa, Via Alessandro Marchetti 105 - 00148, Roma, Italy 6070621005 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 27 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited, 25F West Mirae Asset Center 1, Building 67 Suha-dong,  Jung-gu Seoul 100-210 Korea 110111-3977373 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 28 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Company Limited, Room 713, 7F No.6 Jirong Road (Area C1, Plot 001), Shanghai, China Free Trade Zone 310115400245293 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 29 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC, 75 Courtneypark Drive West, Unit 3, Mississauga, ON L5W 0E3, Canada 2013828088 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 30 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS, 34 Rue de la Croix de Fer 78105 Saint Germain en Laye Cedex, France SOREN 509 016 804 RCS  Nanterre SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 31 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited, Simon Vermooten Road, Silverton, Pretoria, South Africa 7769130 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 32 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Industria e Comercio de Veiculos LTDA (change of name from Jaguar e Land Rover  Brasil Importacao e Comercio de Veiculos Ltda eﬀ ective 10 February 2016), Avenida Ibirapuera 2.332, Torre I -10º  andar- Moema 04028-002, São Paulo-SP-Brazil 35.222.373.953 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 33 Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia), 28B, Building 2, Mezhdunarodnoe Shosse 141411,  Moscow, Russian Federation 1085047006549 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 34 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF - England United Kingdom NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 35 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai – 400001 U34200MH2012FLC237194 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 36 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL, Torre Picasso, Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso, 1 – Planta 42, 23020 Madrid, SPAIN B-82526757 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 37 Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV, Generaal Lemanstraat 47, 2018 Antwerpen, Belgium 0456.612.553 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 38 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV3 4LF 4019301UK SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 39 Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited, Simon Vermooten Road Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South Africa NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 40 The Jaguar Collection Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 2018432 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 41 Jaguar Cars Limited  Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 1672067 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 42 Land Rover Exports Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 1596703 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 43 Land Rover Ireland Limited, “C/o LK Shields Solicitors, 39/40 Upper Mount Street Dublin 2, Ireland 318198 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 44 The Daimler Motor Company Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 112569 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 45 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 322903 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 46 S.S. Cars Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 333482 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 47 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 551579 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 48 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited, Room E16, Floor 2, 477, Fute West 1st  Road, Shanghai Free Trade Zone, PRC 310115400245293 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 49 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 4102133 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 50 JDHT Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF 2631524 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 51 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore PTE Ltd, Level 30, Singapore Land Rover, Raﬄ   es Place, 048623, Singapore T13FC0063C SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 52 Jaguar Racing Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF 9983877 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 53 InMotion Ventures Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF 10070632 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 54 Silkplan Limited, Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF 2224560 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 55 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o., Vysoka 2B, 811 06, Bratislava, Slovakia 48 302 392 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 56 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd., 172 Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Joellabuk-do, 573-715, Korea NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 57 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and Distribution Co. Ltd., 4th ﬂ  oor, 272 Yeongdeung-ro,  Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150 033, Korea NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 58 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd., 199 Column Tower 20th Floor, Ratchadapisek Road, Klongtoey,  Bangkok 10110 Thailand NA SUBSIDIARY 95.28 2(87) 59 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd., 39 Ferguson Road, Illova 2196 NA SUBSIDIARY 60.00 2(87) 60 PT Tata Motors Indonesia, Pondok Indah Oﬃ   ce Tower 3 Suite 801-A, Jl Sultan Iskandar Muda Kav V-TA  Pondok Pinang Kebayoran Lama, Jakarta 12130 the Republic of Indonesia NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 61 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia, Pondok Indah Oﬃ   ce Tower 3, Floor 8, Suite 801-B, Jl.
Sultan Iskandar  Muda Kav.
V-TA, Pondok Pinang, Kebayoran Lama,  Jakarta Selatan 12310, the Republic of Indonesia NA SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 62 Tata Technologies  Inc., 41050, W Eleven Mile Road, Novi, Michigan 48375, USA 476-730 SUBSIDIARY 72.37 2(87) Corporate Overview Financial Statements 96 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports 63 Tata Technologies (Canada) Inc., 4510 Rhodes Drive, Unit 300 Windsor, Ontario, Canada N8W 5K5 860826 SUBSIDIARY 72.37 2(87) 64 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. , Blvd.
Independencia #1600 Ote., Local C-46 C.P .
27100 Torreon,  Coahuila, Mexico TTM-990127-V84-New Tax  Regn NO SUBSIDIARY 72.37 2(87) 65 Tata Technologies Pte Limited,  8 Shenton Way, #19-05 AXA Tower, Singapore 068811.
198100504W SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 66 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited, “889 Thai CC Tower, Room 108-9, 10th Floor, South Sathorn Road,  Kwhaeng Yannawa, Khet Sathorn, Bangkok Metropolis 10120” 010554812171 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 67 Tata Technologies Europe Limited, 2 Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6EG 2016440 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 68 INCAT International Plc., 2 Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6EG 2377350 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 69 INCAT GmbH, Breitwiesenstrasse 19, 70565 Stuttgart, Germany HRB18622 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 70 Cambric Limited,  “H & J Corporate Services, Ltd., Ocean Centre, Montagu Foreshore East Bay Street, P .O.
Box  SS-19084, Nassau, Bahamas”  Company No.
57500 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 71 Tata Technologies SRL, “Brasov Oﬃ   ce: Str Branduselor, No 84 Brasov, 500397, Romania Craiova Oﬃ  ce: Str Iaon Maiorescu, No 10 Etaj 4 cam 405 Craiova, 200760, Romania, Iasi Oﬃ  ce: 23, Calea  Chisinau Street, First Floor, Tester Building, 700265 Iasi, Roma”  Registration Certiﬁ cate No.
B1766921 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 72 Cambric GmbH, “Service Kontor, Universitat Geb A1 1, D-66123 Saarbrucken, Stuhlsatzenhausweg 69 Raum 130,  66123 Saarbrücken” Entity Registration#:HR  B14269 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 73 Cambric UK Limited, Blick Rothenberg (BRAL) / UK, 16 Great Queen Street, Covent Garden, London, WC2B 5AH Company No.
06559783 S UBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 74 Midwest Managed Services Inc., 556 E. Broadway, #300, Salt Lake City, UT 84102 Utah Entity/File Number  8513733-0142 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 75 Cambric Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited,  11F,Aurora plaza,99 Fucheng Rd,Room 1131,  Shangai 200120, China 310115400245293 SUBSIDIARY 72.32 2(87) 76 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Pvt.
Ltd., C/o Tata Motors Finance Ltd., 10th ﬂ  oor, 106 A & B, Maker Chambers  III, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 U65910MH1992PTC187184 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 77 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
September 02, 2015), C/o.
Tata Africa Services  (Nigeria) Limited, Plot C89, Amuwo Odoﬁ  n Industrial Layout, Lagos, Nigeria  Company Registration No:  1284940 SUBSIDIARY 100.00 2(87) 78 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited,135 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3UR 1731924 ASSOCIATE 49.90 2(6) 79 Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited, Plant I, Honda, Sattari, Goa 403530 L35911GA1980PLC000400 ASSOCIATE 47.19 2(6) 80 Nita Co Ltd., “1703, Sky Bhaban,195, Motljheel C/A, Dhaka, Dhaka - 1000, Bangladesh NA ASSOCIATE 40.00 2(6) 81 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Pvt.
Ltd., Jubilee Building,45, Museum Road, Banglore,  Karnataka, 560025 U85110KA1998PTC024588 ASSOCIATE 39.99 2(6) 82 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited , Industrial Area No.
2, A.B.
Road, Dewas, Madhya Pradesh, 455001 U29120MP1995PLC009773 ASSOCIATE 39.19 2(6) 83 Tata AutoComp Systems Limited, Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody street, Fort, Mumbai-400001 U34100MH1995PLC093733 ASSOCIATE 26.00 2(6) 84 Tata Cummins Private Limited, Cummins Road, Telco Township, Jamshedpur 831 004, Jharkhand, India U34101JH1993PTC005546 JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 85 Fiat India Automobiles Pvt.
Limited., Plot No.
B 19, Ranjangaon MIDC Industrial Area, Ranjangaon, Taluka  Shirur, District Pune - 412 220 U28900PN1997PTC130940 JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 86 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited,  “Room 1102, Binjiang, International Plaza, No, 88  Tonggang Road, Changshu Economic and Technical Development Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province, China” U93000KA2008PLC046588 JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 87 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Sales Company Limited, 6F, Binjiang International Plaza, No.
88 Tonggang  Road, Changsu Economic and Technical Development Zone, Jiangsu Province, China 7535151 JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 88 TATA HAL Technologies Ltd., Venus Building, # 1/2 , Kalyanamantapa Road,Jakkasandra, Koramangala, 1st  Block, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560034 U93000KA2008PLC046588 JOINT VENTURE 36.16 2(6) 89 Spark44 (JV) Ltd., Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, England, CV34LF NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 90 Spark44 Pty.
Ltd. (Sydney), Level 5, 65 Berry Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060, Australia NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 91 Spark44 LLC (LA & NYC), 5870, West Jeﬀ  erson Blvd, Studio H, Los Angeles, California, CA 90016, USA NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 92 Spark44 Limited (Shanghai),  Unit 6401/6402 & 6501/6502, 436, Ju Men Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai  200023.
China NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 93 Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai), Reef Tower, Oﬃ  ce Unit 1001 Cluster O, Jumeriah Lake Towers, Dubai, UAE NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 94 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Private Limited, Block A, Level 1, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr Annie Besant  Road, Worli, Mumbai City, Maharashtra-400018 U74999MH2015FTC269125 JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 95 Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham), 5-23, Old Street, London EC1V 9HL, UK NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 96 Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore), Level 36, UOB Plaza 1, 80 Raﬄ   es Place, Singapore 048624, Singapore NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 97 Spark44 Communication SL (Madrid), Torres de Colon, Plaza de Colon 2, Planta 18, Madrid 28046, Spain NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 98 Spark44 SRL (Rome), Via Antonia Salandra 18, Rome 00187, Italy NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 99 Spark44 Limited (Seoul), 12th Floor, Cheonggye 11 Bldg., Chengyecheon-ro, Jongnogu, Seoul 110-726, Korea NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2 (6) 100 Spark44 KK (Tokyo), 14th Floor, Kamiyacho Mt.
Budilding, 4-3-20 Toranomon, Minato-Ku, Tokyo 105-0001, Japan NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 101 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto), 1235 Bay Street, 7th Floor, Toronto, Ontario, M5R 3K4, Canada NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 102 Spark44 GMBH (Frankfurt), Wildunger Strasse 6s, D-60487 Frankfurt am Main, Germany NA JOINT VENTURE 50.00 2(6) 97 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) IV.
SHAREHOLDING PATTERN (E quity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity)  i) Category-wise Shareholding Category of Shareholers No.of Shares held at the beginning of the year .i.e  01.04.2015 No.of Shares held at the end of the year .i.e   31.03.2016 % Change  during  the yearDemat Physical Total % of  Total Shares Demat Physical Total % of  Total Shares (i) A. Promoters (a) Individuals / Hindu Undivided Family 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (b) Central Government / State Governments(s) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (c) Bodies Corporate 940,259,912 0 940,259,912 29.21 953,838,171 0 953,838,171 28.09 -1.12 (d) Financial Institutions / Banks 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Any Other (Trust) 1,774,880 0 1,774,880 0.06 1,774,880 0 1,774,880 0.05 0.00 Sub-Total (A) (1) 942,034,792 0 942,034,792 29.27 955,613,051 0 955,613,051 28.14 -1.13 (2) Foreign (a) Individuals (Non-Resident Individuals / Foreign  Individuals) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (b) Bodies Corporate 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (c) Institutions 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (d) Qualiﬁ  ed Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Any Other (specify) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (A) (2) Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group (A) 942,034,792 0 942,034,792 29.27 955,613,051 0 955,613,051 28.14 -1.13 (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions (a) Mutual Funds / UTI 183,908,935 88,730 183,997,665 5.72 307,930,776 88,730 308,019,506 9.07 3.35 (b) Financial Institutions / Banks 1,850,656 306,340 2,156,996 0.07 2,601,975 295,935 2,897,910 0.09 0.02 (c) Cental Government / State Governments(s) 1,465,311 2,013,905 3,479,216 0.11 1,544,873 2,013,905 3,558,778 0.10 0.00 (d) Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Insurance Companies 239,730,281 1,550 239,731,831 7.45 399,498,437 1,550 399,499,987 11.76 4.32 (f ) Foreign Institutional Investors 912,155,230 43,375 912,198,605 28.34 599,026,628 43,375 599,070,003 17.64 -10.70 (g) Foreign Venture Capital Investors 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (h) Qualiﬁ  ed Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (i) Any Other (specify)       (i-i) Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corporate) 91,784,107 0 91,784,107 2.85 309,771,223 0 309,771,223 9.12 6.27       (i-ii) Foreign Bodies - DR 11,062,751 11,062,751 0.34 6,741,794 0 6,741,794 0.20      (i-iii) Foreign Nationals - DR 991 0 991 0.00 286,661 0 286,661 0.01 0.01      (i-iv) Foreign Institutional Investors - DR 2,213 0 2,213 0.00 3,878,624 0 3,878,624 0.11 0.11 Sub-Total (B) (1) 1,441,960,475 2,453,900 1,444,414,375 44.88 1,631,282,991 2,443,495 1,633,726,486 48.11 3.38 (2) Non-Institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 17,202,061 649,190 17,851,251 0.55 22,914,690 645,195 23,559,885 0.69 0.14 (b) Individuals - 0.00 0.00 i Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital upto Rs.
1 lakh 159,910,993 27,154,569 187,065,562 5.81 190,908,566 25,811,585 216,720,151 6.38 0.57 ii Individual shareholders holding nominal share  capital in excess of Rs.
1 lakh 20,419,938 945,815 21,365,753 0.66 35,010,298 894,585 35,904,883 1.06 0.39 (c) Qualiﬁ  ed Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (d) Any Other  (d-i) Non Resident Indians 8,903,821 3,270,155 12,173,976 0.38 11,657,684 2,819,998 14,477,682 0.43 (d-ii) Clearing Member 5,813,022 0 5,813,022 0.18 10,037,086 0 10,037,086 0.30 0.11 (d-iii) Trust 5,127,847 1,750 5,129,597 0.16 13,511,155 1,750 13,512,905 0.40 0.24 (d-iv) OCBs/Foreign Cos 0 490 490 0.00 0 490 490 0.00 0.00 (d-v) Foreign Corporate Bodies  (including FDI) 571,059 0 571,059 0.02 163,487 0 163,487 0.00 -0.01 Sub-total (B) (2) 217,948,741 32,021,969 249,970,710 7.77 284,202,966 30,173,603 314,376,569 9.26 1.44 Total Public Shareholding (B) = (B)(1)+(B)(2) 1,659,909,216 34,475,869 1,694,385,085 52.64 1,915,485,957 32,617,098 1,948,103,055 57.37 4.73 TOTAL (A)+(B) 2,601,944,008 34,475,869 2,636,419,877 81.91 2,871,099,008 32,617,098 2,903,716,106 85.51 3.60 (C) Shares held by Custodians and against which Depository Receipts have been issued (1) Promoter and Promoter Group (2) Public 582,239,190 21,000 582,260,190 18.09 491,943,200 21,000 491,964,200 14.49 -3.60 GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)+(C) 3,184,183,198 34,496,869 3,218,680,067 100.00 3,363,042,208 32,638,098 3,395,680,306 100.00 0.00 Corporate Overview Financial Statements 98 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Sl.
no Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the beginning  of the year as on 01.04.2015 Date Reason  Increase/Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year  No.
of Shares % of total shares  of the company No.
of  Shares % of total Shares  of the company No.
of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company 1 Tata Sons Limited 704,329,252 21.88 704,329,252 20.74 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 38,868,112 1.14 743,197,364 21.89 18.09.2015 Pur chase of Shares 37,878,787 1.12 781,076,151 23.00 31.03.2016 At the end of  the year  -  - 781,076,151 23.00 2 Tata Steel Limited 151,687,515 4.71 151,687,515 4.47 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 213,402 0.01 151,900,917 4.47 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 8,136,368 0.24 160,037,285 4.71 18.09.2015 Sale of Shares -76,399,588 -2.25 83,637,697 2.46 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  -  - 83,637,697 2.46 3 Tata Industries Limited 68,436,485 2.13 68,436,485 2.02 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 3,767,145 0.11 72,203,630 2.13 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  - - 72,203,630 2.13 4 Tata Investment Corporation Ltd 10,025,000 0.31 - - 10,025,000 0.30 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 936,448 0.03 10,961,448 0.32 31.03.2016 At the end of the year -- 10,961,448 0.32 5 Ewart Investments Limited 3,341,265 0.10 3,341,265 0.10 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 183,922 0.01 3,525,187 0.10 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  - - 3,525,187 0.10 6 Tata Chemicals Limited 1,863,705 0.06 1,863,705 0.05 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 102,589 0.00 1,966,294 0.06 11.03.2016 Pur chase of Shares 1,966,294 0.06 3,932,588 0.12 11.03.2016 Sale of Shares -1,966,294 -0.06 1,966,294 0.06 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  -  - 1,966,294 0.06 7 Af-Taab Investment Company Ltd 386,885 0.01 386,885 0.01 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 21,296 0.00 408,181 0.01 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  - - 408,181 0.01 8 Simto Investment Company Ltd 56,475 0.00 56,475 0.00 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 3,108 0.00 59,583 0.00 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  - - 59,583 0.00 9 Tata Global Beverages Limited 133,330 0.00 133,330 0.00 22.05.2015 Pur chase of Shares 7,338 0.00 140,668 0.00 18.03.2016 Sale of Shares -140,668 0.00 0 0.00 31.03.2016 At the end of the year  - - 0 0.00 Note: Expect for the above there is no change in the holding of Sir Ratan Tata Trust, Sir Dorabji Tata Trust, J R D Tata Trust and Lady Tata Memorial Trust, Promoter Group during this  Fiscal 2016. iii) Change in Promoter’s Shareholding  (please specify, if there is no change)       Sl.
no.
Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the year  01.04.2015 Shareholding at the end of the year 31.03.2016 % change in  shareholding  during the yearNo.of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company % of Shares Pledged/ encumbered to total  shares No.of Shares % of total  Shares of the  company % of Shares Pledged/ encumbered to total  shares 1 Tata Sons Limited 704,329,252 21.88 1.91 781,076,151 23.00 1.91 1.12 2 Tata Steel Limited 151,687,515 4.71 0.00 83,637,697 2.46 0.00 -2.25 3 Tata Industries Limited 68,436,485 2.13 0.00 72,203,630 2.13 0.00 0.00 4 Tata Investment Corporation Ltd 10,025,000 0.31 0.00 10,961,448 0.32 0.00 0.01 5 Ewart Investments Limited 3,341,265 0.10 0.00 3,525,187 0.10 0.00 0.00 6 Tata Chemicals Limited 1,863,705 0.06 0.00 1,966,294 0.06 0.00 0.00 7 Af-Taab Investment Company Ltd 386,885 0.01 0.00 408,181 0.01 0.00 0.00 8 Simto Investment Company Ltd 56,475 0.00 0.00 59,583 0.00 0.00 0.00 9 Sir Ratan Tata Trust 859,200 0.03 0.00 859,200 0.03 0.00 0.00 10 Sir Dorabji Tata Trust 808,960 0.03 0.00 808,960 0.02 0.00 0.00 11 J R D Tata Trust 105,280 0.00 0.00 105,280 0.00 0.00 0.00 12 Lady Tata Memorial Trust 1,440 0.00 0.00 1,440 0.00 0.00 0.00 13 Tata Global Beverages Limited 133,330 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 941,901,462 29.26 1.91 955,613,051 28.14 1.91 -1.12 ii) Shareholding of Promoters (including Promoter Group)  99 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) iv) Shareholding Pattern of Top 10 Shareholders (Other than Director, Promoters and Holders of GDRS and ADRs) Sl.
no Name of the ShareHolder  Shareholding at the beginning of the  year as on 01.04.2015 Cumulative Shareholding end of the  year as on 31.03.2016 No of Shares % of total Shares of the  Company No of Shares % of total Shares of the  Company 1 Life Insurance Corporation Of India 89,362,916 2.78 199,144,257 5.86 2 HDFC T rustee Company Limited-HDFC Equity Fund 59,227,175 1.84 84,216,364 2.48 3 ICICI P rudential Life Insurance Company Ltd 40,457,205 1.26 67,362,172 1.98 4 Government Of Singapore 37,808,177 1.17 64,133,414 1.89 5 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 35,901,712 1.12 19,005601 0.56 6 ICICI P rudential Value Discovery Fund 19,005,601 0.59 36,553,423 1.08 7 Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund A/C Franklin India Bluechip Fund  11,087,282 0.34 36,079,591 1.06 8 Reliance Capital Trustee Co. Ltd A/C Reliance equity Opportunities Fund 15,641,877 0.49 29,136,816 0.86 9 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds 27,925,422 0.87 28,832,626 0.85 10 SBI-ETF Nifty 50  19,030,664 0.59 28,689,706 0.84 11 HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Gif Mauritius Limited* 24,878,664 0.77 18.729,233 0.55 12 Copthall Mauritius Investment Limited* 30,624,933 0.95 12,410,318 0.37 13 Carmignac Gestion A\C Carmignac Patrimoine* 20,034,535 0.62 0 0.00 v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Sl.
no Name of the ShareHolder  Shareholding at the  beginning of the year as on  01.04.2015 Date Reason  Increase/Decrease in  Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding  during the year  No.
of  Shares % of total shares  of the company No.
of  Shares % of total Shares  of the company No.
of  Shares % of total Shares  of the company A Directors 1 Mr Cyrus P Mistry OS 14,500 0.00 OS 14,500 0.00 22.05.2015 Subscribe to Rights Issue  OS 1,355 0.00 OS 15,855 0.00 31.03.2016 At y ear end  - - OS 15,855 0.00 2 Mr Ravindra Pisharody AOS 50 0.00 AOS 50 0.00  - No change 0 0.00 AOS 50 0.00 31.03.2016 At y ear end  - - AOS 50 0.00 B Key Managerial Personnel 3 Mr C Ramakrishnan, Group CFO  OS 5,000 AOS 2,880 0.00 OS 5,000 AOS 2,880 0.00 22.05.2015 Subscribe to Rights Issue OS 274 AOS 158 0.00 OS 5,274 AOS 3,038 0.00 31.03.2016 At y ear end  - - OS 5,274 AOS 3,038 0.00 4 Mr Hoshang K Sethna*,  Company Secretary (as jointholder) OS 2,700 AOS 765 0.00 OS 2,700 AOS 765 22.05.2015 Subscribe to Rights Issue OS 253 AOS 48 OS 2,953 AOS 813 0.00 31.03.2016 At y ear end  - - OS 2,953 AOS 813 0.00 Secured loan excluding deposits Unscured Loan Deposits Total Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the Fiscal  i) Principal Amount 4956.70 16177.71 0 21,134.41 ii) Interest due but not paid 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 iii) Interest accrued but not due 50.41 414.56 464.97 Total (i+ii+iii) 5007.11 16592.27 0 21599.38 V. INDEBTEDNESS  Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding /accrued but not due for payment    Note: Mr N N Wadia, Dr R Mashelkar, Mr N Munjee, Mr S Bhargava, Mr V K Jairath, Ms Falguni Nayar, Dr Ralf Speth, Mr Satish B Borwankar and Mr Guenter Butschek, Directors did not  hold any shares in the Company during Fiscal 2016 Shareholding of Top 10 Shareholders is consolidated, based on Permanent Account Number of the Shareholder.
The date wise increase or decrease in Stockholding of the Top 10  Shareholders giving a break-up or Ordinary Shares and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares is available on the website of the Company www.tatamotors.com Note:  *Ceased to be in the list of Top 10 on 31.03.2016.
The same is reﬂ  ected above since the shareholder was one of the Top 10 share holders on 01.04.2015 Not in the list of Top 10 share holders as on 01.04.2015.
The same has been refelected above since the shareholder was on the Top 10 share holders as on 31.03.2016  (` in crores) Corporate Overview Financial Statements 100 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports VI.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL  A.  Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager Sl.
No.
Particulars of Remuneration Total Mr G Butschek w.e.f 15-02-16 Mr R  Pisharody Mr S B  Borwankar 1.
Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 3,63,59,850 2,18,88,984 2,03,89,636 7,86,38,470 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 44,81,027 38,41,143 9,30,536 92,52,706 (c) Proﬁ  ts in lieu of salary under - - - - 2.
Stock Option --- - 3.
Sweat Equity --- - 4.
Commission as % of proﬁ  t - - - - 5.
Others, please specify - - - - Total (A) 4,08,40,877 2,57,30,127 2,13,20,172 8,78,91,176 *Ceiling as per Schedule V of the Act 40,01,688 3,18,39,520 3,18,39,520 Amount in (`) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration G Butschek  CEO & MD Key Managerial Personnel Hoshang Sethna Company Secretary C Ramakrishan* Group Chief Financial Offi  cer Total 1.
Gross salary Not Applicable (a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 1,21,52,305 5,54,64,182 6,76,16,487 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961 3,02,020 31,73,629 34,75,649 (c) Proﬁ  ts in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961 - - - 2.
Stock Option -- - 3.
Sweat Equity -- - 4.
Commission - as % of proﬁ  t or if any others, specify - - - 5.
Others, please specify -- - Total 1,24,54,325 5,86,37,811 7,10,92,136 C.  Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel Other Than MD/Manager/WTD Amount in (`) Sl.
no.
Particulars of Remuneration Name of Directors Total1.
Independent Directors N N Wadia Dr Mashelkar N Munjee S Bhargava V K Jairath F Nayar • Fee for attending board/committee meetings 13,60,000 10,60,000 7,50,000 8,60,000 10,90,000 10,20,000 61,40,000 • Commission Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil • Others, please specify Nil Nil  Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Total (1) 13,60,000 10,60,000     7,50,000 8,60,000 10,90,000 10,20,000 61,40,000 2.
Other Non-Executive Directors C P Mistry Dr Speth • Fee for attending board/committee meetings 9,20,000 Nil 9,20,000 • Commission Nil Nil Nil • Others, please specify Nil Nil Nil Total (2) 9,20,000 Nil 9,20,000 Total (B)=(1+2) 70,60,000 Total Managerial Remuneration Nil Overall Ceiling as per the Act Not Applicable as only sitting fees paid B.  Remuneration to other Directors VII.
PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES: There were no penalties/punishment/compounding of oﬀ ences for the breach of any sections of Companies Act against the Company or its  Directors or other oﬃ   cers in default, if any, during the year.
Secured loan excluding deposits Unscured Loan Deposits Total Indebtedness Change in Indebtedness during Fiscal • Addition 0.00 183.7 0 0.00 • Reduction  (291.84)  (5,186.71) 0  (5,294.85) Net Change  (291.84)  (5,003.01) 0  (5,294.85) Indebtedness at the end of the fi nancial year i) Principal Amount 4664.99 11222.26 0 15,887.25 ii) Interest due but not paid 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 iii) Interest accrued but not due 50.28 367.00 0 417.28 Total (i+ii+iii) 4,715.27 11,589.26 0 16,304.53 The above remuneration is as per the Income-Tax Act, 1961 and excludes contribution by the Company to Provident Fund and provision for special retirement benefi  t, etc.
Further, these  amounts are as paid to Whole Time Directors during the year.
On behalf of the Board of Directors   CYRUS P MISTRY Chairman Mumbai, May 30, 2016 Amount in (`) *Superannuated on June 30, 2015 and reappointed as Group CFO on July 1, 2015.
Salary includes leave encashment, gratuity and exgratia.
101 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) A.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY  The Company has always been conscious of the need for  conservation of energy and has been sensitive in making  progress towards this end.
Energy conservation measures have  been implemented at all the plants and oﬃ   ces of the Company  and special eﬀ  orts are being put to undertake speciﬁ  c energy  conservation projects like: (i) The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:  Waste Heat Recovery System to recover waste heat from exhaust  ﬂ  ue gases of surfacer & ﬁ  nish paint baking ovens, conversion of  indirect ﬁ  red baking ovens into direct ﬁ  red burner of baking  ovens, conversion of electrical heating into Natural Gas Heating  System for washing machines  Use of energy eﬃ   cient 40W LED Batten ﬁ  ttings for task lighting,  100W LED High bay for General Lighting, 19W LED tube lights  in oﬃ   ce area, installation of 42W LED street lights, installation of  142W LED ﬂ  ood light ﬁ  ttings  Elimination of pump operation by using gravity ﬂ  ow system,  resizing of hydraulic power pack pump  Compressed Air Pressure optimization at paint shop and  at other shops, use of portable small compressors for low  compressed air requirement on holidays, installation of Shut  Oﬀ  Valves in compressed air network, downsizing of motors  and Delta to Star conversion of motors  Installation of variable frequency drives for various applications  like Blowers, Pumps & Air supply plants  Use of infrared sensors & timers for on-oﬀ   control of industrial  fans, lighting system of inspection booths and fresh air blower  operation.
Modiﬁ  cation in electrical logic for automatic  switching on-oﬀ   operation of hydraulic motors, coolant pumps,  blowers etc., optimization of AC plant operations.
These eﬀ orts have resulted in electrical energy saving of `1.47 crores.
units, fuel saving – Light Diesel Oil 6 KL, LPG/Propane 586.32MT and  Natural Gas 1.34 Lakh SCM.
The whole eﬀ ort resulted in cost savings  for the Company of around `14.5 crores and annual CO 2 emission  reduction of 13,960 tCO2e.
(ii) The steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate  sources of energy:  Company’s CVBU Pimpri Plant utilized total wind power  generation of 2.25 crores units (i.e.
equivalent CO 2e reduction  of 22,125 tCO 2e) for Fiscal 2016 from ‘captive wind power’   projects of 21.95 MW capacity.
This resulted in net savings of  `8.9 crores in electricity charges.
Also Company’s PVBU Sanand  Plant utilized wind energy of 0.68 crores units (equivalent  CO2e reduction of 5,573 tCO 2e) purchased through TPTCL  for Fiscal 2016, this resulted net savings of ` 0.478 crores in  electricity charges  Renewable Energy Certiﬁ  cate (REC): Company’s 21.95MW wind  power project is registered under REC Scheme.
Cumulative  63,432 RECs generated; out of which 40,517 RECs sold through  auction, cumulative beneﬁ  t is of `5.85 crores  Roof Top Solar PV Power Plant 1.8MWp has been installed &  commissioned on Roof Top of Oﬃ  ce Blocks at  the Company’s,  Pune Plant (CVBU & PVBU).
Annual Solar Power Generation is  21.29Lakh Kwh (equivalent CO 2e reduction of 2,097 tCO 2e) for  Fiscal 2016, resulted net saving of ` 0.59 crores in electricity  charges  Roof Top Solar PV Power Plant 2.0MWp has been installed &  commissioned on Roof Top of Oﬃ  ce Blocks at  the Company’s,  Sanand.
Annual Solar Power Generation is 17.30Lakh Kwh  (equivalent CO 2e reduction of 1,709 tCO 2e) for Fiscal 2016,  resulted net saving of ` 0.17 crores in electricity charges.
All above eﬀ orts have resulted into consolidated total CO 2 emission  reduction of 35,099 tCO2e for Fiscal 2016.
(iii) Water and waste related performance:  During the year 4202 MT of hazardous was sent for ﬁ  nal  disposal to oﬀ  site facility, while a total of 1044 MT of hazardous  waste was recycled/reused through oﬀ  site authorised facility  or by energy recovery  During the year 6.79 million m3 of fresh water was consumed  and 0.64 million m3 of generated eﬄ   uent was recycled back  into process.
(iv) The capital investment on energy conservation  equipments:  The C ompany has invested about `6.92 crores for achieving  these results.
Awards / Recognitions received during the year is as below:  The Company’s Dharwad Plant has bagged the “1st Prize” of  National Energy Conservation Award 2015, in Automobile  Manufacturing category by Bureau of Energy Eﬃ  ciency (BEE),  Ministry of Power, Government of India  The Company’s Chikhli car plant has won Vasundhara  Award -2015 under the “Large Scale Industry” Category from  Government of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board    The Company’s Jamshedpur Plant and Pantnagar Plant have  been rated GOLD under the CII-GreenCo - Green Company  Rating System  The Company’s CVBU Pune Plant, Jamshedpur Plant and Lucknow  Plant have won the “Excellent Energy Eﬃ  cient Unit Award” at CII- National Award for Excellence in Energy Management-2015, in  Automobile Manufacturing category ANNEXURE 3 Particulars of Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo  [In terms of Section 134 (3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014] Corporate Overview Financial Statements 102 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports  The Company’s CVBU Pune plant, Jamshedpur Plant, Lucknow  Plant and Pantnagar Plant won the Good Green Governance  (g3) Awards 2015 instituted by ‘Srishti’ Publications, New Delhi.
The award recognizes organizations for going beyond mere  legal compliance for environmental protection  The Company’s Pune Plant received CII-GBC GreenCo Best  Practices Award-2015:- CII-GBC Assessor’s Panel has recognized  the Company for the excellent eﬀ orts in “Best Practices in Life  Cycle Assessment” for the GreenCo Best Practices Award.
The  Company Pune plant was presented a Shield and a Certiﬁ  cate  as a recognition for the best practices implemented.
B.
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTATION AND  INNOVATION (i) Eff  orts made towards technology absorption, adaptation  and innovation  The Company uses a three-horizon strategy for managing  its eng ineering and technology initiatives.
The ﬁ  rst-horizon  involves products that the Company is working on currently, to  bring to the market.
The second-horizon involves researching  known technologies that the Company may not be entirely  familiar with at the present time but are needed for our future  products.
And the third-horizon is for ‘blue sky’ research projects  and there are a number of projects aimed at fostering a culture  of innovation in the Company.
Besides, its own ecosystem spanning across India, the UK and  Italy, the Company also has tie-ups with various Universities  based out of India, University of Warwick in the UK, and joint  eﬀ orts with institutions in the United States.
In India, as part of  its eﬀ  orts in this area the Company has signed a Memorandum  of Understanding with IIT Bombay (IITB) and College of  Engineering Pune (COEP) to undertake collaborative research  on live projects and to create a technological partnership.
The main endeavour which the Company has is to continuously  keep scanning for innovative projects in the third and second  horizon to integrate the promising ones to the main stream  projects in the ﬁ  rst horizon.
For example, some of the forward-looking technology  programmes that the Company is concentrating on are:   UK Government funded technology program on  autonomous vehicles.
 ADAS and Safety related features likely to come in.
 Internet and associated technologies on connectivity like  apps, telematics, diagnostics, analytics, etc.
 Alternate fuels like CNG, dual fuel, hydrogen.
 Hybridization, xEVs and associated technologies.
 Composites, light weighting and fuel eﬃ   ciency  improvement related technologies.
(ii) Benefi  ts derived as a result of the above eff  orts:   The Company continues to strengthen its capabilities across the  technology domain to meet the emerging and future market  needs.
By careful selection of the advanced engineering and  future technology portfolio, the Company intends to capitalize  and bookshelf the developed technology for incorporation  into the future products for making them more exciting and  more attractive to the end customers.
The Company also wishes to mitigate all future risks related to  technology by timely having appropriate emerging technology  on emissions, FE enhancement, powertrain, safety, connectivity,  infotainment, telematics, green initiatives etc., to meet and  exceed all future emissions and vehicular safety norms.
Major technology absorption projects undertaken during the last year includes: Sr. No.
Technology For Status 1 Advanced infotainment using wireless connectivity Development in Progress 2 Development of Android Apps (e.g NaviMaps, Jukecar) Implemented 3 Development of smart phone apps to ensure leadership position in connected car customer attribute Dev elopment in Progress 4 Development of Remote ECU ﬂ  ashing support via GPRS link through telematics Development in Progress 5 Development of connected diagnostics Development in Progress 6 Smart phone based diagnostic system Development in Progress 7 Development of Advanced Driver Assistance Safety Systems LDWS, AEBS Development in Progress 8 Development and demonstration of intelligent park assist system for passenger cars Development in Progress 9 Development and demonstration of surround view system (360 deg) Development in Progress 10 Brushless DC Motor for Engine Cooling Module Development completed 11 Brake blending systems for improving regenerative brake energy captur e in electric and hybrid vehicles Development in progress 12 Battery Management system on Bus and Car Hybrids Development in Progress 13 Electric Trolley Bus system Development in progress 14 Traction motor control algorithm development for xEVs Development in progress 15 Development of Diesel Series Hybrid Bus Implemented 16 In-house patented hybrid powertrain development Development in progress 17 In house development and demonstration of parallel PHEV technology Development in Progress 103 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) Sr. No.
Technology For Status 18 Development of indigenous fuel cell stack Development in Progress 19 Development of IRIS Fuel C ell Ziva Proof of concept displayed 20 Fuel cell vehicle based on small commercial vehicle Development in progress 21 Hydrogen recirculation blower system on Fuel Cell-Battery-Hybrid Bus(4x2) family Development in Progress 22 Dual fuel (Diesel + CNG) technology development on 4 cylinder medium duty engine Development in Progress (iii) Major technology imports includes: Sr. No.
Technology for Year of Import Status 1 Synthetic road shells on a chassis dynamometer  2015-16 Implemented 2 A Noise Test Cell for engine and drivelines 2015-16 Implemented 3 Combustion analyzer and knock sensors 2015-16 Implemented (iv) Research and Development: Expenditure incurred on research and development : 2015-16 2014-15 (a) Revenue Expenditure – charged to Proﬁ  t & Loss Statement            563.11            456.10  (b) Revenue Expenditure – capitalized        1,573.20        1,651.70  (c) Capital Expenditure              80.80              96.50  Total        2,217.11        2,204.30  Revenue from Operations      42,369.82      36,301.63  R&D cost as a % to Revenue from Operations 5.23% 6.07% Specifi  c areas in which R&D carried out by the Company The Company is mainly focused on speciﬁ  c areas of R&D and  Engineering by which it can strengthen its HorizoNext Philosophy.
For passenger cars, the main focus areas are in the domain of creating  stunning design, pleasurable driving experience and connectivity.
Therefore, the R&D portfolio is aligned towards developing  technologies, core competence and skill sets in these speciﬁ  c  domains to secure impactful and timely delivery of the envisaged  future products with leading product attributes.
For commercial  vehicles, in addition to design, the main focus areas are total cost of  ownership to be a market leader in application speciﬁ  c fuel eﬃ  ciency  and to deliver high performance and reliable products.
Focus areas of Company’s R&D also evolves around R&D  infrastructure development and being timely future ready for  future emissions and vehicular safety norms.
For example, some of the forward looking R&D programmes that  the Company is concentrating on are:   Hybrid drive systems developed/being developed for both  passenger and commercial vehicle applications like battery  packs, transmission, traction motors, etc  Connectivity which integrates mobile devices into the vehicle  and provides a platform for infotainment, telematics and more  Selective ADAS technologies for market speciﬁ  c implementation  like the once shown in Auto Expo 2016 - Collision Mitigation  System (CMS) and Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS), etc  Alternate fuels like Fuel Cell bus demonstrated in Auto Expo 2016  Focus on Fuel Eﬃ   ciency and Total Cost of Ownership  Design of indigenous fuel cell technology with the other Tata  Group companies  Investment in testing facilities for hybrid powertrain and pilot  manufacturing facilities for battery modules and packs  Light weighting and reliability improvement projects across the range.
Benefi ts derived as a result of the above R&D  Such eﬀ  orts on R&D have secured a host of beneﬁ  ts for the Company  in terms of being up to date with state of the art in technology  front.
These technologies and innovations would strengthen the  Company’s position in commercial vehicles and would contribute in  repositioning and transforming passenger vehicles to compete at a  global level.
The recently launched Tiago Passenger Car received critical  recognition from media and customers for its attributes on design,  connectivity, driving dynamics.
Similarly, recently launched Signa  range of commercial vehicles boosts of superior in-cab experience,  proven and reliable drivetrains and future looking inbuilt telematics.
The Company’s direct beneﬁ  t from R&D spanning across over a  decade of design eﬀ ort in developing series hybrid bus, the Company  has won the order to deliver 25 diesel series hybrid electric vehicles to  the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).
This is the largest order for hybrid buses in India till date.
Once the  (` in crores) Corporate Overview Financial Statements 104 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports hybrid buses start running in Mumbai, the Company expect that  further orders from other cities might start coming in.
The Company is also developing full electric buses based on the  series hybrid bus platform.
Given the increased impetus on public  transportation and the concern for harmful emissions from vehicles,  the market for electric buses are expected to grow rapidly and the  Company is fully equipped to cater to that segment.
A ﬂ  eet of fuel cell buses are being built by the Company with  support from Department of Scientiﬁ  c and Industrial Research (DSIR)  for demonstration of fuel cell technology.
The fuel cell bus ﬂ  eet  will enable the Company to evaluate the technical and economic  challenges of making hydrogen-based public transportation a reality  in India.
Hydrogen fuel cell buses could provide complete zero  emission transport for cities without the heavy battery packs needed  for serving the daily range of bus operation.
During Fiscal 2016, the Company ﬁ  led 116 Patent Applications and  37 Design applications.
In respect of applications ﬁ  led in earlier years,  21 Patents were granted and 103 Designs were registered.
Both ﬁ  ling  and grant details include national and international jurisdictions.
Future Plan of Action The Company will continue its endeavour in R&D space to develop  technologies, skill set and competence which will help the Company  meet future product portfolio requirements.
One of the main future  initiatives in this direction would be platform approach creating bill  of material and bill of process which has high degree of commonality  to reduce complexity and enhance the scale.
Also, the Company will aim at timely and successful conclusion of  the technology projects so that they start getting inducted in the  mainstream products leading to a promising future product portfolio.
C. FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO Activities relating to exports The Company exported 58,058 vehicles during the year.
Export initiatives such as goods, products and services exported  include:  Company participated in key motor shows and conclaves  around the world such as the Colombo Motor Show, Nepal  Automobile Dealers’ Association (NADA) Auto Show, Thailand  Motor Expo, Thailand Defence Expo and Malaysia Truck & Bus  Components Expo.
Tata Prima successfully launched in 3 additional IB markets in  Fiscal 2016 including Kenya, Uganda and Bangladesh.
Launched  the Ultra buses in Sri Lanka, Ultra Trucks in Bangladesh and the  Elanza bus in the UAE.
Also launched the Ace Mega in Nepal  and the Ace Express in Sri Lanka.
Successfully bagged and executed defence orders for Xenon  troop carriers for the Myanmar Army and Xenon XT for the  Botswana defence Force.
The 2nd edition of Tata Motors One World - International CV  Distributor Meet, was held at JW Marriott, New Delhi from  March 20-22, 2016.
The event saw attendance by over 300  guests from across 25 countries.
Development of export markets The new markets in ASEAN are the Company’s focus region for future  growth – Indonesia, Australia, Philippines and Malaysia have been  opened recently and the volumes are slowly and steadily picking  up as the Tata Motors brand is becoming more visible in the market.
Vehicle assembly in Vietnam was started in Fiscal 2016 and retails will  commence from beginning of Fiscal 2017 onwards.
In addition, the Company has been expanding its presence with the  introduction of new products such as Tata Prima, Ultra trucks and  buses in some of the key markets to further grow volumes.
The Company commenced exports of passenger vehicles to Bolivia  in Fiscal 2016 towards expanding footprint across Latin America.
The  Company was able to secure a government order to supply 219 Indigo  cars to the Ministry of Interior in Uruguay.
In Sri Lanka, Tata passenger  vehicles scaled up from the 8th position in Fiscal 2015 to the 4th  position in Fiscal 2016.
The Company also consolidated its position in  Nepal during Fiscal 2016, notching up the 4th position with a market  share of over 9.0%.
Despite being in Bangladesh only since 2011, the  Company is now also among the Top 5 brands in passenger vehicles  there with a market share of over 3.0% rising from the No.11 position in  Fiscal 2015.
Various customer-centric initiatives for passenger vehicles  were rolled out across several markets: 48-hour parts supply guarantee,  24x7 roadside assistance, toll free call centers, express service, Tata  Motors Connect app and automated service and warranty expiry  reminders.
The Company participated in the Geneva Motor Show  2016, showcasing the Tiago, Hexa and Kite 5 compact sedan.
Export plans The Company plans to focus on growing the export business  aggressively in identiﬁ  ed geographies by oﬀ ering customer centric  products and strong after sales support.
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgoings ` in crores Earning in foreign currency 5,458.98 Expenditure in foreign currency (including  dividend remittance) 2,770.79 On behalf of the Board of Directors  CYRUS P MISTRY  Chairman Mumbai, May 30, 2016 105 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) (I) The information pursuant to Section 197 of the Companies Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and  Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are given below: 1.  a.
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and the  percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Offi  cer, Chief Financial Offi  cer and Company Secretary  in the Fiscal 2016: Sr.  No.
Name Category Remuneration (` in lakhs) Ratio of Directors  remuneration to  Median remuneration % increase  in the  remuneration I Non-Executive Directors # 1 Mr Cyrus Mistry Chairman- Non- Executive Director  9.20 1.68 171% 2 Mr N N Wadia Independent Director  8.60 1.57 258% 3 Dr R A Mashelkar Independent Director 10.60 1.93 126% 4 Mr S Bhargava Independent Director  8.60 1.57 187% 5 Mr N Munjee Independent Director 11.30 2.06 157% 6 Mr V K Jairath Independent Director 10.90 1.99 153% 7 Ms Falguni Nayar Independent Director 10.20 1.86 122% 8 Dr Ralf Speth Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director -- -- -- II Whole-time Directors & Key Managerial Personnel 9 Mr Guenter Butschek @ CEO and Managing Director 504.29 92.00 - 10 Mr Ravi Pisharody Executive Director 277.10 50.55  6.6%  11 Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director 243.35  44.40  13.8% 12 Mr C Ramakrishnan* Group Chief Financial Oﬃ   cer 419.94 76.61 40.2% 13 Mr Hoshang Sethna Company Secretary 129.86 23.69 4.8% Notes:  # The sitting fees for attending Board and Committee meetings was increased in May, 2015 as detailed in the Corporate Governanc e Report.
@ Mr Guenter Butschek joined on February 15, 2016 and Remuneration paid  is for the part of the year, therefore, the median being for the full year, ratio/percentage  is not comparable  * Superannuated on June 30, 2015 and appointed as Goup CFO on July 1, 2015.
Does not include payment towards gratuity and ex-gratia on super annuation, but  includes leave enchashment of R56.21 Lakhs   b.
A break-up of median remuneration for employees and the percentage increase in the median remuneration of  employees in the Fiscal 2016 are given below: Employee Group Median remuneration (r in Lakhs) Increase in  the  median remuneration [in (%)] White Collar - 8.95 - 8.18% EG         35.86 - 8.15% - TM         10.06 - 5.90% - SUP           6.14 - 8.83% - Blue Collar - 4.67 - 2.71% Total employees -  5.48   Note: 1) The Median Remuneration of employees for the Fiscal year 2016 is R 5.48 Lakhs ANNEXURE 4  Details of Remuneration of Directors,  KMPs and Employees and comparatives [Pursuant to Section 197 and Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V of SEBI Listing Regulations]  2.
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of  Company as at March 31, 2016:  26,569 3.
The explanation on the relationship between average  increase in remuneration and Company performance: The Gross revenues of the Company during Fiscal 2016 was r46,647  crores, higher by 18.0% over the previous year.
Operating proﬁ  t  (EBITDA) for Fiscal 2016 stood at r2,740 crores with operating margin  at 6.5% and the Proﬁ  t After Tax was r234 crores.
The total employee  cost for Fiscal 2016 was r3,027 crores against r3,091 crores for Fiscal  2015, indicating a marginal decrease of 2.1%.
The average increase  in the remuneration during Fiscal 2016 is as mentioned in point no.1  above as compared to the previous Fiscal Year.
Average increase in the remuneration is guided by factors like  economic growth, inﬂ  ation, mandatory increases, external  competitiveness and talent retention.
Whilst the Company  endeavors on cost eﬀ  ective initiatives including employees cost  being one of the key areas of cost monitoring and control, the  results of any structural initiatives needs to be measured over a  long term horizon and cannot be strictly compared with annual  performance indicators.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 106 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Note: Closing share price of Ordinary Shares at BSE Ltd. has been used for the above table.
1.
The Company had made a public Issue of 11% Convertible Bonds in Fiscal  1980 when the face value of equity share was r100/- each.
Considering the  stock split of equity shares from r100/- to r2/- each, conversion price works  out to be r3.214 per share.
This does not include the impact of Bonus, rights  and dividends declared since 1980.
2.
The Company had issue ‘A’ Ordinary Shares  (AOS) with Diff  erential Voting  Rights as to the dividend and voting rights in Fiscal 2009, hence it is not  comparable.
The above data does not include AOS.
7.
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of  employees other than the managerial personnel in the last  fi nancial year and its comparison with the percentile increase  in the managerial remuneration and justifi  cation thereof  and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for  increase in the managerial remuneration: Employee Group Average percentage increase/(decrease)  in salaries for Fiscal 2016   (in %) All permanent (Blue collar, SUP , TM & EG) -        6.43 White Collar 10.14 - Blue collar   3.30 - Executive Directors/Managerial Remuneration Mr Ravindra Pisharody   6.6 Mr Satish Borwankar  13.8 Note: 1.
S alaries for SUP , TM & EG include Total Fixed Pay (TFP) plus  the performance  pay paid in Fiscal 2016.
2.
Salaries for blue collar includes only TFP (as they are not given any  performance linked bonus but have plant-wise wage revision at a set  frequency).
The annual variable/performance pay and the salary increment  of managers is linked to the Company’s performance in general and their  individual performance for the relevant year is measured against major  performance  areas which  are closely aligned to Company’s objectives 3.
Mr Butschek joined on February 15, 2016 and the above details pertaining to  him are not given as the same are not comparable.
8.
Comparison of each remuneration of the key managerial  personnel against the performance of the Company: Mr  Guenter  Butschek, CEO and  MD* Mr Ravi  Pisharody,  Executive  Director Mr Satish  Borwankar,  Executive  Director Mr C  Ramakrishnan,  Group Chief  Financial  Offi  cer Mr  Hoshang  Sethna,  Company  Secretary Remuneration  in Fiscal 2016 (r  in lakhs) 504.29 277.10 243.35 419.94 129.86 Revenue r 42,370 crores Remuneration  as % of revenue 1.1902% 0.6540% 0.5743% 0.9911% 0.3065% Proﬁ  t before  Tax r 150 crores Remuneration (as % of PBT ) 336.19% 184.74% 162.23% 279.96% 86.57% (* pro-rated) 9.
The key parameters for any variable  component  of  remuneration availed by the directors:  The Members, have at the AGM held on August 21, 2013 approved  the pa yment of commission to Non-Executive Directors within  On an average an employee receives an annual increase of 10.1%.
The wage increments for blue collar are governed by plant-wise  settlements which are held every 3-5 years.
The wage revision for  white collar employees is done annually.
In order to ensure that  remuneration reﬂ  ects Company’s performance, the performance pay  & annual increments are also linked to organization performance,  apart from an individual’s performance.
The individual increments for  white collar employees varied from 0% to 20% on Total Fixed Pay and  the performance pay varied from 0% to 30% of the Total Fixed Pay.
The increase in remuneration is in line with the market trends.
The Company remains committed to pursuing the long term  interest of all stakeholders, which includes recruiting and retaining  an industry proven management team and ensuring that the  Company’s leadership and talent base is appropriately remunerated,  notwithstanding cyclical phases.
This is especially imperative when  the Company has ongoing signiﬁ  cant turnaround and growth  strategies under execution.
4.
Comparison of the remuneration of the key managerial  personnel against the performance of the Company: Aggregate remuneration of key managerial personnel in  Fiscal 2016 Remuneration in Fiscal 2016 (r in crores) 15.75 Revenue (r crores) (net of excise) 42,370 Remuneration as % of revenue 0.03 Proﬁ  t before Tax (PBT) (r in crores) 150 Remuneration of KMP (as % of PBT ) 10.50% Employee cost and other signiﬁ  cant internal and external factors  impacting performance of the Company are explained in detail in  the Management Discussion & Analysis Report.
5.
Variation in the market capitalization of the Company, price  earnings r atio as at the closing date of the current Fiscal  2016 and previous Fiscal 2015:  Particulars March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Change  %  Ordinary shares  Market Capitalisation (r in crores) 1,11,532.68 1,58,767.32 (29.75) Price Earnings Ratio 11.85 12.66 (6.40) ‘A’ Ordinary Shares Market Capitalisation (r in crores) 14,677.18 15,953.11 (7.99) Price Earnings Ratio      8.82 7.62 15.75 6.
Percentage increase over decrease in the market quotations  of the shar es of the Company in comparison to the rate at  which the Company came out with the last public off er:  Market Price as on March 31, 2016 ` 386.30 Price at the time of Public Issue of 11% Convertible   Bonds made in  Fiscal  1980 (converted to price of  each share for face value of r2 each) r 3.214 % increase of Market price over the price at the  time of Public Issue 11919.30% 107 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) the ceiling of 1% of the net proﬁ  ts of the Company as computed  under Section 198 of the Act.
The NRC will recommend to the  Board (a) the aggregate commission payable to all the NEDs based  on Company performance, proﬁ  ts, return to investors, shareholder  value creation and any other signiﬁ  cant qualitative parameters  decided by the Board and (b) the quantum of commission for  each Director, based upon the outcome of the evaluation process  which is driven by various factors including attendance and time  spent on Board and Committee meetings, individual contributions  at the meetings and contributions made by Directors other than in  meetings.
No commission was paid to the Non-Executive Directors  for Fiscal 2016 in view of inadequacy of proﬁ  ts as computed under  Section 198 of the Act.
As per the terms of appointment and remuneration approved by  the Board at its meeting held on January 18, 2016, Mr Butschek  is entitled to incentive remuneration in the form of performance  linked bonus and long-term incentives.
The proposal for the  appointment of Mr Butschek and the payment of his remuneration  has been recommended by the Board for approval by the  Members at this AGM and the details of the long-term incentives  and the criteria for this payment is included in the said Resolution.
The Members have, at the AGM held on August 10, 2012,  approved of the appointment of Mr Pisharody and Mr Borwankar  as Executive Directors, which inter alia included the payment of  commission and incentive remuneration as may be decided by  the Board of Directors based on certain performance criteria as  laid down by the Board.
A proposal for the re-appointment of  the  2 Executive Directors, including the payment of remuneration has  been recommended by the Board for approval by the Members  at this AGM.
As per the said recommendation, commission would  be payable to the Executive Directors subject to the overall ceiling  stipulated under Section 197 of the Act, but in any case would not  exceed 400% of their basic salary.
In case of inadequacy of proﬁ  ts to  pay a commission in any Financial Year, an incentive remuneration  not exceeding 200% of their basic salary would be paid.
The said  commission/incentive remuneration may be recommended by  the Board based on criteria such as Company performance on  certain deﬁ  ned qualitative and quantitative parameters, industry  benchmarks, performance of the individual.
For further details, please refer to Annexure 6 of the Boards’ Report  on remuneration Policy for Directors, KMPs and other Employees.
10.
The ratio of the remuneration of the highest paid  director to that of the employees who are not  directors but receive remuneration in excess of the  highest paid director during the year:  Mr Guenter Butschek is the highest paid Director of the  Company.
In Fiscal 2016, none of the employees have received  remuneration in excess of the highest paid Director.
11.
Affi  rmation that the remuneration is as per the  remuneration policy of the Company:  The remuneration for MD/ED/KMP/rest of the employees is as  per the remuneration policy of the Company.
(II) Details of Remuneration to Directors pursuant to Schedule V,  Part II, proviso of Section II B(iv)IV of the Act and Regulation  34(3) read along with schedule V of SEBI Listing Regulations a. Non-Executive Directors  The Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration and sitting fees paid/ payable by the Company in the Fiscal 2016, are given below:    (` in Lakhs) Name Sitting Fees Mr Cyrus P Mistry  9.20 Mr N N Wadia  8.60 Dr R A Mashelkar 10.60 Mr N Munjee 11.30 Mr S Bhargava  8.60 Mr V K Jairath 10.90 Ms Falguni Nayar 10.20 Dr Ralf Speth(1) -  Total 69.40 (1)  Dr Ralf Speth is a Non-Executive Director and is not paid any commission  or sitting fees for attending Board meetings of the Company in view of  his appointment as Chief Executive Offi  cer and Director of Jaguar Land  Rover Automotive PLC.
No Commission was paid to any Non-Executive Director for Fiscal 2016 in  view of inadequacy of proﬁ ts.
Some of the aforementioned Directors are also on the Board of the  Company’s subsidiaries and associates, in a non-executive capacity and are  paid remuneration and sitting fees for participating in their meetings.
Other  than the above, the Non-Executive Directors have no pecuniary relationship  or transactions with the Company, its subsidiaries and associates.
The Company has increased sitting fees to be paid to Non-Executive   Directors w.e.f.
May 26, 2015, the details of which are given in the Corporate  Governance Report.
Industry comparative data for 10 similar sized companies: (` in Lakhs) 25th Percentile Commission  16.63 Total annual remuneration 274.40 50th Percentile  (Median) Commission 118.19 Total annual remuneration 366.57 75th Percentile Commission 230.74 Total annual remuneration 516.92 Note: Percentile is a measure used in statistics indicating the value below which a  percentage of observations in a group of observations fall.
Total annual remuneration is  the total remuneration without LTI.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 108 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports The terms of remuneration of CEO & Managing Director and Executive Directors for Fiscal 2016.
*Remuneration for the period from February 15, 2016 till March 31, 2016  #Includes Joining Bonus of €250,000 (`187.40 lakhs) Notice period and Severance Fees -  The Contract with the MD may be terminated earlier, without any cause by either giving  to the other party six months’ notice of such termination or the Company paying six  months’ remuneration which shall be limited to provision of basic salary, benefi  ts,  perquisites and allowances (including Living Allowance) and any pro-rated incentive  remuneration, in lieu of such notice.
Additionally, in case of termination initiated by the  Company before the end of the term for the reasons other than Tata Code of Conduct  (“TCoC”), the MD shall be entitled to severance pay for a period of 12 months or balance  term of the agreement whichever is less and which shall be limited to provision of basic  salary, living allowance and any pro-rated incentive remuneration.
-  This appointment may not be terminated by the Company without notice or  payment in lieu of notice except for reasons of breach of TCoC.
In case of breach of  TCoC, MD shall not be entitled to Severance.
- In the event the MD is not in a position to discharge his oﬃ   cial duties due to any  physical or mental incapacity, he shall be entitled to receive notice pay and the  severance as mentioned above and this contract shall stand terminated.
*  Includes leave encashment @  Excludes (a) provision for Special Retirement Benefi  ts of `62.56 lakhs and `41.54 lakhs for Mr Pisharody  and Mr Borwankar respectively in view of their eligibility under the applicable guidelines but would be  payable only at the discretion of the Board (b) provision for encashable leave and gratuity as separate  actuarial valuation for Executive Directors is not available.
Note:  The above excludes one time payment of R96.44 Lakhs and R72.58 Lakhs to Mr Pisharody and Mr  Borwankar respectively, paid by Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited, towards their  stratgic contribution as Board Members for leading to a signifi  cant growth.
Besides this, the Executive  Directors even though they are on the Board of other subsidiaries do not receive any Remenuration or  Commission.
Notice period and Severance Fees - This appointment may be terminated by either party by giving to the other party six months’ notice of  such termination or the Company paying six months’ remuneration in lieu of the Notice.
- The employment of the Executive Director, may be terminated by the Company without notice or  payment in lieu of notice:  •  if the Executive Director, is found guilty of any gross negligence, default or misconduct in connection  with or aff  ecting the business of the Company or any subsidiary or associated company to which he  is required by the Agreement to render services; or   •  in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach (after prior warning) or non-observance by  the Executive Director, of any of the stipulations contained in the Agreement to be executed between  the Company and the Executive Director; or  • in the event the Board expresses its loss of confi  dence in the Executive Director.
- In the event the Executive Director is not in a position to discharge his offi   cial duties due to any physical  or mental incapacity, the Board shall be entitled to terminate his contract on such terms as the Board  may consider appropriate in the circumstances.
On behalf of the Board of Directors   CYRUS P MISTRY Mumbai,   Chairman May 30, 2016    (` in Lakhs) Description Mr Guenter  Butschek* Description Mr Ravindra  Pisharody Mr Satish  Borwankar Basic Salary 31.36 Basic Salary 66.84 52.68 Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites & Allowances 377.05# Beneﬁ  ts, Perquisites & Allowances 62.22 76.45 * Incentive Remuneration 92.12 Incentive Remuneration 130.00 100.00 Retirement Beneﬁ  ts 3.76 Retirement Beneﬁ  ts @ 18.05 14.22 Stock Options Nil Stock Options Nil Nil Total Remuneration 504.29 Total Remuneration 277.11 243.35  (` in Lakhs) b. CEO & Managing Director and Executive Directors  The remuneration paid to the CEO & Managing Director and  Executive Directors commensurate with industry standards  and Board level positions held in similar sized companies,  taking into consideration the individual responsibilities  shouldered by them, their individual and Company’s  performance.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is  in consonance with the terms of  their appointment approved  by the Members.
The NRC reviews and recommends to the Board the changes in  the managerial remuneration of the CEO & MD and Executive  Directors on a yearly basis.
This review is based on the Balance  Score Card that includes the performance of the Company  and the individual director on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative and  quantitative parameters such as volumes, EBITDA, cash ﬂ  ows,  cost reduction initiatives, safety, strategic initiatives and special  projects as decided by the Board vis-a-vis targets set in the  beginning of the year.
This review also takes into consideration  the benchmark study undertaken by reputed independent  agencies on comparative industry remuneration and practices.
Incentive remuneration paid/payable is subject to the  achievement of certain performance criteria and such  other parameters as may be considered appropriate from  time to time by the Board.
An indicative list of factors that  may be considered for determining the extent of incentive  remuneration, by the Board and as recommended by the  NRC are, the Company’s performance on certain deﬁ  ned  qualitative and quantitative parameters as may be decided  by the Board from time to time, industry benchmarks of  remuneration and performance of the individual.
The Board at its meeting held on January 18, 2016 (based on  recommendation of NRC) approved of the appointment of Mr  Butschek as CEO & MD w.e.f.
February 15, 2016, including the  terms of remuneration.
Members’ approval is being sought at  this AGM in respect of the above.
The Board at its meeting held on May 30, 2016 (based on the  recommendation of NRC) revised the remuneration payable  to Mr Pisharody and Mr Borwankar w.e.f.
April 1, 2016 and  also proposed   their re-appointment w.e.f July 1, 2016 upon  termination of their existing contract.
Members’ approval is  being sought at this AGM for revision in their remuneration  and terms of re-appointment.
109 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) ANNEXURE 5  1.
Defi nition of Independence   A director will be considered as an “Independent Director” if  the person meets with the criteria for ‘Independent Director’  as laid down in the Act and Regulation 16 of the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”).
The deﬁ  nition of independence as provided in Regulation 16  of SEBI Listing Regulations is as follows:    “An independent director in relation to a company, means a  director other than a managing director or a whole-time director  or a nominee director, — (a)  who, in the opinion of the Board, is a person of integrity and  possesses relevant expertise and experience;  (b) (i)  who is or was not a promoter of the company or its  holding, subsidiary or associate company;   (ii)   who is not related to promoters or directors in the  company, its holding, subsidiary or associate company;  (c)  who has or had no pecuniary relationship with the  company, its holding, subsidiary or associate company, or  their promoters, or directors, during the two immediately  preceding fi  nancial years or during the current fi  nancial  year;  (d)  none of whose relatives has or had pecuniary relationship  or transaction with the company, its holding, subsidiary  or associate company, or their promoters, or directors,  amounting to two per cent.
or more of its gross turnover  or total income or fi  fty lakh rupees or such higher amount  as may be prescribed, whichever is lower, during the two  immediately preceding fi  nancial years or during the current  fi  nancial year;  (e) who, neither himself nor any of his relatives—   (i)  holds or has held the position of a key managerial  personnel or is or has been employee of the company  or its holding, subsidiary or associate company in any  of the three fi  nancial years immediately preceding the  fi  nancial year in which he is proposed to be appointed;   (ii)  is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in  any of the three fi  nancial years immediately preceding  the fi  nancial year in which he is proposed to be  appointed, of—  (A)  a fi  rm of auditors or company secretaries in  practice or cost auditors of the company or its  holding, subsidiary or associate company; or  (B)  any legal or a consulting fi  rm that has or had  any transaction with the company, its holding,  subsidiary or associate company amounting to  ten per cent.
or more of the gross turnover of such  fi  rm;   (iii)  holds together with his relatives two per cent.
or more  of the total voting power of the company; or   (iv)   is a Chief Executive or director, by whatever name  called, of any nonprofi  t organisation that receives  twenty-fi  ve per cent.
or more of its receipts from the  company, any of its promoters, directors or its holding,  subsidiary or associate company or that holds two per  cent.
or more of the total voting power of the company;   (v)    is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a  lessor or lessee of the company;  (f )   who is not less than 21 years of age.
Current and ex-employees of a Tata Company 1 may be  considered as independent only if he/she has or had no  pecuniary relationship with any Tata company (due to  employment/receipt of monthly pension by way of Special  Retirement Beneﬁ  ts/holding consultant or advisor positions)  during the two immediately preceeding ﬁ  nancial years or  during the current ﬁ  nancial year.
2.
Qualifi cations of Directors   Board will ensure that a transparent board nomination process  is in place that encourages diversity of thought, experience,  knowledge, perspective, age and gender.
It is expected that Board have an appropriate blend of  functional and industry expertise.
While recommending appointment of a Director, it is  expected that the Nomination and Remuneration Committee  1“Tata Company” shall mean every company in which Tata Sons Limited or Tata Industries Limited or any company promoted by Tata S ons Limited or Tata Industries Limited  is promoter or a company in which such companies whether singly or collectively hold directly or indirectly 26% or more of the paid-up equity share capital or in which the  shareholding of such companies represents the largest Indian holding apart from holdings of ﬁ  nancial institutions/mutual funds  or a company which is permitted by Tata Sons  Limited to use the Tata brand name.
Criteria for Determining Qualifi cations, Positive Attributes and Independence of a Director [Pursuant to Section 178 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16 read alongwith Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations] Corporate Overview Financial Statements 110 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports (“NRC”) consider the manner in which the function and  domain expertise of the individual contributes to the overall  skill-domain mix of the Board.
Independent Directors (“ID) ideally should be thought/ practice leaders in their respective functions/domains.
3.
Positive attributes of Directors  Directors are expected to comply with duties as provided in the Act.
For reference, the duties of the Directors as provided by the Act are  as follows:  1) “Act in accordance with the articles of the company.
2) Act in good faith in order to promote the objects of the company  for the benefi  t of its members as a whole, and in the best interests  of the company, its employees, the shareholders, the community  and for the protection of environment.
3) Exercise duties with due and reasonable care, skill and diligence  and exercise independent judgment.
4) Not be involved in a situation in which he may have a direct or  indirect interest that confl  icts, or possibly may confl  ict, with the  interest of the company.
5) Not achieve or attempt to achieve any undue gain or advantage  either to himself or to his relatives, partners, or associates.
6) Not assign his offi   ce” .
Additionally, the Directors on the Board of a Tata Company are also  expected to demonstrate high standards of ethical behaviour, strong  interpersonal and communication skills and soundness of judgment.
IDs are also expected to abide by the ‘Code for Independent Directors’  as outlined in Schedule IV to Section 149(8) of the Act.
The Code  speciﬁ  es the guidelines of professional conduct, role and function  and duties of Independent Directors.
The guidelines of professional  conduct speciﬁ  ed in the Code are as follows:  “An independent director shall:  1) uphold ethical standards of integrity and probity;  2) act objectively and constructively while exercising his duties;  3) exercise his responsibilities in a bona fi  de manner in the interest of  the company;  4) devote suffi   cient time and attention to his professional obligations  for informed and balanced decision making;  5) not allow any extraneous considerations that will vitiate his  exercise of objective independent judgment in the paramount  interest of the company as a whole, while concurring in or  dissenting from the collective judgment of the Board in its  decision making;  6) not abuse his position to the detriment of the company or its  shareholders or for the purpose of gaining direct or indirect  personal advantage or advantage for any associated person;  7) refrain from any action that would lead to loss of his independence;  8) where circumstances arise which make an independent  director lose his independence, the independent director must  immediately inform the Board accordingly;  9) assist the company in implementing the best corporate  governance practices.
”  On behalf of the Board of Directors CYRUS P MISTRY Chairman Mumbai,  May 30, 2016 111 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) The philosophy for remuneration of directors, Key Managerial  Personnel (“KMP”) and all other employees of Tata Motors Limited  (“the Company”) is based on the commitment of fostering a culture  of leadership with trust.
The remuneration policy is aligned to this  philosophy.
This remuneration policy has been prepared pursuant to the  provisions of Section 178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”)  and Regulation 19 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 SEBI (Listing Regulations).
In  case of any inconsistency between the provisions of law and this  remuneration policy, the provisions of the law shall prevail and the  Company shall abide by the applicable law.
While formulating this  policy, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) has  considered the factors laid down under Section 178(4) of the Act,  which are as under: (a) the level and composition of remuneration is reasonable and  suﬃ  cient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality  required to run the company successfully; (b) relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and meets  appropriate performance benchmarks; and (c) remuneration to directors, key managerial personnel and senior  management involves a balance between ﬁ  xed and incentive  pay reﬂ  ecting short and long-term performance objectives  appropriate to the working of the company and its goals” Key principles governing this remuneration policy are as follows:  Remuneration for independent directors and non- independent non- executive directors    Independent directors (“ID”) and non-independent non- executive directors (“NED”) may be paid sitting fees (for  attending the meetings of the Board and of committees  of which they may be members) and commission within  regulatory limits.
  Within the parameters prescribed by law, the payment of  sitting fees and commission will be recommended by the  NRC and approved by the Board.
  Overall remuneration (sitting fees and commission) should  be reasonable and sufﬁcient to attract, retain and motivate  directors aligned to the requirements of the company  (taking into consideration the challenges faced by the  company and its future growth imperatives).
  Overall remuneration should be reﬂ  ective of size of the  company, complexity of   the   sector/industry/Company’s  operations and the Company’s capacity to pay the  remuneration.
  Overall remuneration practices should be consistent with  recognized best practices.
  Quantum of sitting fees may be subject to review on a  periodic basis, as required.
  The aggregate commission payable to all the NEDs and  IDs will be r ecommended by the NRC to the Board based  on Company performance, proﬁ  ts, return to investors,  shareholder value creation and any other signiﬁ  cant  qualitative parameters as may be decided by the Board.
  The NRC will recommend to the Board the quantum of  commission for each director based upon the outcome of  the evaluation process which is driven by various factors  including attendance and time spent in the Board and  committee meetings, individual contributions at the  meetings and contributions made by directors other than in  meetings.
  In addition to the sitting fees and commission, the  Company may pay to any director such fair and reasonable  expenditure, as may have been incurred by the director  while performing his/her role as a director of the Company.
This could include reasonable expenditure incurred  by the director for attending Board/Board committee  meetings, general meetings, court convened meetings,  meetings with shareholders/creditors/management, site  visits, induction and training (organized by the Company  for directors) and in obtaining professional advice from  independent advisors in the furtherance of his/her duties  as a director.
Remuneration for Managing Director (“MD”)/Executive  Directors (“ED”)/KMP/ rest of the employees1  The extent of overall remuneration should be sufﬁcient to  attract and retain talented and qualiﬁ  ed individuals suitable for  every role.
Hence remuneration should be ANNEXURE 6  1 Excludes employees covered by any long term settlements or speciﬁ  c term contracts.
The remuneration for these employees would be driven by the respective long term  settlements or contracts.
Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees [Pursuant to Section 178 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 read alongwith Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations] Corporate Overview Financial Statements 112 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports    Market competitive (market for every role is deﬁ  ned as  companies fr om which the Company attracts talent or  companies to which the Company loses talent)   Driven by the role played by the individual,    Reﬂ  ective of size of the Company, complexity of the  sector/industry/Company’s operations and the Company’s  capacity to pay,   Consistent with recognized best practices and   Aligned to any regulatory requirements.
 In terms of remuneration mix or composition,   •  The remuneration mix for the MD/EDs is as per the  contract approved by the shareholders.
In case of any  change, the same would require the approval of the  shareholders.
•  Basic/ ﬁ  xed salary is provided to all employees to  ensure that there is a steady income in line with their  skills and experience.
•  In addition to the basic/ ﬁ  xed salary, the Company  provides employees with certain perquisites,  allowances and beneﬁ  ts to enable a certain level  of lifestyle and to oﬀ  er scope for savings and tax  optimization, where possible.
The Company also  provides all employees with a social security net  (subject to limits) by covering medical expenses and  hospitalization through re-imbursements or insurance  cover and accidental death and dismemberment  through personal accident insurance.
•  The Company provides retirement beneﬁ  ts as  applicable.
•  In addition to the basic/ﬁ  xed salary, beneﬁ  ts,  perquisites and allowances as provided above, the  Company provides MD/EDs such remuneration by  way of commission, calculated with reference to the  net proﬁ  ts of the Company in a particular ﬁ  nancial  year, as may be determined by the Board, subject to  the overall ceilings stipulated in Section 197 of the Act.
The speciﬁ  c amount payable to the MD/EDs would be  based on performance as evaluated by the Board or  the NRC and approved by the Board.2 2 To be retained if commission is provided to MD/EDs  3 To be retained only if commissioned is not provided to MD/EDs   •  [In addition to the basic/ﬁ  xed salary, beneﬁ  ts,  perquisites and allowances as provided above, the  Company provides MD/EDs such remuneration by way  of an annual incentive remuneration/ performance  linked bonus subject to the achievement of certain  performance criteria and such other parameters as  may be considered appropriate from time to time  by the Board.
An indicative list of factors that may be  considered for determination of the extent of this  component are:   -  Company performance on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative  and quantitative parameters as may be decided by the  Board from time to time,   - Industry benchmarks of remuneration,   - Performance of the individual.
3   •  The Company provides the rest of the employees a  performance linked bonus.
The performance linked  bonus would be driven by the outcome of the  performance appraisal process and the performance  of the Company.
Remuneration payable to Director for services rendered in  other capacity  The remuneration payable to the Directors shall be inclusive  of any remuneration payable for services rendered by such  director in any other capacity unless:  a)  The services rendered are of a professional nature; and  b)   The NRC is of the opinion that the director possesses  requisite qualiﬁ  cation for the practice of the profession.
Policy implementation The NRC is responsible for recommending the remuneration  policy to the Board.
The Board is responsible for approving and  overseeing implementation of the remuneration policy.
On behalf of the Board of Directors CYRUS P MISTRY Chairman Mumbai, May 30, 2016 113 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) ANNEXURE 7 A brief outline of the Company’s CSR Policy, including an  overview of projects or programmes proposed to be undertaken  and a reference to the web-link to the CSR Policy and projects  or programmes: 1.
Overview:  (i) Outline of CSR Policy - As an integral part of our  commitment to good corporate citizenship, we at Tata  Motors believe in actively assisting in improvement of the  quality of life of people in communities, giving preference  to local areas around our business operations.
Towards  achieving long-term stakeholder value creation, we shall  always continue to respect the interests of and be responsive  towards our key stakeholders - the communities, especially  those from socially and economically backward groups, the  underprivileged and marginalized; focused on inter alia the  Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the society at  large.
In order to leverage the demographic dividend of  our country, Company’s CSR eﬀ  orts shall focus on Health,  Education, Environment and Employability interventions  for relevant target groups, ensuring diversity and giving  preference to needy and deserving communities inhabiting  urban India.
CSR at Tata Motors shall be underpinned by  ‘More from Less for More People’ philosophy which implies  striving to achieve greater impacts, outcomes and outputs of  our CSR projects and programmes by judicious investment  and utilization of ﬁ  nancial and human resources, engaging  in like-minded stakeholder partnerships for higher outreach  beneﬁ  tting more lives.
Weblink for Tata Motors India CSR Policy: http://www.
tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/csr-policy-16-17.pdf (ii) CSR Projects: 1.
Aarogya (Health): Addressing child  malnutrition; health awareness for females; preventive  and curative health services, drinking water projects;  2.
Vidyadhanam (Education): Scholarships; Special  coaching classes for secondary school students; IIT-JEE  and competitive exams coaching, school infrastructure  improvement; co-curricular activities; Financial aid to engg.
students, 3.
Kaushalya (Employability): Drivers training –  novice and refresher; ITI partnership and allied-auto trades;  Motor Mechanic Vehicle (MMV); Training in retail, hospitality,  white goods repair, agriculture & allied trades; 4.
Vasundhara  (Environment): Tree plantation, environmental awareness for  school students; 5.
Natural disaster response: Drought Relief- cum-Rehabilitation.
2.
Composition of CSR Committee: The CSR Committee of the  Board of Tata Motors comprises (i) Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar,  Non-Executive, Independent Director [Chairman of the  Committee]; (ii) Mr. Guenter Butschek, CEO & Managing Director,  (iii) Mr. Satish B. Borwankar, Executive Director (Quality) and (iv)  Ms. Falguni S. Nayar, Non-Executive, Independent Director.
Mr.  Ravindra Pisharody, Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles)   also attends the Committee Meetings.
3.
Average Net Profi  t of the Company for last three fi  nancial  years: Loss of `2,034 crores 4.
*Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent.
of the amount  as in Item 3 above: Not Applicable in view of the loss  5.
*Details of CSR Spend during the fi  nancial year: `20.57 crores  was spent towards various schemes of CSR as prescribed under  Section 135 of the Act.
The prescribed CSR expenditure required  to be spend in Fiscal 2016 as per the Act is Nil, in view of net proﬁ  t  of the Company being negative under Section 198 of the Act.
(a) Total amount to be spent for the Financial Year: Not  Applicable (b)  Amount unspent, if any: Not Applicable  (c) Manner in which the amount spent during the Financial  Year: Refer Table in ANNEXURE-A 6.
In case the Company has failed to spend the two per cent of  the average net profi t of the last three fi  nancial years or any  part thereof, the Company shall provide the reasons for not  spending the amount: Not Applicable 7.
A Responsibility Statement of CSR Committee of Board:  The CSR Committee of the Company’s Board states that the  implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy, is in compliance  with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.
The Company  had engaged M/s KPMG India (Registered) for assurance on CSR  spend by the Company under Section 135 of the Companies Act,  2013, Schedule VII.
Ravindra Pisharody  Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) Mumbai,  May 30, 2016 Dr Raghunath Mashelkar  Non-Executive, Independent Director  (Chairman CSR Committee) Annual Report on CSR Activities  [Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibilty Policy) Rules, 2014] Corporate Overview Financial Statements 114 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Annexure-A S.No.
# CSR project /  activity identifi ed Sector in which the  Project is covered Projects /Programmes 1.Local area/ others- 2.Specify the state and  district where projects or programs  were undertaken Amount outlay  (budget)  project/  programs wise Amount spent on the  project /programs  Subheads Cumulative  spend up to  the reporting  period Amount spent:  Direct /through  implementing  agency* Direct Overhead* 1 Skill Development  and vocational  skills in  Automotive and  Non Automotive  Sector Employability Enhancing  Skill Development 1.
Local Area 2.
Jharkand - East Singhbum; Uttar Pradesh - Lucknow and Barbanki;  Uttarakhand - Udham Singh Nagar;  Maharashtra - Nasik, Aurangabad,  Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai;  Gujarat - Ahmedabad; Karnataka -  Dharwad; Pan India 6.35 5.25 0.29 5.53 Direct = 1.21 Implementation Agency = 4.32 1 (a) Vocational skills development in Automotive trades 2.42 1.88 0.10 1.97 1 (b) Skill development in rural/ underdeveloped communites 3.93 3.37 0.19 3.56 2 Promoting  primary and  secondary  education in Rural  and Socially/  Economically  Backward  communites Promoting Education 1.
Local Area 2.
Jharkand - East Singhbum; Uttar  Pradesh - Lucknow and Barbanki;  Uttarakhand - Udham Singh Nagar,  Nainital; Maharashtra - Thane, Pune,  Mumbai; Madhya Pradesh - Jabalpur;  Gujarat - Ahmedabad; Karnataka -  Dharwad, Dakshin Kannada; 11.11 9.33 0.34 9.67 Direct = 4.52 Implementation Agency = 5.15 3 Preventive and  curative health  services in  Communities Eradicating  Hunger, Promoting  preventive healthcare,  Malnutrition,Promoting  Preventive healthcare  and sanitation and safe  drinking water 1.
Local Area 2.
Jharkand - East Singhbum; Uttar Pradesh - Lucknow and Barbanki;  Uttarakhand - Udham Singh Nagar,  Almora;  Maharashtra - Thane, Mumbai; Gujarat -  Ahmedabad; Karnataka - Dharwad; 3.24 2.39 0.81 3.21 Direct =0 Implementation Agency = 3.21 3 (a) Preventive and curative interventions 2.27 1.70 0.64 2.35 3 (b) Awareness based interventions 0.97 0.69 0.17 0.86 4 Ensuring  environmental  sustainability  through awareness  and protection of  natural habitats Ensuring environmental  sustainability 1.
Local Area 2.
Jharkand - East Singhbum; Uttar Pradesh - Lucknow and Barbanki;  Uttarakhand - Udham Singh Nagar,  Nainital; Maharashtra - Pune, Thane, Mumbai;  Gujarat - Ahmedabad;  Karnataka - Dharwad; 1.16 1.09 0.06 1.15 Direct =0.04 Implementation Agency = 1.12 5 Administrative overheads and Capacity Building cost 1.09 0.97 0.03 1.00 Total 22.94 19.04 1.53 20.57 Note: Company’s Contribution towards J&K Floods Relief Disaster Response to be deployed for Education & Skill Development of aff ected communities.
# Impementation Agency Details    #1 Employability: Institute of Driving Training & Research, Ahmedabad  Dist Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd, Ambika Motor Driving  School, Center for Youth Development & Activities, Centre for Civil  Society, CII, College of Engg Pune, Gram Vikas Kendra, Hubert Ebner  (I) Pvt Ltd., Laurus Edutech life Skills Pvt Ltd., MITCON Foundation,  Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Pratham Education  Foundation, Prolife, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar, Sambhav Foundation,  Shiksha Prasar Kendra, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sanand Education Trust,  Shashwat, Skill For Progress, Suvidha, Vedanta Foundation, Vikas  Samities, Vruksha #2  Education: Action Aid, Agastya International Foundation, Avanti  Fellows, Govt.
Block Resource Centre Education Dept.
SSA, Cathedral  Church Sanand, Center for Youth Development & Activities, Children’s  Movement for Civic Awareness, College of Engineering Pune,  Foundation for Academic Excellence, GANATAR, Global Education  Trust, Gram Vikas Kendra, IIT Bombay Alumni Association, Manav Seva  Education Trust, Moinee Foundation, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan  Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Samata Shikshan Sanstha, Sambhav  Foundation, Sanand Lions Foundation Trust, Sarvodhaya Mahasangh,  Seva Sahyog Foundation, Shanti Seva Nidhi Trust, Shiksha Prasar Kendra,  Shri Shakti Kelavni Uttejak Trust, Society for Human Environmental  Development, Suprabhat Mahila Mandal, Swami Vivekananda Youth  Movement,  Swaroopwardhinee, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Tata  Motors Gruhini Social Welfare Society, The Jai Narayan Charitable Trust,  Urmee Charitable Trust, Vidya Poshak, Vikas Samities #3  Health: Action Aid, Chetna, Family Planning Association of India, Jan  Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Manav Seva Education Trust, Namaste Life,  Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Paryawaran Evam  Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Seth G S Medical College and KEM  Hospital, SDM college of Medical Science, Sneh Foundation, Snehdeep  Jankalyan Foundation, Sumant Moolgaokar Development Foundation,  Sterling Hospital, Swadhar, Vikas Samities #4  Environment: Bansilal Ramntath Agarwal Charitable Trust, Bombay  Natural History Society, College of Social Work Nirmala Niketan Institute,  Ganatar, Gram Vikas Kendra, Green Thumb, Manav Seva Education Trust,  Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sarvodhaya  Maha Sangh, Terre Policy Center, Tree Public Foundation, Vikas Samities,  Wildlife Research and Conservation Society (` in crores) Ravindra Pisharody  Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles) Mumbai,  May 30, 2016 Dr Raghunath Mashelkar  Non-Executive, Independent Director  (Chairman CSR Committee) 115 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) To, The Members, Tata Motors Limited We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of  applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate  practices by Tata Motors Limited (hereinafter called the Company).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a  reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory  compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our veriﬁ  cation of the Company’s books, papers, minute  books, forms and returns ﬁ  led and other records maintained by the  company, the information provided by the company, its oﬃ   cers,  agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of  secretarial audit, the explanations and clariﬁ  cations given to us and  the representations made by the Management, we hereby report  that in our opinion, the company has, during the audit period  covering the ﬁ  nancial year ended on 31st March, 2016 generally  complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also  that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance  mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the  reporting made hereinafter: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and  returns ﬁ  led and other records made available to us and maintained  by the Company for the ﬁ  nancial year ended on 31st March, 2016  according to the provisions of: (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made  thereunder; (ii)  The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the  Rules made thereunder; (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws  framed thereunder; (iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made there under to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings; (v)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the  Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial  Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; (b)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of  Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and amendments  from time to time; (d)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock  Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme)  Guidelines, 1999 and The Securities and Exchange Board of  India ( Share Based Employee Beneﬁ  ts) Regulations, 2014; (Not  applicable to the Company during the audit period) (e)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of  Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;  (f )  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an  Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding  the Companies Act and dealing with client; (Not applicable to  the Company during the audit period) (g)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity  Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not applicable to the Company  during the audit period) and (h)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of  Securities) Regulations, 1998; (Not applicable to the Company  during the audit period) (vi)  Other laws applicable speciﬁ  cally to the Company namely:  1.
The Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 and the Rules made thereunder.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of  the following: (i) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company  Secretaries of India with respect to board and general meetings.
(ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with  BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited read  with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with  the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, standards  etc.
mentioned above.
ANNEXURE 8 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 [Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] Corporate Overview Financial Statements 116 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports We further report that: The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with  proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and  Independent Directors.
The changes in the composition of the Board  of Directors that took place during the period under review were  carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board  Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least  seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining  further information and clariﬁ  cations on the agenda items before the  meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes  in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the  Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws,  rules, regulations and guidelines, 1.
The Company allotted 15,04,90,480 Ordinary Shares(including  3,20,49,820 shares underlying the ADRs) of Rs.2 each at a premium  of Rs.448 per share aggregating Rs.6,772.07 crore and 2,65,09,759  ‘A’ Ordinary Shares of Rs.2 each at a premium of Rs.269 per share,  aggregating Rs.718.42 crore pursuant to the Rights issue.
2.
During the year the Company redeemed non-convertible  debentures of E25A, E25B and E25C series aggregating to Rs.900  crores and partially redeemed unsecured debentures of Rs.150  crores out of Rs.450 crores in E24B and E-26A series.
3.
On March 31, 2016 The Company sold the entire holding in  Sheba Properties Limited its 100% subsidiary to M/s Tata Motors  Finance Limited.
4.
Mr Guenter Bustschek was appointed as Chief Executive Oﬃ   cer  w.e.f February 15, 2016 by the Board, and his appointment  and terms of remuneration are subject to the approval of the  Shareholders and the Central Government.
‘Annexure A’ To,  The Members  Tata Motors Limited Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the  management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express  an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.
We have followed the audit practices and process as were  appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the  correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records.
The  veriﬁ  cation was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts  are reﬂ  ected in Secretarial records.
We believe that the process  and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our  opinion.
3.
We have not veriﬁ  ed the correctness and appropriateness of  ﬁ  nancial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management  representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and  regulations and happening of events etc.
5.
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other  applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility  of management.
Our examination was limited to the veriﬁ  cation  of procedure on test basis.
6.
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to  the future viability of the Company nor of the eﬃ   cacy or  eﬀ ectiveness with which the management has conducted the  aﬀ  airs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates Company Secretaries P .
N. Parikh (Partner) FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 Place: Mumbai Date: May 30, 2016 For Parikh & Associates Company Secretaries P .
N. Parikh (Partner) FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 Place: Mumbai Date: May 30, 2016 This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed  as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.
117 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (74-117) Corporate Overview Financial Statements 118 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports ECONOMY OVERVIEW INDIA India has registered a robust and steady pace of economic growth  in Fiscal 2016 as it did in Fiscal 2015.
Additionally, macroeconomic  parameters such as inﬂ  ation, ﬁ  scal deﬁ  cit and current account  balance have exhibited distinct signs of improvement.
Wholesale  price inﬂ  ation has been in negative territory for more than a year  and the all-important consumer price inﬂ  ation has declined to  nearly half of what it was a few years ago.
However, weak growth  in advanced and emerging economies has taken its toll on India’s  exports.
Nevertheless, trade and current account deﬁ  cits have  improved due to relatively lower prices for crude oil which is  imported by India.
Growth in agriculture has slackened due to two  successive years of less than-normal monsoon rains.
The rupee has  depreciated with respect to the US dollar, similar to several other  currencies in the world.
India’s GDP for Fiscal 2015 increased by 7.2% and for Fiscal 2016  increased by 7.6%.
Growth in agriculture and industry increased in  Fiscal 2016 by 1.1% as compared to decline by 0.2% in Fiscal 2015  while services sector growth increased by 9.2% in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to 10.3% in last year.
Index for industrial production (IIP)   increased by 2.4% in Fiscal 2016 as compared to 2.8% in Fiscal 2015.
Signiﬁ  cant factors inﬂ  uencing IIP growth in Fiscal 2016 included a  2.2% increase in the mining sector in Fiscal 2016 compared to 1.4% in  Fiscal 2015, which was mainly due to an increase in coal production.
The manufacturing sector increased by 2%, compared to 2.3% in  Fiscal 2015 and electricity services increased by 5.6% in Fiscal 2016,  compared to 8% in Fiscal 2015.
The consumer durables grew by  12.4% in Fiscal 2016 as compared to negative of 12.5% in Fiscal  2015.
(Source: Ministry of Statistics and Program implementation).
The domestic auto industry witnessed growth during Fiscal 2016,  driven by replacement demand and demand from the mining and  construction sectors, mainly in the medium and heavy commercial  vehicles or M&HCV sector.
WORLD The global macroeconomic landscape in Fiscal 2016 was rough  and uncertain and characterized by weak growth of world output.
This situation was exacerbated by; (i) declining prices of a number  of commodities, with the reduction in crude oil prices being the  most visible among them, (ii) turbulent ﬁ  nancial markets (especially  the equity markets), and (iii) volatile exchange rates.
Global growth  remained moderate with uneven prospects across the major  MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  economies.
The outlook for advanced economies is improving,  while growth in emerging market and developing economies is  projected to be lower, primarily reﬂ  ecting weaker prospects for  certain large emerging market economies alongside oil and raw  material exporting economies.
Oil prices have declined during Fiscal  2016 due to weaker than expected global activity and a weaker  demand for oil.
Exchange rate movements in recent months have  been sizable, reﬂ  ecting changes in expectations about growth and  monetary policy across major economies.
Long-term government  bond yields have declined in major advanced economies, reﬂ  ecting  in part lower inﬂ  ation expectations, the sharp decline in oil prices  and weak domestic demand.
The US economy growth was stronger than expected with  accompanying job growth, resulting in a decline in the  unemployment rate.
Furthermore, lower oil prices, increases in  incomes and improved consumer conﬁ  dence have resulted in  growth in the US.
The Eurozone showed signs of economic improvement in 2015,  with consumption supported by lower oil prices and higher net  exports.
Growth in the Eurozone gradually picked up, driven by  lower energy prices, a weaker Euro and a loose monetary policy  by the European Central Bank.
Germany, France, Italy and Spain  GDP grew in the region.
In 2015, GDP in the UK slowed a little, but  consumer spending growth remained relatively strong, partially due  to lower oil prices.
China recorded a pronounced deceleration in growth in 2015,  which suggests that China’s slowdown over the past few years  shows little sign of abating.
The GDP growth rate moderated to  6.9% for 2015 and coincided with growing debt and excess housing  and factory capacity.
These developments, together with market  concerns about the future performance of the Chinese economy,  are having spillover eﬀ  ect on other economies through reduced  trade and weaker commodity prices, as well as through diminishing  conﬁ  dence and increasing volatility in the ﬁ  nancial markets.
Brazil’s economy sank into its deepest recession in recent history  in 2015, amid lower prices for key exports, soaring inﬂ  ation and  depressed conﬁ  dence levels.
Economic performance in Russia  was impacted by the increase in geopolitical tensions, lower  crude oil prices and economic sanctions.
In Japan, growth in  2015 was 0.6%, reﬂ  ecting weak consumption and decreasing  investment by households.
In South Africa, domestic growth  remains weak due to weak external demand, despite being lower  oil prices and inﬂ  ation.
119 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Risk Factors Risks associated with the Company’s Business and the  Automotive Industry.
Deterioration in global economic conditions could have a  material adverse impact on the Company’s sales and results of  operations.
The automotive industry and the demand for automobiles are  inﬂ uenced by general economic conditions, including, among  other things, rates of economic growth, credit availability,  disposable income of consumers, interest rates, environmental and  tax policies, safety regulations, freight rates and fuel and commodity  prices.
Negative trends in any of these factors impacting the  regions where the Company operates could materially and  adversely aﬀ ect the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and  results of operations.
The Indian automotive industry is materially aﬀ ected by the general  economic conditions in India and around the world.
Muted industrial  growth in India in recent years along with continuing higher inﬂ  ation  and interest rates continue to pose risks to overall growth in this  market.
The automotive industry in general is cyclical and economic  slowdowns in the recent past have aﬀ  ected the manufacturing  sector in India, including the automotive and related industries.
A  continuation of negative economic trends or further deterioration  in key economic metrics such as the growth rate, interest rates and  inﬂ  ation as well as reduced availability of ﬁ  nancing for vehicles at  competitive rates could materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s  automotive sales in India and results of operations.
In addition, the Indian automotive market and the Indian economy  are inﬂ  uenced by economic and market conditions in other countries.
Although economic conditions are diﬀ  erent in each country, investors’  reactions to economic developments in one country can have adverse  eﬀ ects on the securities of companies and the economy as a whole  in other countries, including India.
A loss of investor conﬁ  dence in  the ﬁ  nancial systems of other emerging markets may cause volatility  in Indian ﬁ  nancial markets and, indirectly, in the Indian economy  in general.
Any worldwide ﬁ  nancial instability could also have a  negative impact on the Indian economy, including the movement  of exchange rates and interest rates in India.
A slower than expected  global economic recovery or a signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  nancial disruption could  have a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s cost of funding,  portfolio of ﬁ  nancing loans, business, prospects, results of operations,  ﬁ  nancial condition and the trading price of the Company’s shares or  American Depositary Shares, or ADSs.
The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover business has signiﬁ  cant  operations in the United Kingdom, North America, continental  Europe and China as well as sales operations in other overseas  markets across the globe.
Automotive markets in the United  States, United Kingdom, and Europe experienced growth in Fiscal  2016 as did the automotive market in China, despite the softer  economic conditions and ﬁ  nancial market volatility experienced  in China.
However, automotive sales in emerging markets such  as Brazil, Russia and South Africa have deteriorated during Fiscal  2016.
Given these economic conditions, Jaguar Land Rovers’  ambitions for growth may not materialize as expected which could  have a signiﬁ  cant adverse impact on its ﬁ  nancial performance.
If  automotive demand softens because of lower or negative economic  growth in key markets (notably China) or other factors, the  Company’s operations and ﬁ  nancial condition could be materially  and adversely aﬀ ected.
The United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (EU) may adv ersely impact our business, results of operations and  fi nancial condition.
In a non-binding referendum on the United Kingdom’s membership  in the Eur opean Union in June 2016, a majority of the electorate  voted for the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European  Union.
If the outcome of the referendum eventually results in the  exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (“Brexit”), a  process of negotiation would determine the future terms of the  United Kingdom’s relationship with the European Union.
Depending  on the terms of Brexit, if any, the United Kingdom could lose its  present rights or term of access to the single EU market and to the  global trade deals negotiated by the European Union on behalf of  its members.
New or modiﬁ  ed trading arrangements between the  United Kingdom and other countries may have a material adverse  eﬀ ect on the export volumes of our Jaguar Land Rover business.
A  decline in trade could also aﬀ  ect the attractiveness of the United  Kingdom as a global investment centre and, as a result, could have  a detrimental impact on the level of investment in UK companies,  including our Jaguar Land Rover business, and ultimately on UK  economic growth.
The uncertainty concerning the timing and  terms of the exit could also have a negative impact on the growth of  the UK economy and cause greater volatility in the pound sterling.
Changes to UK border and immigration policy could likewise occur  as a result of Brexit, aﬀ  ecting our Jaguar Land Rover business’s ability  to recruit and retain employees from outside the United Kingdom.
Any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse eﬀ  ect on  our business, results of operations and ﬁ  nancial condition.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 120 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Restrictive covenants in fi  nancing agreements may limit the  Company operations and fi  nancial fl exibility and materially  and adversely impact the Company’s fi  nancial condition,  results of operations and prospects.
Some of the Company’s ﬁ  nancing agreements and debt  arrangements set limits on or require it to obtain lender consent  before, among other things, pledging assets as security.
In addition,  certain ﬁ  nancial covenants may limit the Company’s ability to  borrow additional funds or to incur additional liens.
In the past, the  Company has been able to obtain required lender consent for such  activities.
However, there can be no assurance that it will be able to  obtain such consents in the future.
If the Company’s liquidity needs,  or growth plans, require such consents and such consents are not  obtained, it may be forced to forego or alter plans, which could  materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition  and results of operations.
If the Company breaches its ﬁ  nancing agreements, the outstanding  amounts due thereunder could become due and payable  immediately or result in increased costs.
A default under one of  these agreements may also result in cross-defaults under other  ﬁ  nancing agreements and result in the outstanding amounts under  such other ﬁ  nancing agreements becoming due and payable  immediately.
The Company’s lenders and guarantors could impose  additional operating and ﬁ  nancial restrictions on the Company,  or otherwise seek to modify the terms of its existing ﬁ  nancial  agreements.
This could have a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the  Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
Exchange rate and interest rate fl  uctuations could materially  and adversely aff  ect the Company’s fi  nancial condition and  results of operations.
The Company’s operations are subject to risks arising from  ﬂ uctuations in exchange rates with reference to countries in which  the Company operates.
The Company imports capital equipment,  raw materials and components from, manufactures vehicles in, and  sells vehicles in various countries, and therefore the Company’s  revenues and costs have signiﬁ  cant exposure to the relative  movements of the GBP , the US dollar, the Euro, the Russian Ruble,  the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen and the Indian rupee.
Moreover, the Company has outstanding foreign currency- denominated debt and is sensitive to ﬂ  uctuations in foreign  currency exchange rates.
The Company has experienced and  expects to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and  gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect  of the Company’s borrowings and foreign currency assets and  liabilities due to currency ﬂ  uctuations.
The Company also has interest-bearing assets (including cash  balances) and interest-bearing liabilities, which bear interest at  variable rates.
The Company is therefore exposed to changes in  interest rates in the various markets in which it borrows.
Although  the Company manages its interest and foreign exchange exposure  through the use of ﬁ  nancial hedging instruments such as forward  contracts, swap agreements and option contracts, higher interest  rates and foreign exchange volatility could signiﬁ  cantly increase the  Company’s cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse  eﬀ ect on its ﬁ  nancial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
Intensifying competition could ma terially and adv ersely  aff ect the Company’s sales, fi  nancial conditions and results of  operations.
The global automotive industry is highly competitive and competition  is likely to further intensify in light of continuing globalisation and  consolidation in the worldwide automotive industry.
Competition is  especially likely to increase in the premium automotive categories  as each market participant intensiﬁ  es its eﬀ orts to retain its position  in established markets while also expanding in emerging markets,  such as China, India, Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia.
Factors aﬀ ecting  competition include product quality and features, innovation and  the timing of the introduction of new products, cost control,  pricing, reliability, safety, fuel economy, environmental impact (and  perception thereof ), customer service and ﬁ  nancing terms.
There  can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete  successfully in the global automotive industry in the future.
The Company also faces strong competition in the Indian market  from domestic as well as foreign automobile manufacturers.
Improving infrastructure and robust growth prospects compared  to those of other mature markets have attracted a number of  international companies to India either through joint ventures with  local partners or through independently owned operations in India.
International competitors bring with them decades of international  experience, global scale, advanced technology and signiﬁ  cant  ﬁ  nancial resources.
Consequently, domestic competition is likely  to further intensify in the future.
There can be no assurance that  the Company will be able to implement future strategies in a way  that will mitigate the eﬀ ects of increased competition in the Indian  automotive industry.
Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive  and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery,  121 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) research and development, product design, engineering,  technology and marketing in order to meet both customer  preferences and regulatory requirements.
If competitors consolidate  or enter into other strategic agreements, they may be able to  take better advantage of economies of scale or enhance their  competitiveness in other ways.
Competitors may also be able to  beneﬁ  t from the cost savings oﬀ ered by consolidation or alliances,  which could adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s competitiveness with  respect to those competitors, which could also materially reduce  the Company’s sales as well as materially and adversely aﬀ  ect its  business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
The Company’s future success depends on its ability to  satisfy changing customer demands by off  ering innovative  products in a timely manner a nd maintaining such products’  competitiveness and quality.
The Company’s competitors may gain signiﬁ  cant advantages if they  are able to oﬀ  er products satisfying customer needs earlier than the  Company is able to, which could adversely impact, the Company’s  sales and proﬁ  tability.
Unanticipated delays or cost overruns in  implementing new product launches, expansion plans or capacity  enhancements could also adversely impact the Company’s results  of operations.
Customer preferences, especially in many of the developed  markets, seem to be moving in favour of more fuel-eﬃ   cient and  environmentally-friendly vehicles.
Increased government regulation,  rising fuel prices, and evolving environmental preferences of  consumers has brought signiﬁ  cant pressure on the automotive  industry to reduce CO 2 emissions.
The Company’s operations may  be signiﬁ  cantly impacted if it experiences delays in developing  fuel-eﬃ  cient products that reﬂ  ect changing customer preferences.
In addition, deterioration in the quality of vehicles could force the  Company to incur substantial cost and damage to its reputation.
There can be no assurance that the market acceptance of the  Company’s future products will meet sales expectations, in which  case the Company may be unable to realise the intended economic  beneﬁ  ts of the investments, and its revenues and proﬁ  tability may  decrease materially.
Private and commercial users of transportation increasingly use  modes of transportation other than the automobile.
The reasons for  this include the rising costs of automotive transport, increasing traﬃ  c  density in major cities and environmental awareness.
Furthermore,  the increased use of car-sharing concepts and other innovative  mobility initiatives facilitates access to other methods of transport,  thereby reducing dependency on the private automobile.
A shift in  consumer preferences away from private automobiles would have a  material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s general business activity  and on its sales, ﬁ  nancial position and results of operations as well  as prospects.
To stimulate demand, competitors in the automotive industry have  oﬀ ered customers and dealers price reductions on vehicles and  services, which has led to increased price pressures and sharpened  competition within the industry.
As a provider of numerous high- volume models, the Company’s proﬁ  tability and cash ﬂ  ows are  signiﬁ  cantly aﬀ ected by the risk of rising competitive and price  pressures.
Special sales incentives and increased price pressures  in the new car business also inﬂ  uence price levels in the used car  market, with a negative eﬀ  ect on vehicle resale values.
This may  have a negative impact on the proﬁ  tability of the used car business  in the Company’s dealer organisation.
The Company is subject to risks associated with product  liability warranties and recalls.
Should it supply defective products, parts, or related after-sales  services, the Company is subject to risks and costs associated with  product liability, including negative publicity, which may have  a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial  conditions and results of operations.
These events could also  require the Company to spend considerable resources in correcting  these problems and could signiﬁ  cantly reduce demand for the  Company’s products.
The Company may also be subject to class  actions or other large-scale product liability or other lawsuits in  various jurisdictions where it has a presence.
The Company is subject to risks associated with the automobile  fi nancing business.
The Company is subject to risks associated with its automobile  ﬁ nancing business in India.
In Fiscal 2016, the market share of the  Company’s automobile ﬁ  nancing business, which supports sales  of the Company vehicles, declined to 23.0% from 24.0% in Fiscal  2015.
Any default by the Company’s customers or inability to  repay installments as due could materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the  Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition, results of operations and  cash ﬂ  ows.
The sale of the Company’s commercial and passenger vehicles is  heavily dependent on funding availability for the customers.
Rising  delinquencies and early defaults have contributed to a reduction  in automobile ﬁ  nancing, which, in turn, has had an adverse eﬀ  ect  on funding availability for potential customers.
This reduction in  available ﬁ  nancing may continue in the future and have a material  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 122 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and  results of operations.
Jaguar Land Rover has consumer ﬁ  nancing arrangements in place  with ﬁ  nancing partners in a number of key markets.
Any reduction  in the supply of available consumer ﬁ  nancing for the purchase of  new vehicles would limit the ability of some customers to purchase  vehicles, which as a result could place Jaguar Land Rover under  commercial pressure to oﬀ er new (or expand existing) retail or dealer  incentives to maintain demand for their vehicles, thereby materially  and adversely aﬀ  ecting Jaguar Land Rover sales and results of  operations.
Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover also oﬀ  ers residual value  guarantees on the leases of certain vehicles in some markets.
The  value of these guarantees is dependent on used car valuations in  those markets at the end of the lease, which are subject to change.
Consequently, Jaguar Land Rover may be adversely aﬀ  ected by  movements in used car valuations in these markets.
Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating  downgrade, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory changes  or otherwise, the Company may need to reduce the amount of  ﬁ  nancing receivables that it originates, which could severely disrupt  the Company’s ability to support the sale of its vehicles.
Underperformance of the Company’s distribution channels  and supply chains may hav e a material adverse eff  ect on the  Company’s sales, fi  nancial condition and results of operations.
The Company’s products are sold and serviced through a network  of author ised dealers and service centres across the domestic  market and via a network of distributors and local dealers in  international markets.
The Company monitors the performance  of its dealers and distributors and provides them with support to  enable them to perform to the Company’s expectations.
There can  be no assurance, however, that these expectations will be met.
Any  underperformance by the Company dealers or distributors could  adversely aﬀ ect the Company’s sales and results of operations.
The Company relies on third parties to supply raw materials, parts  and components used in the manufacture of products.
For some  of these parts and components, the Company is dependent on a  single source.
The Company’s ability to procure supplies in a cost- eﬀ ective and timely manner is subject to various factors, some  of which are not within its control.
While the Company manages  its supply chain as part of the vendor management process, any  signiﬁ  cant problems with supply chain in the future could disrupt  its business and materially aﬀ  ect the results of operations as well as  its sales and net income.
Natural disasters and man-made accidents, adverse economic  conditions, a decline in automobile demand, a lack of access to  suﬃ  cient ﬁ  nancing arrangements, among others things, could have  a negative ﬁ  nancial impact on the Company’s suppliers, thereby  impairing timely availability of components to the Company or  causing increases in the costs of components.
Similarly, impairments  to the ﬁ  nancial condition of the Company’s distributors for any reason  may adversely impact the Company’s performance.
In addition, if  one or more of the other global automotive manufacturers were  to become insolvent, this would have an adverse eﬀ  ect on the  Company’s supply chains and may have a material adverse eﬀ  ect  on the Company’s results of operations.
In respect of the Jaguar Land Rover operations, as part of a separation  agreement from Ford Motor Company, the Company has entered  into long-term supply agreements for critical components for the  supply of engines and with certain other third parties for critical  components which requires Jaguar Land Rover to purchase ﬁ  xed  quantities of parts through take-or-pay contracts.
Any disruption  of such services or invocation of take-or-pay contracts could have  a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial  condition and results of operations.
Increases in input prices may have a material adverse eff ec t on  the Company’s results of operations.
In Fiscal 2016 and 2015, the consumption of raw materials,  components and agg regates and purchase of products for sale  (Consolidated) approximately 58.9% and 60.8%, respectively, of  the Company’s total revenues.
Prices of commodity items used in  manufacturing automobiles, including steel, aluminium, copper,  zinc, rubber, platinum, palladium and rhodium, have become  increasingly volatile in recent years.
Further price movements  would closely depend on the evolving economic scenarios across  the globe.
While the Company continues to pursue cost-reduction  initiatives, an increase in the price of input materials could severely  impact its proﬁ  tability, to the extent such increase cannot be  absorbed by the market through price increases and/or could have  a negative impact on demand.
In addition, an increased price and supply risk could arise from the  need for rare and frequently sought-after raw materials for which  demand is high, such as rare earths, which are predominantly found  in China.
Rare earth metal prices and supply remain uncertain.
In  the past, China has limited the export of rare earths from time to  time.
Due to intense price competition and the Company’s high  level of ﬁ  xed costs, the Company may not be able to adequately  address changes in commodity prices even if they are foreseeable.
123 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Increases in fuel costs also pose a signiﬁ  cant challenge, especially in  the commercial and premium vehicle categories where increased  fuel prices have an impact on demand.
If the Company is unable  to ﬁ  nd substitutes for supplies of raw materials, pass price increases  on to customers or safeguard the supply of scarce raw materials, the  Company’s vehicle production, business and results from operations  could be aﬀ ected.
Deterioration in the performance of any of the subsidiaries,  joint v entures and affi   liates may adversely the Company’s  results of operations.
The Company has made and may continue to make capital  commitments to its subsidiaries, joint ventures and aﬃ   liates.
If the  business or operations of any of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and  aﬃ  liates deteriorates, the value of the Company’s investments may  decline substantially.
The Company is also subject to risks associated  with joint ventures and aﬃ   liates wherein the Company retains only  partial or joint control.
The Company’s partners may be unable or  unwilling to fulﬁ  ll their obligations, or the strategies of the Company’s  joint ventures or aﬃ   liates may not be implemented successfully, any of  which may materially reduce the value of the Company investments,  which may in turn have a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s  reputation, business, ﬁ  nancial position or results of operations.
The signifi cant reliance of Jaguar Land Rover on key markets  increases the risk of the negative impact of reduced customer  demand in those countries.
Jaguar Land Rover, which contributes a large portion of the  Company’s consolidated revenues, generates a signiﬁ  cant portion  of its sales in China, the United Kingdom, North American and  continental European markets.
A decline in demand for Jaguar  Land Rover vehicles in these key markets, may signiﬁ  cantly impact  the Company’s business, growth prospects, ﬁ  nancial position and  results of operations.
The Company is subject to risks associated with growing the  business through mergers and acquisitions.
The Company believes that acquisitions provide it opportunities  to grow signiﬁ  cantly in the global automobile markets by oﬀ  ering  premium brands and products.
Acquisitions have provided it  with access to technology and additional capabilities while also  oﬀ ering potential synergies.
However, the scale, scope and nature  of the integration required in connection with acquisitions presents  signiﬁ  cant challenges, and the Company may be unable to integrate  relevant subsidiaries, divisions and facilities eﬀ  ectively within the  expected schedule.
An acquisition may not meet the Company’s  expectations and the realisation of the anticipated beneﬁ  ts may be  blocked, delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some  of which are outside the Company’s control.
For example, the Company acquired the Jaguar Land Rover  business from Ford Motor Company in June 2008, and Jaguar Land  Rover has become a signiﬁ  cant part of the Company’s business and  accounted for approximately 82% of its total revenues for Fiscal  2016.
As a result of the acquisition, the Company is responsible  for, among other things, the obligations and liabilities associated  with the legacy business of Jaguar Land Rover.
There can be no  assurances that any legacy issues at Jaguar Land Rover or any  other acquisition the Company has undertaken in the past or will  undertake in the future would not have a material adverse eﬀ ect on  its business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations, as well as  its reputation and prospects.
The Company will continue to evaluate growth opportunities  through suitable mergers and acquisitions in the future.
Growth  through mergers and acquisitions involves business risks, including  unforeseen contingent risks or latent business liabilities that may  only become apparent after the merger or acquisition is completed.
The key success factors are seamless integration, eﬀ  ective  management of the merged and/or acquired entity, retention of  key personnel, cash ﬂ  ow generation from synergies in engineering  and sourcing, joint sales and marketing eﬀ  orts, and management  of a larger business.
If any of these factors fails to materialise or  if the Company is unable to manage any of the associated risks  successfully, the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results  of operations could be materially and adversely aﬀ ected.
The automobile business is seasonal in nature and substantial  decrease in sales during c ertain quarters could have a material  adverse impact on the Company’s fi nancial performance.
The sales, volumes and prices for the Company vehicles are  inﬂ uenced by the cyclicality and seasonality of demand for these  products.
The automotive industry has been cyclical in the past and  the Company expects this cyclicality to continue.
In the Indian market, demand for the Company’s vehicles generally  peaks between January and March, although there is a decrease in  demand in February just before release of the Indian ﬁ  scal budget.
Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up again in  the festival season from September onwards, with a decline in  December due to year end.
The Jaguar Land Rover business is impacted by the semi-annual  registration of vehicles in the United Kingdom where the vehicle  registration number changes every March and September, which,  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 124 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports leads to an increase in sales during these months and in turn, has  an impact on the resale value of vehicles.
Most other markets,  such as the United States, are inﬂ  uenced by the introduction of  new-model-year products which typically occurs in the autumn of  each year, and there is some seasonality around the purchase of  vehicles in northern states where the purchase of Jaguar vehicles  is concentrated in the spring and summer months, and the  purchase of 4x4 vehicles is concentrated in the autumn and winter  months.
Markets in China tend to experience higher demand  for vehicles around the Chinese New Year and other national  holidays.
In addition, demand in Western European automotive  markets tends to be softer during the summer and winter holidays.
Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover’s cash ﬂ  ows are impacted by the  temporary shutdown of four of their manufacturing plants in the  United Kingdom (including the Engine Manufacturing Centre at  Wolverhampton) during the summer and winter holidays.
The  resulting sales and cash ﬂ  ow proﬁ  le inﬂ  uences operating results on  a quarter to quarter basis.
The Company’s business and oper ations c ould be materially  and adversely aff ected by labour unrest.
All of the Company’s permanent employees in India, other than  oﬃ  cers and managers, and most of the permanent employees in  South Korea and the United Kingdom, including certain oﬃ   cers  and managers, in relation to the Company automotive business, are  members of labour unions and are covered by wage agreements,  where applicable, with those labour unions.
In general, the Company  considers labour relations with all of its employees to be good.
However, in the future, the Company may be subject to labour  unrest, which may delay or disrupt the operations in the aﬀ  ected  regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and parts, the  manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of  services.
If work stoppages or lock-outs at the Company facilities or  at the facilities of the Company major vendors occur or continue for  a long period of time, the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition  and results of operations could be materially and adversely aﬀ ected.
In Fiscal 2016, the Company witnessed standalone incidents of labour  unrest, one in the Dharwad plant in state of Karnataka, India and other  in the Sanand plant in Gujarat India, which were amicably resolved.
The Company’s business could be negatively aff  ected by the  actions of activist shareholders.
Certain of the Company’s shareholders may from time to time  advance shar eholder proposals or otherwise attempt to eﬀ  ect  changes or acquire control over the Company’s business.
Campaigns by shareholders to eﬀ  ect changes at publicly listed  companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase  short-term shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such  as ﬁ  nancial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends,  stock repurchases or even sales of assets or the entire company, or  by voting against proposals put forward by the board of directors  and management of the company.
If faced with actions by activist  shareholders, the Company may not be able to respond eﬀ  ectively  to such actions, which could be disruptive to the Company’s  business.
The Company may have to comply with more stringent foreign  investment norms in the event of an increase in shareholding  of non-residents or if the Company is considered as engaged in  a sector in which foreign investment is restricted.
Indian companies, which are owned or controlled by non- resident persons, are subject to investment restrictions speciﬁ  ed  in the Consolidated FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) Policy, or  the Consolidated FDI Policy.
Under the Consolidated FDI Policy,  an Indian company is considered to be “owned” by non-resident  persons if more than 50% of its equity interest is beneﬁ  cially owned  by non-resident persons.
The non-resident equity shareholding in  the Company may, in the near future, exceed 50%, thereby resulting  in the Company being considered as being “owned” by non-resident  entities under the Consolidated FDI Policy.
In such an event, any  investment by the Company in existing subsidiaries, associates or  joint ventures and new subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures will  be considered as indirect foreign investment and shall be subject  to various requirements speciﬁ  ed under the Consolidated FDI  Policy, including sectoral limits, approval requirements and pricing  guidelines, as may be applicable.
Furthermore, as part of its automotive business, the Company  supplies, and has in the past supplied vehicles to Indian military and  paramilitary forces and, in the course of such activities has obtained  an industrial license from the Department of Industrial Policy.
The Consolidated FDI policy applies diﬀ  erent foreign investment  restrictions to companies based upon the sector in which they  operate.
While the Company believes it is an automobile company  by virtue of the signiﬁ  cance of its automobile operations, in the  event that foreign investment regulations applicable to the defense  sector (including under the Consolidated FDI Policy) are made  applicable to the Company, the Company may face more stringent  foreign investment restrictions and other compliance requirements  compared to those applicable to it presently, which in turn could  materially aﬀ  ect the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and  results of operations.
125 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) The Company’s business and prospects could suff  er if the  Company loses one or more key personnel or if it is unable to  attract and retain its employees.
The Company’s business and future growth depend largely on  the sk ills of its workforce, including executives and oﬃ   cers, and  automotive designers and engineers.
The loss of the services of  one or more of the Company’s personnel could impair its ability  to implement its business strategy.
In view of intense competition,  any inability to continue to attract, retain or motivate the workforce  could materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s business,  ﬁ  nancial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Future pension obligations may prove more costly than  currently anticipated and the mark et value of assets in the  Company’s pension plans could decline.
The Company provides post-retirement and pension beneﬁ  ts to  its employ ees, including deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plans.
The Company’s  pension liabilities are generally funded.
However, lower returns on  pension fund assets, change in market conditions, interest rates  or inﬂ  ation rates, and adverse changes in other critical actuarial  assumptions may impact the Company’s pension liabilities  or assets and consequently increase funding requirements,  which could materially decrease the Company’s net income  and cash ﬂ  ows.
Any inability to manage the Company’s growing international  business may materially and adv ersely aff ect its fi  nancial  condition and results of operations.
The Company’s growth strategy relies on the expansion of the  Company’s operations by introducing certain automotive products  in markets outside India, including Europe, China, Russia, Brazil, the  United States, Africa and other parts of Asia.
The costs associated  with entering and establishing the Company in new markets, and  expanding such operations, may be higher than expected, and  the Company may face signiﬁ  cant competition in those regions.
In addition, the Company’s international business is subject to  many actual and potential risks and challenges, including language  barriers, cultural diﬀ  erences and other diﬃ   culties in staﬃ   ng and  managing overseas operations, inherent diﬃ   culties and delays in  contract enforcement and collection of receivables under the legal  systems of some foreign countries, the risk of non-tariﬀ   barriers,  other restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions, and  the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, rules  and regulations.
As part of its global activities, the Company may  engage with third-party dealers and distributors which it does  not control but which nevertheless take actions that could have a  material adverse impact on the Company reputation and business.
In addition, the Company cannot assure you that it will not be  held responsible for any activities undertaken by such dealers  and distributors.
If the Company is unable to manage the risks  related to its expansion and growth in other parts of the world, the  Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations  could be materially and adversely aﬀ ected.
The Company has a limited number of manufacturing, design,  engineering and other f acilities, and any disruption in the  operations of these facilities could materially and adversely  aff ect the Company’s business, fi  nancial condition and results  of operations.
The Company has manufacturing facilities and design and  engineering centers in India, the United Kingdom, China, South  Korea, Thailand, South Africa, Italy, Brazil, and Indonesia.
The  Company could experience disruptions to its manufacturing, design  and engineering capabilities for a variety of reasons, including,  among others, extreme weather, ﬁ  re, theft, system failures, natural  catastrophes, mechanical or equipment failures and similar events.
Any such disruptions could aﬀ  ect the Company’s ability to design,  manufacture and sell its products.
If any of these events were to  occur, there can be no assurance that the Company would be  able to shift its design, engineering or manufacturing operations  to alternate sites in a timely manner or at all.
Any such disruption  could materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s business,  ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
The Company relies on licensing arrangements with Tata  Sons Limited to use the “Tata” brand.
Any improper use of  the associated trademarks by the Company’s licensor or any  other third parties could materially and adversely aff  ect  the Company’s business, fi  nancial condition and results of  operations.
The Company’s rights to its trade names and trademarks are a  crucial fac tor in marketing its products.
Establishment of the “Tata”  word mark and logo mark, in and outside India, is material to the  Company’s operations.
The Company has licensed the use of the  “Tata” brand from its Promoter, Tata Sons Limited.
If its Promoter, or  any of its subsidiaries or aﬃ   liated entities, or any third party uses the  trade name “Tata” in ways that adversely aﬀ  ect such trade name or  trademark, the Company’s reputation could suﬀ  er damage, which  in turn could have a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s  business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 126 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports The Company is exposed to  operational risks, including risks in  connection with the Company’s use of information technology.
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or  failed int ernal systems and processes, from either internal or  external events.
Such risks could stem from inadequacy or  failures of controls within internal procedures, violations of  internal policies by employees, disruptions or malfunctioning of  information technology systems such as computer networks and  telecommunication systems, other mechanical or equipment  failures, human error, natural disasters or malicious acts by third  parties.
Any unauthorised access to or misuse of data on the  Company’s information technology systems, human errors or  technological or process failures of any kind could severely disrupt  the Company’s operations, including its manufacturing, design and  engineering processes, and could have a material adverse eﬀ ect on  the Company ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
The Company may be materially and adv ersely aff ected by the  divulgence of confi dential information.
Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures  to protect conﬁ  dential information such as key contractual  provisions, future projects, and customer records, such information  may be divulged, including as a result of hacking or other threats  from cyberspace.
If this occurs, the Company could be subject to  claims by aﬀ ected parties, negative publicity and loss of proprietary  information, all of which could have an adverse and material  impact on the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial conditions, results of  operations and cash ﬂ  ows.
Any failures or weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls  could materially and adversely aff  ect the Company fi  nancial  condition and results of operations.
Upon an evaluation of the eﬀ  ectiveness of the design and  operation of the Company’s internal controls in the annual report  on Form 20- F ﬁ  led with the United State Securities and Exchange  Commission, or the SEC for the year ended March 31, 2015, the  Company concluded that there was a material weakness such  that the Company internal controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting were  not eﬀ ective as at March 31, 2015.
Although the Company has  instituted remedial measures to address the material weakness  identiﬁ  ed and continually review and evaluate its internal control  systems to allow management to report on the suﬃ   ciency of the  Company’s internal controls, the Company cannot assure you that  it will not discover additional weaknesses in the Company internal  controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting.
Any such additional weaknesses  or failure to adequately remediate any existing weakness could  materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition  or results of operations and the Company’s ability to accurately  report its ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations in a timely  and reliable manner.
Inability to protect or preserve intellectual property could  materially and adv ersely aff  ect the Company’s business,  fi nancial condition and results of operations.
The Company owns or otherwise has rights in respect of a number  of pat ents relating to the products the Company manufactures.
In connection with the design and engineering of new vehicles  and the enhancement of existing models, the Company seeks to  regularly develop new intellectual property.
The Company also uses  technical designs which are the intellectual property of third parties  with such third parties’ consent.
These patents and trademarks have  been of value in the growth of the Company’s business and may  continue to be of value in the future.
Although the Company does  not regard any of the Company’s businesses as being dependent  upon any single patent or related group of patents, an inability to  protect this intellectual property generally, or the illegal breach of  some or a large group of the Company’s intellectual property rights,  would have a materially adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s business,  ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
The Company may  also be aﬀ ected by restrictions on the use of intellectual property  rights held by third parties and it may be held legally liable for  the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others in its  products.
The Company’s insurance coverage may not be adequate to  protect the Company against all potential losses to which  the Company may be subject, and this may have a material  adverse eff ect on the Company’s business, fi  nancial condition  and results of operations.
While the Company believes that the insurance coverage that it  maintains is reasonably adequate to cover all normal risks associated  with the operation of its business, there can be no assurance that  its insurance coverage will be suﬃ  cient, that any claim under such  insurance policies will be honoured fully or timely, or that the  insurance premiums will not increase substantially.
Accordingly,  to the extent that the Company suﬀ  ers loss or damage that is  not covered by insurance or that exceeds its insurance coverage,  or is required to pay higher insurance premiums, the Company’s  business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations may be  materially and adversely aﬀ ected.
127 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Impairment of intangible assets may have a material adverse  eff ect on the Company’s results of operations.
Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive  and r equires substantial investments in intangible assets like  research and development, product design and engineering  technology.
The Company reviews the value of its intangible assets  on an annual basis to assess whether the recoverable amount is  lower than the carrying amount of an asset concerned or based on  underlying cash generating units to which the assets belong.
The  Company may have to take an impairment loss as of the current  balance sheet date or a future balance sheet date, if the carrying  amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the Company would  need to record an impairment loss which could have a material  adverse eﬀ ect on the Company ﬁ  nancial condition and results of  operations.
The Company requires certain approvals or licenses in the  ordinary course of business, and the failure to obtain or retain  them in a timely manner, or at all, may adversely aff  ect its  operations.
The Company requires certain statutory and regulatory permits,  licenses and appr ovals to carry out its business operations and  applications for their renewal need to be made within certain  time frames.
For some of the approvals which may have expired,  the Company has either made or are in the process of making an  application for obtaining the approval or its renewal.
While the  Company has applied for renewal for a few of these approvals,  registrations and permits, the Company cannot assure you that it  will receive these approvals and registrations in a timely manner  or at all.
The Company can make no assurances that the approvals,  licenses, registrations and permits issued to the Company would  not be suspended or revoked in the event of non-compliance or  alleged non-compliance with any terms or conditions thereof, or  pursuant to any regulatory action.
Furthermore, if the Company  is unable to renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and  approvals on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all, the  Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and operations may be  adversely aﬀ ected.
Political and Regulatory Risks India’s obligations under the World Trade Organisation  Agreement could materially aff ect the Company’s business.
India’s obligations under its World Trade Organization agreement  could reduce the present level of tariﬀ s on imports of components  and vehicles.
Reductions of import tariﬀ  s could result in increased  competition, which, in turn, could materially and adversely aﬀ ect the  Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
Compliance with new and current laws, rules, regulations and  government policies regarding increased fuel economy, reduced  greenhouse gas and other emissions, vehicle safety, taxes and  pricing policies in the automotive industry signiﬁ  cantly increase the  Company’s costs and materially decrease its net income.
As an automobile company, the Company is subject to extensive  governmental regulations regarding vehicle emissions levels, noise  and safety, and levels of pollutants generated by its production  facilities.
These regulations are likely to become more stringent,  and the resulting higher compliance costs may signiﬁ  cantly impact  the Company’s future results of operations.
In particular, the United  States and Europe have stringent regulations relating to vehicle  emissions.
The contemplated tightening of vehicle emissions  regulations by the European Union will require signiﬁ  cant costs  for compliance.
In addition, a number of further legislative and  regulatory measures to address greenhouse emissions, including  national laws, and the Kyoto Protocol, are in various phases of  discussion and implementation.
In order to comply with current and future safety and  environmental norms, the Company may have to incur additional  costs to (i) operate and maintain its production facilities, (ii) install  new emissions controls or reduction technologies, (iii) purchase  or otherwise obtain allowances to emit greenhouse gases, (iv)  administer and manage the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions  programme, and (v) invest in research and development to upgrade  products and manufacturing facilities.
If the Company is unable to  develop commercially viable technologies or is otherwise unable to  attain compliance within the time frames set by new standards, the  Company could face signiﬁ  cant civil penalties or be forced to restrict  product oﬀ erings drastically.
Moreover, safety and environmental  standards may at times impose conﬂ  icting imperatives, which  pose engineering challenges and would, among other things,  increase the Company’s costs.
While the Company is pursuing the  development and implementation of various technologies in order  meet the required standards in the various countries in which the  Company sells its vehicles, the costs for compliance with these  required standards could be signiﬁ  cant to its operations and may  materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial  condition and results of operations.
Imposition of any additional taxes and levies designed to limit the  use of automobiles could signiﬁ  cantly reduce the demand for the  Company’s products as well as its sales and net income.
Changes in  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 128 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports corporate and other taxation policies as well as changes in export  and other incentives oﬀ ered by the various governments could also  materially and adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition  and results of operations.
For example, the Company currently  beneﬁ  ts from excise duty exemptions for manufacturing facilities in  the State of Uttarakhand and other incentives such as subsidies or  loans from states where the Company has manufacturing operations.
The Government of India has proposed a comprehensive national  goods and services tax, or GST, regime that would combine taxes  and levies by the central and state governments into one uniﬁ  ed  rate structure.
While both the Government of India and other state  governments of India have publicly announced that all committed  incentives will be protected following the implementation of the  GST, given the limited availability of information in the public  domain concerning the GST, the Company is unable to provide any  assurance as to this or any other aspect of the tax regime following  implementation of the GST.
The implementation of this rationalised  tax structure may be aﬀ ected by any disagreement between certain  state governments, which could create uncertainty.
The Government  of India has publicly announced its intention to implement the GST  on April 1, 2017, however, the Company can make no assurances  regarding this timeline.
In addition, regulations in the areas of investments, taxes and  levies may also have an impact on the price of the Company  shares or ADSs.
Any regulatory action taken, or penalties imposed,  in any jurisdiction may have signiﬁ  cant severe reputational  consequences on the Company’s business and its result  from operations.
The Company may be materially and adv ersely impacted by  political instability, wars, terrorism, multinational confl  icts,  natural disasters, fuel shortages/prices, epidemics and labour  strikes.
The Company’s products are exported to a number of geographical  markets, and it plans to further expand international operations  in the future.
Consequently, the Company’s operations in those  foreign markets may be subject to political instability, wars,  terrorism, regional or multinational conﬂ  icts, natural disasters, fuel  shortages, epidemics and labour strikes.
In addition, conducting  business internationally, especially in emerging markets, exposes  the Company to additional risks, including adverse changes  in economic and government policies, unpredictable shifts in  regulation, inconsistent application of existing laws, rules and  regulations, unclear regulatory and taxation systems and divergent  commercial and employment practices and procedures.
Any  signiﬁ  cant or prolonged disruption or delay in the Company’s  operations related to these risks could materially and adversely  aﬀ ect its business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
Compliance with new or changing corporate governance  and public disclosure requirements adds unc ertainty to the  Company’s compliance policies and increases compliance costs.
The Company is subject to a complex and changing regime of laws,  rules, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate  governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)  regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) regulations,  New York Stock Exchange listing rules, the Companies Act.
New or  changed laws, rules, regulations and standards may lack speciﬁ  city  and are subject to varying interpretations.
As an example, pursuant  to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection  Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains signiﬁ  cant  corporate governance and executive compensation-related  provisions, the SEC has adopted additional rules and regulations in  areas such as “say on pay” .
Similarly, under applicable Indian laws,  for example, remuneration packages may in certain circumstances  require shareholders’ approval.
The Company’s management and  other personnel may be required to devote a substantial amount  of time to such compliance initiatives.
Their application in practice  may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory  and governing bodies.
This could result in continuing uncertainty  regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as  a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards.
The  Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate  governance and public disclosure.
However, eﬀ orts to comply with  evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in this regard have  resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general  and administrative expenses and a diversion of management  resources and time.
The Companies Act, 2013 has eﬀ  ected signiﬁ  cant changes to the  existing Indian company law framework, which may subject the  Company to higher compliance requirements and increase its  compliance costs.
A majority of the provisions and rules under  the Companies Act have been notiﬁ  ed and have come into eﬀ  ect  from the date of their respective notiﬁ  cation, resulting in the  corresponding provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 ceasing  to have eﬀ  ect.
The Companies Act, 2013 brought into eﬀ  ect  signiﬁ  cant changes to the Indian company law framework, such as  in the provisions related to the issue of capital (including provisions  in relation to issue of securities on a private placement basis),  129 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) disclosures in oﬀ  ering documents, corporate governance norms,  accounting policies and audit matters, related party transactions,  introduction of a provision allowing the initiation of class action  suits in India against companies by shareholders or depositors, a  restriction on investment by an Indian company through more  than two layers of subsidiary investment companies (subject to  certain permitted exceptions), prohibitions on loans to directors  and insider trading and restrictions on forward dealing by directors  and key management personnel.
The Company is also required to  spend, in each ﬁ  nancial year, at least 2% of its average net proﬁ  ts  during the three immediately preceding ﬁ  nancial years calculated  for Tata Motors Limited on a standalone basis under Indian GAAP ,  towards corporate social responsibility activities.
Furthermore, the  Companies Act, 2013 imposes greater monetary and other liability  on the Company and its directors for any non-compliance.
To  ensure compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act,  2013, the Company may need to allocate additional resources,  which may increase its regulatory compliance costs and divert  management’s attention.
The Company may also face challenges  in interpreting and complying with such provisions due to limited  jurisprudence.
In the event the Company’s interpretation of the  Companies Act, 2013 diﬀ  ers from, or contradicts with, any judicial  pronouncements or clariﬁ  cations issued by the Government of  India in the future, the Company may face regulatory actions or  be required to undertake remedial steps.
Additionally, some of the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 overlap with other existing  laws and regulations (such as corporate governance norms and  insider trading regulations issued by (SEBI).
Recently, the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) applicable  to all Indian companies with listed securities or desirous of listing  its securities, on an Indian Stock Exchange, which became eﬀ  ective  on December 1, 2015.
Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, the  Company is required to, among other things, ensure that there is  at least one woman director on our board of directors at all times,  establish a vigilance mechanism for directors and employees and  reconstitute certain committees in accordance with the Listing  Regulations.
The Company may face diﬃ   culties in complying  with any such overlapping requirements.
Further, the Company  cannot currently determine the impact of certain provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the revised SEBI Listing regulations.
Any increase in the Company compliance requirements or in the  Company’s compliance costs may have a material and adverse  eﬀ ect on the Company’s business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results  of operations.
The Company may be aff ected by competition law in India and  any adverse application or interpretation of the Competition  Act could adversely aff ect the Company’s business.
The Competition Act regulates practices having an appreciable  adverse eﬀ  ect on competition, or AAEC, in a given relevant  market in India.
Under the Competition Act, any formal or informal  arrangement, understanding or action in concert which causes or is  likely to cause an AAEC is considered void and results in imposition  of substantial penalties.
Consequently, all agreements entered into  by the Company could be within the purview of the Competition  Act.
Further, any agreement among competitors which directly or  indirectly involves determination of purchase or sale prices, limits  or controls production, sharing the market by way of geographical  area or number of subscribers in the relevant market or which  directly or indirectly results in bid-rigging or collusive bidding is  presumed to have an AAEC in the relevant market in India and  is considered void.
The Competition Act also prohibits abuse of a  dominant position by any enterprise.
The Company cannot predict  with certainty the impact of the provisions of the Competition Act  on its agreements at this stage.
On March 4, 2011, the Government issued and brought into force  the combination regulation (merger control) provisions under the  Competition Act with eﬀ  ect from June 1, 2011.
These provisions  require acquisitions of shares, voting rights, assets or control or  mergers or amalgamations that cross the prescribed asset- and  turnover-based thresholds to be mandatorily notiﬁ  ed to and pre- approved by the CCI.
Additionally, on May 11, 2011, the CCI issued  Competition Commission of India (Procedure for Transaction of  Business Relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 (as amended),  which sets out the mechanism for the implementation of the  merger control regime in India.
Further, the CCI has extraterritorial powers and can investigate any  agreements, abusive conduct or combination occurring outside  India if such agreement, conduct or combination has an AAEC in  India.
The CCI has initiated an enquiry against the Company and  other car manufacturers, collectively referred to hereinafter as  the OEMs, pursuant to an allegation that genuine spare parts of  automobiles manufactured by the OEMs were not made freely  available in the open market in India and, accordingly, anti- competitive practices were carried out by the OEMs.
If the Company is aﬀ ected, directly or indirectly, by the application  or interpretation of any provision of the Competition Act, or any  enforcement proceedings initiated by the CCI, or any adverse  publicity that may be generated due to scrutiny or prosecution  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 130 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports by the CCI or if any prohibition or substantial penalties are levied  under the Competition Act, it would adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s  business, ﬁ  nancial condition and results of operations.
Compliance with the SEC’s rules for disclosures on “confl  ic t  minerals” may be time consuming and costly as well as result  in reputational damage.
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted rules that apply to  companies that use cer tain minerals and metals, known as conﬂ  ict  minerals, in their products, including certain products manufactured  for them by third parties.
The rules require companies to conduct  due diligence as to whether or not such minerals originated from  the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, and  further require companies to ﬁ  le certain information with the SEC  about the use of these minerals.
The Company expects to incur  additional costs to comply with these due diligence and disclosure  requirements.
In addition, depending on the Company’s ﬁ  ndings or  its inability to make reliable ﬁ  ndings about the source of any possible  conﬂ  ict minerals that may be used in any products manufactured  for the Company by third parties, the Company’s reputation could  be harmed.
The Company may be materially and adv ersely aff ected by RBI  policies and actions.
In 2016, RBI announced an interest rate cut coupled with a cautious  statement on inﬂ  ation which may have impacted the price of the  Company’s shares or ADSs.
The Company can make no assurances  about future market reactions to RBI announcements and their  impact on the price of its shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, the Company’s  business could be signiﬁ  cantly impacted were the RBI to make major  alterations to monetary or ﬁ  nancial policy.
Certain changes, such as  the raising of interest rates, could negatively aﬀ  ect the Company’s  sales and consequently its revenue, any of which could have a  material adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition.
The Indian Securities Market is volatile and could aff  ec t the  Company’s share prices.
Indian stock exchanges, including the BSE, have, in the past,  experienced substantial ﬂ  uctuations in the prices of their listed  securities.
The problems, if they continue or recur, could aﬀ  ect the  market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies.
These problems have included temporary exchange closures, broker  defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers.
In addition, the  governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to  time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations  on price movements and margin requirements.
Furthermore, from  time to time disputes have occurred between listed companies and  stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which, in some cases,  may have had a negative eﬀ  ect on market sentiment.
SEBI received statutory powers in 1992 to assist it in carrying out  its responsibility for improving disclosure and other regulatory  standards for the securities markets.
Subsequently, it has  prescribed regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure  requirements, insider dealing and other matters relevant to the  securities market.
There may, however, not be an adequate level  of information available about companies listed on the Indian  stock exchanges.
Political changes in India could delay and/or aff  ect the further  liberalisation of the Indian economy and materially and  adversely aff ect economic conditions in India generally and the  Company’s business in particular.
The Company’s business could be signiﬁ  cantly inﬂ  uenced by  economic policies adopt ed by the Government of India.
Since  1991, successive governments have pursued policies of economic  liberalisation and ﬁ  nancial sector reforms.
The Government of  India has at various times announced its general intention to  continue India’s current economic and ﬁ  nancial liberalisation and  deregulation policies.
However, protests against such policies, which  have occurred in the past, could slow the pace of liberalisation and  deregulation.
The rate of economic liberalisation could change,  and speciﬁ  c laws and policies aﬀ  ecting foreign investment,  currency exchange rates and other matters aﬀ  ecting investment  in India could change as well.
While the Company expects any  new government to continue the liberalisation of India’s economic  and ﬁ  nancial sectors and deregulation policies, there can be no  assurance that such policies will be continued.
The Government of India has traditionally exercised and continues  to exercise inﬂ  uence over many aspects of the economy.
The  Company’s business and the market price and liquidity of the  Company’s shares may be aﬀ  ected by interest rates, changes in  policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic  or other developments in or aﬀ ecting India.
In addition, a change in  the Government of India’s economic liberalisation and deregulation  policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in  India generally.
Any of these factors could have a material  adverse eﬀ  ect on the Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition and results  of operations.
Terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional confl icts and other  acts of violence, particularly in India, may disrupt or otherwise  131 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) adversely aff ect the markets in which the Company operates,  the Company’s business and profi tability.
India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest and  hostilities, including terrorist attacks, riots and armed conﬂ  ict with  neighbouring countries.
Events of this nature in the future could  inﬂ  uence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse  eﬀ ect on the Company’s business as well as the market for securities  of Indian companies, including the Company’s shares and ADSs.
In addition, any deterioration in international relations, especially  between India and its neighbouring countries, may result in investor  concern regarding regional stability, which could adversely aﬀ  ect  the price of the Company shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, India has  witnessed local civil disturbances in recent years, and it is possible  that future civil unrest, as well as other adverse social, economic  or political events in India could have an adverse impact on the  Company’s business.
Such incidents could also create a greater  perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher  degree of risk and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s  business, results of operations and ﬁ  nancial condition, and the  market price of the Company’s shares or ADSs.
Any downgrading of India’s debt rating by a domestic or  international r ating agency could negatively impact the  Company’s business.
Any adverse revisions to India’s credit ratings for domestic and  international debt by domestic or international rating agencies  may adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise additional  ﬁ  nancing as well as the interest rates and other commercial terms  at which such additional ﬁ  nancing is available.
This could have  an adverse eﬀ ect on the Company ﬁ  nancial results and business  prospects, ability to obtain ﬁ  nancing for capital expenditures and  the price of the Company shares or ADSs.
The Company will be required to prepare fi  nancial statements  under Ind-AS (which is India’s convergence to IFRS).
The Company currently prepares annual and interim ﬁ  nancial  statements under Indian GAAP and annual ﬁ  nancial statements  under IFRS.
The Company is required to prepare annual and interim  ﬁ  nancial statements under Indian Accounting Standards or Ind-AS  from April 1, 2016.
Ind-AS diﬀ  ers in certain respects from Indian GAAP and IFRS and  therefore ﬁ  nancial statements prepared under Ind-AS may be  substantially diﬀ  erent from ﬁ  nancial statements prepared under  Indian GAAP or IFRS.
There can be no assurance that the Company’s  ﬁ  nancial condition, results of operation, cash ﬂ  ow or changes in  shareholders’ equity will not be presented diﬀ  erently under Ind-AS  compared to Indian GAAP or IFRS.
When the Company adopts Ind- AS reporting, it may encounter diﬃ   culties in the ongoing process  of implementing and enhancing its management information  systems.
There can be no assurance that the adoption of Ind-AS  will not adversely aﬀ  ect the Company’s ﬁ  nancial condition or results  of operations.
Business Summary The Company’s business segments are (i) automotive operations  and (ii) all other operations.
The Company’s automotive operations  are further subdivided into Tata and other brand vehicles (including  vehicle ﬁ  nancing) and Jaguar Land Rover.
The Company primarily  operates in the automotive industry.
The Company’s automotive  segment operations include all activities relating to the development,  design, manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles including  vehicle ﬁ  nancing, as well as sale of related parts and accessories.
The acquisition of the Jaguar Land Rover business has enabled the  Company to enter the premium cars market in developed markets  such as the United Kingdom, the United States, Europe and China  as well as several emerging markets such as Russia, Brazil and South  Africa.
Going forward, the Company expects to focus on proﬁ  table  growth opportunities in its global automotive business through new  products and market expansion.
Within automotive operations, the  Company continues to focus on integration and synergy through  sharing of resources, platforms, facilities for product development  and manufacturing, sourcing strategy and mutual sharing of best  practices.
The all other operations segment includes information technology,  or IT services, and machine tools and factory automation  solutions.
Overview of the Company’s Business In the automotive segment, the Company manufactures and sells  passenger cars, utility vehicles, light commercial vehicles, and  medium and heavy commercial vehicles.
The Company further  divides these categories based on the size, weight, design and  price of the vehicle.
The Company’s subcategories vary between  and within Tata and other brand vehicles and Jaguar Land Rover  businesses.
Passenger Cars: The Company’s range of Tata-branded passenger  cars include the Nano (micro), the Indica, the Bolt and the Tiago  both in the compact segment, the Indigo eCS, and the Zest  (mid-sized) in the sedan category.
The Company has expanded  its passenger car range with several variants and fuel options  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 132 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports designed to suit various customer preferences.
The Company’s  Jaguar Land Rover operations have an established presence in  the premium passenger car category under the Jaguar brand  name.
There are ﬁ  ve car lines currently manufactured under the  Jaguar brand name, including the F-TYPE two-seater sports car  coupe and convertible the all new XF sedan, the XJ saloon, the  XE sports saloon and the all new luxury performance SUV called  the F-PACE, which became available for sale in April 2016.
Utility Vehicles (UV): The Company manufactures a range of  Tata-branded utility vehicles, including the Sumo and the Safari  (SUVs), the Xenon XT (lifestyle pickup), the Tata Aria (crossover),  and the Venture (multipurpose utility vehicle).
Under the Safari  brand, the Company oﬀ  ers two variants: the Dicor and the  Safari Storme.
Under the Sumo brand, the Company oﬀ  ers  the Sumo Gold.
There are ﬁ  ve car lines under the Land Rover  brand comprising the Range Rover, the Range Rover Sport, the  Range Rover Evoque (including the Evoque convertible which  will become available for sale in June 2016), the Land Rover  Discovery and the Land Rover Discovery Sport.
The Company  ceased production of the Land Rover Defender in January 2016.
Light Commercial Vehicles (LCV): The Company manufactures  a variety of light commercial vehicles, including pickup trucks  and small commercial vehicles.
This also includes the Tata Ace,  India’s ﬁ  rst indigenously developed mini-truck, with a 0.7 ton  payload with diﬀ  erent fuel options, the Super Ace and the ACE  Mega both with a 1-ton payload, the Ace Zip, with a 0.6 ton  payload, the Magic and Magic Iris, both of which are passenger  variants for commercial transportation developed on the Tata  Ace platform, and the Winger.
The Company’s oﬀ erings in the  LCV bus segment include the Cityride and the Starbus ranges of  buses.
Medium & Heavy Commercial Vehicles: The Company  manufactures a variety of medium and heavy commercial  vehicles, which include trucks, tractors, buses, tippers, and multi- axled vehicles, with Gross vehicle weight (GVWs) (including  payload) of between 8 tons and 49 tons.
In addition, through  Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles, or TDCV, the Company  manufactures a wide array of trucks ranging from 215 horsepower  to 560 horsepower, including dump trucks, tractor-trailers,  mixers and cargo vehicles.
The Prima line of trucks is aimed at  its customers in India and South Korea, and the Company has  partially extended the oﬀ ering by oﬀ ering Prima LX variants of  various products of the Prima line.
The Company also oﬀ  ers a  range of buses, which includes, the Semi Deluxe Starbus Ultra  Contract Bus and the new Starbus Ultra.
The Company’s range  of buses is intended for a variety of uses, including as intercity  coaches (with both air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned  luxury variants), as school transportation and as ambulances.
Other Operations The Company’s other operations business segment mainly includes  information technology services, and machine tools and factory  automation services.
Information Technology Services: As at March 31, 2016, the  Company owned a 72.32% equity interest in its subsidiary,  Tata Technologies Limited, or TTL.
TTL specialises in providing  engineering services outsourcing, product development IT  services solutions for product lifecycle management, or PLM and  Enterprise Resource Management, or ERM, to the world’s leading  automotive, aerospace and consumer durables manufacturers and  their suppliers.
TTL ’s services also include product design, analysis  and production engineering, knowledge-based engineering and  customer relationship management systems.
TTL also distributes,  implements and supports PLM products from leading solutions  providers worldwide such as Dassault Systems and Autodesk.
TTL has its international headquarters in Singapore, with regional  headquarters in the United States, India and the United Kingdom.
TTL has a combined global workforce of around 8,087 professionals  serving clients worldwide from facilities in the North America,  Europe, and Asia Paciﬁ  c regions.
TTL responds to customers’ needs  through its subsidiary companies and through its six oﬀ  shore  development centres in India, Thailand and Romania.
The Company’s Strategy The Company believes that it has established a strong position  in the Indian automobile industry by launching new products,  investing in research and development, strengthening its ﬁ  nancial  position and expanding its manufacturing and distribution network.
The Company has increased its presence in the global automotive  markets and enhanced its product range and capabilities through  strategic acquisitions and alliances.
The Company aims to position  itself as a major international automotive company by oﬀ  ering  products across various markets by combining its engineering  and other strengths as well as through strategic acquisitions.
The  Company’s strategy to achieve these goals consists of the following  elements: Continued focus on new product development: During  Fiscal 2016, the Company launched the following products:   133 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165)  Ace Mega: The Ace Mega is a small pickup truck in the Small  Commercial Vehicle (SCV) segment which oﬀ ers performance  combined with fuel eﬃ  ciency a low cost of ownership.
SIGNA range of M&HCV: The SIGNA range oﬀ  ers improved cab  experience, connected vehicle related functionalities and an  improved driveline.
Ultra Electric: The Company has launched its ﬁ  rst full-electric bus  with zero emissions and reduced noise operations.
Further, during Fiscal 2016, the Company increased its global  presence and launched the Prima in Kenya, Uganda and  Bangladesh, the Ultra Bus in Sri-Lanka, Ultra trucks in Bangladesh,  the Elanza bus in UAE and the ACE Express and ACE mega in  Sri-Lanka and Nepal.
Range Rover Evoque: The Company launched the refreshed  2016 model in August 2015 and the Evoque convertible will go  on sale in June 2016.
Jaguar XE: The all new Jaguar XE went on sale in May 2015,  excluding the US, where sales commenced in May 2016, and is  currently being manufactured at the Solihull plant in the UK.
The  XE was the ﬁ  rst Jaguar Land Rover vehicle to feature Jaguar Land  Rover’s in-house 2.0 litre 4 cylinder engines.
Jaguar XF: The all new light weight Jaguar XF uses the same  aluminum-intensive architecture as the Jaguar XE and was  launched in September 2015.
Jaguar XJ: The Company launched the refreshed 2016 model  year XJ in December 2015.
Jaguar F-PACE: The Company revealed the Jaguar F-PACE  luxury performance SUV at the Frankfurt Motor Show in 2015.
The F-PACE went on sale in April 2016 and utilizes the same  aluminum-intensive architecture as the Jaguar XE and XF.
Tiago – The Company launched the Tiago in April  2016.
The Company’s capital expenditures totaled R32,024.42 crores, and  R34,889.61 crores for Fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively, and the  Company currently plans to invest approximately R 398 billion in  Fiscal 2017 in new products and technologies.
The Company’s research and development focuses on developing  and acquiring the technology, core competence and skill set required  for the timely delivery of its envisaged future product portfolio  with industry-leading features across the range of commercial and  passenger vehicles.
For the passenger vehicle product range, the  focus is on stunning design, driving pleasure and connected car  technologies.
For the commercial vehicle product range, the focus  is on enhancing fuel-eﬃ   ciency and minimising the total cost of  ownership.
The Company has continued its endeavour to adopt  technologies for its product range to meet the requirements of a  globally competitive market.
The Company has also undertaken  programmes for development of vehicles which run on alternate  fuels such as LPG, CNG, bio-diesel, electric-traction and hydrogen.
The Company recently signed a contract to supply 25 Tata Starbus  Diesel Series Hybrid Electric Bus with Full Low ﬂ  oor conﬁ  guration,  with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority  (MMRDA).
It has plans to expand its product base further, which is  supported by its strong brand recognition in India, its understanding  of local consumer preferences, its in-house engineering capabilities  and its extensive distribution network.
With growing competition,  changing technologies and evolving customer expectations, the  Company understands the importance of bringing new platforms  to address market gaps and further enhancing the existing range  of vehicles to ensure customer satisfaction.
Jaguar Land Rover has invested to enhance its technological  strengths through in-house research and development activities,  including the development of its engineering and design centers  which centralise Jaguar Land Rover’s capabilities in product design  and engineering.
Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover participates in advanced research  consortia that bring together leading manufacturers, suppliers and  academic specialists in the United Kingdom and are supported by  funding from the UK Government’s Technology Strategy Board.
Leveraging the Company’s capabilities: The Company  believe that the foundation of its growth over the last six decades  has been a deep understanding of economic conditions and  customer needs, and the ability to translate this understanding into  desirable products though research and development.
In India, its  Engineering Research Centre, or ERC, which was established in 1966,  has successfully designed, developed and produced a wide range  of vehicles.
The ERC in India and Jaguar Land Rover engineering and  development operations in the United Kingdom have identiﬁ  ed  areas to leverage the facilities and resources to enhance the product  development process and achieve economies of scale.
Furthermore,  the Company has a wholly-owned subsidiary, Tata Motors European  Technical Centre PLC, or TMETC, in the United Kingdom, which is  engaged in automobile research and engineering.
The Company believes that its in-house research and development  capabilities, including those of its subsidiaries such as Jaguar Land  Rover, TDCV, Trilix S.r.l., or Trilix, in Italy, and TMETC, in the United  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 134 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Kingdom and the joint ventures with Marcopolo of Brazil in India,  Thonburi in Thailand and Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Pty.)
Ltd in  South Africa, will enable it to expand its product range and extend  its geographical reach.
The Company continually strives to achieve  synergies wherever possible with its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The Company aims to invest in plant modernisation and to increase  manufacturing capacity and eﬃ  ciency.
The Company has continued modernizing its facilities to meet  demand for its vehicles.
The Jamshedpur plant, which manufactures  the entire range of M&HCVs, including the Prima, both for civilian  and defense uses, has been modernized over the years and in Fiscal  2015, the Company celebrated 60 years of truck manufacturing at  its ﬁ  rst manufacturing and engineering facility at Jamshedpur.
The Company’s product portfolio of Tata-brand vehicles, which  includes the Nano, Indica, Indigo, Sumo, Sumo Grande, Safari, Safari  Storme, Aria, Tiago, Zest, Bolt and Venture, enables it to compete  in various passenger vehicle market categories.
The Company also  oﬀ ers alternative fuel vehicles under the Nano and Indigo brands.
The Company also intends to expand its sales reach and volumes in  rural areas, where an increase in wealth has resulted in a declining  diﬀ erence between urban and rural automobile purchase volumes.
Jaguar Land Rover invests substantially in the development of  new products in new and existing segments by introducing  new powertrains and technologies, including CO 2 reduction and  electriﬁ  cation that satisfy both customer preferences and regulatory  requirements.
Jaguar Land Rover also invest in expanding  manufacturing capacity in the United Kingdom and internationally  to meet customer demand.
In line with other premium automotive  manufacturers Jaguar Land Rover targets capital expenditure  to revenue of 10-12%.
However, in Fiscal 2017 and for some  time thereafter, Jaguar Land Rover anticipates increasing capital  expenditure in order to take advantage of growth opportunities.
For  Fiscal 2017, capital expenditure at Jaguar Land Rover is expected to  be around GB£3.75 billion (approximately R358 billion), allocated  approximately 43% for research and development and 57% for  expenditure on tangible ﬁ  xed assets such as facilities, tools and  equipment as well as other investments.
In October 2014, Jaguar Land Rover opened its Engine  Manufacturing Centre at Wolverhampton, in the West Midlands.
The plant currently manufactures Jaguar Land Rover’s own in- house 2.0-litre diesel engine, which was ﬁ  rst introduced into  the Jaguar XE and now available in the XF, F-PACE, Evoque and  Discovery Sport.
The 2.0-litre petrol engine, which is anticipated to  utilise the same conﬁ  gurable and ﬂ  exible common architecture as  the diesel variant, is scheduled for production later in Fiscal 2017.
Jaguar Land Rover’s in-house engines have been engineered to  ensure maximize manufacturing eﬃ   ciency, to include the ﬂ  exibility  to increase the number of engine variants and to be consistently  high quality.
Initial investment in the Engine Manufacturing Centre  was approximately GB£500 million and Jaguar Land Rover recently  announced an additional investment of GB£450 million to double  the size of the Engine Manufacturing Centre, as the engine plant is  expected to eventually employ over 1,400 people.
In July 2015, Jaguar Land Rover agreed a manufacturing patnership  with Magna Steyr, an operating units Magna International Inc, to  build future vehicles in Graz, Austria.
In December 2015, Jaguar Land Rover announced an initial  investment of GB£1.0 billion to build a manufacturing facility in  Slovakia with an annual capacity of 150,000 units, with a potential  further investments of GB£500 million to increase the capacity of  facility to 300,000 units per annum.
Production is scheduled to  commence at this facility in Fiscal 2018.
In June 2016, Jaguar Land Rover will be opening its R$ 750 million  (Brazilian reals) (GB£240 million) manufacturing facility in Brazil  which manfactures the Evoque and Discovery sports for the  Brazilian markets.
Continuing focus on high quality and enhancing customer  satisfaction: One of the Company’s principal goals is to achieve  international quality standards for its products and services.
To that  end, the Company has established a comprehensive purchasing  and quality control ecosystem that is designed to consistently  deliver quality products and superior service.
The Company scored  ranking 3 in 2015, up from 2014, in the J.D.
Power Asia Paciﬁ  c 2015  India Customer Service Index (CSI) Survey.
The Company believes  that its extensive sales and service network also enable it to provide  quality and timely customer service.
The Company is encouraging  focused initiatives at both sales and service touch points to enhance  customer experience and strive to be best in class.
Furthermore,  Tata Motors Finance Ltd, or TMFL, the Company’s vehicle ﬁ  nancing  subsidiary, has enhanced its “Oﬃ   ce of the Customer” initiative  as well as its rural branch network and infrastructure in order to  increase interactions and build relations with the Company’s  customers and dealers.
Leveraging brand equity: The Company believes customers  associate the Tata name with reliability, trust and ethical values,  and that the Company brand name gains signiﬁ  cant international  recognition due to the international growth strategies of various Tata  135 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) companies.
The Tata brand is used and its beneﬁ  ts are leveraged by  Tata companies to their mutual advantage.
The Company recognises  the need for enhancing its brand recognition in highly competitive  markets in which it competes with internationally recognized  brands.
The Company, along with Tata Sons and other  Tata companies, will continue to promote the Tata brand  and leverage its use in India and various international markets where  the Company plans to increase its presence.
Supported by the Tata  brand, the Company believes its brands such as the Zest, the Bolt,  the Indica, the Indigo, the Sumo, the Safari, the Aria, the Venture,  the Nano, the Prima, the Ultra range of LCVs, the Ace, and the  Magic, along with the Daewoo, are highly regarded, which the  Company intends to nurture and promote further.
At the same time,  the Company will continue to build new brands, such as the newly  launched SIGNA range of M&HCVs, the Tiago, to further enhance its  brand equity.
The Company’s commercial vehicle initiative, Project Neev, provides  a growth programme for rural India designed to promote self- employment.
Local, unemployed rural youth have been enrolled  and trained to work from homes as promoters of the Company’s  commercial vehicles.
Project Neev is currently operational in  nineteen states of India and has engagement in 456 districts  and 3,613 sub-districts, which covers more than 470,500 villages.
The rural penetration drive initiated through Project Neev has  deployed an approximately 6,500 member dedicated team in towns  and villages with populations of less than 50,000.
Nearly 90,000  commercial vehicles have been sold since the commencement of  this programme, to which the Company attributes a 24% increase  in volumes of small commercial vehicle sales.
Project Neev currently  completed its ﬁ  fth wave of expansion, and the Company anticipates  that it will operate in all major states across the country within the  next couple of years.
This programme has been appreciated and  recognized in various forums such as the Rural Marketing Association  of India Flame Awards for excellence in the ﬁ  eld of rural marketing.
In light of the positive response received by “Truck World:  Advanced Trucking Expo” , which was launched in Fiscal 2015, the  Company has organized 6 Truck World events in Fiscal 2016 - at  Kolkata, Bhubaneshwar, Indore, Gandhidham, Hubli and Jaipur.
This exposition showcases the Company’s oﬀ ering of medium and  heavy commercial vehicles, along-with service-related brands such  as Tata Genuine Parts, Tata Delight and Tata FleetMan.
In Fiscal 2016,  the Company introduced Programme Transcend, an initiative to  empower the next-generation of entrepreneurs and also launched  a driver engagement initiative – called “Ek Shaam Saarthi Ke Naam” .
Another initiative through the Company’s commercial vehicles  business is TATA-OK. TATA-OK seeks to promote the Company’s  commercial vehicles by capturing new customer segments (such  as economical and used vehicle buyers), promoting the sale of new  vehicles through the exchange of used commercial vehicles at the  Company’s dealerships, increasing the resale value of its commercial  vehicles products, and facilitating deeper customer engagement  and thereby promoting brand loyalty and providing additional  source of revenue to its channel partner’s.
TATA-OK has completed  ﬁ  ve years of operation, including a pilot year, which retailed over  23,600 transactions in Fiscal 2016 through over 460 retailers.
The  Company oﬀ  ers a variety of support products and services for  its customers.
TataFleetMan, the Company’s telematics and ﬂ  eet  management service, is designed to enable the commercial  vehicles sector to boost ﬂ  eet productivity, safety and cost eﬃ  ciency.
With the goal of bringing the most advanced technology in this  area to its customers, the Company has entered into a partnership  with UK-based Microlise Limited to introduce global standards of  telematics and ﬂ  eet management solutions into the Indian logistics  and transport industry.
In Fiscal 2016, Original Equipment manufacturer ﬁ  tment of Tata  Fleetman was commenced, covering all Prima (Cargo & Tippers),  LPS 3518 and LPS 4018.
Tata Motors Loyalty Programmes (Tata  Delight and Tata Emperor) was recognized by the DMA Asia ECHO™  Awards and PMAA Dragons of Asia in December 2015.
In Fiscal 2016, the Company launched a new initiative, TATA Zippy  with a promise to deliver a vehicle after repair within 48 hours or else  pay a penalty to the customer.
The Company also introduced Tata  Kavach which deliver accidental vehicle in 15 days’ post approvals or  else pay a penalty to the customers.
Tata Alert continues to provide  breakdown assistance by promising to respond to the breakdown  site within four hours of notiﬁ  cation and to return the vehicle to the  road within 24 hours.
While ‘‘Priority ﬁ  rst’’ continues to monitor repairs  of prime models i.e.
Ultra and Prima- It ensures vehicle delivery in  36 hours.
These initiatives are supported by services such as the  Tata on-site service and parts support through the use of container  workshops and mobile service vans.
These workshops are an on-site  service support system that deploy a container on site which houses  the repair equipment while the repairs are done at the customers’  location.
Mobile workshops visit potential customer sites based  on the requirement for door step service.
Mobile workshops are  equipped with tools, compressor and washing facility.
In addition, the  Company oﬀ  ers an on-demand AMC (annual maintenance contracts)  service, which provides customized AMC support for signiﬁ  cant  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 136 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports customers, such as large ﬂ  eet owners.
To improve brand equity of  TATA Genuine Parts, concepts, such as the TGP Experience Centre and  the Champion Zone have been started in the retail segment.
The Company also oﬀ  ers triple beneﬁ  t insurance products  for certain commercial vehicles which provide coverage for  zero depreciation, loss of revenue, and replacement for total  loss in case of accident.
It oﬀ  ers a warranty of 4 years / 400,000  kilometers on drivelines for its entire range of heavy trucks with  25 tons and higher GVW and extended the same to its 16T  GVW truck range.
In Fiscal 2016, Tata Motors achieved a new milestone in its last  mile public transport portfolio by reaching a 300,000 sales of Tata  Magic, its most popular public transport vehicle.
The Company also  celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Tata Ace (launched in 2005) its  ‘Decade of Trust’ campaign throughout the country.
The Company  has been honoured with the ‘Best Telematics Product or Launch in  the Emerging Market’ award for its Telematics solution, based on  the popular Android platform developed for the Tata Magic Iris  Electric.
This year, the Company won four prestigious awards at the  Apollo CV Awards namely:  Cargo Carrier of the Year - Tata LPS 4923   School Bus of the Year - Tata Cityride Skool Bus   Special Application CV of the Year - Tata MHC 2038   CV Dealer of the Year - Bhandari Automotive (Tata Motors  dealership).
In order to cultivate safe practices of school bus riders, promote  the Company brand image and build connections with school  bus riders and stakeholders such as children, parents and school  authorities, the Company launched two ﬂ  agship programmes  – Dream it to Win it and Humare Bus Ki Baat Hain.
Season 2 of  ‘Humare Bus Ki Baat Hain’ , in Fiscal 2016, covered 563 schools in  92 cities with over 26,827 school staﬀ   participating.
In Fiscal 2015,  the Company, launched Tata SKOOLMAN, a student and school  bus safety initiative, which is a telematics-based tracking solution,  as a standard accessory for the Tata Ultra range of school buses.
The Company has organized a ‘School Bus Expo’ in Bangalore, in  which the Company exhibited it’s entire range of school buses  and vans namely the Iris, Magic, Winger, CityRide EX, Starbus and  the Starbus Ultra.
It also showcased Tata Skoolman, the telematics  based tracking solution at the same event.
In Fiscal 2016, the Company organised Season 3 of the Prima Truck  Racing Championship, which drew in over 55,000 spectators.
The  highlight of Season 3 was the ﬁ  rst race ever of Indian truck racing  talent, that was trained and nurtured in India.
It has conceptualized  and introduced an Indian Driver Training & Selection programme  - “T1 Racer Program” to induct and train Indian truck drivers to  become ‘racers’ .
This programme will not only enhance driving  skills, but also has an ultimate goal of creating well-rounded truck  drivers.
In the passenger vehicle space, after a year of aggressive  marketing campaigns for its new generation products, such as,  the Zest, the Bolt and GenX Nano, the Company has signed up  the football player star, Lionnel Messi, as a long-term global brand  ambassador to promote and endorse the Company’s passenger  vehicles.
Environmental performance: Jaguar Land Rover’s strategy is  to invest in products and technologies that position their products  ahead of expected stricter environmental regulations and ensure that  beneﬁ  ts from a shift in consumer awareness of the environmental  impact of the vehicles driven by customers.
The Company also believe  that Jaguar Land Rover is a leader in automotive green technology  in the United Kingdom.
Jaguar Land Rover’s environmental vehicle  strategy focuses on new propulsion technology, weight reduction  and reduction of parasitic losses through the driveline.
Jaguar Land  Rover have developed diesel hybrid versions of the Range Rover and  Range Rover Sport, without compromising these vehicles’ oﬀ   road  capability or load space.
Jaguar Land Rover is a global leader in the use of aluminium  and other lightweight materials to reduce vehicle weight and  improve fuel and CO 2 eﬃ  ciency, and Jaguar Land Rover believes  that it is ahead of many of its competitors in the implementation  of aluminium construction.
For example, the Jaguar XE is the only  vehicle in its class to use an aluminium intensive monocoque.
Jaguar  Land Rover plans to continue to build on this expertise and extend  the application of aluminium construction as it develops a range  of new products.
The aluminium body architecture introduced on  the Jaguar XE is also used in the new lightweight Jaguar XF and  the new Jaguar F PACE.
Recognizing the need to use resources responsibly, produce less  waste and reduce Jaguar Land Rover’s carbon footprint, Jaguar  Land Rover is also taking measures to reduce emissions, waste and  the use of natural resources in all of their operations.
Jaguar Land Rover is also developing more eﬃ   cient powertrains  and other technologies.
This includes smaller and more eﬃ   cient  2.0 litre petrol engines, stop start and hybrid engines.
Jaguar  137 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Land Rover already produce smaller and more eﬃ   cient diesel  engines such as the 2.0 litre diesel engine used in its new Jaguar  XE, XF, Discovery Sport, Evoque and F-PACE.
The Range Rover and  Range Rover Sport Diesel Hybrid, powered by downsized and  more eﬃ  cient engines and alternative powertrains have both  contributed to the improvement of their carbon footprint.
Jaguar Land Rover’s current product line up is the most eﬃ   cient  it has ever been and the launch of new models has further  improved the environmental performance of its vehicles.
The  aluminium intensive Jaguar XE is the most fuel eﬃ   cient Jaguar  and the ﬁ  rst Jaguar Land Rover vehicle to receive a UK VED Band  A rating resulting in a £0/annum tax rate and the new aluminium  intensive XF delivers improved fuel consumption and CO 2 emission  performance.
The all aluminium Jaguar XJ 3.0 litre V6 twin turbo  diesel and the 2.0 litre turbocharged petrol engine options in the  Range Rover Evoque, the Land Rover Discovery and the Jaguar XE,  XF and XJ also oﬀ er improved fuel eﬃ  ciency.
The most eﬃ  cient version of the latest Range Rover Evoque emits less  CO2 than the prior model due to the introduction of the new 2.0 litre  “in house” diesel engine.
The Discovery Sport has been developed to  be the most versatile and capable Land Rover in its category with  a range of four cylinder turbocharged petrol and diesel engines  (including Jaguar Land Rover’s in house 2.0 litre diesel engine).
The  3.0 litre TDV6 Range Rover oﬀ ers similar performance to the previous  4.4 litre TDV8 Range Rover while fuel consumption and CO2 emissions  have been reduced.
Jaguar Land Rover’s ﬁ  rst hybrid electric vehicles  in the Range Rover and Range Rover Sport 3.0 litre SDV6 Hybrid also  oﬀ er signiﬁ  cantly improved CO2 emission performance.
Mitigating cyclicality: The automobile industry is impacted  by cyclicality.
To mitigate the impact of cyclicality, the Company  plans to continually strengthen its operations by gaining market  share across diﬀ  erent vehicle categories and oﬀ  ering a wide range  of products in diverse geographies.
For example, the Company is  focusing on shifting its oﬀ  erings in the defense sector from pure  logistical solutions to tactical and combat solutions, which the  Company believes will be less aﬀ ected by cyclicality.
The Company  also plans to continue to strengthen its business operations other  than vehicle sales, such as ﬁ  nancing of its vehicles, spare part  sales, service and maintenance contracts, sales of aggregates for  non-vehicle businesses, reconditioning of aggregates and sales  of castings, production aids, tooling’s and ﬁ  xtures, to reduce this  cyclical impact of the automotive industry on the Company’s  ﬁ  nancial performance.
Expanding the Company international business: The  Company’s international expansion strategy involves entering new  markets where it has an opportunity to grow and introducing new  products to existing markets in order to grow its presence in such  markets.
The Company’s international business strategy has already  resulted in the growth of its international operations in select markets  and chosen segments over the last ﬁ  ve years.
In recent years, the  Company has grown its commercial vehicle market share across  various African markets such as Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania, Congo and  Senegal, introduced certain products in Australia, and is focused on  increasing the presence in key markets in Southeast Asia and Latin  America.
The Company is also actively considering expanding its  global manufacturing footprint in key international markets to take  advantage of import duty diﬀ  erentials and local sourcing.
The Company has also expanded its range through acquisitions and  joint ventures.
The Company now oﬀ  ers products in the premium  performance car and premium all-terrain vehicle categories with  globally-recognised brands through Jaguar Land Rover and has  diversiﬁ  ed its business across markets and product categories.
The  production of the Range Rover Evoque commenced at the joint  venture with Chery Automobile Company Ltd, or the China Joint  Venture in October 2014 and the Range Rover Evoque went on retail  sale in China in February 2015.
Production of the Discovery Sport was  also added as the second vehicle to be manufactured at the China  Joint Venture in Fiscal 2016, which went on retail sale in November  2015.
In addition, Jaguar Land Rover recently announced that the  Jaguar XF L (a long wheelbase version of the Jaguar XF saloon) would  be the third vehicle to be produced at the China Joint Venture from  the later half of 2016.
The Company aims to continue to build upon  the internationally recognized brands of Jaguar Land Rover.
TDCV  continues to be the largest exporter of heavy commercial vehicles  from South Korea.
The Company has established a joint venture  along with Thonburi in Thailand to manufacture pickup trucks and  any other product lines that would be suitable for the market going  forward.
Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd., which caters to the  domestic South African market, has produced and sold over 750  chassis as at the end of Fiscal 2016.
Jaguar Land Rover also has ambitious plans to continue to  develop the product range, for example the new Jaguar F-PACE  performance crossover, which went on sale in April 2016, will be a  new product oﬀ ering for the Jaguar portfolio.
Similarly, Jaguar Land  Rover continues to expand its Land Rover product oﬀ  erings with  the announcement of the Range Rover Evoque convertible, which  also went on retail sale in June 2016.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 138 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Jaguar Land Rover intends to expand its global footprint by  increasing its global dealer network as well as expanding its  manufacturing base in the UK and internationally, for example  including the new manufacturing facility in Brazil due to commence  operations in Fiscal 2017, and at a brand new manufacturing plant  in Slovakia, due to commence production at the end of 2018.
Reducing operating costs: The Company’s ability to leverage its  technological capabilities and the manufacturing facilities among  its commercial vehicle and passenger vehicle businesses enables  it to reduce costs.
As an example, the diesel engine used in the  Indica platform was modiﬁ  ed for use in the Ace platform, which  helped to reduce development costs.
Similarly, platform sharing  for the manufacture of pickup trucks and utility vehicles enables  the Company to reduce capital investment that would otherwise  be required, while allowing it to improve the utilisation levels at its  manufacturing facilities.
Where appropriate, the Company intend to  apply its existing low-cost engineering and sourcing capability to  vehicles manufactured under the Jaguar and Land Rover brands.
The Company’s supplier relationships also contribute to cost- reductions.
For example, the Company believes that the supplier  rationalisation programme that it is undertaking will provide  economies of scale to its vendors, which would beneﬁ  t the  Company’s cost programmes.
The Company is also undertaking  various internal and external benchmarking exercises that would  enable it to improve the cost eﬀ  ectiveness of its components,  systems and sub-systems.
The Company has intensiﬁ  ed eﬀ orts to review and realign its cost  structure through a number of measures, such as reduction of  manpower costs and rationalisation of other ﬁ  xed costs.
The Jaguar  Land Rover business continues to focus on cost-management  initiatives, such as streamlining its purchasing processes and  building on its strong relationships with suppliers while increasing  employee deployment and ﬂ  exibility.
In addition, Jaguar Land  Rover continues to increase its use of its new modular aluminium  architecture across vehicles platforms, which it expects, will result in  the use of common technology more widely, across product lines  and a reduction in engineering complexity.
Enhancing capabilities through the adoption of superior  processes: Tata Sons and the entities promoted by Tata Sons,  including the Company, aim at improving quality of life through  leadership in various sectors of national economic signiﬁ  cance.
In pursuit of this goal, Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted  entities have institutionalised an approach, called the Tata Business  Excellence Model, which has been formulated along the lines of the  Malcolm Baldridge National Quality Award, to enable the Company  to improve performance and attain higher levels of eﬃ  ciency in its  businesses and in discharging the Company’s social responsibility.
The model aims to nurture core values and concepts embodied in  various focus areas such as leadership, strategic planning, customers,  markets and human resources, and to translate them to operational  performance.
The Company’s adoption and implementation of  this model seeks to ensure that its business is conducted through  superior processes compared to its competitors.
The Company has deployed a balance score card system for  measurement-based management and feedback.
The Company  has also deployed a product introduction process for systematic  product development and a product lifecycle management system  for eﬀ ective product data management across its organisation.
The  Company has adopted various processes to enhance the skills and  competencies of its employees.
The Company has also enhanced its  performance management system with appropriate mechanisms  to recognise talent and sustain its leadership base.
The Company  believes these measures will enhance its way of doing business,  given the dynamic and demanding global business environment.
Expanding customer fi  nancing activities: With ﬁ  nancing  a critical factor in vehicle purchases and the rising aspirations of  consumers in India, the Company intends to expand its vehicle  ﬁ  nancing activities to enhance vehicle sales.
In addition to  improving its competitiveness in customer attraction and retention,  the Company believes that expansion of its ﬁ  nancing business  would also contribute towards moderating the impact on its  ﬁ  nancial results from the cyclical nature of vehicle sales.
To spur  growth in the small commercial vehicles category, the Company  has teamed up with various public sector and cooperative banks  and Grameen banks to introduce new ﬁ  nance schemes.
TMFL  has increased its reach by opening a number of limited services  branches in Tier 2 and 3 towns.
This has reduced turnaround  times and improved customer satisfaction.
TMFL ’s Channel Finance  initiative and fee-based insurance support business has also helped  improve proﬁ  tability.
Continuing to invest in te chnology and technical skills:  The Company believes it is one of the most technologically  advanced indigenous vehicle manufacturers in India.
Over the  years, the Company has enhanced its technological strengths  through extensive in-house research and development activities.
Further, the Company’s research and development facilities at its  subsidiaries, such as TMETC, TDCV, TTL, and Trilix, together with  139 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) the two advanced engineering and design centres of Jaguar  Land Rover, have increased its capabilities in product design  and engineering.
The Jaguar Land Rover business is committed  to continue to invest in new technologies to develop products  that meet the opportunities of the premium market, including  developing sustainable technologies to improve fuel economy  and reduce CO 2 emissions.
The Company considers technological  leadership to be a signiﬁ  cant factor in its continued success, and  therefore, intends to continue to devote signiﬁ  cant resources to  upgrade its technological base.
Maintaining fi nancial strength: The Company’s cash ﬂ  ow  from operating activities in Fiscal 2016 and 2015 was R 39,166.71  crores and R35,531.26 crores, respectively.
The Company has  established processes for project evaluation and capital investment  decisions with the objective of enhancing its long-term proﬁ  tability.
Automotive Operations Automotive operations is the Company’s most signiﬁ  cant segment,  accounting for 99.5% of its total revenues in Fiscal 2016 and  2015.
Revenue from automotive operations before inter-segment  eliminations increased by 4.7% to R274,138.50 crores in Fiscal 2016  as compared to R261,839.73 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The Company’s automotive operations include:  activities relating to the development, design, manufacture,  assembly and sale of vehicles as well as related spare parts  and accessories;   distribution and service of vehicles; and  ﬁ  nancing of the Company’s vehicles in certain markets.
The Company’s consolidated total sales (including international  business sales and Jaguar Land Rover sales, including China Joint  Venture) for Fiscals 2016 and 2015 are set forth in the table below: Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Units % Units % Passenger cars 212,152 19.9% 199,824 20.0% Utility vehicles 461,491 43.4% 420,533 42.1% Light Commercial  Vehicles 205,531 19.3% 222,006 22.3% Medium and Heavy  Commercial Vehicles 185,422 17.4% 155,187 15.6% Total 1,064,596 100.0% 997,550 100.0% The automotive operations segment is further divided into (i) Tata  and other brand vehicles (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing) and (ii)  Jaguar Land Rover.
Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle  fi nancing) India is the primary market for Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing).
During Fiscal 2016, there was a robust  and steady pace of economic growth in the geographic markets in  which the Tata and other brand vehicles segment has operations.
The Indian economy experienced a GDP growth of 7.6% in Fiscal  2016, compared to 7.2% in Fiscal 2015 (based on data from the  Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation).
The Indian  automobile industry experienced an increase of 8.0% in Fiscal 2016,  as compared to a 2.4% in Fiscal 2015.
Falling crude oil prices, lower  inﬂ  ation, resumption of manufacturing and mining activities, and  lower interest rates appear to be helping the Indian auto industry.
However, competitive pressures continued across all major products  in the Tata and other brand vehicles segment leading to a marginal  decrease in vehicle sales volumes.
The following table sets forth the Company consolidated total sales  of Tata and other brand vehicles: Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 Units % Units % Passenger cars 110,046 21.1% 121,741 23.2% Utility vehicles 19,512 3.8% 25,588 4.9% Light Commercial  Vehicles 205,531 39.5% 222,006 42.3% Medium and Heavy  Commercial Vehicles 185,422 35.6% 155,187 29.6% Total 520,511 100.0% 524,522 100.0% The Company’s overall sales of Tata and other brand vehicles  decreased by 0.8% to 520,511 units in Fiscal 2016 from 524,522  units in Fiscal 2015, however, the revenue (before inter-segment  elimination) increased by 12.8% to R49,742.80 crores during  Fiscal 2016, compared to R 44,118.13 crores in Fiscal 2015, due  to a better product mix, primarily due to relatively more sales of  M&HCVs as a proportion of overall sales in Fiscal 2016 compared  to Fiscal 2015.
Vehicle Sales in India During Fiscal 2016, sales in the domestic CV industry registered  a growth of 9.6% in volumes, in comparison to a decline of 8.4%  in Fiscal 2015.
The recovery was driven by the continuation of  healthy replacement-led demand in case of M&HCV (Trucks) and  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 140 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Passenger Vehicles in India Sales in the passenger vehicles industry in India increased by 7.6% in  Fiscal 2016, primarily attributable to reduced fuel prices, improved  consumer sentiments, and lower interest rates.
Hatchback sales  witnessed signiﬁ  cant growth during Fiscal 2016, while the sedan  segment experiences negative growth.
The utility vehicle segment  also showed growth, mainly with strong performances in soft-road  Category Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Growth Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Growth Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015   Units %  Units % % % Micro 21,007 16,903 24.3% 21,007 16,903 24.3% 100.0% 100.0% Compact 1,188,385 1,080,347 10.0% 84,472 91,262 (7.4)% 7.1% 8.4% Mid-Size 181,168 186,608 (2.9)% 187 1,334 (86.0)% 0.1% 0.7% Premium and Luxury 3,266 3,659 (10.7)% 1,161 1,595 (27.2)% 35.5% 43.6% Utility Vehicles 594,531 558,679 6.4% 19,702 24,801 (20.6)% 3.3% 4.4% Vans1 152,110 137,740 10.4% 589 758 (22.3)% 0.4% 0.6% Total2 2,771,099 2,575,680 7.6% 127,118 136,653 (7.0)% 4.6% 5.3% Source:  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 Excludes V2 van sales.
2 Total industry numbers includes sale in other segments.
the renewal as well as ﬂ  eet expansion by various State Regional  Transport Undertakings as well as some pickup in demand from the  mining and construction related sectors.
In addition, the industry  also beneﬁ  tted from the implementation of BS-IV emission norms,  which became mandatory across North India and some nearby  regions starting in October 2015.
The year also witnessed mandatory  implementation of Anti-Lock Braking Systems in M&HCVs and  Uniform Bus Body Code in buses.
These along with the roll-out of  BS-IV norms generated some pre-buying during the year.
Category Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Growth Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Growth Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015  Units %  Units % % Commercial Vehicles1 704,440 642,641 9.6% 326,755 317,780 2.8% 46.4% 49.4% Passenger Vehicles2 2,771,099 2,575,680 7.6% 127,118 136,653 (7.0)% 4.6% 5.3% Total 3,475,539 3,218,321 8.0% 453,873 454,433 (0.1)% 13.1% 14.1% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 Commercial vehicles include V2 van sales.
2 Passenger vehicles include Fiat and Jaguar Land Rover-branded cars.
The domestic PV industry sales registered a growth of  7.6%, supported by growth in both passenger cars and  utility vehicles.
The following table sets forth the Company‘s (on standalone basis)  sales, industry sales and relative market share in vehicle sales in  India.
Passenger vehicles includes passenger cars and utility vehicles.
Commercial vehicles include Medium & Heavy Commercial Vehicles  and Light Commercial Vehicles.
SUVs and multipurpose vehicles Notwithstanding growth in the Indian passenger vehicle sector, the  Company’s passenger vehicle sales in India decreased by 7.0% to  127,118 units in Fiscal 2016 from 136,653 units in Fiscal 2015, due  to fewer new product oﬀ  erings by the Company as compared to  its competitors.
141 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) The Company’s passenger vehicle category consists of  (i) passenger cars and (ii) utility vehicles.
The Company sold 106,827  units in the passenger car category in Fiscal 2016, representing  a decrease of 3.8% compared to 111,094 units in Fiscal 2015.
Commercial Vehicles in India The following table sets forth the Company’s commercial vehicle sales, industry sales and relative market share in commercial v ehicle sales  in India.
Category Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Growth Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Growth Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015  Units %  Units % % % M&HCV 302,532 232,113 30.3% 157,120 126,369 24.3% 51.9% 54.4% LCVs1 401,908 410,528 (2.1)% 169,635 191,411 (11.4)% 42.2% 46.6% Total 704,440 642,641 9.6% 326,755 317,780 2.8% 46.4% 49.4% Source:  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 LCVs include V2 van sales Industry sales of commercial vehicles increased by 9.6% to 704,440  units in Fiscal 2016 from 642,641 units in Fiscal 2015.
Industry sales  in the medium and heavy commercial vehicle segment increased  by 30.3% to 302,532 units in Fiscal 2016, as compared to sales of  232,113 units in Fiscal 2015 primarily due to replacements of ﬂ  eet  vehicles, which was impacted by stable freight rates across key  routes, lower diesel prices, higher quantities of cargo transported,  a renewal of mining activities in the states of Karnataka and Goa,  a renewal of construction activities, and expectations of increased  investments in infrastructure and manufacturing.
Industry sales of  light commercial vehicles reported a decline of 2.1% to 401,908  units in Fiscal 2016, from 410,528 units in Fiscal 2015, mainly due to  lower freight transportation needs due to high-capacity additions  to ﬂ  eets over recent years, ﬁ  nancing defaults and tightened lending  norms, all of which continues to impede the recovery in sales of  light commercial vehicles, particularly small commercial vehicles  sales, which are heavily dependent on funding availability.
Overall, sales of the Company’s commercial vehicles in India  increased by 2.8% to 326,755 units in Fiscal 2016 from 317,780  units in Fiscal 2015.
The Company’s sales in the medium and heavy  commercial vehicle category increased by 24.3% to 157,120 units  in Fiscal 2016, as compared to sales of 126,369 units in Fiscal 2015.
However, sales in the light commercial vehicles segment declined  by 11.4% to 169,635 units in Fiscal 2016, from 191,411 units in Fiscal  2015. Financing constraints and over capacity still continues to  impede the recovery in the SCV segment, which has impacted the  Company’s volume growth.
Tata and other brand vehicles — International Markets The Company’s exports (on standalone basis) grew by 16.3% to  58,058 units in Fiscal 2016 as compared to 49,936 units in Fiscal  2015.
While there were some incidents of geo-political tensions  and economic uncertainties, such as the Madhesi agitation and the  earthquake in Nepal and the duty change in Sri Lanka, the upsurge  in investment in capital goods, in the South Asian Association  for Regional Cooperation, has helped the Company to improve  volumes in this region generally, and particularly in Bangladesh.
In  addition, the launch of new models in the Middle East and Africa  region, along with the opening of new markets in these regions,  contributed to an increase in international sales volumes.
The  Company’s top ﬁ  ve (quantity terms) export destinations for vehicles  manufactured in India - Bangladesh, Sri lanka, Nepal, South Africa  and Indonesia accounted for approximately 79% of the exports of  commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles.
In Fiscal 2016, TDCV’s overall vehicles sales decreased by 22.2%  to 9,116 units, from 11,710 units in Fiscal 2015, mainly due to  lower export sales being partially compensated by an increase in  domestic sales.
TDCV continued to have strong performance in  the domestic market despite increased competition and increased  sales to 7,036 vehicles, second highest in TDCV history, compared  to sales of 6,808 vehicles in Fiscal 2015.
The newly introduced Euro  6 models were well accepted in the market, which resulted in the  combined market share of HCV and MCV Segments increased to  31% as compared to 28.7% in the previous year.
However, the  export market was very challenging.
Factors, such as- low oil prices,  The Company sold 21,007 Nano cars in Fiscal 2016, an increase  of 24.3% compared to 16,903 units in Fiscal 2015.
In the utility  vehicles category, the Company sold 20,291 units in Fiscal 2016,  representing a decrease of 20.6% from 25,559 units in Fiscal 2015.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 142 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports local currency depreciation against the US Dollar, new statutory  regulations to reduce imports, slowdown in Chinese economy  impacting commodity exporting countries and increased dealer  inventory, adversely impacted TDCV’s exports in major markets,  such as Algeria, Russia, Vietnam, South Africa and Gulf Cooperation  Council countries.
The export sales were 2,080 units in Fiscal 2016,  compared to 4,902 units in Fiscal 2015.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Sales, Distribution  and Support  The sales and distribution network in India as of March 31, 2016  comprised 3,887 sales and service contact points for passenger  and commercial vehicles sales.
The Company has deployed a  Customer Relations Management, or CRM, system at all the  Company’s dealerships and oﬃ   ces across the country, the largest  such deployment in the automotive market in India.
The combined  online CRM and distributor management system supports users  both within the Company and among distributors in India and  abroad.
The Company’s 100% owned subsidiary, TML Distribution Company  Ltd, or TDCL, acts as a dedicated distribution and logistics  management company to support the sales and distribution  operations of vehicles in India.
The Company believes TDCL helps it  improve planning, inventory management, transport management  and timely delivery.
The Company markets its commercial and passenger vehicles in  several countries in Africa, the Middle East, South East Asia, South  Asia, Australia, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent  States countries.
The Company has a network of distributors in all  such countries where it exports its vehicles.
Such distributors have  created a network of dealers, branch oﬃ   ces and facilities for sales and  after-sales servicing of the Company’s products in their respective  markets.
The Company has also stationed overseas resident sales and  service representatives in various countries to oversee its operations  in the respective territories.
The Company uses a network of service  centres on highways and a toll-free customer assistance centre  to provide 24-hour on-road maintenance (including replacement  of parts) to vehicle owners.
The Company believes that the reach  of its sales, service and maintenance network provides it with a  signiﬁ  cant advantage over its competitors.
Through the Company’s vehicle ﬁ  nancing division and wholly- owned subsidiary, TMFL along with Tata Motors Finance Solutions  Ltd or TMFSL, the Company provides ﬁ  nancing services to  purchasers of its vehicles through independent dealers, who act as  the Company’s agents for ﬁ  nancing transactions, and through the  Company’s branch network.
Revenue from the Company’s vehicle  ﬁ  nancing operations increased by 11.7% to R3,063.08 crores in Fiscal  2016 as compared to R2,742.88 crores in Fiscal 2015, which was  mainly driven by the growth in the commercial vehicle segment.
The total disbursements (including reﬁ  nancing) by TMFL, along with  its subsidiary, increased by 22.8% in Fiscal 2016 to R8,985 crores as  compared to R7,316 crores in Fiscal 2015.
TMFL ﬁ  nanced a total of  112,114, vehicles in Fiscal 2016, reﬂ  ecting a slight decline of 0.6%  from the 112,788 vehicles ﬁ  nanced in Fiscal 2015.
Disbursements  for commercial vehicles increased by 30.4% to R7,485 crores (75,970  vehicles) in Fiscal 2016 as compared to R5,741 crores (72,853 vehicles)  for the previous year.
However, disbursements of passenger vehicles  declined by 9.9% to R1,350 crores (33,185 vehicles) in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to R1,498 crores (38,444 vehicles) in the previous year.
Disbursements achieved for reﬁ  nancing were R150 crores (2,959  vehicles) in Fiscal 2016 as compared to R77 crores (1,491 vehicles)  in Fiscal 2015.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Spare Parts and After- sales Activity The Company’s consolidated spare parts and after-sales activity  revenue was R4,088.74 crores in Fiscal 2016, compared to R4,053.46  crores in Fiscal 2015.
The Company’s spare parts and after-sales  activity experienced limited growth due to weak sales of both  commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles in recent years.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Competition The Company faces competition from various domestic and  foreign automotive manufacturers in the Indian automotive market.
Improving infrastructure and robust growth prospects compared  to other mature markets has attracted a number of international  companies to India that have either formed joint ventures with local  partners or have established independently owned operations in  India.
Global competitors bring with them decades of international  experience, global scale, advanced technology and signiﬁ  cant  ﬁ  nancial resources, and, as a result, competition is likely to further  intensify in the future.
The Company has designed its products  to suit the requirements of the Indian market based on speciﬁ  c  customer needs such as safety, driving comfort, fuel-eﬃ  ciency and  durability.
The Company believes that its vehicles are suited to the  general conditions of Indian roads and the local climate.
It’s vehicles  have also been designed to comply with applicable environmental  regulations currently in eﬀ  ect.
The Company also oﬀ  ers a wide  range of optional conﬁ  gurations to meet the speciﬁ  c needs of its  143 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) customers and intends to develop and is developing products to  strengthen its product portfolio in order to meet the increasing  customer expectations of owning world-class products.
Tata and other brand vehicles — Seasonality  Demand for the Company’s vehicles in the Indian market is  subject to seasonal variations.
Demand for the Company’s vehicles  generally peaks between January and March, although there is a  decrease in demand in February just before release of the Indian  ﬁ  scal budget.
Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up  again in the festival season from September onwards, with a decline  in December due to year end.
Jaguar Land Rover The total wholesale volumes of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles  (including the Chery Joint Venture) with a breakdown between  Jaguar and Land Rover brand vehicles, in Fiscal 2016 and 2015 are  set forth in the table below: Category Year ended March 31 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Units % Units % Jaguar 102,106 18.8% 76,496 16.3% Land Rover 441,979 81.2% 394,027 83.7% Total 544,085 100.0%  470,523 100.0% In Fiscal 2016, Jaguar Land Rover continued to experience growth  with wholesale volumes of 544,085 units, up by 15.6%, as compared  to Fiscal 2015, with strong growth in Europe, North America and  the United Kingdom, up year-on-year by 45.2%, 37.7% and 26.2%,  respectively.
Wholesale volumes in overseas markets in Fiscal 2016 were broadly  in line with those of the last ﬁ  scal year, while wholesale volumes in  China were 17.3% lower year-on-year primarily reﬂ  ecting the softer  economic conditions and ﬁ  nancial market volatility experienced  there at the beginning of the year as well as the timing of new  product launches.
In Fiscal 2016, Jaguar wholesale volumes were 102,106 units, up  33.5% compared to Fiscal 2015, reﬂ  ecting the launch of the new  Jaguar XE at the beginning of the year and solid sales of the F-TYPE.
Land Rover wholesale volumes (including sales from the China Joint  Venture) were 441,979 units, up 12.2% compared to the prior ﬁ  scal  year, driven by continuing strong sales of the Land Rover Discovery  Sport as well as solid sales from the more established Land Rover  Discovery and Range Rover Sport.
Jaguar Land Rover’s performance in key geographical  markets on retail basis Retail volumes (including retail sales from the China Joint Venture)  in Fiscal 2016 increased by 12.8% to 521,571 units from 462,209  units in Fiscal 2015 primarily driven by strong sales of the Jaguar XE  and Land Rover Discovery Sport, as well as a solid performance by  the iconic Land Rover Defender in its run out year.
Retail volumes of  more established models such as the Land Rover Discovery, Range  Rover and Range Rover Sport also grew year-on-year while the sales  of the more mature Jaguar XF and XJ were impacted by the launch  of the new lightweight XF and refreshed 2016 model year XJ in  September 2015 and December 2015, respectively.
Retail sales of  the Range Rover Evoque were down 10.8% in Fiscal 2016 compared  to Fiscal 2015, due to the transition of localised production to the  China Joint Venture as well as a general slowdown in the Chinese  economy.
However, total retail sales of the Evoque strengthened in  the ﬁ  nal quarter (up 6.2%) as sales increased in China, Europe and  the UK year-on-year.
By brand, Jaguar retail volumes increased by  22.8% to 94,449 units in Fiscal 2016, compared to 76,930 units in  Fiscal 2015 whilst Land Rover retail volumes increased by 10.9% to  427,122 units in Fiscal 2016, from 385,279 units in Fiscal 2015.
United Kingdom  Industry vehicle sales rose by 5.1% in Fiscal 2016 in the United  Kingdom, compared to Fiscal 2015 as economic growth inﬂ  ation  and interest rates remained low and labor market conditions  continued to stabilize.
Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes increased  by 23.8% to 107,371 units in Fiscal 2016 from 86,750 units in Fiscal  2015, with a strong sales performance from Jaguar, up 54.7% in  Fiscal 2016, which was driven by sales of the new Jaguar XE and  the XJ.
Land Rover retail volumes increased by 15.7%, as all models  experienced an increase in volumes, most notably the Land Rover  Discovery Sport, Range Rover and Range Rover Sport.
North America  Economic performance in North America (the United States  and Canada) generally continued to strengthen over the year  as unemployment continued to fall, lower inﬂ  ation driven by  lower energy prices increased disposable incomes and consumer  conﬁ  dence continued to grow, despite the rise in interest rates  in the United States, contributing to an industry-wide increase  in passenger car sales of 3.1% in the United States in Fiscal 2016  compared to Fiscal 2015.
Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes in  North America increased by 27.1% to 99,606 units in Fiscal 2016  from 78,372 units in Fiscal 2015, with a 35.1% increase in Land  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 144 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Rover retail volumes primarily driven by the Land Rover Discovery  Sport, Land Rover Discovery and Range Rover.
Retail sales of the  Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque also grew, albeit  more moderately, in Fiscal 2016.
Jaguar retail volumes in North  America decreased by 2.0% as the impact of the discontinued XK  and also softer XJ sales were only partially oﬀ  set by increased sales  volumes of the XF and F-TYPE.
The Jaguar XE and F-PACE have  recently been launched in North America and both went on retail  sale in May 2016.
Europe  Passenger car sales increased by 8.1% industry-wide in Europe, driven  by quantitative easing and other policy action, which support low  but steady growth, despite the impact of terrorist attacks during the  year.
Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes in Europe increased by 42.0%  to 124,734 units in Fiscal 2016 from 87,863 units in Fiscal 2015, with  sales particularly strong in Germany, Italy, France and Spain.
Land  Rover volumes increased by 32.7% in Fiscal 2016 primarily driven by  strong sales of the Discovery Sport, Range Rover and Range Rover  Sport as well as the Defender.
Retail sales of the Evoque also grew  modestly in Fiscal 2016 compared to Fiscal 2015.
Jaguar volumes  increased in Fiscal 2016, as sales of the new XE more than doubled  Jaguar sales volume in Europe despite being partially oﬀ  set by  softer sales of the XF and XJ, which were impacted by the transition  to the new XF and refreshed XJ in the second half of the year.
China  Passenger car sales in China increased by 6.7% in Fiscal 2016 while  Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes (including sales from the China  Joint Venture) decreased by 16.4% to 96,912 units in Fiscal 2016 from  115,969 units in Fiscal 2015 as softer economic conditions in China  as well as the timing of new product launches adversely impacted  volumes in the ﬁ  rst 9 months of the year.
Retail sales of Land Rover  decreased by 14.8% in Fiscal 2016, primarily driven by softer sales  of the Evoque, Range Rover and Discovery, while Jaguar retail sales  decreased by 23.9% primarily driven by softer sales of the XF and  XJ due to the transition to sales of the new XF and refreshed XJ,  which were only introduced in December 2015 and February 2016  respectively.
However, sales in China improved during the last quarter  of Fiscal 2016, and were up 18.9% as compared to the last quarter of   Fiscal 2015 primarily driven by the continued success of new models  such as the Discovery Sport and the imported Jaguar XE.
Other Overseas markets  Jaguar Land Rover’s retail volumes in the other overseas  markets declined slightly by 0.3% to 92,948 units in Fiscal 2016  from 93,255 units in Fiscal 2015, with Land Rover retail volumes  down 2.4% to 79,218 units in Fiscal 2016 compared to 81,174 units  in Fiscal 2015, as strong sales of the Discovery Sport and modest  growth in Range Rover volumes were oﬀ  set by softer sales of all  other products.
Jaguar retail volume grew to 13,730 units, up 13.6%  from 12,081 units in Fiscal 2015, driven by the introduction of the  XE partially oﬀ set by softer sales of all other Jaguar products.
Year- on-year growth in Australia (up 31%), Japan (up 20%), South Korea  (up 43%) and South Africa (up 12%) were oﬀ  set by softer sales in  Russia (down 42%) and other importer markets in Latin America  and Sub Saharan Africa.
In Fiscal 2016, 2,844 units of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles  were sold in India, through its exclusive dealerships, up 0.6%  compared to 2,827 units sold in Fiscal 2015, which was supported  by the by the assembly of the Jaguar XE, XF, XJ, Range Rover  Evoque and Land Rover Discovery Sport in India (vehicles  manufactured and sold in India are not subject to certain import  duties).
Jaguar Land Rover’s Sales & Distribution As at March 31, 2016, Jaguar Land Rover distribute its Jaguar  vehicles in approximately 123 markets across the world and its  Land Rover vehicles in approximately 153 markets across the  world.
Sales locations for vehicles are operated as independent  franchises.
Jaguar Land Rover is represented in its key markets  through its National Sales Companies (“NSC”) as well as third party  importers.
Jaguar and Land Rover have regional oﬃ   ces in select  countries.
These regional oﬃ   ces manage customer relationships  and vehicle supplies and provide marketing and sales support  to their regional importer markets.
The remaining importer  markets are managed from the United Kingdom.
Jaguar Land Rover products are sold through a variety of  sales channels: retail customers through its dealerships; for  sale to ﬂ  eet customers, including daily rental car companies;  commercial ﬂ  eet customers; leasing companies; and governments.
Jaguar Land Rover do not depend on a single customer or  small group of customers to the extent that the loss of such  a customer or group of customers would have a material  adverse eﬀ  ect on its business.
As at March 31, 2016, Jaguar Land Rover global sales and distribution  network comprised of 20 NSCs, 74 importers, 33 export partners  and 2,720 franchise sales dealers, of which 1,026 are joint Jaguar  and Land Rover dealers.
145 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Jaguar Land Rover — Competition  Jaguar Land Rover operates in a globally competitive environment  and faces competition from established premium and other vehicle  manufacturers who aspire to move into the premium performance  car and premium SUV markets, some of which are much larger  than the Company.
Jaguar vehicles compete primarily against other  European brands such as Audi, BMW, Porsche and Mercedes Benz.
Land Rover and Range Rover vehicles compete largely against SUVs  manufactured by companies such as Audi, BMW, Inﬁ  niti, Lexus,  Mercedes Benz, Porsche, Volvo and Volkswagen.
The Land Rover  Defender competes with vehicles manufactured by companies  such as Isuzu, Nissan and Toyota.
Jaguar Land Rover — Seasonality  Jaguar Land Rover volumes are impacted by the biannual change in  age related registration plates of vehicles in the United Kingdom, in  which new age related plate registrations take eﬀ  ect in March and  September.
This has an impact on the resale value of the vehicles  because sales are clustered around the time of the year when the  vehicle registration number change occurs.
Seasonality in most  other markets is driven by introduction of new model year vehicles  and derivatives.
Furthermore, Western European markets tend to be  impacted by summer and winter holidays, and the Chinese market  tends to be aﬀ  ected by the Chinese New Year holiday in either  January or February, the PRC National Day holiday and the Golden  Week holiday in October.
The resulting sales proﬁ  le inﬂ  uences  operating results on a quarter to quarter basis.
Other Operations Overview The Company’s other operations business segment mainly  includes information technology services, machine tools and  factory automation services.
The Company’s revenue from other  operations before inter-segment eliminations was R 2,934.82  crores in Fiscal 2016, an increase of 6.8% from R2,747.79 crores in  Fiscal 2015.
Revenues from other operations represented 1.1% of  total revenues, before inter-segment eliminations, in Fiscal 2015  and 2016.
Research and Development Over the years, the Company has devoted signiﬁ  cant resources  towards its research and development activities.
The Company’s  research and development activities focus on product development,  environmental technologies and vehicle safety.
The Company’s  Engineering Research Centre, or ERC, established in 1966, is  one of the few in-house automotive research and development  centres in India recognised by the Government.
ERC is integrated  with all of the Tata Motors Global Automotive Product  Design and Development Centers in South Korea, Italy and  the United Kingdom.
The Company is mainly focused on speciﬁ  c areas of research  and development and engineering by which it can strengthen  its HorizoNext Philosophy, a three-horizon strategy as detailed  below.
For passenger cars, the main focus areas are in the domain  of creating stunning design, pleasurable driving experience and  connectivity.
Therefore, the research and development portfolio is  aligned towards developing technologies, core competence and  skill sets in these speciﬁ  c domains to secure impactful and timely  delivery of the envisaged future product with leading product  attributes.
For commercial vehicles, in addition to design, the  main focus areas are reducing the total cost of ownership, being  a market leader in fuel eﬃ   ciency and delivering high performance  and reliable products.
The Company uses a three-horizon strategy for managing its  engineering and technology initiatives.
The ﬁ  rst-horizon involves  products that it is currently working on to bring to the market.
The  second-horizon involves researching known technologies that the  Company may not be entirely familiar with at the present time but  are needed for future products.
Finally, the third-horizon is for ‘blue  sky’ research projects and projects aimed at fostering a culture of  innovation in the company.
Besides, its own ecosystem spanning  across India, the UK and Italy, the Company also has tie-ups with  various Universities based out of India, including the University of  Warwick in the UK, and also institutions in the United States.
The  main endeavour which the Company has is to continuously search  for innovative projects in the second and third horizon to integrate  promising projects into the main stream projects in the ﬁ  rst horizon.
The Company has constantly adopted new technologies and  practices in the digital product development domain to improve  the product development process.
This has led to better front  loading of product creation, validation and testing, which results in  greater likelihood of timely delivery and ensuring that new products  are properly developed from the beginning.
Niche integration tools,  systems and processes continue to be enhanced in the areas of CAx,  Knowledge Based Engineering (KBE), Product Lifecycle Management  (PLM) and Manufacturing Planning Management (MPM) for more  eﬃ  cient end-to-end delivery of the product development process.
In terms of physical assets used for product validation and testing,  The Company has state of the art facilities, such as Crash Lab, Engine  development and Testing facilities, Prototype Shop and Noise,  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 146 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Vibration and Harshness (NVH) Reﬁ  nement Facilities.
These facilities  are used extensively to physically validate the new products in a  robust manner before they enter the market.
The Company will continue its endeavor in research and  development space to develop technologies, skill set and  competence, which will help the Company meet future product  portfolio requirements.
One of the main future initiatives in this  direction would be platform approach creating bill of material and  bill of process which has high degree of commonality to reduce  complexity and enhance the scale.
Also, the Company aims at  timely and successful conclusion of the technology projects so that  they start getting inducted in the mainstream products leading to  a promising future product portfolio.
Jaguar Land Rover’s research and development operations are built  around state-of-the-art engineering facilities with an extensive  test track, testing centres, design hubs and a recently inaugurated  virtual innovation centre.
The ERC in India and Jaguar Land Rover’s  engineering and development operations in the United Kingdom  have identiﬁ  ed areas to leverage their respective facilities and  resources to enhance the product development process and  achieve economies of scale.
Jaguar Land Rover’s two design and development centres are  equipped with computer-aided design, manufacturing and  engineering tools conﬁ  gured to support an ambitious product  development cycle plan.
In recent years, Jaguar Land Rover has  refreshed the entire Jaguar range under a uniﬁ  ed concept and  design language and has continued to enhance the design  of Land Rover’s range of all-terrain vehicles.
The majority of  Jaguar Land Rover’s products are designed and engineered  in the United Kingdom and Jaguar Land Rover endeavours  to implement the best technologies into its product range to  meet the requirements of a globally competitive market and to  comply with regulatory requirements.
Jaguar Land Rover currently  oﬀ ers hybrid technology on some of its models, such as the  Range Rover and Range Rover Sport and conducts research and  development related to the further application of alternative fuels  and technologies, including electriﬁ  cation, to further improve the  environmental performance of its vehicles including the reduction  of CO2 emissions.
Jaguar Land Rover endeavour to apply the best technologies for its  product range to meet the requirements of a globally competitive  market and to ensure that all its vehicles and engines are compliant  with the prevalent regulatory norms in the respective countries in  which they are sold.
Intellectual Property The Company creates, owns, and maintains a wide array of  intellectual property assets throughout the world that are among  its most valuable assets.
The Company’s intellectual property assets  include patents, trademarks, copyrights designs, trade secrets and  other intellectual property rights.
The Company proactively and  aggressively seeks to protect its intellectual property in India and  other countries.
The Company owns a number of patents and it has applied for  new patents which are pending for grant in India, as well as in  other countries.
The Company has also ﬁ  led a number of patent  applications outside India under the Patent Cooperation Treaty,  which will be eﬀ  ective in diﬀ  erent countries going forward.
The  Company obtains new patents as part of its ongoing research and  development activities.
The Company owns registrations for a number of trademarks and  have pending applications for registration of these in India, as well  as other countries.
The registrations mainly include trademarks for  its vehicle models and other promotional initiatives.
The Company  uses the “Tata” brand, which has been licensed to the Company by  Tata Sons Limited.
The Company believes that establishment of  the “Tata” word mark and logo mark, in India and internationally,  is material to its operations.
As part of the Company’s acquisition  of TDCV, it has the rights to the perpetual and exclusive use of the  “Daewoo” brand and trademarks in Korea and overseas markets for  the product range of TDCV.
As part of the acquisition of the Jaguar Land Rover business,  ownership (or co-ownership, as applicable) of core intellectual  property associated with Jaguar Land Rover was transferred to the  Company; however, such intellectual property is still ultimately  owned by Jaguar Land Rover entities.
Additionally, perpetual royalty  free licenses to use other essential intellectual property from third  parties have been granted for use in Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles.
Jaguar Land Rover entities own registered designs to protect the  design of its vehicles in several countries.
In varying degrees, all of the Company’s intellectual property is  important.
In particular, the Tata brand is integral to the conduct of  its business, a loss of which could lead to dilution of the Company  brand image and have a material adverse eﬀ  ect on the business.
Components and Raw Materials  The principal materials and components required for use in Tata  and other brand vehicles are steel sheets (for in-house stampings)  147 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) and plates, iron and steel castings and forgings, alloy wheels,  tyres, fuel injection systems, batteries, electrical wiring systems,  electronic information systems and displays, interior systems such  as seats, cockpits, doors, plastic ﬁ  nishers and plastic functional  parts, glass and consumables (such as paints, oils, thinner, welding  consumables, chemicals, adhesives and sealants) and fuels.
The  Company also requires aggregates axles, engines, gear boxes and  cams for its vehicles, which are manufactured in-house or by its  subsidiaries, aﬃ  liates, joint ventures and strategic suppliers.
The  Company has long-term purchase agreements for some critical  components such as transmissions and engines.
The Company has  established contracts with some commodity suppliers to cover  its own as well as its suppliers’ requirements in order to moderate  the eﬀ ect of volatility in commodity prices.
The Company has also  undertaken special initiatives to reduce material consumption  through value engineering and value analysis techniques.
The Company has reorganised the sourcing department in India  under two divisions, namely, Purchasing and Supplier Quality  (P&SQ) and Supply Chain Management.
P&SQ includes Purchase  Programme Management (PPM).
The reorganisation was done in  order to establish and deﬁ  ne responsibility and accountability in the  sourcing department.
Purchasing oversees the commercial aspects  of product sourcing; Supplier Quality is primarily responsible for  development of new components and maintaining the quality of  supplies that the Company purchases; Supply Chain oversees the  logistics of the supply and delivery of parts for its vendors while  PPM oversees execution of new projects.
As part of the Company’s strategy to become a value for money  vehicle manufacturer, it has undertaken various initiatives to reduce  its ﬁ  xed and variable costs.
The Company uses an e-sourcing  initiative to procure supplies through reverse auctions.
The Company  uses external agencies such as third-party logistics providers.
This  has resulted in space and cost savings.
The Company’s initiatives  to leverage information technology in supply chain activities have  resulted in improved eﬃ   ciency through real-time information  exchanges and processing with its suppliers.
The Company has an established a sixteen-step supplier quality  process in order to ensure the quality of outsourced components.
The Company formalised the component development process  using Automotive Industry Action Group guidelines.
The Company  also has a programme for assisting suppliers from whom the  Company purchases raw materials or components to maintain  quality.
Preference is given to suppliers with TS 16949 certiﬁ  cation.
The Company also maintains a stringent quality assurance  programme that includes random testing of production samples,  frequent recalibration of production equipment and analysis  of post-production vehicle performance, as well as an ongoing  dialogue with supplier partners to eliminate production defects.
The Company is also exploring opportunities for increasing the  global sourcing of parts and components from low-cost countries,  and has in place a supplier management programme that includes  supplier base rationalisation, supplier quality improvement and  supplier satisfaction surveys.
The Company has begun to include  its supply chain in its initiatives on social accountability and  environment management activities, including its Conﬂ  ict Minerals  Compliance Program, supply chain carbon footprint measurement  and knowledge sharing on various environmental aspects.
The principal materials and components required for use in Jaguar  Land Rover vehicles are steel and aluminum sheets, aluminium  castings and extrusions, iron and steel castings and forgings and  items such as alloy wheels, tires, fuel injection systems, batteries,  electrical wiring systems, electronic information systems and  displays, leather-trimmed interior systems such as seats, cockpits,  doors, plastic ﬁ  nishers and plastic functional parts, glass and  consumables, such as paints, oils, thinner, welding consumables,  chemicals, adhesives, sealants and fuels.
Jaguar Land Rover also  requires certain highly functional components such as axles, engines  and gear boxes for its vehicles, which are mainly manufactured  by strategic suppliers.
Jaguar Land Rover has long-term purchase  agreements for critical components such as transmissions with  ZF Friedrichshafen AG and engines with Ford and the Ford-PSA  Peugeot Citroën joint venture, or the Ford-PSA joint venture.
The  components and raw materials in Jaguar Land Rover cars include  steel, aluminum, copper, platinum and other commodities.
Jaguar  Land Rover has established contracts with certain commodity  suppliers, such as Novelis, to cover its own and its suppliers’  requirements to mitigate the eﬀ  ect of high volatility in the prices  of these commodities.
Special initiatives are also undertaken to  reduce material consumption through value engineering and value  analysis techniques.
Jaguar Land Rover works with a range of strategic suppliers to  meet its requirements for parts and components and endeavours  to work closely with its suppliers to form short and medium- term plans for the business.
The Jaguar Land Rover business has  established quality control programmes to ensure that externally  purchased raw materials and components are monitored and meet  its quality standards.
Jaguar Land Rover also outsources many of  the manufacturing processes and activities to various suppliers.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 148 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports When outsourcing, Jaguar Land Rover provides training to the  outside suppliers who design and manufacture the required tooling  and ﬁ  xtures.
Such programes include site engineers who regularly  interface with suppliers and carry out visits to supplier sites and  ensure that the relevant quality standards are being met.
Site  engineers are also supported by persons in other functions, such  as programme engineers who interface with new model teams as  well as resident engineers located at the Jaguar Land Rover plants,  who provide the link between the site engineers and the Jaguar  Land Rover plants.
Jaguar Land Rover has in the past worked, and  is expected to continue to work, with its suppliers to optimize their  procurements, including the sourcing of certain raw materials and  component requirements from low-cost countries.
Although Jaguar Land Rover have commenced the production of  its own “in house” four cylinder (2.0-liter) engines (ﬁ  rst installed in  the Jaguar XE, which went on sale in May 2015), at present Jaguar  Land Rover continues to source a large proportion of its engines  from Ford or the joint venture between Ford and PSA on an arm’s- length basis.
Suppliers  The Company has an extensive supply chain for procuring various  components.
The Company also outsources many manufacturing  processes and activities to various suppliers.
In such cases, the  Company provides training to external suppliers who design and  manufacture the required tools and ﬁ  xtures.
The Company sources  certain highly-functional components such as axles, engines and  gear boxes for its vehicles from strategic suppliers.
The Company  has long-term purchase agreements with its key suppliers.
The  components and raw materials in its cars include steel, aluminium,  copper, platinum and other commodities.
The Company has  established contracts with certain commodity suppliers to cover its  own and its suppliers’ requirements to mitigate the eﬀ  ect of high  volatility in commodity prices.
The Company’s associate company Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd.  manufactures automotive components and encourages the entry  of internationally acclaimed automotive component manufacturers  into India by setting up joint ventures with them.
The Company’s other suppliers include some of the large Indian  automotive supplier groups with multiple product oﬀ  erings, such  as the Anand Group, the Sona Group, and the TVS Group, as well as  large multinational suppliers, such as Bosch, Continental, Delphi and  Denso, Johnson Controls Limited (for seats) and Yazaki AutoComp  Limited (for wiring harnesses).
In India, the Company has established vendor parks in the vicinity of  its manufacturing operations, and vendor clusters have been formed  at its facilities at Pantnagar, Uttarakhand and Sanand, Gujarat.
This  initiative is aimed at ensuring ﬂ  ow of component supplies on a real- time basis, thereby reducing logistics and inventory costs as well as  reducing uncertainties in the long-distance supply chain.
Eﬀ orts are  being taken to replicate the model at new locations as well as a few  existing plant locations.
As part of the Company’s pursuit of continued improvement in  procurement, it has integrated its system for electronic interchange  of data with the Company’s suppliers.
This has facilitated real-time  information exchange and processing, which enables the Company  to manage its supply chain more eﬀ ectively.
The Company has established processes to encourage  improvements through knowledge sharing among its vendors  through an initiative called the Vendor Council, consisting of the  Company’s senior executives and representatives of major suppliers.
The Vendor Council also helps in addressing common concerns  through joint deliberations.
The Vendor Council works on four critical  aspects of engagement between the Company and its suppliers:  quality, eﬃ  ciency, relationship and new technology development.
The Company imports some components that are either not  available in the domestic market or when equivalent domestically  available components do not meet its quality standards.
The  Company also imports products to take advantage of lower prices  in foreign markets, such as special steels, wheel rims and power  steering assemblies.
Ford has been and continues to be a major supplier of parts and  services to Jaguar Land Rover.
In connection with the acquisition of  Jaguar Land Rover in June 2008, long-term agreements were entered  into with Ford for technology sharing and joint development,  providing technical support across a range of technologies focused  mainly around powertrain engineering such that it may continue  to operate according to its existing business plan.
This includes the  EuCD platform, a shared platform consisting of shared technologies,  common parts and systems and owned by Ford, which is shared  among Land Rover, Ford and Volvo Cars.
Supply agreements, aligned to the business cycle plan and having  end-stop dates reaching as far as December 2020, were entered into  with Ford for (i) the long-term supply of engines developed by Ford,  (ii) engines developed by Jaguar Land Rover but manufactured by  Ford and (iii) engines from the Ford-PSA joint venture.
Based on learning from the global ﬁ  nancial crisis and its cascading  149 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) eﬀ ect on the ﬁ  nancial health of the Company’s suppliers, the  Company has commenced eﬀ  orts to assess supplier ﬁ  nancial risk.
Suppliers are appraised based on the Company’s long-term  requirements through a number of platforms such as the Vendor  Council meetings, council regional chapter meetings, national  vendor meets and location-speciﬁ  c vendor meets.
OPPORTUNITIES: The Company expects that sales of M&HCVs in India to grow in  line with the continuing trend toward the replacement of ageing  ﬂ  eet vehicles and an anticipated increase in demand from the  infrastructure and industrial sectors due to reforms being initiated  by the Government of India.
The Company expects that the  demand for new commercial vehicles will also be driven by gradual  acceptance of advance trucking platforms and the introduction  of technologies, such as anti-lock braking systems.
The Company  is focusing on increasing its oﬀ  erings in the commercial vehicle  segment.
Furthermore, new product launches in the coming year  with innovative features, design and competitive pricing will better  position the Company in new height.
The Company is focusing on increasing its oﬀ  erings in the defence  sector from providing only pure logistics solutions to tactical and  combat solutions.
The Company believes these eﬀ  orts will provide  the opportunity to capture a larger share in a growing market.
Growing wealth in rural markets in India also provides an  opportunity to expand sales reach and volumes.
The sales reported  in rural areas is growing year-on-year.
The overall gap of the volume  of automobile purchase between rural and urban areas is narrowing  in India.
The Company is focusing on reaching rural target market to  address demand in rural markets in cost-eﬀ ective ways.
Certain non-vehicular products and services such as spare parts,  after-sale services and annual maintenance contracts are also  gaining popularity due to increased consumer awareness.
The  Company believes it is poised to address this growing need, thereby  providing additional sources of revenue, which are non-cyclical in  nature to hedge for otherwise cyclical demand in the automotive  industry.
The Company believes it is poised to address growing demands  and changing preferences of customers in the intermediate and  light commercial vehicle categories with its new range of vehicles in  those categories, as the evolving infrastructure in India is expected  to change the way the transportation industry matures and as the  Company expects increased demand for better quality and more  comfortable vehicles.
India has emerged as a major hub for global manufacturing with its  advantage of lower input costs, availability of local supplier base and  high domestic demand.
As an established domestic manufacturer,  the Company believes that is ideally placed to take advantage for  targeting lucrative international markets, either through fully-built  or complete knock-down exports.
In addition, the Company believes it has the advantage of strong  in-house design and development facilities and professionals.
Thus  the Company believes that its research and development group  is capable of developing solutions for diﬀ  erent regulatory and  emission norms in accordance with market demands in timely  manner.
The Company is focusing on increasing its global presence to hedge  against domestic downturns as well as a growth opportunity.
While  the Company is already present in Africa and some parts of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, it is focusing  on increasing presence in more key markets in ASEAN and Latin  America.
The Company is also actively considering expanding its  global manufacturing footprint in key international markets to take  advantage of import duty diﬀ  erentials and local sourcing beneﬁ  ts.
Jaguar Land Rover intends to grow its business by diversifying its  product range to compete in new segments, for example, the new  Jaguar XE sports saloon ensures that Jaguar Land Rover competes  in the largest premium saloon segment with a class-leading  product and the new Jaguar F-PACE luxury performance SUV, which  went on sale in April 2016.
In addition, Jaguar Land Rover expects  to launch the Range Rover Evoque convertible in June 2016, further  expanding the product oﬀ ering to existing and new customers.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ON A CONSOLIDATED BASIS The ﬁ  nancial information discussed in this section is derived from  the Company’s Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.
Overview The Company total revenue (net of excise duties) including ﬁ  nance  revenues increased by 4.7% to R275,561.11 crores in Fiscal 2016  from R263,158.98 crores in Fiscal 2015.
However, the Company’s net  income (attributable to shareholders of the Company) declined by  21.2% to R11,023.75 crores in Fiscal 2016 from R13,986.29 crores in  Fiscal 2015.
Overall, earnings before other income, interest and tax  before inter-segment eliminations, were R19,825.99 crores in Fiscal  2016 compared to R25,997.39 crores in Fiscal 2015, a decrease of  23.7%.The decrease in net income was primarily driven by higher  depreciation and amortization, as well as factors impacting the  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 150 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Jaguar land Rover business, most notably less favourable market  and model mix, an exceptional one time charge relating to vehicles  destroyed or damaged in the Tianjin port explosion in August 2015,  and one time reserves and charges for an industry-wide passenger  airbag safety recall announced in the United States by National  Highway Traﬃ  c System Administration (NHTSA) in respect of airbags  from a supplier (Takata), provision for doubtful debts and previously  capitalized investment.
The Company has pursued a strategy of increasing exports of  Tata and other brand vehicles to new and existing markets.
The  performance of the Company’s subsidiary in South Korea, TDCV, and  TTL, its specialized subsidiary engaged in engineering, design and  information technology services, contributed to its revenue from  international markets.
Improved market sentiment in certain countries  to which the Company exports and the strong sales performance of  Jaguar Land Rover has enabled the Company to increase its sales  in these international markets in Fiscal 2016.
However, Jaguar Land  Rover’s sales in China, has decreased in Fiscal 2016 by 17.3% to  98,650 units, compared to 119,310 units in Fiscal 2015.
This resulted  in the proportion of the Company’s net sales earned from markets  outside of India decreased to 84.8% in Fiscal 2016 from 86.4%  in Fiscal 2015.
The following table sets forth the Company’s revenues from  its key geographical markets and the percentage of total  revenues that each key geographical market contributes for the  periods indicated: Revenue Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 (Rin crores) % (Rin crores) % India 41,979.43 15.2% 35,676.53 13.6% China 53,123.58 19.3% 76,170.40 28.9% UK 46,007.94 16.7% 35,484.92 13.4% United States 43,692.61 15.9% 31,469.53 12.0% Rest of Europe* 41,583.95 15.1% 31,791.99 12.1% Rest of World* 49,173.60 17.8% 52,565.61 20.0% Total 275,561.11 100.0% 263,158.98 100.0% * The Rest of Europe market is geographic Europe, excluding the United Kingdom  and Russia.
The Rest of the World market is any region not included above.
The Company’s operations are divided into automotive operations  and other operations as described further below.
The table below  sets forth the breakdown in revenues between the Company  automotive operations and other operations in Fiscal 2016 and  2015 and the percentage change from period to period.
Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change (Rin crores) % Automotive operations 274,138.50 261,839.73 4.7% Others 2,934.82 2,747.79 6.8% Inter-segment  elimination (1,512.21) (1,428.54) 5.9% Total 275,561.11 263,158.98 4.7% Automotive operations Automotive operations are the Company most signiﬁ  cant  segment, accounting for 99.5% of the Company’s total revenues  in Fiscal 2016 and 2015.
In Fiscal 2016, revenue from automotive  operations before inter-segment eliminations was R 274,138.50  crores as compared to R261,839.73 crores in Fiscal 2015, an increase  of 4.7%.
The following table sets forth selected data regarding the  Company’s automotive operations for the periods indicated, and  the percentage change from period to period (before inter-segment  eliminations).
Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change % Total revenue (R in  crores) 274,138.50 261,839.73 4.7% Earning before other  income, interest and tax  (Rin crores) 19,386.50 25,621.43 (24.3)% Earning before other  income, interest and tax  (% to total revenue) 7.1% 9.8% The Company’s automotive operations segment is further divided  into Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing) and  Jaguar Land Rover.
In Fiscal 2016, Jaguar Land Rover contributed  81.9% of the Company’s total automotive revenue compared to  83.2% in Fiscal 2015 and the remaining 18.1% was contributed by  Tata and other brand vehicles in Fiscal 2016 compared to 16.8% in  Fiscal 2015.
The Company’s revenue from Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing) and Jaguar Land Rover in Fiscals 2016  and 2015 and the percentage change from period to period (before  intra-segment eliminations) is set forth in the table below.
151 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change (`in crores) % Tata and other brand  vehicles 49,742.80 44,118.13 12.7% Jaguar Land Rover 224,471.12 217,828.44 3.0% Intra-segment  elimination (75.42) (106.84) 29.4% Total 274,138.50 261,839.73 4.7% Other operations The following table sets forth selected data regarding the Company’s  other operations for the periods indicated and the percentage  change from period to period (before inter-segment eliminations).
Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change (%) Total revenue (` in crores) 2,934.82 2,747.79 6.8% Earning before other  income, interest and tax  (` in crores) 439.49 375.96 16.9% Earning before other  income, interest and tax  (% to total revenue) 15.0% 13.7% The other operations business segment includes information  technology, machine tools and factory automation solutions.
In  Fiscal 2016, revenue from other operations before inter-segment  eliminations was R2,934.82 crores compared to R2,747.79 crores  in Fiscal 2015.
Results for the other operations business segment  before other income, ﬁ  nance cost, tax and exceptional items (before  inter-segment eliminations) were R439.49 crores in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to R375.96 crores for Fiscal 2015.
Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected items from the Company’s  consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated and  shows these items as a percentage of total revenues: Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 (%) (%) Revenue from operations net of  excise duty 100.0 100.0  Expenditure:    Cost of material consumed  (including change in stock) 58.9 60.8  Employee Cost 10.6 9.7  Manufacturing and other  expenses (net) 21.9 19.4  Amount Capitalised (6.0) (5.9) Total Expenditure 85.4 84.0  Other Income 0.4 0.3  Proﬁ  t before Exceptional Items,  Depreciation, Interest and Tax 15.0 16.3  Depreciation and Amortisation  (including product development /  engineering expenses written oﬀ  ) 7.4 6.2  Finance costs 1.7 1.8  Exceptional Item – Loss 0.8 0.1  Proﬁ  t before Tax 5.1 8.2  Cost of materials consumed (including change in stock)  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 (` in crores) Consumption of raw materials  and components 152,445.39 149,956.54  Purchase of product for sale 12,850.27 13,293.82  Change in inventories of ﬁ  nished  goods, Work-in-progress and  products for sale (2,876.62) (3,330.35) Total 162,419.04 159,920.01  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 152 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Cost of material consumed decreased from 61.4% of total  revenue (excluding income from vehicle ﬁ  nancing) in Fiscal 2015  to 59.5% in Fiscal 2016.
For Tata Motors Standalone, costs of  materials consumed was 69.8% of net revenue in Fiscal 2016 of  total revenue as compared to 74.5% in Fiscal 2015, representing a  decrease of 470 bps, which was mainly attributable to a change  in product mix that includes a relatively higher proportion of  M&HCV sales and cost reduction measures.
For Jaguar Land  Rover, costs of materials consumed was 58.8% of total revenue  in Fiscal 2016 compared to 60.2% in Fiscal 2015, representing a  decrease of 140 bps, driven by cost-reduction measures and the  general weakening of the Euro in Fiscal 2016.
Employee Costs were R29,198.89 crores in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to R25,548.96 crores in Fiscal 2015 an increase of  14.3%.
At Jaguar Land Rover the increase in employee cost is  by 17.6% to GB£2,368.62 million (R23,349.68 crores) in Fiscal  2016 as compared to GB£2,013.22 million ( R19,792.27 crores)  in Fiscal 2015, primarily reﬂ  ects the increase in the employee  head count to support the higher production volume  in Fiscal 2016.
For Tata Motors Standalone, the employee cost decreased  marginally by 2.1% to R3,026.75 crores as compared  to R3,091.46 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The increase due to annual  increments was oﬀ  set by the lower charge for deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t  employee plans, as a result of stable discount rates.
Employee costs at TDCV were R672.16 crores in Fiscal 2016,  as compared to R518.82 crores in the same period in Fiscal  2015, an increase of 29.6%.
Fiscal 2015 cost included reversal of  R264.19 crores following a favourable decision by the Supreme  Court of South Korea and resolution of the lawsuit ﬁ  led by  TDCV union employees, pursuant to which the employees had  demanded inclusion of some elements of salary and bonuses  as part of wages.
However, in Fiscal 2015, there was a loss in  actuarial valuations of the severance plan at TDCV of  R69.92 crores as compared to a gain of R61.22 crores  in Fiscal 2016.
Manufacturing and Other Expenses includes all works  operations, indirect manufacturing expenses, freight cost,  ﬁ  xed marketing costs and other administrative costs.
These  expenses have increased by 18.5% to R60,424.95 crores in  Fiscal 2016 from R 50,980.37 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Each line item  includes the element of foreign currency translation impact of  Jaguar Land Rover operations of approximately R615.16  crores in aggregate in Fiscal 2016.
The breakdown is provided below: Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 (` in crores) Processing charges 1,110.68 1,050.48 Stores, spare parts and tools  consumed 2,097.24 1,782.94 Freight, transportation, port  charges, etc.
9,787.41 7,754.97 Repairs to buildings 118.28  120.47  Repairs to plant, machinery, etc.
524.37  471.86  Power and fuel 1,169.44 1,121.75 Rent 453.20  516.04  Rates and taxes 376.77  380.53  Insurance 376.25  287.49  Publicity 8,847.93 8,501.36 Works operation and other  expenses 35,549.51 28,832.38 Excise Duty on change in Stock-in- trade 13.87  160.10  Manufacturing and Other  Expenses 60,424.95 50,980.37 Manufacturing and other expenses increased to 21.9% of total  revenues in Fiscal 2016 compared to 19.4% in Fiscal 2015.
The  increases are mainly driven by volumes and the size of operations.
i.
Processing charges were mainly incurred by Tata and other  brand vehicles (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing) which, due to  higher volumes, led to higher expenditures.
ii.
Freight, transportation, port charges etc.
have increased, mainly  for Jaguar Land Rover, predominantly due to increased sales in  certain geographies.
As a percentage to total revenue, Freight,  transportation and port charges etc.
increased to 3.6% in Fiscal  2016 as compared to 2.9% in Fiscal 2015, due to increased  freights charges.
iii.
Publicity expenses remained ﬂ  at and represented 3.2% of total  revenues in Fiscal 2016 and 2015.
In addition to routine product  and brand campaigns, the Company incurred expenses relating  to new product introduction campaigns for the new Jaguar XE,  the all new Jaguar XF, refreshed 2016 Model year the Jaguar  XJ, the new Jaguar F-PACE, the Range Rover Evoque (including  convertible), the SIGNA range of trucks, the ACE Mega and  “Made of Great” campaign at Tata Motors.
153 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) iv.
Works operation and other expenses have increased to 13.0%  of net revenue in Fiscal 2016 from 11.0% in Fiscal 2015.
During  Fiscal 2016, there was a net loss on the mark-to-market value of  trading forward and options of R 3,716.03 crores as compared  to R39.48 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Furthermore, engineering  expenses at Jaguar Land Rover have increased, reﬂ  ecting its  increased investment in the development of new vehicles.
A  signiﬁ  cant portion of these costs are capitalised and shown  under the line item “Amount capitalised” .
This was oﬀ set by the  provision and write oﬀ  of various debtors, vehicle loans and  advances (net), which has decreased to R893.33 crores in Fiscal  2016 as compared to R 1,800.78 crores in Fiscal 2015, mainly  reﬂ  ect provisions for ﬁ  nance receivables, where rate of defaults  increased in Fiscal 2015, due to prolonged and unanticipated  deterioration in the economic environment in India, which  severely aﬀ ected ﬂ  eet owners and transporters.
Amount capitalised represents expenditure transferred to  capital and other accounts allocated out of employee cost and  other expenses, incurred in connection with product development  projects and other capital items.
The expenditure transferred to  capital and other accounts has increased by 8.5% to R16,718.43  crores in Fiscal 2016 from R 15,404.18 crores in Fiscal 2015, mainly  due to various product development projects undertaken by  the Company for the introduction of new products and the  development of engine and products variants.
Other Income increased by 9.2% to R981.72 crores in Fiscal 2016  from R898.74 crores in Fiscal 2015, and mainly includes interest  income of R 755.66 crores in Fiscal 2016, compared to R 714.96  crores in Fiscal 2015 and Proﬁ  t on sale of investment increased to  R181.39 crores in Fiscal 2016, compared to R 119.57 crores in Fiscal  2015.
The increase is primarily due to proﬁ  t on the sale of mutual  funds, mainly at Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle  ﬁ  nancing).
Profi t before Interest, Depreciation, Exceptional Items  and Tax is R41,218.38 crores in Fiscal 2016, representing 15.0% of  revenue in Fiscal 2016 compared to R43,012.56 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Depreciation and Amortisation (including product  development / engineering expenses written off ): During  Fiscal 2016, expenditures increased by 26.0% to R20,494.61 crores  from R16,263.80 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The increase in depreciation  of 26.5% to R 8,220.51 crores in Fiscal 2015 from R 6,498.13 crores in  Fiscal 2015 is due to full year depreciation of the new engine plant  at Jaguar Land Rover and new product launches both at Jaguar  Land Rover and Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle  ﬁ  nancing).
The amortisation expenses have increased by 27.6%  to R8,793.67 crores in Fiscal 2016 from R 6,890.50 crores in Fiscal  2015, and are attributable to new products introduced during the  year.
Expenditure on product development / engineering expenses  written oﬀ  increased by 21.1% to R3,480.43 in Fiscal 2016 from  R2,875.17 in Fiscal 2015.
Finance Cost decreased by 4.9% to R4,623.35 crores in Fiscal 2016  from R4,861.49 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The decrease was mainly achieved  by reﬁ  nancing certain senior notes and other long term loans with  loans with lower interest rates and repayments of borrowings from  proceeds of the Company’s rights issue in Fiscal 2016.
Exceptional items Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change (` in crores) Exchange loss (net)  including on revaluation of  foreign currency borrowings,  deposits and loans 240.19 91.72 148.47  Employee separation cost 32.72 92.99 (60.27) Provision for costs  associated with closure of  operations and impairment  of intangibles of a  subsidiary company 44.31  -   44.31  Impairment of capitalised  ﬁ  xed assets 163.94 -   163.94  Others 1,638.39  -   1,638.39  Total   2,119.55  184.71 1,934.84  i.
Foreign exchange loss (net) represents impact on account  of revaluation of foreign currency borrowings, deposits and  loans, and amortisation of loss / gain, on such foreign currency  monetary items that were deferred in previous years.
ii.
Employee separation cost: The Company has given early  retirement to various employees resulting in an expense both in  Fiscal 2016 and 2015. iii.
In Fiscal 2016, the Company decided to close operations of  a subsidiary company, triggered by under performance and  challenging market conditions.
iv.
In Fiscal 2016, R 163.94 crores of capitalised assets relating to  certain vehicle models were written oﬀ .
v. The carrying value of inventory (net of insurance recovery) of  R1,638.39 crores (GB£157 million) was recognised in Fiscal  2016, following the assessment of the physical condition of the  vehicles involved in the explosion at the port of Tianjin in China  in August 2015.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 154 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Consolidated Profi  t Before Tax (PBT) decreased to  R13,980.87 crores in Fiscal 2016, compared to R21,702.56 crores in  Fiscal 2015.
The reduction in PBT is primarily driven by less favourable  market and model mix, an exceptional net charge relating vehicles  destroyed or damaged in the Tianjin port explosion in August  2015, and one time reserves and charges for the U.S. recall of  potentially faulty passenger airbags supplied by Takata, doubtful  debts and previously capitalized investment impacting the Jaguar  Land Rover business.
Tax Expense represents a net charge of R 2,872.60 crores in Fiscal  2016, as compared to net charge of R7,642.91 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The tax expense is not comparable with the proﬁ  t before tax, since it  is consolidated on a line-by-line addition for each subsidiary company  and no tax eﬀ  ect is recorded in respect of consolidation adjustments.
The eﬀ ective tax rate in Fiscal 2016 was 20.6% as compared to  35.2% in Fiscal 2015.
In Fiscal 2016, there was a reduction in the  UK Corporation tax from 20% to 19% for Fiscal 2018 and to 18%  thereafter, resulting in a deferred tax credit.
In Fiscal 2015, there was  tax charge of the Company’s standalone performance due to write  oﬀ  of minimum alternate tax or MAT liability.
Consolidated Profi t for the year declined by 21.2% to  R11,023.75 crores in Fiscal 2016 from R 13,986.21 crores in Fiscal  2015, after considering the proﬁ  t from associate companies and  shares of minority investees.
Consolidated Balance Sheet  Shareholders’ fund was R80,782.67 crores and R56,261.92 crores  as at March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, an increase of 43.5%.
Reserves increased by 44.0% from R55,618.18 crores as at March  31, 2015 to R 80,103.49 crores as at March 31, 2016.
Apart from the  Proﬁ  t for Fiscal 2016 of R11,023.75 crores, the increase in Reserves  of R24,485.35 crores was primarily attributable to following reasons:  Securities premium increased by R7,400.66 crores due to  issuances of shares at premium in the Company’s Rights oﬀ ering  in Fiscal 2016.
Accumulated actuarial losses in Pension Reserve have decreased  by 35.7% to R6,659.25 crores as at March 31, 2016 compared to  R10,361.85 crores as at March 31, 2015, due to increase in the  interest rates for Jaguar Land Rover pension funds.
The exchange losses on foreign currency borrowings (net of  amortisation of past losses) recognised in Foreign Currency  Monetary Item Translation Diﬀ  erence Account of R 2,847.84  crores as at March 31, 2016, as compared to R4,227.07 crores as  at March 31, 2015.
Translation gain of R 1,730.87 crores recognised in Translation  Reserve on consolidation of subsidiaries further contributed to  an increase in Reserves and Surplus.
Partially oﬀ  set by a reduction in Hedging Reserves by R693.76  crores, primarily due to mark-to-market losses on forwards and  options in Jaguar Land Rover, primarily due to decline in the US  dollar-GBP forward rates.
Borrowings:  As at March 31, 2016 2015 Change (` in crores) Long term borrowings 51,876.31 56,071.34 (4,195.03) Short term borrowings 11,223.63 13,140.14 (1,916.51) Current maturities of  long term borrowings 7,368.55 4,398.91 2,969.64 Total 70,468.49 73,610.39 (3,141.90)  Current maturities of long-term borrowings represent the  amount of loan repayable within one year.
During the year TML Holdings Pte.
Ltd., a subsidiary of the  Company, has   Reﬁ  nanced existing unsecured multi-currency loan of  US$600 million (US$250 million and SG$62.8 million  maturing in November 2017 and US$210 million and  SG$114 million maturing in November 2019) with a  new unsecured loan of US$600 million (US$300 million  maturing in October 2020 and US$300 million maturing  in October 2022); and  Reﬁ  nanced the existing SG$350 million 4.25% Senior  notes due in May 2018 with a new syndicated loan of  US$250 million maturing in March 2020.
Further, the Company has paid certain of its borrowings from  the Rights issue.
Other long-term liabilities were R 9,946.52 crores as at  March 31, 2016, as compared to R9,141.92 crores as at March  31, 2015.
These included R7,744.11 crores of derivative ﬁ  nancial  instruments, mainly attributable to Jaguar Land Rover as at  March 31, 2016 compared to R7,721.94 crores as at March  31, 2015, reﬂ  ecting notional liability due to the valuation of  derivative contracts.
Trade payables were R63,632.89 crores as at March 31, 2016, as  compared to R57,407.28 crores as at March 31, 2015.
Provisions (current and non-current)  were made towards  warranty and employee beneﬁ  t schemes.
Short-term provisions are  155 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) those which are expected to be settled during next ﬁ  nancial year.
The details are as follows: As at March 31,  2016 2015 Change (R in crores) Long term provisions  (Non-current) 11,817.30 15,134.27 (3,316.97) Short term provisions  (Current) 8,702.12 6,036.00 2,666.12 Total 20,519.42 21,170.27 (650.85) i.
Provision for warranty and product liability increased by  R2,087.48 crores or 20.2% mainly on account of increased  volumes at Jaguar Land Rover and M&HCV volume at TML.
ii.
The provision for employee beneﬁ  ts obligations decreased by  R2,823.1 crores or 30.3% on account of changes in actuarial  factors.
Other current liabilities  were R 27,261.82 crores as at March 31,  2016 as compared to R 23,688.58 crores as at March 31, 2015,  representing an increase of 15.1%.
These mainly includes liabilities  towards vehicles sold under repurchase arrangements, liabilities  for capital expenditure, statutory dues, current liabilities of long- term debt, derivative liabilities and advance / progress payment  from customers.
The increase was mainly due to increase in current  maturites of long-term borrowings.
Fixed Assets: As at March 31, 2016 2015 Change (R in crores) Tangible assets  (including capital  work-in-progress) 70,915.85 61,656.68 9,259.17  Intangible assets  (including assets  under development) 57,934.82 50,765.91 7,168.91  Total 128,850.67 112,422.59  16,428.08  The increase (net of depreciation) in the tangible assets  mainly represented additions towards new product plans and  the new engine manufacturing facility and Brazil plant at Jaguar  Land Rover and the  increase (net of amortisation) in the intangible  assets was R7,168.91 crores, mainly attributable to new product  developments projects and new product launches during Fiscal  2016.
Investments (Current + Non-current)  were R 20,466.09 crores as  at March 31, 2016, as compared to R15,336.74 crores as at March  31, 2015.
The details are as follows: As at March 31, 2016 2015 Change (R in crores) Mutual Funds 19,211.01 14,058.36 5,152.65 Investments in equity  accounted investees  (associate companies) 391.75 382.59 9.16 Quoted Equity shares 313.98 302.08 11.90 Unquoted Equity shares 381.46 386.99 (5.53) Others 173.57 210.90 (37.33) Provision for diminution in  value of investments (net) (5.68) (4.18) (1.50) Total 20,466.09  15,336.74 5,129.35 The increase in mutual fund investments was mainly at the  Company and at Jaguar Land Rover.
Deferred tax assets / liability: Deferred tax assets represent timing  diﬀ erences for which there will be future current tax beneﬁ  ts due to  unabsorbed tax losses and expenses allowable on a payment basis  in future years.
Deferred tax liabilities represent timing diﬀ  erences  where current beneﬁ  t in tax will be oﬀ  -set by a debit in the  statement of proﬁ  t and loss.
As at March 31, 2016 2015 (` in crores) Deferred tax assets (net) 2,726.43 2,733.20  Deferred tax liability (net) 3,166.08 1,343.20  Loans and Advances As at March 31, 2016 2015 (R in crores) Long term loans and advances 13,940.82 14,948.31 Short term loans and advances 14,757.51 10,746.44 Total 28,698.33 25,694.75 Loans and advances include: i.
Receivables towards vehicle ﬁ  nancing by TMFL increased  to R18,999.38 crores as at March 31, 2016, as compared to  R16,877.82 crores as at March 31, 2015, an increase of 12.6%,  due to higher disbursements during the year; ii.
VAT, other taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues of  R5,510.19 crores as at March 31, 2016, as compared to R5,442.38  crores as at March 31, 2015. iii.
Capital advances representing advances given capital purchases  has increased to R 470.31 crores as at March 31, 2016 from  R234.93 crores as at March 31, 2015.  iv.
Income tax assets have increased to R1,502.49 crores as at March  31, 2016 as compared to R1,159.78 crores as at March 31, 2015.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 156 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Inventories as at March 31, 2016, were R 33,398.98 crores as  compared to R29,272.34 crores as at March 31, 2015, an increase of  14.1%.
Inventory at Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle  ﬁ  nancing) was R6,818.67 crores as at March 31, 2016 as compared  to R6,155.33 crores as at March 31, 2015.
Inventory at Jaguar Land  Rover was R 26,505.61 crores as at March 31, 2016, an increase of  15.9%, as compared to R 22,877.62 crores as at March 31, 2015.
In  terms of number of days of sales, ﬁ  nished goods represented 34  inventory days in Fiscal 2016 as compared to 32 days in Fiscal 2015.
Trade Receivables (net of allowance for doubtful debts) were  R12,989.96 crores as at March 31, 2016, representing an increase  of 3.3% compared to R 12,579.20 crores as at March 31, 2015.
Trade Receivables have increased at Tata and other brand vehicles  (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing) to R 2,882.54 crores as at March 31,  2016 as compared to R 2,558.03 crores as at March 31, 2015.
The  allowances for doubtful debts were R1,240.35 crores as at March 31,  2016 compared to R737.86 crores as at March 31, 2015.
The increase  was mainly at Jaguar Land Rover for certain doubtful receivables.
Cash and bank balances were R 32,879.98 crores, as at March 31,  2016 compared to R 32,115.76 crores as at March 31, 2015, The  Company holds cash and bank balances in Indian rupees, GBP ,  Chinese Renminbi, etc.
The cash balances include bank deposits  maturing within one year of R23,230.63 crores as at March 31, 2016,  compared to R23,638.08 crores as at March 31, 2015.
Consolidated Cash Flow The following table sets forth selected items from consolidated  cash ﬂ  ow statement:  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change ( Rin crores ) Net Cash from Operating Activities 39,166.71 35,531.26 3,635.45 Profit for the year 11,023.75 13,986.29   Adjustment for cash flow from operations 27,585.37 29,410.82   Change in working capital 2,551.53 (3,671.81)   Direct taxes paid (net) (1,993.94) (4,194.04)   Net Cash used in Investing Activities (38,610.81) (34,867.22) (3,743.59) Payments for ﬁ  xed assets (net) (32,623.24) (31,887.98)   Net investments, short term deposit, margin money  and loans given (1,987.23) 1,853.14   Investments in Mutual Funds sold/ (made) (net) (4,714.73) (5,450.10)   investments in subsidiary/associate companies/ JV (net) (111.44) (160.00)   Dividend and Interest received 825.83 777.72   Net Cash (used in)/ from Financing Activities (3,192.95) 5,201.44 (8,394.39) Proceeds from Rights issue of shares (net of issue  expenses) 7,433.22 - Proceeds from issue of preference shares to minority  shareholders (net of issue expenses) 428.44 - Net borrowings (net of issue expenses) (5,176.77) 12,228.79   Interest Paid (5,703.90) (6,306.98) Dividend paid (including paid to minority  shareholders) (173.94) (720.37)   Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalent(2,637.05) 5,865.48   Cash and cash equivalent, beginning of the year 21,128.33 16,627.98   Cash and cash equivalent on acquisition of a subsidiary - 0.46 Effect of exchange fluctuation on cash flows 859.20 (1,365.59)   Cash and cash equivalent, end of the year 19,350.48 21,128.33   Analysis:  a.
Cash generated from operations before working capital  changes was R38,609.12 crores in Fiscal 2016, as compared to  R43,397.11 crores in the previous year, representing a decrease  in cash generated through consolidated operations, consistent  with the reduction in proﬁ  t on a consolidated basis.
After  considering the impact of working capital changes including  the net movement of vehicle ﬁ  nancing portfolio, the net cash  generated from operations was R39,166.71 crores in Fiscal  2016, as compared to R 35,531.26 crores in the previous year.
The increase in trade receivables, inventories and other assets  amounting to R7,845.79 crores mainly due to increase in  sales was oﬀ set by increase in trade and other payables and  provisions amounting to R10,397.32 crores.
b.
The net cash outﬂ  ow from investing activity increased to  R38,610.81 crores in Fiscal 2016 from R34,867.22 crores in Fiscal  2015.
Capital expenditure (net) was at R32,623.24 crores in Fiscal  2016 compared to R31,887.98 in Fiscal 2015, related mainly to  capacity / expansion of facilities, quality and reliability projects  and product development projects.
Net investment, short term deposits, margin money and loans  given was an outﬂ  ow of R1,987.23 crores in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to an inﬂ  ow of R1,853.14 crores in Fiscal 2015, mainly  at Jaguar Land Rover.
c. The net change in ﬁ  nancing activity was an outﬂ  ow of R3,192.95  crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to an inﬂ  ow of R5,201.44  crores in Fiscal 2015.
During Fiscal 2016, the Company raised R 7,433.22  crores through rights issue of shares and R 428.44  crores through issue of preference shares to minority  shareholders.
In Fiscal 2015, R 8,886.52 crores were raised from long- term borrowings (net) as compared to repayment of  R3,074.08 crores (net) in Fiscal 2016 as described in further  detail below.
Net decrease in short-term borrowings of R 2,099.95  crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to an increase of  R3,351.58 crores in Fiscal 2015, mainly at Tata and other  brand vehicles (including vehicle ﬁ  nancing).
As at March 31, 2016, the Company’s borrowings (including short- term debt) were R 70,468.49 crores, compared to R 73,610.39 crores  as at March 31, 2015.
157 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Principal Sources of Funding Liquidity The Company ﬁ  nances its capital expenditures and research and  development investments through cash generated from operations,  cash and cash equivalents, debt and equity funding.
The Company  also raises funds through sale of investments, including divestment  in stakes of subsidiaries on a selective basis.
The Company’s cash and bank balances on a consolidated basis were  R32,879.98 crores as at March 31, 2016, as compared to R 32,115.76  crores as at March 31, 2015.
These enable the Company to cater to  business needs in the event of changes in market conditions.
The Company’s capital expenditures were R32,024.42 crores and  R34,889.61 crores for Fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively, and the  Company currently plans to invest approximately R 398 billion  in Fiscal 2017 in new products and technologies.
The Company  intends to continue to invest in new products and technologies to  meet consumer and regulatory requirements.
These investments  are intended to enable the Company to pursue further growth  opportunities and improve the Company’s competitive positioning.
The Company expects to meet most of its investments out  of operating cash ﬂ  ows and cash liquidity available.
In order  to meet the remaining funding requirements, the Company  may be required to raise funds through additional loans and  by accessing capital markets from time to time, as deemed  necessary.
With the ongoing need for investments in products and  technologies, the Company (on a standalone basis) was free cash  ﬂ  ow (a non-GAAP ﬁ  nancial measure, measured at cash ﬂ  ow from  operating activities less payments for property, plant and equipment  and intangible assets) negative in Fiscal 2016 of R 635.80 crores.
The  Company expects that with an improvement in macroeconomic  conditions and business performance, combined with steps like  raising funds at subsidiary levels, reviewing non-core investments  and raising additional long-term resources at Tata Motors Limited  on a standalone basis, the funding gap could be appropriately  addressed.
The following table provides information for the credit rating  of Tata Motors Limited for short-term borrowing and long- term borrowing from the following rating agencies as at  March 31, 2016: Credit Analysis and Research Ltd Ratings, or CARE,  Information and Credit Rating Agency of India Ltd, or ICRA, Credit  Rating Information Services of India Limited, or CRISIL Ltd, Standard  & Poor’s Ratings Group, or S&P , and Moody’s Investor Services, or  Moody’s.
A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or  hold securities.
A credit rating may be subject to withdrawal or  revision at any time.
Each rating should be evaluated separately of  any other rating: CARE ICRA CRISIL S&P Moody’s Long-term borrowings AA+ AA AA BB Ba2 Short-term borrowings — A1+ A1+ — — The Company believes that it has suﬃ   cient liquidity available to  meet its planned capital requirements.
However, the Company’s  sources of funding could be materially and adversely aﬀ  ected by  an economic slowdown, as was witnessed in Fiscal 2009, or other  macroeconomic factors in India and abroad, such as in the United  Kingdom, the United States, Europe, Russia and China, all of which  are beyond the Company’s control.
A decrease in the demand for  the Company’s vehicles could aﬀ  ect its ability to obtain funds from  external sources on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
The Company’s cash is located at various subsidiaries within the  Tata Motors Group.
There may be legal, contractual or economic  restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the  Company in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.
Brazil, Russia, South Africa and other jurisdictions have regulatory  restrictions, disincentives or costs on pooling or transferring of cash.
However, such restrictions have not had and are not estimated to  have a signiﬁ  cant impact on the Company’s ability to meet its cash  obligations.
In order to reﬁ  nance the Company’s borrowings and for supporting  long-term fund needs, the Company continued to raise funds in  Fiscal 2015 and 2016, through issue of various debt securities and  Rights issue of shares described below.
During Fiscal 2015, the Company issued US$500 million 4.625%  senior unsecured notes due 2020 and US$250 million 5.750%  senior unsecured notes due 2024.
The proceeds have been used  to reﬁ  nance existing external commercial borrowing, or ECB, of the  Company of US$500 million with the balance of the proceeds and  other permitted purposes as per RBI ECB guidelines.
Further, in March 2015, the Company prepaid 2% NCDs of R1,250 crores  (due March 31, 2016) with a redemption premium of R744.19 crores.
During Fiscal 2015, Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc, an indirect  subsidiary of the Company, issued US$500 million 4.250% senior  notes due 2019, US$500 million 3.50% senior notes due 2020 and  GB£400 million 3.875% senior notes due 2023.
The proceeds were  used for part prepayment of US$326 million 8.125% senior notes  due 2021 and GB£442 million 8.250% senior notes due 2020 as  well as for general corporate purposes, including support for the  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 158 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports ongoing growth and capital spending plan.
On March 15, 2016,  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc redeemed the remaining GB£58  million of the 8.25% GBP notes due 2020 by exercising the bond’s  early redemption option.
In addition, Jaguar Land Rover Automotive  plc redeemed the remaining GB£84 million of the 8.125% USD  notes due 2021 by exercising the bond’s early redemption option  on May 16, 2016.
During Fiscal 2016, the Company allotted 15,04,90,480 Ordinary  shares (including 3,20,49,820 shares underlying the ADRs) of R2  each at a premium of R448 per share, aggregating R6,772.07 crores  and 2,65,09,759 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each at a premium of R269  per share, aggregating R718.42 crores pursuant to the Rights issue.
1,54,279 Ordinary shares and 20,531 ‘A’ Ordinary shares have been  kept in abeyance.
Out of the proceeds of the Rights issue, R500 crores have been  used for funding expenditure towards plant and machinery, R1,500  crores towards research and product development, R4,000 crores  towards repayment in full or in part of certain long-term and short- term borrowings, and R1,401.10 crores towards general corporate  purposes.
During Fiscal 2016, TML Holdings Pte.
Ltd., a subsidiary of the  Company, has   reﬁ  nanced an existing unsecured multi-currency loan of  US$600 million (US$250 million and SG$62.8 million maturing  in November 2017 and US$210 million and SG$114 million  maturing in November 2019) with a new unsecured loan of  US$600 million (US$300 million maturing in October 2020 and  US$300 million maturing in October 2022); and  reﬁ  nanced the existing SG$350 million 4.25% Senior notes due  in May 2018 with a new syndicated loan of US$250 million  maturing in March 2020.
The Tata Motors Group funds its short-term working capital  requirements with cash generated from operations, overdraft  facilities with banks, short-and medium-term borrowings from  lending institutions, banks and commercial paper.
The maturities  of these short-and medium-term borrowings and debentures  are generally matched to particular cash ﬂ  ow requirements.
The  working capital limits are R 14,000 crores from various banks in  India as at March 31, 2016.
The working capital limits are secured  by hypothecation of certain existing current assets of the Company.
The working capital limits are renewed annually.
Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc reﬁ  nanced its revolving credit  facility with a syndicate of more than 28 banks, increasing the size  of revolving credit facility to GB£1.8 billion, all maturing in 5 years  (2020) and subsequently upsized the facility to GB£1.87 billion in  September 2015, by including an additional bank.
The outstanding  balance under the facility which is completely undrawn, is GB£1.87  billion as at March 31, 2016.
Some of the Company’s ﬁ  nancing agreements and debt  arrangements set limits on and/or require prior lender consent  for, among other things, undertaking new projects, issuing new  securities, changes in management, mergers, sales of undertakings  and investment in subsidiaries.
In addition, certain negative  covenants may limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional  funds or to incur additional liens, and/or provide for increased costs  in case of breach.
Certain of the Company’s ﬁ  nancing arrangements  also include ﬁ  nancial covenants to maintain certain debt- to-equity  ratios, debt-to-earnings ratios, liquidity ratios, capital expenditure  ratios and debt coverage ratios.
The Company monitors compliance with its ﬁ  nancial covenants  on an ongoing basis.
The Company also reviews its reﬁ  nancing  strategy and continues to plan for deployment of long-term funds  to address any potential non-compliance.
Cash and liquidity at Jaguar Land Rover is located at various  subsidiaries in diﬀ  erent jurisdictions as well as with balances in  India.
The cash in some of these jurisdictions is subject to certain  restrictions on cash pooling, intercompany loan arrangements  or interim dividends.
However, annual dividends are generally  permitted and the Company does not believe that these restrictions  have, or are expected to have, any impact on Jaguar Land Rover’s  ability to meet its cash obligations.
Certain debt issued by Jaguar Land Rover is subject to customary  covenants and events of default, which include, among other  things, restrictions or limitations on the amount of cash which may  be transferred outside the Jaguar Land Rover group of companies  in the form of dividends, loans or investments.
These are referred to  as restricted payments in the relevant Jaguar Land Rover ﬁ  nancing  documentation.
In general, the amount of cash which may be  transferred outside the Jaguar Land Rover group is limited to 50% of  its cumulative consolidated net income (as deﬁ  ned in the relevant  ﬁ  nancing documentation) from January 2011.
As at March 31, 2016,  the estimated amount that is available for dividend payments, other  distributions and restricted payments outside the Jaguar Land  Rover group of companies is approximately GB£3,458 million.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ON A STANDALONE BASIS The ﬁ  nancial information discussed in this section is derived from  159 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) the Company’s Audited Standalone Financial Statements.
Revenues (net of excise duty) were R42,369.82 crores in Fiscal  2016, as compared to R36,301.63 crores in Fiscal 2015, representing  an increase of 16.7%, mainly due to an increase in the volume of  M&HCV sales by 24.3% as compared to Fiscal 2015.
However, the  total number of vehicles sold in India during the Fiscal 2016 was  ﬂ  at at 453,873 vehicles compared to 454,433 vehicles in Fiscal 2015.
The export volumes grew by 16.3% to 58,058 vehicles in Fiscal 2016  compared to 49,936 vehicles in Fiscal 2015.
Due to the increase in revenue in Fiscal 2016, the Company has  achieved a positive operating margin of 6.5% as compared to a  negative margin of 2.2% of sales in Fiscal 2015.
As a result the Proﬁ  t  before Tax in Fiscal 2016 was R150.39 crores as compared to loss  before tax of R3,974.72 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Furthermore, there was  a tax credit of R83.84 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to a charge  of R764.23 crores due to the write-oﬀ   of MAT credit in Fiscal 2015.
The proﬁ  t after tax in Fiscal 2016 was R234.23 crores as compared to  a loss of R4,738.95 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The analysis of performance  is given below as a percentage to revenue from operations.
Fiscal  2016 Fiscal  2015 (%) (%) Revenue from operations (net of excise duty) 100.0 100.0  Expenditure:    Cost of material consumed (including  change in stock) 69.8 74.5  Employee Cost 7.1 8.5  Manufacturing and other expenses (net) 19.0 22.3  Amount Capitalised (2.4) (3.1) Total Expenditure 93.5 102.2  Other Income 5.0 5.2  Profi t before Exceptional Items,  Depreciation, Interest and Tax 11.5 3.0  Depreciation and Amortisation (including  product development / engineering  expenses written oﬀ  ) 6.7 8.4  Finance costs 3.5 4.4  Exceptional Item – Loss 0.9 1.1  Profi t before Tax 0.4 (10.9) Cost of materials consumed (including change in stock)  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 (R in crores) Consumption of raw materials and components 24,313.08 22,155.23 Purchase of product for sale 5,259.27 5,765.24 Change in inventories of ﬁ  nished  goods, Work-in-progress and  products for sale 22.94 (878.82) Total 29,595.29 27,041.65 The decrease in terms of cost of materials consumed (including  change in stock) as a percentage to revenue was mainly due to  a more favourable product mix which included a relatively higher  proportion of M&HCV sales.
Employee costs decreased by 2.1% in Fiscal 2016 to R3,026.75  crores compared to R3,091.46 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The decrease  was primarily due to no changes in the discount rate assumptions  for deﬁ  ned employee beneﬁ  t plans in Fiscal 2016, as compared to  lower discount rate in Fiscal 2015.
Further, due to higher revenues,  the percentage of employee cost to revenue reduced in Fiscal 2016  to 7.1% as compared to 8.5% in Fiscal 2015.
Manufacturing and Other Expenses  relate to manufacturing,  operations and incidental expenses other than raw materials and  employee cost.
This expenditure mainly includes job work charges,  advertisements and publicity and other selling and administrative  costs.
The expenses were ﬂ  at at R8,041.81 crores in Fiscal 2016  compared to R 8,087.28 crores in Fiscal 2015.
It represented 19.0%  of the revenue in Fiscal 2016 compared to 22.3% of the revenue in  Fiscal 2015.
Freight, transportation and port charges, represented  3.0% and 2.9% of total revenues for Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015,  respectively.
The increase in freight and transportation expenses  is primarily due to trailers used for the transportation of vehicles.
Publicity expenses represented 1.6% and 2.1% of total revenues  in Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015, respectively.
In addition to routine  product and brand campaigns and Auto Expo, the Company  incurred expenses relating to new product introductions, namely,  SIGNA and “Made of Great” campaign in Fiscal 2016.
Warranty  expenses increased to R482.72 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to  R428.68 crores in Fiscal 2015, due to increased M&HCV sales during  Fiscal 2016.
In Fiscal 2015, manufacturing and other expenses  included a provision for carrying capital cost of building at the  Singur plant amounted to R309.88 crores.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 160 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Amount capitalised represents the expenditures transferred to  capital and other accounts allocated out of employee costs and  other expenses incurred in connection with product development  projects and other capital items.
The expenditures transferred  to capital and other accounts decreased by 7.6% to R1,034.18  crores in Fiscal 2016 from R 1,118.75 crores in Fiscal 2015,  mainly related to ongoing development of new products and  product variants.
Other Income totaled R2,132.92 crores in Fiscal 2016 compared  to R1,881.41 crores in Fiscal 2015.
This includes proﬁ  t of R656.36  crores from divestment of investments in subsidiary companies and  dividend income of R1,005.53 crores from subsidiary companies.
Profi t before Exceptional Item, Depreciation, Interest and Tax  (PBDIT) was R4,873.07 crores in Fiscal 2016, compared to R1,081.40  crores in Fiscal 2015.
Increased M&HCV volumes coupled with  improved market conditions resulted in an increase in operating  proﬁ  t as compared to the previous year.
Depreciation and Amortisation expense  (including product  development / engineering expenses) decreased by 5.3% in  Fiscal 2016 to R2,878.36 crores compared to R 3,040.69 crores in  Fiscal 2015.
Depreciation decreased by R113.34 crores, whereas  amortization decreased by R36.13 crores in Fiscal 2016.
Finance costs decreased by 8.1% to R1,481.11 crores in Fiscal 2016  from R1,611.68 crores in Fiscal 2015, mainly due to reduction in  borrowings as well as reduced interest rate.
Exceptional Items a) In accordance with the accounting policy followed by the  Company, the exchange gain / loss on foreign currency  long-term monetary items is amortised over the tenor of  such monetary item.
The net exchange loss including on  revaluation of foreign currency borrowings, deposits and loans  and amortisation was R91.37 crores in Fiscal 2016 compared  to R320.50 crores in Fiscal 2015. b) In Fiscal 2016, impairment of capitalized assets pertaining to  certain vehicle models of R163.94 crores has been debited to  the statement of proﬁ  t and loss.
c) Exceptional items also include R 97.86 crores provided for  investments and cost associated with closure of a foreign  subsidiary company.
d) Employee separation cost: The Company has given early  retirement to various employees which resulted in a charge  of R10.04 crores in Fiscal 2016 compared to R83.25 crores in  Fiscal 2015.
Profi t before tax was R150.39 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared  to loss before tax of R3,974.72 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The proﬁ  t was  mainly attributable to higher sales volumes of M&HCV and eﬀ ective  cost management through various cost reduction initiatives,  resulted in higher operating margins and proﬁ  t on sale of certain  investments.
Tax expenses - There was a tax credit of R83.84 crores in Fiscal  2016 as compared to tax expense of R 764.23 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Profi t after tax was R234.23 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared  to loss of R4,738.95 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Consequently, basic  Earnings Per Share (EPS) returned to a positive R 0.68 in Fiscal 2016  as compared to negative R14.57 in Fiscal 2015 for Ordinary Shares  and to positive R0.78 in Fiscal 2016 as compared to negative R14.57  in Fiscal 2015 for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares.
Standalone Balance Sheet Shareholders’ funds increased to R22,368.08 crores as at March 31,  2016 compared to R14,862.59 crores as at March 31, 2015.
Reserves increased to R 21,688.90 crores as at March 31, 2016  from R14,218.81 crores as at March 31, 2015, primarily due to  increase in the securities premium account of R7,400.66 crores  for the premium from the Company’s rights oﬀ  ering in Fiscal 2016  and proﬁ  t after tax in Fiscal 2016 of R234.23 crores, oﬀ  set by the  debit balance in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Account of  R82.50 crores (net) and the proposed dividend of R73.00 crores  in Fiscal 2016.
Borrowings: As at March 31, 2016 2015 Change (` in crores) Long term borrowings 10,687.94 12,318.96 (1,631.02) Short term borrowings 3,351.74 7,762.01 (4,410.27) Current maturities of  long term borrowings 1,847.57 1,053.44 794.13 Total 15,887.25 21,134.41 (5,247.16) During Fiscal 2016, the reduction in borrowings was due to  repayment of commercial paper issuances from the proceeds of  Rights issue.
Trade payables were R8,916.60 crores as at March 31, 2016 as  compared to R8,852.65 crores as at March 31, 2015, representing  minor movement in Fiscal 2016.
Provision (current and non-current)  were R2,624.54 crores as  at March 31, 2016 and R2,717.28 crores as at March 31, 2015.
The  161 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) provisions were mainly towards warranty, employee retirement  beneﬁ  ts, delinquency and proposed dividends.
Fixed Assets include tangible and intangible assets.
The tangible  assets (net of depreciation and including capital work in progress)  increased marginally to R13,722.49 crores as at March 31,  2016 compared to R13,610.45 crores as at March 31, 2015.
The  intangible assets (net of amortisation, including the projects under  development), increased to R 8,522.37 crores as at March 31, 2016  compared to R8,213.57 crores as at March 31, 2015.
The intangible  assets under development were R5,011.18 crores as at March 31,  2016, and relate to new products planned in the future.
Investments (Current + Non-current)  increased by 10.2% to  R18,711.46 crores as at March 31, 2016 as compared to R 16,987.17  crores as at March 31, 2015 due to investment in mutual funds of  R1,736.00 crores  Inventories increased by 2.1% to R4,902.20 crores as at March 31,  2016 compared to R4,802.08 crores as at March 31, 2015.
However,  the total inventory decreased to 38 days of sales in Fiscal 2016 as  compared to 44 days in Fiscal 2015 due to increase in sales volumes  in Fiscal 2016.
Trade Receivables (net of allowance for doubtful debts)   increased by 40.7% to R1,568.46 crores as at March 31, 2016  compared to R1,114.48 crores as at March 31, 2015.
The receivables  represented 14 days as at March 31, 2016 compared to 11 days  as at March 31, 2015.
The amount outstanding for more than six  months (gross) increased to R870.19 crores as at March 31, 2016  from R759.23 crores as at March 31, 2015.
These represented dues  from Government-owned transport companies and some of the  Company’s dealers.
The overdue amounts are monitored and the  Company has taken steps to recover these.
However, based on the  Company’s assessment on non-recoverability of these overdues,  these have been provided and the allowances for doubtful debts  were R598.04 crores as at March 31, 2016, compared to R572.27  crores as at March 31, 2015, an increase of 4.5%.
Cash and bank balances decreased to R452.08 crores as at March  31, 2016 compared to R944.75 crores as at March 31, 2015, mainly  due to utlisation of proceeds from Senior Notes, issued in Fiscal  2015.
Standalone cash Flow  Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Change (`  in crores) Net Cash from/(used in)  Operating Activities 2,346.18 (2,214.30) 4,560.48 Proﬁ  t / (Loss) for the year 234.23 (4,738.95)   Adjustment for cash ﬂ  ow  from operations 2,454.23 4,119.36   Change in working capital (373.29) (1,517.10)   Direct taxes paid / (credit) (net) 31.01 (77.61)   Net Cash (used in)/from  Investing Activities (2,925.96) 253.37 (3,179.33) Payments for ﬁ  xed assets  (net) (2,981.98) (3,054.79)   Net investments, short term  deposit, margin money and  loans given (1,08.24) (60.33)   investments in mutual  funds (purchased) sold /  (net) (1,668.51) 66.98   Sale / redemption of  investments in subsidiary /  associate companies 746.90 1,803.90   Sale of occupancy rights 7.32 14.64 Investments / loans in  subsidiary / associates / JV  (net) (211.06) (295.64)   Dividend and Interest  received 1,289.61 1,778.61   Net Cash (used in)/from  Financing Activities (71.14) 2,631.53 (2,702.67) Dividend and interest paid (2,015.72) (2,493.67)   Proceeds from Rights issue  of shares (net of issue  expenses) 7,433.22 - Net borrowings (net of  issue expenses) (5,488.64) 5,125.20   Net (decrease)/ increase  in cash and cash  equivalent (650.92) 670.60  Cash and cash equivalent,  beginning of the year 861.95 198.68  Eﬀ ect of exchange  ﬂ  uctuation on cash ﬂ  ows 0.71 (7.33) Cash and cash equivalent,  end of the year 211.74 861.95  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 162 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports a.
Increase in net cash generated from operations reﬂ  ects proﬁ  t in  Fiscal 2016.
The cash generated in operations before working  capital changes was R 2,688.46 crores in Fiscal 2016 compared  to cash used in operations of R 619.59 crores in Fiscal 2015.
There was a net outﬂ  ow of R373.29 crores in Fiscal 2016 towards  working capital changes mainly attributable to the increase in  trade receivables and inventories.
b.
The net cash used in investing activity was R2,925.96 crores in  Fiscal 2016 compared to a cash inﬂ  ow of R253.37 crores in Fiscal  2015, mainly attributable to:  Inﬂ  ow by way of divestments in subsidiary companies  resulting in cash inﬂ  ow of R746.90 crores in Fiscal 2016  compared to R 1,803.90 crores in Fiscal 2015.
Inﬂ  ow due to dividends and interest was R1,289.61 crores  in Fiscal 2016 compared to R1,778.61 crores in Fiscal 2015;  Investment in Mutual fund (net) during Fiscal 2016 was  R1,668.51 crores.
The cash used for payments for ﬁ  xed assets was  R2,981.98 crores (net) in Fiscal 2016 compared to  R3,054.79 crores in Fiscal 2015; and  There was an outﬂ  ow (net) of R211.06 crores in Fiscal  2015 compared to R 295.64 crores for Fiscal 2015  towards investments in subsidiary, joint ventures and  associates companies.
c. The net change in ﬁ  nancing activity was an outﬂ  ow of R71.14  crores in Fiscal 2016 against inﬂ  ow of R2,631.53 crores in Fiscal  2015.
The inﬂ  ow is attributable to the following:  During Fiscal 2016, the Company raised R 7,433.22  crores through rights issue of shares.
Long-term borrowings (net) – outﬂ  ow of R1,120.48  crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared inﬂ  ow of R2,227.38  crores to Fiscal 2015; and  Short-term borrowings – net outﬂ  ow of R1,838.66  crores in Fiscal 2016 compared to outﬂ  ow of R1,665.12  crores in Fiscal 2015.
Net change in other short-term borrowing – net  outﬂ  ow of R2,529.60 crores in Fiscal 2016 compared to  inﬂ  ow of R4,620.20 crores in Fiscal 2015.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF JAGUAR LAND ROVER (AS  PER IFRS) The ﬁ  nancial statements of Jaguar Land Rover are prepared in  accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  applicable in the United Kingdom.
This information is given to  enable the readers to understand the performance of Jaguar Land  Rover [on a consolidated basis for the Jaguar Land Rover group] Revenues for Jaguar Land Rover for Fiscal 2016 were GB£22,208  million, an increase of 1.6% compared to GB£21,866 million in Fiscal  2015, driven primarily by increased wholesale volumes and oﬀ  set  by a less favourable market and market mix.
Material and other cost of sales  in Fiscal 2016 remained ﬂ  at at  GB£13,303 million compared to GB£13,185 million in Fiscal 2015.  the increase is mainly due to exceptional charge realting to vehicle  destroyed or damaged in the Tianjin port explosion in August 2015.
As a proportion of revenue, it decreases to 59.9% as compared  to 60.3% in Fiscal 2015, driven by cost reduction measures and a  generally weaker Euro in Fiscal 2016.
Employee costs increased by 17.4% to GB£2,321 million in Fiscal  2016 as compared to GB£1,977 million in Fiscal 2015, primarily  reﬂ  ecting, increased headcount required to support the increase  production volumes.
Other expenses (net of income) increased by 14.6% to GB£4,546  million in Fiscal 2016 compared to GB£3,966 million in Fiscal 2015,  primarily reﬂ  ecting, higher costs related to freight and distribution,  warranty selling and ﬁ  xed marketing expense, launch costs and  GB£166 million of one-time reserves and charges for the US recall  of potentially faulty passenger airbags supplied by Takata, doubtful  debts and previously capitalized investment.
Product development costs capitalised  increased by 7.3% to  GB£1,242 million in Fiscal 2016 compared to GB£1,158 million in  Fiscal 2015, due to increased expenditure on the development of  future products and technologies.
Profi t before tax (“PBT”) decreased by 40.4% to GB£1,557 million  in Fiscal 2016 as compared to GB£2,614 million in Fiscal 2015,  primarily reﬂ  ecting the items mentioned above as well as an  increase in depreciation and amortization of GB£367 million and  an exceptional net charge of GB£157 million related to vehicles  destroyed or damaged in the Tianjin port explosion in August  2015.
The GB£347 million more favourable revaluation of US  Dollar denominated debt and unrealized foreign exchange and  commodity derivatives as well as the GB£35 million lower interest  expense (net) in Fiscal 2016 compared to Fiscal 2015 partially  oﬀ set the unfavourable factors impacting PBT described above.
In  addition, the proﬁ  t of GB£64 million primarily earned this ﬁ  scal year  primarily by Jaguar Land Rover’s China Joint Venture (compared to  163 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) a loss of GB£6 million in Fiscal 2015) also helped support the solid  PBT in Fiscal 2016.
Consequently, the Profi t after tax (“PAT”) decreased by 35.6% to  GB£1,312 million in Fiscal 2016 compared to GB£2,038 million in  Fiscal 2015.
However, the eﬀ  ective tax rate of 16% in Fiscal 2016  was notably lower than the 22% in Fiscal 2015 due to a GB£74  million deferred tax credit resulting from tax deductions available  under the UK’s Patent Box tax legislation and a favourable one-time  deferred tax credit of GB£63 million arising as a result of enacted  future reductions in the rate of UK Corporation Tax (from 20% to  19% for Fiscal 2018 – Fiscal 2020 and 18% thereafter).
Cash Flow: Net cash from operating activities was GB£3,560 million  in Fiscal 2016.
The strong cash ﬂ  ow was driven by solid proﬁ  tability  and positive working capital and non-cash accruals of GB£579 million  (negative working capital and non-cash accruals of GB£116 million in  Fiscal 2015).
After GB£166 million of tax paid in Fiscal 2016, GB£2,817  million of investment spending (excluding GB£318 million of R&D  expensed through the income statement) and GB£48 million of other  income (primarily interest received) free cash ﬂ  ow before ﬁ  nancing  was GB£791 million.
A GB£111 million reduction in debt primarily  reﬂ  ects the redemption of the remaining GB£ 8.25% notes due 2020  (GB£58 million) and the lower utilization of the invoice discounting  facility (GB£40 million) whilst the GB£142 million ﬁ  nance expenses  and fees primarily relates to interest payments on the outstanding  bonds and fees relating to the ﬁ  nancing facilities (including the  reﬁ  nanced revolving credit facility).
A dividend of GB£150 million was  also paid to TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Sigapore in June 2015.
As at March  31, 2016, Jaguar Land Rover had a total cash balance of GB£4,651  million (comprised of GB£3,399 million of cash and cash equivalents  and GB£1,252 million of ﬁ  nancial deposits) compared to GB£4,263  million of total cash as at March 31, 2015 (comprised of GB£3,208  million of cash and cash equivalents and GB£1,055 million of ﬁ  nancial  deposits).
With total cash of GB£4,651 million and an undrawn  revolving credit facility of GB£1,870 million, total liquidity at Jaguar  Land Rover was GB£6,521 million as at March 31, 2016, compared to  GB£5,748 million as at March 31, 2015.
Financial performance of TMFL (Consolidated) During Fiscal 2016, TMFL earned a total income of R2,967.73 crores  compared to R 2,742.88 crores earned in Fiscal 2015, reﬂ  ecting an  increase of 8.2%, primarily due to increase in the commercial vehicle  segment, improvement due to discontinuation of Low Down  Payment (LDP) schemes, improved market conditions and highly  focused collection eﬀ orts.
The expansion of spoke branches (Tier  2 and 3 towns) has helped in reaching out to the customer more  quickly and in improving customer satisfaction.
The proﬁ  t before tax  was R301.64 crores in Fiscal 2016 as compared to loss of R845.01  crores in Fiscal 2015.
The proﬁ  t after tax was R267.03 crores in Fiscal  2016, as compared to a loss of R611.16 crores in the previous year.
Financial performance of TDCV (as per Korean GAAP) In Fiscal 2015, TDCV’s total revenue declined by 11.0% to KRW  879.66 billion ( R5,096.46 crores) compared to KRW 987.95 billion  (R5,563.03 crores) in Fiscal 2015, mainly due to lower export sales  partially oﬀ set by increase in domestic sales.
The proﬁ  t after tax was  KRW 45.56 Billion (R 263.96 crores) compared to KRW 54.00 Billion  (R304.09 crore) of previous year which included one-time reversal  of provisions pertaining to ordinary wage lawsuit KRW 24.20 Billion  (R136.27 crores).
Better proﬁ  tability of Euro 6 vehicles, better mix,  favorable exchange realizations, continuous material cost reduction,  various cost control and inventory initiatives helped in improving  proﬁ  ts.
Financial performance of TTL The consolidated revenue of TTL in Fiscal 2016 increased 2.6% to  R2,713.60 crores compared to R2,644.23 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The  proﬁ  t before tax increased 7.2% to R460.89 crores in Fiscal 2016  compared to R429.76 crores in Fiscal 2015.
The proﬁ  t after tax  increased by 14.2% to R381.66 crores in Fiscal 2016 compared to  R334.07 crores in Fiscal 2015.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY The Company has an adequate system of internal controls in place.
It has documented policies and procedures covering all ﬁ  nancial  and operating functions.
These controls have been designed to  provide a reasonable assurance with regard to maintaining of proper  accounting controls for ensuring reliability of ﬁ  nancial reporting,  monitoring of operations, protecting assets from unauthorized use or  losses, compliances with regulations.
The Company has continued its  eﬀ orts to align all its processes and controls with global best practices.
Some signiﬁ  cant features of the internal control of systems are:  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, comprising  of independent directors and functional since August 1988,  regularly reviews the audit plans, signiﬁ  cant audit ﬁ  ndings,  adequacy of internal controls, compliance with accounting  standards as well as reasons for changes in accounting policies  and practices, if any;  Documentation of major business processes and testing  thereof including ﬁ  nancial closing, computer controls and  entity level controls, as part of compliance programme towards  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 164 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as required by the listing requirements at  New York Stock Exchange;  An ongoing programme, for the reinforcement of the Tata  Code of Conduct is prevalent across the organisation.
The  Code covers integrity of ﬁ  nancial reporting, ethical conduct,  regulatory compliance, conﬂ  icts of interest’s review and  reporting of concerns.
State-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning, supplier relations  management and customer relations management connect  the Company’s diﬀ  erent locations, dealers and vendors for  eﬃ  cient and seamless information exchange.
The Company  also maintains a comprehensive information security policy and  undertakes continuous upgrades to its IT systems;  Detailed business plans for each segment, investment  strategies, year-on-year reviews, annual ﬁ  nancial and operating  plans and monthly monitoring are part of the established  practices for all operating and service functions;  A well-established, independent, multi-disciplinary Internal  Audit team operates in line with governance best practices.
It  reviews and reports to management and the Audit Committee  about compliance with internal controls and the eﬃ   ciency  and eﬀ ectiveness of operations as well as the key process  risks.
The scope and authority of the Internal Audit division is  derived from the Audit Charter, duly approved by the Audit  Committee; and Anti-fraud programmes including whistle  blower mechanisms are operative across the Company.
The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk  management throughout the organisation.
Through an Enterprise  Risk Management programme, the Company’s business units and  corporate functions address opportunities and the attendant risks  through an institutionalised approach aligned to the Company’s  objectives.
This is also facilitated by internal audit.
The Business  risk is managed through cross functional involvement and  communication across businesses.
The results of the risk assessment  and residual risks are presented to the senior management.
The  Audit Committee reviews business risk areas covering operational,  ﬁ  nancial, strategic and regulatory risks.
During Fiscal 2016, the Company conducted an assessment of the  eﬀ ectiveness of the Internal Control over Financial Reporting and  has determined that the Company’s Internal Control over Financial  Reporting as at March 31, 2016 is eﬀ  ective.
HUMAN RESOURCES / INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS The Company considers its human capital a critical factor to its  success.
Under the aegis of Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted  entities, the Company has drawn up a comprehensive human  resource strategy which addresses key aspects of human resource  development such as:  The code of conduct and fair business practices;  A fair and objective performance management system linked  to the performance of the businesses which identiﬁ  es and  diﬀ erentiates employees by performance level;  Creation of a common pool of talented managers across  Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted entities with a view  to increasing their mobility through job rotation among the  entities;  Evolution of performance based compensation packages to  attract and retain talent within Tata Sons and the Tata Sons  promoted entities; and  Development of comprehensive training programmes to  improve industry- and function-speciﬁ  c skills.
Introduction of the annual Employee Pulse Survey to gauge the  engagement levels of employees followed by action planning  to make Tata Motors a more caring and engaging employer.
The Company employed approximately 76,598 and 73,485  permanent employees as at March 31, 2016 and 2015 respectively.
The average number of ﬂ  exible (temporary, trainee and contractual)  employees for Fiscal 2016, was approximately 40,205 (including  joint operations) compared to 40,213 in Fiscal 2015.
The following table set forth a breakdown of persons employed by  the Company’s business segments and by geographic location as at  March 31, 2016 and 2015.
As at March 31, 2016 2015 Segment No.
of Employees No.
of Employees Automotive 68,089 66,101 Other 8,509 7,384 Total 76,598 73,485 Location No.
of Employees No.
of Employees India 42,238 43,313 Abroad 34,360 30,172 Total 76,598 73,485 165 Notice Board’s Report Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility ReportManagement Discussion & Analysis (118-165) Union Wage Settlements: The Company has labour unions for  operative grade employees at all its plant across India, except at  the Sanand and Dharwad plant, which do not have unions as of  the date of this Annual Report.
The Company has generally enjoyed  cordial relations with its employees at its factories and oﬃ  ces.
Employee wages are paid in accordance with wage agreements  that have varying terms (typically three to four years) at diﬀ  erent  locations.
The expiration dates of the wage agreements with  respect to various locations/subsidiaries are as follows: Location/subsidiaries Wage Agreement valid until Pune commercial vehicles August 31, 2015 Pune passenger vehicles March 31, 2016 Jamshedpur March 31, 2016 Mumbai December 31, 2015 Lucknow March 31, 2017 Pantnagar March 31, 2019 Jaguar Land Rover October 31, 2016 The wage agreement at Pune commercial vehicles and  Mumbai has expired and negotiations are in progress for  the new wage agreement.
The Pune passenger vehicles and  Jamshedpur agreement expired in the month of March 2016 and  preparations for the new agreement are underway.
The Company’s  wage agreements link an employee’s compensation to certain  performance criteria that are based on various factors such  as quality, productivity, operating proﬁ  t and an individual’s  performance and attendance.
The Company has generally received  union support in its implementation of reforms that impact quality,  cost erosion and productivity improvements across all locations.
OUTLOOK The Company expects the M&HCV truck segment in India to  grow in Fiscal 2017, driven by continuing trends towards the  replacement of ageing ﬂ  eet vehicles and anticipated increases  in demand from the infrastructure and industrial sectors due to  reforms being initiated by the Government of India.
The Company  expects that the demand for new commercial vehicles will also be  driven by gradual acceptance of advance trucking platforms and  the introduction of technologies, such as anti-lock braking systems.
The Company also expect the LCV segment to witness positive  growth in Fiscal 2017.
The Company expects that faster growth and improved consumer  sentiments should boost sales of passenger cars and utility vehicles  in India.
The improved sales outlook for utility vehicles, cars, buses and  trucks comes against the backdrop of the Government of India’s  annual budget proposal to raise investment in infrastructure,  including roads and railways.
The Company expects infrastructure  investment to be allocated to rural areas which will lead to increased  automotive demand.
The Company expects that, due to pressures on volumes in India  and limited headrooms in pricing, due to the intensely competitive  market dynamics, the focus will be on eﬀ  ective cost management  to maintain margins.
One of the key elements of this strategy is to improve the  relationship with the customer – the experience the customer has  with the Company at each touch point from sale to service and  replacement sales experiences.
This strategy includes, among other  things, improving the physical appearances of contact points with  customers and the creation of processes and forums for speedy  resolution of customer issues.
The Company also focuses on reviewing the channel partner  scoreboard for eﬀ  ective performance management and direct  oversight oversight on the operations to drive volume growth  and increase customer satisfaction and thereby driving dealership  proﬁ  tability.
The Company will also actively pursue growth in the right  international markets and aims to consolidate its position in markets  where it is already present.
Continued investment, by Jaguar Land Rover, in new products  and technologies as well as expanding its production capacity in  appropriate strategic locations, while balancing production with  sales, is key for the success of the Company.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing  the Company’s objective, projections, estimates and expectations  may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of  applicable securities laws and regulations.
Actual results could  diﬀ er materially from those expressed or implied.
Important factors  that could make a diﬀ  erence to the Company operations include,  among others, economic conditions aﬀ  ecting demand/supply and  price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the  Company operates, changes in government regulations, tax laws  and other statutes and incidental factors.
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE As a Tata Company, the Company’s philosophy on Corporate  Governance is founded upon a rich legacy of fair, ethical and  transparent governance practices, many of which were in place  even before they were mandated by adopting the highest standards  of professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior.
As  a global organization, the Corporate Governance practices  followed by the Company and its subsidiaries are compatible with  international standards and best practices.
Through the Governance  mechanism in the Company, the Board along with its Committees  undertakes its ﬁ  duciary responsibilities to all its stakeholders  by ensuring transparency, fairplay and independence in its  decision making.
The Corporate Governance philosophy is further strengthened with  the adherence to the Tata Business Excellence Model as a means  to drive excellence and the Balanced Scorecard methodology for  tracking progress on long term strategic objectives.
The Tata Code  of Conduct, which articulates the values, ethics and business  principles, serves as a guide to the Company, its directors and  employees is also supplemented with an appropriate mechanism  to report any concerns pertaining to non-adherence to the said  Code.
The Company is in full compliance with the requirements of  Corporate Governance under the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 (“the SEBI Listing Regulations”).
The Company’s Depositary  Programme is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the  Company also complies with US regulations as applicable to Foreign  Private Issuers (non-US companies listed on the US Exchange) which  cast upon the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee onerous  responsibilities to improve the Company’s operating eﬃ   ciencies.
Risk management and the internal control process focus areas  continue to meet the progressive governance standards.
The Company has adopted Governance Guidelines on Board  Eﬀ ectiveness based on current and emerging best practices  from both within and outside the Tata Group of companies.
These guidelines inter alia incorporate and go beyond corporate  governance requirements prescribed under the Companies Act,  2013 (“Act”) and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Secretarial Audit Report by a Practicing Company Secretary  on the Audit undertaken of the Company’s secretarial records in  respect of compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act,  the SEBI Listing Regulations and other applicable regulations and  guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for  the period under review is a part of the Annual Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  The Board of Directors along with its Committees provide leadership  and guidance to the Company’s management, as also direct,  supervise and control the performance of the Company.
The Board  currently comprises of 11 Directors out of which 8 Directors (72%)  are Non-Executive Directors, including 1 women director.
The  Company has a Non-Executive Chairman and the 6 Independent  Directors comprise more than half of the total strength of the Board.
All the Independent Directors have conﬁ  rmed that they meet the  ‘independence’ criteria as mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) of  the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Act.
All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding their  directorships as required under Section 184 of the Act and on the  Committee positions held by them in other companies.
None of  the Directors on the Company’s Board hold Directorships in more  than 20 companies, including 10 public companies and none of the  Directors of the Company are related to each other.
In accordance  with Regulation 26 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, none of the  Directors are members in more than 10 committees or act as  chairperson of more than 5 committees [the committees being,  Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee] across  all listed entities in which he/she is a Director.
All Non-Executive,  Non Independent Directors, excluding the ‘Steel’ Director (Tata Steel  representative) and the CEO & Managing Director of the Company,  are liable to retire by rotation.
The appointment of the Managing  Director and Executive Directors, including the tenure and terms of  remuneration are also approved by the members at the ﬁ  rst meeting  after the said appointment.
The required information, including information as enumerated in  Regulation 17(7) read together with Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI  Listing Regulations is made available to the Board of Directors, for  discussions and consideration at the Board Meetings.
The Board  reviews the declaration made by the CEO & Managing Director and  the Group Chief Financial Oﬃ  cer (CFO) regarding compliance with all  applicable laws on a quarterly, basis as also steps taken to remediate  instances of non-compliance, if any.
Pursuant to Regulation 27(2) of  the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company also submits a quarterly  compliance report on Corporate Governance to the Indian Stock  Exchanges including details on all material transactions with related  parties, within 15 days from the close of every quarter.
The CEO &  Managing Director and the CFO have certiﬁ  ed to the Board upon  inter alia, the accuracy of the ﬁ  nancial statements and adequacy  of internal controls for ﬁ  nancial reporting, in accordance with  Regulation 17(8) read together with Part B of Schedule II of the SEBI  REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Overview Financial Statements 166 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports (1) Excludes Directorships in private companies, foreign companies, Section 8 companies and alternate directorships.
(2) Includes only Audit and Stakeholders Relationship Committees  (3) Is also the ‘Steel’ Director, being a nominee of Tata Steel Limited as per Article 127 of the Articles of Association of th e Company.
(4) Appointed as the CEO & Managing Director of the Company with effect from February 15, 2016.
(5) Excludes 1 meeting attended as an invitee on February 11, 2016.
Name of the  Director Director Identifi cation  Number Director  Category No.
of Board Meetings attended in the year Attendance at the last AGM Directorships(1) Committee  positions(2) Holding  in shares  and other  convertible  instruments Chairman Member Chairman Member Cyrus P Mistry (3) 00010178 Non-Executive,  Chairman 10 Yes 10 - - - 15,855 Ordinary Shares Mr N N Wadia 00015731 Non-Executive,  Independent 9 Yes 4 4 - - - Dr R A Mashelkar 00074119 Non-Executive,  Independent 8 Yes - 6 1 3 - Mr S Bhargava 00035672 Non-Executive,  Independent 9 Yes 3 5 1 3 - Mr N Munjee 00010180 Non-Executive,  Independent 10 Yes 2 8 5 1 - Mr V K Jairath 00391684 Non-Executive,  Independent 10 Yes - 5 2 3 - Ms Falguni Nayar 00003633 Non-Executive,  Independent 10 Yes - 8 - 5 - Dr Ralf Speth 03318908 Non-Executive 9 Yes - 1 - - - Mr Guenter  Butschek (4) 07427375 CEO &  Managing  Director   2 (5) NA - 1 - 1 - Mr Ravindra  Pisharody 01875848 Executive  Director  (Commercial  Vehicles) 10 Yes - 5 - 1 50 ‘A’ Ordinary Shares Mr Satish B  Borwankar 01793948 Executive  Director  (Quality) 10 Yes - 3 - - - Listing Regulations, pertaining to CEO and CFO certiﬁ  cation for the  Financial Year ended March 31, 2016.
During the year under review, 10 Board Meetings were held on April  23, 2015, May 26, 2015, July 10, 2015, August 7, 2015, September  18, 2015, November 6, 2015, January 18, 2016, February 11, 2016,  February 23, 2016 and March 30, 2016.
The maximum time-gap  between any two consecutive meetings did not exceed 120 days.
All the agenda papers for the Board and Committee meetings are  disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading  them on a secured online application, speciﬁ  cally designed for  this purpose, thereby eliminating circulation of printed agenda  papers.
The composition of the Board, attendance at Board  Meetings held during the Financial Year under review and at the  last Annual General Meeting (AGM), number of directorships  (including Tata Motors), memberships/chairmanships of the Board  and Committees of public companies and their shareholding in  the Company as on March 31, 2016 (including Tata Motors Ltd.) are as follows: As per Regulation 25(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, none of the  Independent Directors serve as Independent Directors in more than  7 listed entities and in case they are whole-time directors in any listed  entity, then he/she does not serve as an Independent Director in  more than 3 listed entities.
The Company actively uses the facility of video conferencing  permitted under Section 173(2) of the Act, read together with Rule  3 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014,  thereby saving on the cost to the Company and optimally utilising  the valued time of the Directors.
Annual Independent Directors Meeting:  During the year under  review, an annual Independent Directors meeting in accordance  167 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) SHAREHOLDERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Executive Committee of the Board Nomination & Remuneration Committee Stakeholders Relationship Committee Safety, Health & Environment Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Special need based Committees Risk Management Committee OTHER DIRECT REPORTEES Chief Internal Auditor Government Aff airs Collaboration & Imports Company Secretary EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE – EXCOM * Commercial Vehicles (ED) Quality (ED) Corporate Communications ** Passenger Vehicles Advanced and Product Engineering  Purchase & Supply Chain Group Chief Financial Offi  cer Chief Human Resource Offi  cer Corporate Strategy and Business  Transformation BUSINESS COMMITTEES Commercial Vehicle Business Unit Steering Committee Passenger Vehicle Business Unit  Steering Committee Human Resource Management  Committee Diversity Council CV & PV Product Review Committee DASC – Design and Styling Committee Quality Review Management Risk Oversight Committee Corporate Legal CEO & MANAGING DIRECTOR * The CEO & Managing Director chairs the Excom and Business Committees ** associated member of Excom with the provisions of Section 149(8) read with Schedule IV of the  Act and Regulation 25(3) and 25(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  was convened on March 30, 2016, wherein all Independent Directors  were present, to review the performance of the Non-Independent  Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman of the Board  and performance of the Board as a whole.
The Non- Independent  Directors did not take part in the meeting.
Board Eff ectiveness Evaluation: Pursuant to the provisions of  Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the provisions  of the A ct, Board evaluation involving evaluation of the Board of  Directors, its Committees and individual Directors, including the role  of the Board Chairman, was conducted during the year.
For details  pertaining to the same kindly refer to the Board’s Report.
Familiarisation Programme:  Kindly refer to the Company’s  website for details of the familiarisation programme for Independent  Directors in respect of their roles, rights, responsibilities in the  Company, nature of the industry in which the Company operates,  business model of the Company and related matters.
THE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD  The Board has constituted a set of Committees with speciﬁ  c terms  of reference/scope, to focus eﬀ  ectively on the issues and ensure  expedient resolution of diverse matters.
The Committees operate  as empowered agents of the Board as per their Charter/terms of  reference.
Targets set / actions directed by them as agreed with the  management are reviewed periodically and mid-course corrections  are also carried out.
The Board of Directors and the Committees also  take decisions by circular resolutions which are noted at the next  meeting.
The minutes of the meetings of all Committees of the Board  are placed before the Board for discussions/noting.
An Organisation  Chart depicting the relationship between the Board of Directors, the  Committees and the senior management functions, as on March 31,  2016, is illustrated below: Corporate Overview Financial Statements 168 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports AUDIT COMMITTEE  The Audit Committee functions according to its Charter that deﬁ  nes  its composition, authority, responsibility and reporting functions  in accordance with Sections 177 of the Act, Regulation 18(3) read  with Part C of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations and US  regulations applicable to the Company and is reviewed from time to  time.
Whilst, the full Charter is available on the Company’s website,  given below is a gist of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee:  i.
Reviewing with the management, the quarterly/annual  ﬁ  nancial statements before submission to the Board, focusing  primarily on:     Overseeing the Company’s ﬁ  nancial reporting process  and the disclosure of its ﬁ  nancial information, including  earnings, press release, to ensure that the ﬁ  nancial  statements are correct, suﬃ  cient and credible;     Review Reports on the Management Discussion and  Analysis of ﬁ  nancial condition, results of Operations and  the Directors’ Responsibility Statement;     Compliance with accounting standards and changes in  accounting policies and practices as well as reasons thereof;     Major accounting entries involving estimates based on  exercise of judgment by Management;     Draft Audit Report, modiﬁ  ed opinion if any and signiﬁ  cant  adjustments arising out of audit;     Analysis of the eﬀ  ects of alternative GAAP methods on the  ﬁ  nancial statements;     Compliance with listing and other legal requirements  concerning ﬁ  nancial statements;     Statement of signiﬁ  cant related party transactions (as diﬁ ned by the Committee), submitted by the management;   Scrutinise inter corporate loans and investments; and     Disclosures made under the CEO and CFO certiﬁ  cation and  related party transactions to the Board and Shareholders.
ii.
Reviewing with the management, external auditor and  internal auditor, adequacy of internal control systems and  recommending improvements to the management.
iii.
Review Management letters/Letters of internal control  weakness issued by the statutory auditors.
iv.
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses/ application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, rights  issue, preferential issue, etc.
), the statement of funds utilized  for purposes other than those stated in the oﬀ  er document/  prospectus/ notice and the report submitted by the monitoring  agency, monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or  rights issue, statement of deviations both quarterly and annual,  if any, and making appropriate recommendations to the Board  to take up steps in this matter.
v.  Recommending the appointment/removal of the statutory  auditor, cost auditor, ﬁ  xing audit fees, name of Audit ﬁ  rm  and approving non-audit/consulting services provided  by the statutory auditors’ ﬁ  rms to the Company and its  subsidiaries; evaluating auditors’ performance, qualiﬁ  cations,  experience, independence and pending proceedings relating  to professional misconduct, if any.
It shall also ensure that the  cost auditors are independent, having arm’s length relationship  and are also not otherwise disqualiﬁ  ed at the time of their  appointment or during their tenure.
vi.
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, including  the structure of the internal audit department, staﬃ   ng and  seniority of the chief internal auditor, coverage and frequency  of internal audit, appointment, removal, performance and  terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor.
vii.
Discussing with the internal auditor and senior management  signiﬁ  cant internal audit ﬁ  ndings and follow-up thereon.
viii.
Reviewing the ﬁ  ndings of any internal investigation by the  internal auditor into matters involving suspected fraud or  irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material  nature and report the matter to the Board.
ix.
Discussing with the statutory auditor before the audit  commences, the nature and scope of audit, as well as conduct  post-audit discussions to ascertain any area of concern.
x.
Reviewing the Company’s ﬁ  nancial controls and risk  management systems.
xi.
Establish and review the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism  under the Whistle-Blower policy of the Company.
xii.
Revie wing the ﬁ nancial statements and investments made by  subsidiary companies and subsidiary oversight relating to areas  such as adequacy of the internal audit structure and function of the  subsidiaries, their status of audit plan and its execution, key internal  audit observations, risk management and the control environment.
xiii.
Look into the reasons for any substantial defaults in payment  to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of  non-payment of declared dividend) and creditors, if any.
xiv.
Reviewing the eﬀ  ectiveness of the system for monitoring  compliance with laws and regulations.
xv.
Approving the appointment of CFO after assessing the  qualiﬁ  cation, experience and background etc.
of the candidate.
xvi.
Engage a registered valuer in case valuations are required  and review of any valuation report of any property, stocks,  shares, debentures, securities, goodwill, undertakings or assets,  169 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) liabilities or net worth of the Company.
xvii.
Review and suitably reply to the report(s) forwarded by the  auditors on the matters where auditors have suﬃ  cient reason  to believe that an oﬀ ence involving fraud, is being or has been  committed against the Company by oﬃ  cers or employees of  the Company.
xviii.
Review the system of storage, retrieval, display or printout of  books of accounts maintained in electronic mode during the  required period under law.
xix.
Approve all or any subsequent modiﬁ  cation of transactions  with related parties.
xx.
To approve policies in relation to the implementation of the  Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and  Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices (‘Code’) and to supervise  implementation of the Code.
xxi.
To note and take on record the status reports, detailing the  dealings by Designated Persons in Securities of the Company,  as submitted by the Compliance Oﬃ   cer on a quarterly basis  and to provide directions on any penal action to be initiated, in  case of any violation of the Code, by any person.
During the year, the Committee reviewed key audit ﬁ  ndings covering  operational, ﬁ  nancial and compliance areas.
Management personnel  presented their risk mitigation plan to the Committee.
It also  reviewed the internal control system in subsidiary companies, status  on compliance of its obligations under the Charter and conﬁ  rmed  that it fulﬁ  lled its duties and responsibilities.
The Committee, through  self-assessment, annually evaluates its performance.
The Chairman of  the Audit Committee briefs the Board members about the signiﬁ  cant  discussions at the Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee comprises of 4 Independent Directors, all of whom are  ﬁ  nancially literate and have relevant ﬁ  nance and/or audit exposure.
Mr Munjee is the Financial Expert.
The quorum of the Committee  is two members or one-third of its members, whichever is greater.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also attended the last AGM of  the Company.
During the period under review, 8 Audit Committee  meetings were held on May 25, 2015, July 9, 2015, August 5, 2015,  October 20, 2015, November 4, 2015, January 8-9, 2016, February 9,  2016 and February 23, 2016.
The maximum gap between any two  meetings was less than 120 days.
Each Audit Committee meeting  which considers ﬁ  nancial results is preceded by a meeting of the  Audit Committee members along with the Auditors only.
The composition of the Audit Committee and attendance at its  meetings is as follows: Composition Meetings attended Mr N Munjee (Chairman) 8 Dr R A Mashelkar 5 Mr V K Jairath 8 Ms Falguni Nayar 7 The Committee meetings are held at the Company’s Corporate  Headquarters or at its plant locations and are attended by the CEO  & Managing Director, Executive Directors, CFO, Company Secretary,  Chief Internal Auditor, Statutory Auditors and Cost Auditors on a  need based basis.
The business and operation heads are invited to  the meetings, as and when required.
The Company Secretary acts  as the Secretary of the Audit Committee, as well as all the other  Committees of the Company.
The Chief Internal Auditor reports  directly to the Audit Committee to ensure independence of the  Internal Audit function.
The Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of the  management, the internal auditors and the Statutory Auditor,  in carrying out its oversight responsibilities.
It also uses external  expertise, if required.
The management is responsible for the  preparation, presentation and integrity of the Company’s ﬁ  nancial  statements, including consolidated statements, accounting and  ﬁ  nancial reporting principles.
The management is also responsible  for internal control over ﬁ  nancial reporting and all procedures  are designed to ensure compliance with accounting standards,  applicable laws and regulations as well as for objectively reviewing  and evaluating the adequacy, eﬀ  ectiveness and quality of the  Company’s system of internal controls.
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP , Mumbai (ICAI Firm Registration  No.117366W/W – 100018), the Company’s Statutory Auditor, is  responsible for performing an independent audit of the Financial  Statements and expressing an opinion on the conformity of those  ﬁ  nancial statements with accounting principles generally accepted  in India.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE  The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the  Company functions according to its Charter, that deﬁ  nes its  objective, composition, meeting requirements, authority and  power, responsibilities, reporting and evaluation functions in  accordance with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 read  with Part D of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, which are  reviewed from time to time.
The broad terms of reference of the  NRC are as follows:   Recommend to the Board the set up and composition of  the Board and its Committees including the “formulation of  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 170 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports the criteria for determining qualiﬁ  cations, positive attributes  and independence of a director” .
The Committee periodically  reviews the composition of the Board with the objective of  achieving an optimum balance of size, skills, independence,  knowledge, age, gender and experience.
Devise a policy on Board diversity.
Recommend to the Board the appointment or reappointment  of Directors, including Independent Directors, on the basis of  Report on performance evaluation of Independent Directors.
Support the Board in matters related to set-up, review and  refreshing the composition of the Committees.
Recommend to the Board on voting on resolutions for  appointment and remuneration of the Directors on the Boards  of its material subsidiary companies and provide guidelines  for remuneration of Directors on material subsidiaries.
Identify and recommend to the Board, appointment of Key  Managerial Personnel (“KMP”) as deﬁ  ned by the Act and  executive team members of the Company (as deﬁ  ned by this  Committee).
The Committee shall consult the Audit Committee  before recommending the appointment of the CFO.
Carry out evaluation of every Director’s performance and  support the Board and Independent Directors in evaluation of  the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual  Directors, including “formulation of criteria for evaluation of  Independent Directors and the Board” .
Oversee the performance review process for the KMP and  executive team of the Company with a view that there is  an appropriate cascading of goals and targets across the  Company and on an annual basis, recommend to the Board  the remuneration payable to the Directors, KMP and executive  team of the Company.
Recommend the Remuneration Policy for Directors, KMP ,  executive team and other employees.
Review matters related to voluntary retirement and early  separation schemes for the Company.
Oversee familiarization programmes for Directors.
Oversee HR philosophy, HR and people strategy and eﬃ   cacy  of HR practices including those for leadership development,  rewards and recognition, talent management and succession  planning (speciﬁ  cally for the Board, KMP and executive team).
Performing such other duties and responsibilities as may be  consistent with the provisions of the Committee Charter.
The Committee comprises of 3 Independent Directors and 1 Non- Executive Director.
During the year under review, ﬁ  ve meetings  of the Committee were held on May 26, 2015, October 15, 2015,  December 3, 2015, February 11, 2016 and March 30, 2016.
The  decisions are taken by the Committee, at meetings or by passing  circular resolutions.
The composition of the NRC and attendance  at its meeting is as follows: Composition Meetings attended Mr N N Wadia (Chairman) 5 Mr Cyrus P Mistry 5 Mr S Bhargava 5 Dr R A Mashelkar 4 Remuneration Policy  The Company has in place a Remuneration Policy for Directors,  KMP and other employees, in accordance with the provisions  of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
For details on  Remuneration Policy, including the criteria for making payments  to the Non-Executive Directors kindly refer to the Annexure to  the Board’s Report.
Remuneration to Directors: Non-Executive Directors   A sitting fee of r 60,000/- ( r 20,000/- prior to May 26,  2015) for attendance at each meeting of the Board, Audit  Committee, Executive Committee of the Board, NRC and  for annual Independent Directors Meeting; r 20,000/-  (r5,000/- prior to May 26, 2015) for attendance at each  meeting of Stakeholders Relationship Committee and  r20,000/- (r10,000/- prior to May 26, 2015) for attendance at  each meeting of Safety, Health & Environment Committee,  the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Risk  Management Committee, Fund Raising Committee  and other special need based committees, is paid to its  Members (excluding Managing Director and Executive  Directors) and also to Directors attending the meeting.
The  sitting fees paid/payable to the non Whole-time directors  is excluded whilst calculating the limits of remuneration in  accordance with Section 197 of the Act.
The Company also  reimburses out-of-pocket expenses to Directors attending  meetings held at a city other than the one in which the  Directors resides.
For details on sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors  for FY 2015-16 and performance evaluation criteria for  Independent Directors, kindly refer to the Board’s Report.
171 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184)  The remuneration by way of commission to the Non- Executive Directors is decided by the Board of Directors  and distributed to them based on their participation  and contribution at the Board and certain Committee  meetings as well as time spent on matters other than at  meetings.
The Members had, at the AGM held on August  21, 2013, approved the payment of remuneration by way  of commission to the Non Whole-time Directors of the  Company, of a sum not exceeding 1% per annum of the net  proﬁ  ts of the Company, calculated in accordance with the  provisions of the Act for a period of 5 years commencing  from April 1, 2013.
No Commission was paid to any Non-Executive Director for  FY 2015-16 in view of inadequacy of proﬁ  ts Managing and Executive Directors The remuneration paid to the CEO & Managing Director and the  Executive Directors is commensurate with industry standards and  Board level positions held in similar sized companies, taking into  consideration the individual responsibilities shouldered by them  and is in consonance with the terms of appointment approved by  the Members, at the time of their appointment.
The NRC, reviews and recommends to the Board the changes  in the managerial remuneration of the Managing and Executive  Directors on a yearly basis.
This review is based on the Balance  Score Card that includes the performance of the Company and the  individual director on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative and quantitative  parameters such as volumes, EBITDA, cashﬂ  ows, cost reduction  initiatives, safety, strategic initiatives and special projects as  decided by the Board vis-a-vis targets set in the beginning of the  year.
This review also takes into consideration the benchmark study  undertaken by reputed independent agencies on comparative  industry remuneration and practices.
Incentive remuneration paid/payable is subject to the  achievement of certain performance criteria and such other  parameters as may be considered appropriate from time to time  by the Board, not exceeding 200% of the basic salary.
An indicative  list of factors that the NRC and the Board takes into consideration  for determining the extent of incentive remuneration are the  Company’s performance on certain deﬁ  ned qualitative and  quantitative parameters, industry benchmarks of remuneration  and performance of the individual.
For details pertaining to Managerial Remuneration paid to the  Managing and Executive Directors, the terms of their appointment  and the Remuneration paid to the CEO & Managing Director and  the Non-Executive Directors during FY 2015-16, kindly refer to the  Notice of the AGM and the Board’s Report.
The Company does not  have an Employee Stock Option Scheme.
Members are requested to refer to the Notice of the AGM for  revised terms of appointment and remuneration of the Executive  Directors for FY 2016-17.
Retirement Policy for Directors  The Company has adopted the Tata Group Governance Guidelines  on Board Eﬀ  ectiveness, wherein the Managing and Executive  Directors retire at the age of 65 years.
The Executive Director, who  have been retained on the Company’s Board beyond the age of 65  years as Non-Executive Directors for special reasons may continue  as Directors at the discretion of the Board but in no case beyond  the age of 70 years.
The Company has also adopted a Policy for  Managing and Executive Directors which has also been approved  by the Members of the Company, oﬀ  ering special retirement  beneﬁ  ts including pension, ex-gratia and medical.
In addition to  the above, the retiring Managing Director (except where he is an  expat) is entitled to residential accommodation or compensation  in lieu of accommodation on retirement.
The quantum and  payment of the said beneﬁ  ts are subject to an eligibility criteria of  the retiring director and is payable at the discretion of the Board in  each individual case on the recommendation of the NRC.
Section 149 of the Act provides that an Independent Director shall  hold oﬃ   ce for a term of upto 5 consecutive years on the Board of a  Company and would not be liable to retire by rotation pursuant to  Section 152 of the Act.
An Independent Director would be eligible  to be re-appointed for another 5 years on passing of a Special  Resolution by the Company.
However, no Independent Director  shall hold oﬃ   ce for more than 2 consecutive terms but would be  eligible for appointment after the expiration of 3 years of ceasing  to become an Independent Director.
Provided that, during the said  period of 3 years, he/she is not appointed in or be associated with  the Company in any other capacity, either directly or indirectly.
The retirement age for Independent Directors is 75 years as per  the Governance Guidelines on Board Eﬀ  ectiveness.
Accordingly,  all Independent Directors have a tenure of 5 years each or upon  attaining the retirement age of 75 years, whichever is earlier, as  approved by the Members at the AGM held on July 31, 2014.
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE  The Stakeholders Relationship Committee functions in accordance  with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 read with Part D of  Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Committee comprises  of 2 I ndependent Directors and the CEO & Managing Director, it is empowered to: Corporate Overview Financial Statements 172 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports  Review statutory compliances relating to all security holders.
Consider and resolve the grievances of security holders of  the Company, including complaints related to the transfer  of securities, non-receipt of annual report/ declared  dividends/ notices/ balance sheet.
Oversee compliances in respect of dividend payments and  transfer of unclaimed amounts to the Investor Education  and Protection Fund.
Oversee and review all matters related to the transfer of  securities of the Company.
Approve issue of duplicate certiﬁ  cates of the Company.
Review movements in shareholding and ownership  structures of the Company.
Ensure setting of proper controls and oversee the  performance of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
Recommend measures for overall improvement of the  quality of investor services.
During the year under review, 2 Committee meetings were  held on April 23, 2015 and August 13, 2015, attended by both  the members of the Committee, namely, Mr V K Jairath, who  chaired the meeting and Ms Falguni Nayar.
Mr Guenter Butschek  was appointed as a member of the Committee with eﬀ  ect from  February 15, 2016.
Compliance Offi  c er   Mr H K Sethna, Company Secretary, who is the Compliance  Oﬃ  cer, can be contacted at: Tata Motors Limited, Bombay  House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai - 400 001, India.
Tel: 91 22 6665 8282, 91 22 6665 7824; Fax: 91 22 6665 7260; Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com.
Complaints or queries relating to the shares and/or debentures  can be forwarded to the Company’s Registrar and Transfer  Agents – M/s TSR Darashaw Limited at csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.
com, whereas complaints or queries relating to the public  ﬁ  xed deposits can be forwarded to the Registrars to the  Fixed Deposit Scheme – M/s TSR Darashaw Limited at tmlfd@ tsrdarashaw.com.
Complaints or queries relating to the Rights Issue launched  by the Company vide Letter of Oﬀ  er dated March 30, 2015 of  Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares, can be forwarded to Link Intime  India Private Limited, the Registrar to the Issue, for addressing  any pre & post-Issue related queries / complaints including those  relating to the Applications Supported by Blocked Amount  (ASBA) process.
Tel: (91 22) 6171 5400 / 9167779196 /97; Fax: (91  22) 2596 0329; Website: www.linkintime.co.in; Email: tatamotors.
rights@linkintime.co.in; Contact Person: Ms. Pooja Bhosle  The status on the total number of investor complaints during FY  2015-16 is as follows: Type Nos.
Complaints regarding non-receipt of dividend, shares  lodged for transfer 68 Complaints received from the shareholders through SEBI  and other statutory bodies and resolved 51 Complaints redressed out of the above 116 Pending complaints as on 31.03.2016  3* Other queries received from shareholders and replied 13,603 * The SEBI complaint has been replied within 4 days, but the same has been  refl  ected as unresolved as on 31.03.2016, as per the condition for complete  resolution defi  ned by SEBI.
All letters received from the investors are replied to and the response time for attending to investors’ correspondence during FY2015-16 is shown in the following table: Number % Total number of correspondence received  during 2015-2016 13,722 100.00 Replied within 1 to 4 days of receipt 8,319 60.62 Replied within 5 to 7 days of receipt 3,478 25.34 Replied within 8 to 15 days of receipt 1,332 9.70 Replied after 15 days of receipt (1) 538 3.92 Received in last week of March 2016 have  been replied in April 2016 55 0.40 (1) These correspondence pertained to court cases which involved retrieval  of case fi  les, cases involving retrieval of very old records, co-ordination with  the Company/Advocates etc, partial documents awaited from the Investors,  cases involving registration of legal documents, executed documents received  for issue of duplicate certifi  cates and transmission of shares without legal  representation which involved checking of the documents, sending notices to  Stock Exchange and issue of duplicate certifi  cates/transmission of shares after  approval from the Company.
However, all these cases have been attended to  within the statutory limit of 30 days There were no pending share transfers pertaining to the Financial  Year ended March 31, 2016.
Out of the total number of complaints  mentioned above, 51 complaints pertained to letters received  through Statutory/Regulatory bodies and those related to Court/ Consumer forum matters, fraudulent encashment and non-receipt  of dividend.
On recommendations of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee,  the Company has taken various investor friendly initiatives like  organising a Shareholders’ visit to the Company’s Works at Pune,  sending reminders to investors who have not claimed their dues,  sending nomination forms, etc.
173 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) OTHER COMMITTEES  The Executive Committee of the Board reviews capital and  revenue budgets, long-term business strategies and plans, the  organizational structure of the Company, real estate and investment  transactions, allotment of shares and/or debentures, borrowing and  other routine matters.
The Committee also discusses the matters  pertaining to legal cases, acquisitions and divestment, new business  forays and donations.
During the year under review, 3 Committee  meetings were held on April 17, 2015, September 15, 2015 and  March 14, 2016.
The Executive Committee of the Board comprises of  3 Independent Directors, 1 Non-Executive Director and 2 Whole-time  Directors.
The composition of the Executive Committee of the Board  and attendance at its meetings is given hereunder: Composition Meetings attended Mr Cyrus P Mistry (Chairman) 3 Mr N N Wadia 2 Mr N Munjee 2 Mr S Bhargava 2 Mr R Pisharody 3 Mr S B Borwankar 3 Mr G Butschek* 1 *Appointed as member with eff ect from February 15, 2016.
The Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee was  constituted with the objective of reviewing Safety, Health and  Environment practices.
The terms of reference of the Committee  include the following:   to take a holistic approach to safety, health and environmental  matters in decision making;   to provide direction to Tata Motors Group in carrying out its  safety, health and environment function;   to frame broad guidelines/policies with regard to safety,  health and environment;   to oversee the implementation of these guidelines/ policies; and   to review the policies , processes and systems periodically and  recommend measures for improvement from time to time.
The Committee comprises of 2 Independent Directors including  the Chairman of the Committee and 3 Whole-time Directors viz Dr  R A Mashelkar, (Chairman), Mr V K Jairath, Mr Ravindra Pisharody and  Mr S B Borwankar.
Mr G Butschek was appointed as a member of  the Committee with eﬀ  ect from February 15, 2016.
During the year  under review, one meeting of the Committee was held on August  7, 2015 wherein all the members were present at the said meeting.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee was  constituted by the Board in accordance with the Act to:   Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the activities to be  undertaken by the Company as speciﬁ  ed in Schedule VII of the Act;   Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on  the activities referred to in the above point; and   Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the  Company from time to time.
The CSR Policy is uploaded on the Company’s website as required  under the provisions of Section 135 of the Act and Rule 9 of the  Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
The CSR committee comprises of 2 Independent Directors and 2  Whole-time Directors.
During the year under review, 3 meetings  of the Committee were held on July 9, 2015, November 4, 2015  and January 8, 2016.
The composition of the CSR Committee and  attendance at its meeting is given hereunder: Composition Meetings attended Dr R A Mashelkar (Chairman) 3 Ms Falguni Nayar 1 Mr S B Borwankar 3 Mr G Butschek * -  * Appointed as a member with eff ect from February 15, 2016.
Risk Management Committee is constituted and functions as  per Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, The Committee  comprises of 4 Independent Directors namely, Mr Nasser Munjee,  as Chairman, Dr M ashelkar, Mr V K Jairath and Ms Falguni Nayar as  members.
The terms of reference enumerated in the Committee  Charter are as follows:   Principles and objectives inter alia included assisting the  Board in overseeing the Company’s risk management  process and controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and  funding etc.
and its periodic update thereof to the Board.
Committee shall act and have powers in accordance with the  terms of reference speciﬁ  ed in writing by the Board and shall  be responsible for reviewing the Company’s risk governance  structure, assessment, practice, guidelines etc.
The Committee will report to the Board periodically on  various matters and shall undergo an annual self-evaluation of  its performance and report the results thereof to the Board.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 174 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports During the year under review 1 meeting of the Committee was  held on July 9, 2015, attended by Mr Nasser Munjee, Chairman, Dr Mashelkar and Mr V K Jairath.
Rights Issue Allotment Committee:  Pursuant to the approval  of the Shareholders vide Postal Ballot on March 3, 2015 and the  authority granted by the Board of Directors vide Resolutions  passed on January 27, 2015 and March 25, 2015, the Company  launched a simultaneous but unlinked issue of 15,06,44,759  Ordinary Shares of r2/- each (including the rights oﬀ  ering to  ADR holders) for cash at a price of r450/- on a rights basis to  the eligible Ordinary Shareholders in the ratio of 6 Ordinary  Share for every 109 fully paid-up Ordinary Shares held on the  Book Closure Date, which was April 8, 2015 and 2,65,30,290 ‘A’   Ordinary Shares of r2/- each for cash at a price of r271/- on a  rights basis to the eligible ‘A’ Ordinary Shareholders in the ratio  of 6 ‘A’ Ordinary Share for every 109 fully paid-up ‘A’ Ordinary  Shares held on the said Book Closure Date.
An overwhelming  response was received from the Shareholders on the Rights  Issue which was oversubscribed by 1.21 times and the Company  collected an amount of r9,029.22 crores on the applications on  May 2, 2015.
The Committee of Directors, duly constituted for the purpose of  allotment of Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares of the Company,  comprising of Mr Mistry, Mr Munjee, Ms Nayar, Mr Pisharody and Mr Borwankar, at its meeting held on May 13, 2015, allotted  15,04,90,480 Ordinary Shares (including the American  Depositary Shares representing the Ordinary Shares) and  2,65,09,759 ‘A’ Ordinary Shares in accordance with the basis  of allotment mentioned in the Letter of Oﬀ  er dated March  30, 2015.
All members except Mr Mistry, were present for the  Committee Meeting.
Executive Committee (Excom) comprising of Mr Butschek,  Chairman and various business functional heads such as Mr  Pisharody, Mr Borwankar, President (PVBU), Head Advanced and  Product Engineering P&SC, Chief Human Resource Oﬃ  cer, Head  Corporate Strategy and Business Transformation and Head  Corporate Communications.
The Excom provides oversight on  strategy and key aspects of our business operations.
Apart from the above, the Board of Directors also constitutes  Committee(s) of Directors and/or Executives with speciﬁ  c terms  of reference, as it deems ﬁ  t. CODE OF CONDUCT  Whilst the Tata Code of Conduct is applicable to all Whole-time  Directors and employees of the Company, the Board has also  adopted a Tata Code of Conduct for Non-Executive Directors and  Independent Directors.
Pursuant to Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI  Listing Regulations, all members of senior management have  conﬁ rmed that there are no material, ﬁ  nancial and commercial  transactions wherein they have a personal interest that may have  a potential conﬂ  ict with the interest of the Company at large.
Pursuant to Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all the  Board members and senior management of the Company as on  March 31, 2016 have aﬃ   rmed compliance with their respective  Codes of Conduct.
A Declaration to this eﬀ  ect, duly signed by the  CEO and Managing Director is annexed hereto.
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS Date Year Special Resolutions passed Venue and  Time August  13, 2015 2014- 2015   Oﬀ er or invite for Subscription  of Non-Convertible Debentures  on private placement basis Birla Matushri  Sabhagar,19,  Sir Vithaldas  Thackersey  Marg, Mumbai -  400 020 3:00 p.m. July 31,  2014 2013- 2014   Invitation and acceptance  of Fixed Deposits from the  Members and Public August  21, 2013 2012- 2013  Commission to non Whole-time  Directors   Increase in the limit for  holding by registered Foreign  Institutional Investors (FIIs) for ‘A’  Ordinary Shares All resolutions moved at the last AGM were passed by means of  electronic and physical voting, by the requisite majority of members  attending the meeting.
None of the businesses proposed to be  transacted at the ensuing AGM require the passing of a special  resolution by way of postal ballot.
There were no resolutions passed by Postal Ballot by the Company  during the year under review.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION  The Quarterly, Half Yearly and Annual Results are regularly submitted  to the Stock Exchanges in accordance with the Listing Agreement  / Regulations, as applicable and are generally published in the  Indian Express, Financial Express and the Loksatta (Marathi).
The  175 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) Company has emailed to the Members who had provided email  addresses, the half yearly results of the Company.
The information  regarding the performance of the Company is shared with the  shareholders vide the Annual Report.
The oﬃ   cial news releases,  including on the quarterly and annual results and presentations  made to institutional investors and analysts are also posted on  the Company’s website (www.tatamotors.com) in the ‘Investors’  section.
The Annual Report, Quarterly Results, Shareholding Pattern,  Press Releases, Intimation of Board Meetings and other relevant  information of the Company are posted through BSE Corporate  Compliance & Listing Centre and the NSE Electronic Application  Processing System (NEAPS) portals for investor information.
Green Initiative In support of the “Green Initiative” undertaken by the Ministry of  Corporate Aﬀ airs, the Company had during the ﬁ  nancial year 2015- 16 sent various communications including intimation of dividend  and Half Yearly Communiqué by email to those shareholders  whose email addresses were registered with the depositories or  the Registrar and Transfer Agents.
All agenda papers for the Board and Committee meetings are  disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading  them on a secured online application speciﬁ  cally designed for this  purpose.
In line with the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has emailed  soft copies of its Annual Report to all those shareholders who  have registered their email address for the said purpose.
We would  greatly appreciate and encourage more Members to register their  email address with their Depository Participant or the Registrar  and Transfer Agent of the Company, to receive soft copies of  the Annual Report, Postal Ballot Notices and other information  disseminated by the Company, on a real-time basis without any  delay.
GENERAL INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS The Company is registered with the Registrar of Companies,  Mumbai, Maharashtra.
The Corporate identiﬁ  cation Number (CIN)  allotted to the Company by the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ airs (MCA)  is L28920MH1945PLC004520.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Date and Time Tuesday, August 9, 2016 at 3:00 p.m. Venue Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, Sir Vithaldas  Thackersey Marg, Mumbai 400 020 FINANCIAL CALENDAR (TENTATIVE) Financial Year ending March 31  Results for the Quarter ending June 30, 2016 On or before August 14, 2016 September 30, 2016 On or before November 14, 2016 December 31, 2016 On or before February 14, 2017 March 31, 2017 On or before May 30, 2017 Date of Book Closure Wednesday, July 20, 2016 to Tuesday,  August 9, 2016 (both days inclusive) for  payment of dividend.
Date of Dividend  payment August 11, 2016, if dividend is declared by  members at the AGM.
LISTINGS  The Company’s shares are listed on the BSE Ltd. (BSE) and the  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE).
The following are the  details of the Company’s shares: Type Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares ISIN INE155A01022 IN9155A01020 BSE – Stock Code 500570 570001 NSE – Stock Code TATAMOTORS TATAMTRDVR BSE - Address Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street,  Mumbai 400 001; www.bseindia.com NSE - Address “Exchange Plaza” , Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra  (E), Mumbai 400 051; www.nseindia.com The Company has paid Annual Listing fees for FY 2016-17 to all  the Stock Exchanges (both domestic and international) where the  Company’s securities are listed.
Attention is also drawn to foreign listing and listing of debt securities  of the Company, as mentioned under Outstanding Securities below.
MARKET INFORMATION  Market price data - monthly high/low of the closing price and  trading volumes on BSE/NSE depicting liquidity of the Company’s  Ordinary Shares and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares on the said exchanges is  given hereunder:- Corporate Overview Financial Statements 176 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares  Month BSE NSE BSE NSE High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares High (`) Low (`) No.
of  Shares Apr-15 567.55 508.45 7937445 568.15 508.25 14217444 354.40 311.30 1289849 354.65 310.70 34517076 May-15 529.65 471.65 11261563 529.70 471.75 35554611 322.20 295.40 2989227 322.75 295.10 34331174 Jun-15 472.15 421.60 15509821 472.05 421.80 39898077 291.40 261.20 2461162 290.65 260.60 46564368 Jul-15 444.80 370.45 17591395 444.50 370.10 144707185 264.45 232.65 5663017 263.80 232.10 62710010 Aug-15 392.55 309.70 28056514 393.40 308.25 58773025 268.05 218.80 7349566 267.85 219.25 72944494 Sep-15 354.25 285.25 64992266 354.10 285.00 176541896 248.45 206.60 5714600 248.65 206.85 67162389 Oct-15 391.25 297.00 18490823 391.20 297.75 223720096 272.75 218.30 4585381 272.80 218.60 45285403 Nov-15 423.35 382.05 12876773 424.40 382.05 175007744 299.65 259.60 3542775 299.75 259.65 106804814 Dec-15 417.40 371.70 11711334 417.35 371.60 153232921 290.45 271.60 2249087 290.60 270.65 36711439 Jan-16 401.65 329.40 17738047 401.90 328.55 184037689 296.95 247.90 2810896 296.60 248.25 36901882 Feb-16 338.35 275.65 22421111 338.50 276.65 251270913 262.95 214.45 3032273 263.20 214.80 47679121 Mar-16 388.90 315.30 14274415 388.60 315.35 180650695 288.65 238.40 2251939 288.35 237.85 50113397 The Performance of the Company’s Stock Price vis-à-vis Sensex, Auto Index and ADR: Ordinary Shares in BSE ‘A’ Ordinary Shares ADR Price BSE SENSEX & AUTO INDEX Tata Motors Ordinary Shares (`) Apr/15 May/15 Jun/15 Jul/15 Aug/15 Sep/15 Oct/15 Nov/15 Dec/15 Jan/16 Feb/16 Mar/16 Apr/15 May/15 Jun/15 Jul/15 Aug/15 Sep/15 Oct/15 Nov/15 Dec/15 Jan/16 Feb/16 Mar/16 BSE Sensex  35000 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Auto Index Ordinary Shares in BSE 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 $50 $45 $40 $35 $30 $25 $20 $15 $10 $5 $0 Ordinary & ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (`) ADR (US$) The monthly high and low of the Company’s ADRs is given below: Month High Low April 2015 46.35 41.19 May 2015 42.63 37.84 June 2015 37.91 34.01 July 2015 34.56 28.72 August 2015 30.31 22.49 September 2015 25.99 21.73 October 2015 29.70 22.33 November 2015 31.57 29.58 December 2015 30.89 27.15 January 2016 28.33 23.98 February 2016 25.50 20.56 March 2016 29.05 23.73 REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS  For share related matters, Members are requested to correspond with  the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents – M/s TSR Darashaw  Limited quoting their folio no./DP ID & Client ID at the following  addresses:  1.
For transfer lodgment, delivery and correspondence:  TSR Darashaw Limited, Unit: Tata Motors Limited,  6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate, 20, Dr. E  Moses Road, (Nr.
Famous Studios) Mahalaxmi, Mumbai  – 400 011.
Tel: 022-6656 8484; Fax: 022- 6656 8494; e-mail : csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com; website:www.tsrdarashaw.com  2.
For the convenience of investors based in the following cities,  transfer documents and letters will also be accepted at the  following branches/agencies of TSR Darashaw Limited:   (i)  Bangalore: 503, Barton Centre, 5th Floor, 84, Mahatma  Gandhi Road, Bangalore – 560 001.
Tel: 080 – 25320321, Fax: 080 – 25580019,   e-mail: tsrdlbang@tsrdarashaw.com  177 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184)  (ii)  Jamshedpur: Bungalow No.1, “E” Road, Northern Town,  Bistupur, Jamshedpur – 831 001.
Tel: 0657 – 2426616, Fax: 0657 – 2426937,    email : tsrdljsr@tsrdarashaw.com   (iii)  Kolkata: Tata Centre, 1st Floor, 43, Jawaharlal Nehru Road,  Kolkata – 700 071.
Tel: 033 – 22883087, Fax: 033 – 22883062,   e-mail: tsrdlcal@tsrdarashaw.com   (iv)  New Delhi: Plot No.2/42, Sant Vihar, Ansari Road, Daryaganj,  New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel : 011 – 23271805, Fax : 011 – 23271802,   e-mail : tsrdldel@tsrdarashaw.com   (v)  Ahmedabad: Agent of TSRDL – Shah Consultancy Services  Pvt.
Limited: 3-Sumathinath Complex, Pritam Nagar  Akhada Road, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad -380 006.
Tel: 079-2657 6038,    e-mail: shahconsultancy8154@gmail.com  For Fixed Deposits: The investors are requested to correspond with  the Registrars to the Fixed Deposit Scheme – TSR Darashaw Limited  at the same addresses as mentioned above or send an e-mail at  tmlfd@tsrdarashaw.com.
Tel: 022-66568484  For Rights Issue related matters: The Company made a Rights  Issue vide Letter of Oﬀ  er dated March 30, 2015 and Members are  requested to correspond with Link Intime India Private Limited, the  Registrar to the Issue, for addressing any pre-Issue/ post-Issue related  matter, including all grievances relating to the Applications Supported  by Blocked Amount (ASBA) process.
Contact details: C-13, Pannalal Silk  Mills Compound, L.B.S.
Marg, Bhandup (West), Mumbai 400 078;  Tel: (91 22) 6171 5400 / 9167779196 /97; Fax: (91 22) 2596 0329;  Website: www.linkintime.co.in; Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.
co.in; Contact Person: Pooja Bhosle SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM  Securities lodged for transfer at the Registrar’s address are normally  processed within 15 days from the date of lodgment, if the documents  are clear in all respects.
All requests for dematerialization of securities  are processed and the conﬁ  rmation is given to the depositories  within 15 days.
The Executives of the Registrar are empowered to  approve transfer of shares and debentures and other investor related  matters.
Grievances received from investors and other miscellaneous  correspondence on change of address, mandates, etc.
are processed  by the Registrars within 15 days.
The following compliances pertain  to share transfers, grievances, etc.
:  (1)  Pursuant to Regulation 7(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  certiﬁ  cates are ﬁ  led with the stock exchanges on half yearly  basis by the Compliance Oﬃ   cer and the representative of  the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent for maintenance of an  appropriate share transfer facility.
(2)  Pursuant to Regulation 13(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  a statement on pending investor complaints is ﬁ  led with the  stock exchanges and placed before the Board of Directors on a  quarterly basis.
(3)  A Company Secretary-in-Practice carried out a Reconciliation  of Share Capital Audit on a quarterly basis to reconcile the total  admitted capital with the depositories viz National Securities  Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services  Limited (CDSL) and the total issued and listed capital.
The audit  conﬁ  rms that the total issued/paid up capital is in agreement  with the aggregate of the total number of shares in physical  form and the total number of shares in dematerialized form  (held with NSDL and CDSL).
(4)  Pursuant to Regulation 61(4) read together with Regulation  40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a Company Secretary-in- Practice certiﬁ  cate is ﬁ  led with the stock exchanges within one  month from the end of each half of the ﬁ  nancial year, certifying  that all certiﬁ  cates are issued within thirty days of the date of  lodgement for transfer, sub-division, consolidation, renewal,  exchange or endorsement of calls/ allotment monies  Action required for non-receipt of dividends, proceeds of  matured deposits and interest and redeemed debentures and  interest thereon:  (i)   Pursuant to Sections 205A and 205C of the Companies  Act, 1956, (Section 124 and 125 of the Act) or as amended  or re-enacted, all unclaimed/unpaid dividend, application  money, debenture interest and interest on deposits as well  as principal amount of debentures and deposits pertaining  to the Company and erstwhile Tata Finance Limited (TFL)  remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 7 years  from the date they became due for payment, have been  transferred to the Investors Education and Protection Fund  (IEPF) established by the Central Government.
(ii)  In case of non-receipt/ non encashment of the dividend  warrants, Members are requested to correspond with  the Company’s Registrars/the Registrar of Companies, as  mentioned hereunder: Dividend  for Whether  it can be  claimed Contact  Offi  ce Action to be taken 2014-15 N.A.
- Not Applicable due  to non-declaration of  dividend.
2009-10 to  2013-14 Yes TSR Darashaw  Limited  Letter on plain paper.
2002-03 to  2008-09 No - None.
Already transferred  to IEPF.
In respect of 2008- 09, would be transferred  in August 2016 2000-01 and  2001-02  N.A.
- Not Applicable due  to non-declaration of  dividend.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 178 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports 1995-96 to  1999-00  No - None.
Already transferred  to IEPF.
1978-79 to  1994-95  Yes The Registrar  of Companies,  CGO Complex,  ‘A’ Wing, Next  to RBI, CBD  – Belapur,  Navi Mumbai  – 400614  Maharashtra Tel.
: 91 22 2757  6802 Claim in Form No.
II of  the Companies Unpaid  Dividend (Transfer  to General Revenue  Account of the Central  Government) Rules, 1978  or such other Form as  may be prescribed by the  MCA.
(iii)  Following table gives information relating to outstanding  dividend accounts and due dates for claiming dividend: Financial Year Date of Declaration Last date for  claiming dividend * 2008-09 August 25, 2009 August 24, 2016 2009-10 September 1, 2010 August 31, 2017 2010-11 August 12, 2011 August 11, 2018 2011-12 August 10, 2012 August 9, 2019 2012-13 August 21, 2013 August 20, 2020 2013-14 July 31, 2014 July 30, 2021 2014-15 No dividend declared *Indicative dates.
Actual dates may vary.
(iv)  As of Ma rch 31, 2016, the Company transferred `21,47,41,667.34  to IEPF, including the following amounts during the year.
(in `) Particulars FY 2015-16 Unpaid dividend amounts of the Company 1,80,73,455 Application moneys received for allotment of any  securities and due for refund - Unpaid matured deposit with the Company 56,768 Unpaid matured debentures with the Company - Interest accrued on matured deposits with the Company - Interest accrued on matured debentures with the Company - Total 1,81,30,223 (v)  While the Company’s Registrar has already written to the  Members, Debenture holders and Depositors informing  them about the due dates for transfer to IEPF for unclaimed  dividends/interest payments, attention of the stakeholders is  again drawn to this matter through the Annual Report.
The  data on unpaid / unclaimed dividend and other unclaimed  monies is also available on the Company’s website under the  head (http://www.tatamotors.com/investor/iepf/)    Investors of the Company who have not yet encashed their  unclaimed/unpaid amounts are requested to do so at the  earliest.
(vi)  Other facilities of interest to shareholders holding shares in  physical form:    As per Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI of the SEBI  Listing Regulations, the Company has sent 9915 reminders  in February 2013 and 8994 reminders in August 10, 2015  to those shareholders whose certiﬁ  cates have been  returned undelivered.
These certiﬁ  cates are currently lying  with the Registrar and Transfer Agents of the Company.
Members, holding the Company’s shares in physical form,  are requested to tally their holding with the certiﬁ  cates in  their possession and revert in case of any discrepancy in  holdings.
In case there is no response after three reminders,  the unclaimed shares shall be transferred to one folio in the  name of “Unclaimed Suspense Account” and the voting  rights on such shares shall remain frozen untill the rightful  owner claims the shares.
Nomination facility: Shareholders, who hold shares in single  name or wish to make/change the nomination in respect  of their shares as permitted under the Act, may submit in  the prescribed form to the Registrars and Transfer Agents.
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2016 Ordinary Shares Range of Shares No.
of Shares No.
of shareholders No.
of shares Physical  form (%) Demat form  (%) % of Capital No.
of Holders Physical  form (%) Demat  form (%) % of Capital 1 – 500 42,607,963 0.20 1.28 1.48 425,291 7.33 77.91 85.24 501 – 1000 22,743,691 0.15 0.64 0.79 31,406 1.21 5.08 6.29 1001 – 2000 29,350,587 0.19 0.83 1.02 20,644 0.78 3.36 4.14 2001 – 5000 44,186,112 0.24 1.29 1.53 14,403 0.46 2.43 2.89 5001 – 10000 27,244,682 0.11 0.83 0.94 3,962 0.09 0.70 0.79 Above 10000 2,721,070,567 0.23 94.01 94.24 3,252 0.04 0.61 0.65 Total 2,887,203,602 1.12 98.88 100.00 498,958 9.91 90.09 100.00 179 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) A’ Ordinary Shares Range of Shares No.
of Shares No.
of shareholders No.
of shares Physical  form (%) Demat form  (%) % of Capital No.
of Holders Physical  form (%) Demat  form (%) % of Capital 1 – 500 8,996,439 0.02 1.75 1.77 86,828 0.98 85.98 86.97 501 – 1000 3,992,778 0.01 0.78 0.79 5,495 0.07 5.43 5.50 1001 – 2000 4,472,642 0.01 0.87 0.88 3,170 0.03 3.15 3.17 2001 – 5000 6,954,517 0.00 1.36 1.36 2,216 0.01 2.21 2.22 5001 -10000 6,259,466 0.00 1.23 1.23 892 0.00 0.89 0.89 Above 10000 477,800,862 0.00 93.97 93.97 1,251 0.00 1.25 1.25 Total 508,476,704 0.04 99.96 100.00 99,852 1.09 98.91 100.00 For details on the Shareholding pattern, kindly refer Form MGT-9  appended to the Boards’ Report of this Annual Report.
DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES The electronic holding of the shares as on March 31, 2016 through  NSDL and CDSL are as follows: Particulars Ordinary Shares (%) ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (%) 2016 2015 2016 2015 NSDL 97.43 97.70 97.45 97.93 CDSL 1.45 1.05 2.50 2.02 Total 98.88 98.75 99.95 99.95 OUTSTANDING SECURITIES Outstanding Depositary Receipts/Warrants or Convertible  instruments, conversion / maturity date and likely impact on equity  as on March 31, 2016 are as follows:  Depositary Receipts: The Company has 98,392,840 ADSs listed on  the New York Stock Exchange as on March 31, 2016.
Each Depository  Receipt represents 5 underlying Ordinary Shares of r2/- each.
Listing on Foreign Stock  Exchange New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Security Type American Depositary Receipts  (ADRs) ISIN US8765685024 Stock Code / Ticker TTM Address NYSE, 20 Broad Street, New York,  NY 10005    Senior Unsecured Notes: In October 2014, the Company  issued a dual tranche of Senior Unsecured Notes aggregating  US$ 750 million, details of which are given hereunder:  Security Type ISIN Issue Size (US$ million) Yield per annum (%) Date of Maturity Listing Senior Unsecured Notes XS1121907676 500 4.625% April 30, 2020 Singapore Stock  ExchangeSenior Unsecured Notes XS1121908211 250 5.750% October 30, 2024 Overseas Depositary Domestic Custodian Citibank N.A., 388 Greenwich Street, 14th Floor,  New York, NY 10013 Citibank N.A., Trent House, 3rd Floor, G-60, Bandra Kurla Complex,  Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051  There are no outstanding warrants or any other convertible instruments issued by the Company.
The following Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) are listed on NSE and BSE under the Debt Market segment*: Series No.
Stock Exchange  Listing ISIN Principal Amount  (` in crores) Yield to  Maturity (%) Date of Maturity E 22 NSE INE155A07219 200 9.95 March 2, 2020 E 22A NSE INE155A07227 500 10.25 - Rs.100 crores on April 30, 2022 and April  30, 2023 - Rs.150 crores on April 30, 2024 and April 30, 2025 E 23A NSE INE155A08043 150 9.90 May 7, 2020 E 23B NSE INE155A08050 100 9.75 May 24, 2020 Corporate Overview Financial Statements 180 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Vijaya Bank, Merchant Banking Division, Head Oﬃ   ce, 41/2, M.G.
Road, Trinity Circle, Bangalore – 560 001 are the Trustees for all the  debenture series mentioned above except for E27A Series.
They may be contacted at Tel.
: +91 80 25584066 (Ext.
867), 25584603, Fax : +91 80 25584764, Email id: merchantbkg@vijayabank.co.in.
# Debenture Trustee for the E27A series of NCDs : IL&FS Trust Company Limited The IL&FS Financial Centre, 7th Floor, East Quadrant, Plot C- 22,  G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051 debenture trustees for the E27A series of NCDs.
They may be contacted at Tel.
: +91  22 26593612, Fax : + 91 22 2653 3297, Email id: itcl@ilfsindia.com.
PLANT LOCATIONS Location Range of Products Produced  Pimpri, Pune – 411 018; Chikhali, Pune – 410 501; Chinchwad, Pune – 411 033 Medium and Heavy Commercial  Vehicles (M&HCVs), Light  Commercial Vehicles (LCVs), Utility  Vehicles (UVs) and Cars Jamshedpur – 831 010 Intermediate Commercial Vehicles  (ICVs) and M&HCVs  Chinhat Industrial Area, Dewa  Road,Chinhat, Lucknow – 226 019 M&HCVs and LCVs Plot No.
1, Sector 11 and Plot No.
14,  Sector 12, I.I.E., Pantnagar, District  Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand –  263 145 LCVs, M&HCVs and UVs Revenue Survey No.
1, Village  Northkotpura, Tal, Sanand,  Dist.
Ahmedabad – 380 015  Cars KIADB Block II, Belur Industrial Area,  Mummigatti Post, Dharwad – 580 011 Small Commercial Vehicles (SCVs) and LCVs Series No.
Stock Exchange  Listing ISIN Principal Amount  (` in crores) Yield to  Maturity (%) Date of Maturity E 23C NSE INE155A08068 150 9.70 June18, 2020 E 24A NSE INE155A08076 250 10.00 May 26, 2017 E 24B NSE INE155A08084 110 10.00 May 28, 2019 E 24D NSE INE155A08100 300 9.84 March 10, 2017 E 24E NSE INE155A08118 200 9.69 March 29, 2019 E 24F NSE INE155A08126 200 9.45 March 29, 2018 E 25D NSE INE155A08167 300 8.95 April 29, 2016 E 25E NSE INE155A08175 300 8.73 May 17, 2016 E26A NSE INE155A08183 190 10.30 November 30, 2018 E26B NSE INE155A08191 300 9.81 August 20, 2024  E26C NSE INE155A08209 200 9.77 September 12, 2024 E26D (Option - I) NSE INE155A08217 300 9.71 October 1, 2019 E26D (Option - II) NSE INE155A08225 400 9.73 October 1, 2020 E26E NSE & BSE INE155A08233 400 9.60 October 29, 2022 E26F NSE & BSE INE155A08241 400 9.35 November 10, 2023 E26G NSE & BSE INE155A08258 300 9.02 December 10, 2021 E26H NSE & BSE INE155A08266 300 8.60 February 2, 2018  E27A # NSE & BSE INE155A08274 300 8.25 January 28, 2019 *Detailed information on the above debentures is included in the ‘Notes to Accounts’ .
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE For Investor Queries Retail / HNI Investors Mr. H. K. Sethna, Company Secretary Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street,  Mumbai - 400 001, India  Phone : 91-22- 6665 7824; Fax : 91-22- 6665 7260 Email : inv_rel@tatamotors.com Institutional Investors Mr. V. B. Somaiya, Head  (Treasury & Investor Relations)  3rd ﬂ  oor, Nanavati Mahalaya,  18, HomiMody Street, Mumbai - 400 001, INDIA  Phone : 91-22-66658282 Email : ir_tml@tatamotors.com For Fixed Deposit, Rights Issue and other Share related  queries Kindly refer details mentioned herein above under the head  ‘Registrar and Transfer Agents’  181 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) iii.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and Regulation  22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations the Company has in place a  Vigil Mechanism and a Whistle-Blower Policy duly approved by  the Audit Committee which provides a formal mechanism for  all Directors and employees of the Company to approach the  Management of the Company (Audit Committee in case where  the concern involves the Senior Management) and make  protective disclosures to the Management about unethical  behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the  Company’s Code of Conduct or Ethics policy.
The disclosures  reported are addressed in the manner and within the time  frames prescribed in the Policy.
The Company aﬃ  rms that no  director or employee of the Company has been denied access  to the Audit Committee.
iv.
The Company has complied with all the mandatory  requirements of corporate governance including those  speciﬁ  ed in sub-paras (2) to (10) of Part C of Schedule V of the  SEBI Listing Regulations.
v.  The Company also fulﬁ  lled the following non-mandatory  requirements as speciﬁ  ed in Regulation 27(1) read with Part E  of the Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations:    The Board: The Non-Executive Chairman maintains a separate  oﬃ   ce, for which the Company does not reimburse expenses.
Shareholder Rights: Details are given under the heading  “Means of Communications” .
Modiﬁ  ed opinion in Audit Report: During the year under  review, there was no audit qualiﬁ  cation in the Auditors’  Report on the Company’s ﬁ  nancial statements.
The  Company continues to adopt best practices to ensure a  regime of unqualiﬁ  ed ﬁ  nancial statements.
Separate posts of Chairman and CEO: The post of the Non-  Executive Chairman of the Board is separate from that of  the CEO and Managing Director.
Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Chief Internal Auditor  reports to the Audit Committee of the Company, to ensure  independence of the Internal Audit function.
vi.
C ommodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging  activities:   During the FY 2015-16, the Company had managed the foreign  exchange risk and hedged to the extent considered necessary.
The Company enters into forward contracts for hedging foreign  exchange exposures against exports and imports.
The details of  foreign currency exposure are disclosed in Note No.
37 to the  Annual Accounts.
vii.
The Company is in compliance with the disclosures required  to be made under this report in accordance with Regulation  34(3) read together with Schedule V(C) to the SEBI Listing  Regulations.
viii.
Disclosures on compliance with corporate governance  requirements speciﬁ  ed in Regulations 17 to 27 have been  included in the relevant sections of this report.
Appropriate  information has been placed on the Company’s website  pursuant to clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation   46 of the Listing Regulations.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  The Company does not have any material non-listed Indian subsidiary  company and hence, it is not required to have an Independent  Director of the Company on the Board of such subsidiary company.
However, the following Independent Directors of the Company, are  also present in an independent capacity, on the Board of the below  mentioned subsidiary companies: Common Independent  Directors Presence on the Board of Subsidiary  Companies Mr Nasser Munjee Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc and Tata  Motors Finance Limited Dr R A Mashelkar TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited Mr Subodh Bhargava Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited Mr V K Jairath Concorde Motors (India) Limited, TML  Distribution Company Limited and Tata Motors  Finance Solutions Limited Ms Falguni Nayar Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited and Tata  Technologies Limited The Company adopted a Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries  of the Company, pursuant to Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing  Regulations.
This policy is available on the Company’s website  pursuant to Regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Audit Committee also has a 2-day meeting wherein the CEO  and CFO of subsidiary companies make a presentation on signiﬁ  cant  issues in audit, internal control, risk management, etc.
Signiﬁ  cant  issues pertaining to subsidiary companies are also discussed at Audit  Committee meetings of the Company.
The minutes of the subsidiary companies are placed before the  Board of Directors of the Company and the attention of the Directors  is drawn to signiﬁ  cant transactions and arrangements entered into  by the subsidiary companies.
The performance of its subsidiaries is  also reviewed by the Board periodically.
DISCLOSURES  i.
Details of relevant related party transactions entered into  by the Company are included in the Boards’ Report and in  the Notes to Accounts.
The Company has in place a Policy  on Related Party Transactions setting out (a) the materiality  thresholds for related parties and (b) the manner of dealing  with transactions between the Company and related parties,  including omnibus approvals by the Audit Committee based  on the provisions of the Act and Regulation 23 of the SEBI  Listing Regulations.
During the year, there were no materially  signiﬁ  cant transactions with related parties, as per the Policy  adopted by the Company that have potential conﬂ  ict with the  interests of the Company at large.
All transactions with related  parties entered into by the Company were in the normal course  of business on an arm’s length basis and were approved by the  Audit Committee.
ii.
The Company has complied with various rules and regulations  prescribed by the Stock Exchanges, Securities and Exchange  Board of India or any other statutory authority relating to the  capital markets during the last 3 years.
No penalties or strictures  have been imposed by them on the Company.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 182 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Information on the Company’s website including key policies, codes and charters, adopted by the Company are given below: On behalf of the Board of Directors CYRUS P MISTRY Chairman Mumbai,  May 30, 2016 Name of Policy,  Code or Charter Brief Description Web Link Terms of  Appointment  of Independent  Directors Relevant extracts form the appointment letter issued to  Independent Directors detailing the broad terms and conditions  of their appointment.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/Terms-of-Appointment-ID.
pdf Board  committees The composition of various committees of the Board http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/leadership/ Tata Code of  Conduct Represents the values and core principles that guide the conduct  of every Tata business.
The Code lays down the ethical standards  that Tata colleagues need to observe in their professional lives.
a) For Whole-time Directors & Employees: http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.
amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of- conduct.pdf b) For Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/ned-id.pdf Whistleblower  Policy (Vigil  Mechanism) The Whistleblower policy has been formulated for Directors and  employees of the Company to report concerns about unethical  behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Tata Code  of Conduct.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf Policy on  Related Party  Transactions A policy on materiality of related party transactions and regulates  all transactions between the Company and its related parties.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/rpt-policy.pdf Policy on Material  Subsidiaries This policy is to determine material subsidiaries and material  non-listed Indian subsidiaries of the Company and to provide  governance framework for them.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/material.pdf Familiarisation  Programme For Independent Directors through various programmes/  presentations.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/familiarisation- programme-independent-directors.pdf Policy on  determination  of Materiality  for Disclosure  of Event /  Information This policy applies to disclosures of material events aﬀ ecting the  Company and its subsidiaries.
This policy is in addition to the  company’s corporate policy.
http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.
amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/12061154/ materiality.pdf Content  Archiving Policy The policy provides guidelines for archiving of corporate records  and documents as statutorily required by the Company.
http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.
amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/12061154/ content-archiving-policy.pdf Unpaid divident  account details Statement of unclaimed and unpaid amounts to be transferred  to the IEPF  http://www.tatamotors.com/investor/iepf Corporate Social  Responsibility   Policy The policy outlines the Company’s strategy to bring about a  positive impact on society through programmes focusing on  Health, Education, Employability and Environment interventions  for relevant target groups, ensuring diversity and giving  preference to needy and deserving communities inhabiting  urban India.
http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.
amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/12061154/csr- policy-15-161.pdf Audit Committee  Charter Inter alia outlines the terms of reference, composition, quorum,  meeting requirements, authority and responsibility of the Audit  Committee of the Company.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/audit_committee_charter.pdf Code of  Corporate  Disclosure  Practices This policy is aimed at providing timely, adequate, uniform  and universal dissemination of information and disclosure of  Unpublished Price Sensitive Information outside the Company  in order to provide accurate and timely communication to our  shareholders and the ﬁ  nancial markets.
http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/csr-policy-16-17.pdf Information on the Company’s website including key policies, codes and charters, adopted by the Company are given below: 183 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Report Business Responsibility Report (166-184) DECLARATION BY THE CEO UNDER REGULATION  26(3) READ WITH PARA D OF SCHEDULE  V OF  THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015  REGARDING ADHERENCE TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT  Pursuant to Regulation 26(3) read with Para D of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regul ations, 2015,  the Board Members and the Senior Management personnel of the Company have aﬃ  rmed compliance to their respective Codes of Conduct,  as applicable to them for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2016.
For Tata Motors Limited  Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing Director Mumbai, May 30, 2016 PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED  We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Tata Motors Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended on  March 31, 2016, as stipulated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement of the Company with the Stock Exchanges (“Listing Agreement”) for the  period April 1, 2015 to November 30, 2015 and Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E  of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“ SEBI Listing  Regulations”) for the period December 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016.
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management.
Our examination was limited t o the  review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corpo rate  Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and the representations made by the Directors  and the management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the L isting  Agreement and the SEBI Listing Regulations applicable for the respective periods as mentioned above.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the eﬃ  ciency or eﬀ ectiveness  with which the management has conducted the aﬀ  airs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates Practising Company Secretaries  P .
N. PARIKH  FCS: 327 CP: 1228  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 Corporate Overview Financial Statements 184 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports INTRODUCTION BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT With a legacy of over six decades, Tata Motors Limited continues to  be India’s largest automobile company with consolidated revenues  of  R 2,75,561 crores in Fiscal 2016.
Sustainability and the spirit of  ‘giving back to society’ is a core philosophy and good corporate  citizenship is strongly embedded in our DNA.
We are the ﬁ  rst Indian  company in engineering sector to be listed on the New York Stock  Exchange.
Regarded as leaders in commercial vehicles in each  segment, and among top three in passenger vehicles in India, we  are also the world’s fourth largest truck and bus manufacturer.
We are  present across all segments of commercial vehicles and passenger  vehicles with over 6,600 dealerships, sales, services and spare parts  network touch points globally.
The Business Responsibility disclosures in this Report illustrate our  eﬀ orts towards creating enduring value for all stakeholders in a  responsible manner.
This Report is aligned with National Voluntary  Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities  of Business (NVG-SEE) released by Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ  airs,  and is in accordance with Regulation 34(2)(f ) of the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (SEBI) (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
This Report provides an overview  of the activities carried out by Tata Motors under each of the nine  principles as outlined in NVG.
SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE  COMPANY 1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company:  L28920MH1945PLC004520 2.
Name of the Company: Tata Motors Limited 3.
Registered address: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street,  Mumbai - 400001 4.
Website: http://www.tatamotors.com/ 5.
E-mail id: inv_rel@tatamotors.com 6.
Financial Year reported: 2015 – 16 7.
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial  activity code-wise) NIC  Code Description 2910 Manufacture of motor vehicles 2920 Manufacture of bodies (coachwork) for motor vehicles 2930 Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles 4530 Sale of motor vehicle parts and accessories 8.
List three key products/services that the Company  manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet) i) Passenger Cars ii) Commercial Vehicles iii) Vehicles sales and service   (Please refer to our website www.tatamotors.com for complete list  of our products) 9.
Total number of locations where business activity is  undertaken by the Company  i.
Number of International Locations (Provide details of  major 5): Through subsidiaries and associate companies,  Tata Motors operates in over 175 markets and has over  6600 sales and service touch points.
The Company has  manufacturing facilities in the UK, South Korea, Thailand,  South Africa and Indonesia.
ii.
Number of National Locations – Tata Motors manufacturing  base in India is spread across Jamshedpur (Jharkhand),  Pune (Maharashtra), Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Pantnagar  (Uttarakhand), Sanand (Gujarat) and Dharwad (Karnataka).
Please refer “Presence across markets” section of Company’s  Annual Report Fiscal 2016 for complete list of our global  operations.
10.
Markets served by the Company - Local/State/National/ International      Tata Motors vehicles and services cater to entire Indian market.
The company’s commercial and passenger vehicles are already  being marketed in several countries in North America, Central  and South America, Africa, Europe, Asia and Oceania.
Please refer “Presence across markets” section of Company’s  Annual Report FY 2015-2016 for complete list of markets served.
SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY  1.
Paid up Capital (INR): r679.13 Crores      2.
Total Turnover (INR): r46,646.67 Crores (This is standalone  ﬁ  gure)  3.
Total profi t after taxes (INR): Proﬁ  t of r234.23 crores (This  is standalone ﬁ  gure)  4.
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibilit (CSR) as percentage of profi  t after tax (%): Total  expenditure reported is R  20.57 Crores.
(% of proﬁ  ts: Not  Applicable in view of losses for the FY ended March 31,  2015) [Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing Regulations] 185 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (185-196)  5.
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has  been incurred: - The Company has been regularly conducting a community  engagement strategy which revolves around four focus themes; i)  Arogya (Health): The focus is to work on Addressing Child  Malnutrition, Health Awareness for Females.
This initiative  provides Preventive & Curative Health services to community.
In Fiscal 2016, 178200 members beneﬁ  ted from our health  initiatives.
ii)  Vidyadhanam (Education): This initiative aims to improve the  quality of education in schools by supporting for infrastructure,  skills development, training and institutionalized need based  scholarships.
Tata Samarth Scholarship program run jointly  with Tata Communication has beneﬁ  ted 51000 aspiring  engineers from economically weaker sections of society.
iii)  Kaushalya (Employability):  This program has been developed  considering enhanced skill development among youth.
It  includes infusing marketable skills in school dropout youth in  auto sector, non-auto trades, agriculture and allied activities.
It  also, strengthens the Industrial Training institutes by oﬀ  ering  domain expertise through knowledge partnership.
Through our Affi  rmative Action program,   - 79% of youth trained in automotive traders are from  Schedule Caste / Schedule Tribes communities.
-  Business has been extended to SC/ST vendors as well,  associating 10 new vendors in their supply chain and  extending business of R 9.79 Crores to them.
iv)  Vasundhara (Environment): Our Approach to improve enviro- nment included promotion of renewable energy, creation of  carbon sinks through large scale sapling plantation, construction  of water conservation structures and building awareness among  the c ommunity members.
More than 67000 saplings have  been planted in our various programs under this initiative.
Please refer ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ section of Company’s  Annual Report Fiscal 2016 and Company’s Annual CSR Report  2015-16 for detailed community engagement strategy and  key initiatives.
The Reports are available on our website www.
tatamotors.com.
SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS 1.
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/  Companies?
Tata Motors has seventy-seven direct and indirect subsidiaries  in India and abroad as on March 31, 2016.
2.
Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the  BR Initiatives of the parent company?
If yes, then indicate  the number of such subsidiary company(s)    Tata Motors positively inﬂ  uences and encourages its  subsidiaries to adopt Business Responsibility (BR) initiatives.
All  the Company’s subsidiaries are guided by Tata Code of Conduct  (TCoC) to conduct their business in an ethical, transparent and  accountable manner.
It encompasses suppliers, customers and  other stakeholders.
It also addresses key BR issues like Quality  and Customer value, Corruption and Bribery, Health & Safety,  Environment, Human Rights and Employee well-being.
Key  subsidiaries like Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc.
releases  the sustainability report every year.
The scope of this report  is deﬁ  ned each year.
For the sustainability report of Fiscal  2016, we have extended our reporting boundary to include  the performance of three subsidiary companies and one Joint  Venture (JV) operating out of our premises.
3.
Do any other entity/entities (e.g.
suppliers, distributors  etc.)
that the Company does business with participate in  the BR initiatives of the Company?
If yes, then indicate  the percentage of such entity/entities?
[Less than 30%,  30-60%, More than 60%]   Suppliers, distributors are critical to our operations and  supply chain sustainability issues can impact our operations.
We engage with suppliers through various channels for  operational issues and also focus on emerging and futuristic  technologies through Technology Day events.
Project Sankalp  – a supplier transformation initiative is underway in which cross  functional teams of domain experts work with suppliers at  their plant location on improving quality, productivity, SHE and  proﬁ  tability.
The suppliers and vendors are provided awareness  on environmental and social issues.
The vendor meets are  used as a platform to raise awareness on health & safety,  environmental and community initiatives of the Company.
The vendors situated in the vendor parks at Pantnagar and  Sanand manufacturing locations actively participate in the site  health & safety, environmental and CSR programmes.
Special  emphasis is laid on skill development and up-gradation of the  dealer and channel partner resources.
Currently less than 30%  of value chain entities participate in the Company’s BR initiatives  and there is a constant eﬀ ort by the Company to extend these  initiatives to larger value chain base.
SECTION D: BR INFORMATION 1.
Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR a)  Details of the Director/Directors responsible for  implementation of the BR policy/policies.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 186 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports SN Particulars Details 1.
DIN (if applicable) 01875848  2.
Name Mr Ravindra Pisharody  3.
Designation Executive Director  (Commercial Vehicles)  4.
Telephone 022-66657837  5.
E-mail id ravi.pisharody@tatamotors.com  SN Particulars Details 1.
DIN (if applicable) 01793948  2.
Name Mr Satish B Borwankar  3.
Designation Executive Director (Quality) 4 Telephone 020-66132257  5.
E-mail id sbborwankar@tatamotors.com  SN Particulars Details 1.
DIN   (if applicable) N.A 2.
Name Mr Arvind Bodhankar 3.
Designation Head – Safety, Health, Environment and  Sustainability 4 Telephone 022-66158538  5.
E-mail id ar vind.bodhankar@tatamotors.com Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR 2.
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N)   The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental  and Economic Responsibilities of Business released by the  Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ  airs has adopted nine areas of  Business Responsibility.
These are as follows: P1  Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with  Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.
P2  Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe  and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle.
P3  Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees.
P4  Businesses should respect the interests of, and be  responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who  are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
P6  Businesses should respect, protect, and make eff  orts to  restore the environment.
P7  Businesses, when engaged in infl  uencing public and  regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner.
P8  Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable  development.
P9  Businesses should engage with and provide value to their  customers and consumers in a responsible manner.
SN Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1.
Do you have policy/policies for?
YYYYY Y Y Y Y 2.
Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders?
YYYYY Y Y Y Y 3.
Does the policy conform to any national /international standards?
If yes, specify?
(The policies conformance to the spirit of international standards like ISO 9000, ISO  14000, OHSAS 18000, SA 8000, UNGC guidelines and ILO principles  and meet the  regulatory requirements such as Clause 49 of listing agreement, Sarbanes Oxley Act  etc.
The policies reﬂ  ect Tata group’s commitment to improve the quality of life of the  communities it serves and practice of returning to society what it earns).
YYYYY Y Y Y Y 4.
Has the policy being approved by the Board?
if yes, has it been signed by MD / owner  / CEO /appropriate Board Director?
* YYYYY Y Y Y Y 5.
Does the company have a speciﬁ  ed committee of the Board/ Director/Oﬃ   cial to  oversee the implementation of the policy?
YYYYY Y Y Y Y 6.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and external  stakeholders?
The policies have been communicated to all  internal stakeholders.
Tata Code of Conduct and  other policies are communicated to suppliers,  vendors, dealers and channel partners based on  their relevance.
7.
Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/policies The Company has established in-house  structures to implement these policies.
187 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (185-196) 8.
Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/ policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies?
The whistle blower mechanism provides  employees to report any concerns or grievances  pertaining to any potential or actual violation of  Tata Code of Conduct, which covers all aspects of  BRR.
An Investor grievance mechanism is in place  to respond to investor grievances.
The Customer  Complaints mechanism records the grievances  of customers on product and service quality and  other issues of interest to them.
The supplier,  vendor, dealer and channel partner forums and  ongoing communication captures their concerns  and grievances.
The continual community  engagement, needs assessments, impact  assessments serve as means for communities to  represent their concerns and grievances.
9.
Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the working of this  policy by an internal or external agency?
The implementation of Tata Code of Conduct and  other policies are reviewed through internal audit  function/ethics counsellor.
External assessment of  Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) covers the  review of implementation of all Company policies.
The Quality, Safety & Health and Environmental  policies are subject to internal and external audits  as part of certiﬁ cation process.
All the policies are signed by the Managing Director or an Executive Director.
All the policies in Tata Motors are covered from  its guiding  principals and core value.
These policies are mapped to each principal hereunder:  Principle Applicable Policies Link for policies Principle1: Businesses should conduct and  govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency  and Accountability Whistle Blower Policy http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.
pdf Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods  and services that are safe and contribute to  sustainability throughout their life cycle.
Environment Policy,  Quality Policy http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ policies/ http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ policies/ Principle 3: Businesses should promote the  well-being of all employees.
Safety Policy http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ policies/ Principle 4: Businesses should respect the  interests of, and be responsive towards  all stakeholders, especially those who are  disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.
CSR Policy Tata Aﬃ  rmative  Action Policy http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.
com/wpcontent/uploads/2015/10/12061154/csr-policy-15-161.pdf http://www.tata.com/sustainability/articlesinside/Tata-Aﬃ  rmative- Action-Programme Principle 5: Businesses should respect and  promote human rights.
Tata Code of Conduct Whistle Blower Policy http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.
com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.
pdf Principle 6: Businesses should respect,  protect, and make eﬀ  orts to restore the  environment.
Environment Policy Sustainability Policy http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ policies/ http://www.tatasustainability.com/tataSustainabilityPolicy.aspx Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in  inﬂ  uencing public and regulatory policy,  should do so in a responsible manner.
Tata Code of Conduct http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.
com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pd Principle 8: Businesses should support  inclusive growth and equitable development.
CSR Policy http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.
com/wpcontent/uploads/2015/10/12061154/csr-policy-15-161.pdf Corporate Overview Financial Statements 188 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports Principle Applicable Policies Link for policies Principle 9: Businesses should engage with  and provide value to their customers and  consumers in a responsible manner.
Tata Code of Conduct Quality Policy http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.
com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pd http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ policies/ 3.
GOVERNANCE RELATED TO BR  (a)  Indicate the frequency with which the Board of  Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess  the BR performance of the Company.
Within 3  months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year      Executive Committee reviews and assesses the various  aspects of BR performance of the Company.
The frequency of  Executive Committee meetings for BR Review is 3 - 6 months.
Please refer “Corporate Governance” section of Company’s  Annual Report Fiscal 2016 for various Board Committees and  their roles and responsibilities.
(b)  Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability  Report?
What is the hyperlink for viewing this report?
How frequently it is published?
Tata Motors has been publishing annual Sustainability  Reports in accordance with globally renowned Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework.
These reports also  serve as the Company’s Communication on Progress  (COP) as part United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  signatory reporting obligations and have been aligned  with the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social,  Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business,  released by Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ  airs.
The Company  also published Annual CSR Report this year to highlight  the community engagement strategy and performance.
The Company’s Sustainability and CSR Reports can be  viewed at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/ sustainability.php.
SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE Principle 1: Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 1.
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and  corruption cover only the company?
Yes/    No.
Does    it   extend   to   the   Group/Joint    Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs/Others?
Tata Motors has adopted the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC)  to remain consistently vigilant and ensure ethical conduct  of its operations.
All internal and external stakeholders of  the Tata Group are expected to work within the framework  of the TCoC.
The Company ensures compliance of  ethical standards by its vendors and contractors through  appropriate clauses in its work contracts to which they  are obligated.
Generally, the contract includes clauses in  relation to Human Rights Protection, Corruption practices  and other things related  to ethics.
Training and awareness  on TCoC is provided to all employees and relevant  stakeholders are also made aware of the same from time  to time.
The Company also has a whistle blower mechanism,  which is being governed by the Whistle Blower Policy.
Through this it has placed mechanisms for ensuring  conﬁ  dentiality and protecting the whistle blower  from any harassment/victimization.
The policy covers  instances pertaining to any unfair practice like retaliation,  threat or intimidation of termination/suspension of  service, disciplinary action, transfer, demotion, refusal  of promotion or the like including any direct or indirect  use of authority to obstruct the Whistle Blower’s right  to continue to perform his duties/functions including  making further Protected Disclosure.
The Policy is directly  monitored by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and  the Chief Ethics Oﬃ  cer.
Ethics Helpline: The Company has an ethics helpline where employees can place  anonymous complaints against ethics violations as per the Policy of the  Company.
The ethics helpline can be reached in the following ways: Ethics Hotline: 1800 224440 / 022-2287 1839.
Oral reports will normally be documented by the Chief Ethics  Counselor / Chairman of the Audit Committee accessing the voice  mail by a written transcription of the oral report Written application to Ethics and compliance: All concerns can be reported to Chief Ethics Counselor / Chairman  of the Audit Committee in Hindi, English or any regional language.
2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been received  in the past fi  nancial year and what percentage was  satisfactorily resolved by the management?
If so, provide  details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Stakeholders Complaint Received 50 Stakeholders Complaint Resolved 44 Percentage of Stakeholders Complaint Resolved 88 *Includes TCoC concerns, investor complaints and customer complaints The Company has setup an investor grievance mechanism to  respond to investor grievances in a timely and appropriate manner.
189 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (185-196) The investor grievances are also reviewed at the Board level by an  Investors’ Grievance Committee and immediate action is taken to  resolve the same.
The Tata Code of Conduct concerns are resolved  through internal review mechanism by Ethics Counselor and Senior  Management.
Both the Commercial Vehicles Business unit and  Passenger Vehicles Business Unit have established robust customer  care systems which track customer complaints and responds to them  in the minimum time possible.
PRINCIPLE 2: Pr oduct Life Cycle Sustainability 1.
List upto 3 of your products or services whose design has  incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/ or opportunities.
Tata Motors is a leading automobile manufacturer of India and  has played a signiﬁ  cant role over the years in contributing to  economic growth of the nation through its commercial vehicles  and passenger cars which transport people, goods and help  deliver services on time.
The Company realizes its responsibility  as a growth enabler and endeavors to create vehicles which  will promote entrepreneurship.
The Company is also cognizant  of the environmental impacts caused during production and  lifecycle of its products and continually strives to innovate to  reduce such impacts.
Tata Motors has signed a contract to  supply 25 Tata Starbus Diesel Series Hybrid Electric Bus with Full  Low ﬂ  oor conﬁ  guration, with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region  Development Authority (MMRDA) – the single largest order  awarded for Hybrid Electric Vehicle Technology.
Below are few  of the products which have been designed to address social or  environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities.
Products Social or Environmental Benefi ts Buses for Public  Transport – Tata Starbus Fuel Cell, Tata Ultra Electric Bus     World’s ﬁ  rst commercially produced CNG Hybrid Bus 3 Times more fuel eﬃ  ciency than Gasoline Ensures 50% reduction in fuel consumption Fast refueling ensures reduced downtime Zero Pollution, zero Noise bus BS IV compliant, CMVR (Central Motor Vehicles Rules), 1989 & UBS – II  (Urban Bus Speciﬁ  cation) norms Small Commercial Vehicles (SCV) and Pickup range-  Tata MAGIC IRIS ZIVA  Hydrogen fuel cell technologies- Zero emissions Gearless, clutchless vehicle ideal for stop and go traﬃ  c conditions Hassle free, noise free Hydrogen can be reﬁ  lled in matter of minutes just like a CNG vehicle,  unlike a plug electric vehicles Passenger Cars – Tiago Generation Next Safety with ABS and EBD with Corner Stability Control (CSC) Dual Airbags Intelligently designed 22 Utility Spaces Superior Fuel Eﬃ  ciency  Smartphone enabled Turn By Turn Navigation App Rear Parking Sensor Strong body to absorb impact energy oﬀ  ers superior safety 2.
For each such product, provide the following details in  respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.)
per unit of product (optional): (a)  R eduction during sourcing/production/distribution achieved  since the previous year throughout the value chain?
There is a continual eﬀ  ort to reduce the life cycle impacts of  the vehicles across the value chain.
The Company focuses on  researching, developing and producing new technologies,  such as hybrid engines and electric cars.
It is also investing in  development programs to reduce fuel consumption through  the use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses  through the driveline and improvements in aerodynamics.
It closely works with its suppliers and vendors to reduce the  environmental impacts in the sourcing stage.
Use of returnable  and recyclable packing solutions for most of the components  has been a key initiative to manage cost and quality, reduce  material use and avoid waste generation.
This also contributes  towards reduction of climate change impacts by avoiding the  use of wood for packaging of components.
Vehicle weight  reduction through new and improved technologies remains  the focus of the Company to achieve higher fuel eﬃ   ciency  as well as a reduction in environmental impact.
Some of the  key areas that we are currently working are; use of hollow  camshafts, low density polyamides and magnesium alloys.
(b)  Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has  been achieved since the previous year?
The class leading fuel eﬃ   ciencies of the Company’s vehicles  enable the customers to achieve fuel savings which translate  into cost savings as well.
This year witnessed the launch the  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 190 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports all new REVOTRON engine which epitomizes the FuelNext  philosophy of the Company.
It is developed using a range  of eco-friendly and future oriented technologies.
It also  incorporates latest know-how like multi drive modes, allowing  the best of economy and driving pleasure.
The Company’s  value proposition in the commercial vehicles is aimed to create  vehicles with lowest overall cost of ownership.
The Recon  business, which reconditions aggregates, extends the life of the  aggregates and eliminates the use of fresh resources that might  have been consumed for new aggregates.
3.
Does the company have procedures in place for  sustainable sourcing (including transportation)?
If yes,  what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably?
The Company continually works with its vendors and suppliers  to reduce the environmental impacts of sourcing.
The  Company has an Environment Procurement Policy to engage  with its value chain partners on environmental sustainability.
Signiﬁ  cant initiatives have been taken to reduce the packaging  impacts in the supply chain by using recycled/returnable  packaging solutions for various components sourced.
Transportation and logistics optimization is an ongoing activity  to reduce the related environmental impacts.
The Pantnagar  and Sanand plants have created a vendor park model wherein  the key vendors are situated surrounding the plant.
This  not only enables to optimize the production related costs  but also signiﬁ  cantly reduces the environmental impact of  transportation of components.
4.
Has the company taken any steps to procure goods  and services from local & small producers, including  communities surrounding their place of work?
If yes,  what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and  capability of local and small vendors?
During the year, the Company has procured 55.09% of the  materials (by value) from local sources, where local is deﬁ  ned  as the state in which the manufacturing plant is established.
The Company takes signiﬁ  cant initiatives in enhancing the  capabilities of local and small vendors.
Through the AA policy  initiatives, this year the Company has added 10 new SC/ST  entrepreneurs in the supply chain and extended business of R9.79 crore to them.
To ensure reliable and responsible suppliers for automotive  production and service parts, Tata Motors expects all our  suppliers to adopt the ISO 9001/TS 16949 quality management  system frameworks.
We also encourage our dealers to adopt  quality, environmental and safety management systems.
We conduct awareness sessions for suppliers on social and  environmental issues.
Suppliers are provided with managerial  and technical assistance to train them on practices and  procedures that will ensure improvements in Productivity,  Quality, Cost, Delivery, Safety and Moral (PQCDSM).
5.
Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products  and waste?
If yes what is the percentage of recycling of  products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%).
Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
It is the Company’s ongoing endeavor to have a mechanism  to recycle our products and limit the waste arising out of  production of vehicles.
The Company has initiated well  deﬁ  ned program Prolife.
Our objective is to reduce the waste  and to minimize the need of raw materials to produce a  brand new item.
In Fiscal 2016 total of 23115 components  were reconditioned.
The re-conditioned long blocks are also  being exported to international markets.
Hazardous waste is  disposed as per regulatory requirements through the Common  Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage & Disposal Facilities  (CHWTSDF), Authorized Re-cyclers and co-processing in  cement plants.
PRINCIPLE 3: Employee Wellbeing 1.
Please indicate the Total number of employees.
52,825 as at 31st March, 2016 (Includes Permanent, Temporary,  trainee and contractual employees) 2.
Please     indicate     the     Total     number     of     employees      hired on temporary/ contractual/ casual basis.
26,594 as at March 31, 2016  3.
Please indicate the Number of permanent women  employees.
825 as at March 31, 2016 4.
Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with  disabilities  18 as at 31st March, 2016 5.
Do you have an employee association that is recognized  by management?
The manufacturing plants at Jamshedpur, Pune, Lucknow,  Pantnagar and Sanand have employee unions recognized by  the management.
The Company enters into long term wage  settlements with these recognized unions.
6.
What percentage of your permanent employees is  members of this recognized employee association?
Around 98% of the operative employees at Jamshedpur, Pune,  Lucknow, Pantnagar & Sanand plants are members of these  employee unions.
These employees represent 53% of the total  permanent employees at these ﬁ  ve Plants and 52% of the  total permanent employees of Tata Motors.
We do not have an  Employees Union at our Dharwad Plant presently.
7.
Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to  child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual  191 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (185-196) harassment in the last fi  nancial year and pending, as on  the end of the fi nancial year SN Category No  of   complaints   fi  led during the  fi nancial year No of complaints  pending as  on end of the  fi nancial year 1 Child labour / forced  labour / involuntary  labour 00 2 Sexual harassment 7 0 3 Discriminatory  Employment 00 8.
What percentage of your under mentioned employees  were given safety & skill up-gradation training in the last  year?
(a) Permanent Employees (b) Permanent Women Employees (c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees (d) Employees with Disabilities   Safety is of paramount importance to the Company.
All  employees at Tata Motors are provided with safety training as part  of the induction programme.
The safety induction programme is  also a critical requirement for contract workforce before they are  inducted into the system.
The Company has a structured safety  training agenda on an on-going basis to build a culture of safety  across its workforce.
The Company believes in continual learning of its employees  and has institutionalized a continual learning model for skill  upgradation, especially at the shop-ﬂ  oor level.
The learning and  development needs of management cadre employees are met  through the Company’s L&D structure which includes various  training delivery mechanisms.
PRINCIPLE 4:  Stak eholder Engagement 1.
Has the company mapped its internal and external  stakeholders?
Yes.
The Company has mapped its internal and external  stakeholders.
It uses both formal and informal mechanisms  to engage with various stakeholders to understand their  concerns and expectations.
Individual departments within  the organization have roles and responsibilities identiﬁ  ed and  deﬁ  ned to engage with various stakeholders.
2.
Out of the above, has the company identifi  ed the  disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders?
Yes.
The Company’s AA policy is specially designed to  address the socially disadvantaged sections of the society,  Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
Within the broader stakeholder  group of communities, the Company works towards women  empowerment and education of children.
Every year, Tata  Motors participate in TAAP (Tata Aﬃ  rmative Action Program)  Assessment, developed on the lines of TBEM (Tata Business  Excellence Model).
Tata Motors has been conferred the TAAP  Jury Award for Fiscal 2015 and 2016.
3.
Are there any special initiatives taken by the company  to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and  marginalized stakeholders.
If so, provide details thereof, in  about 50 words or so.
Our CSR programmes and projects are aimed at serving  the needy, deserving, socio-economically backward and  disadvantaged communities aimed at improving the quality  of their lives.
Under Tata Affirmative Action Programme  (TAAP), the company continues to serve the SC and ST  communities in inter alia Education, Employability and  Entrepreneurship.
Area Stakeholder (SC/ST community)Benefi ts Education More than 15,000 SC/ST students beneﬁ  ted from our CSR Vidyadhanam programme in Fiscal 2016.
The projects  include IIT-JEE & competitive exams coaching; co-curricular activities; Financial Aid Program for Engg.
Students at  IIT Bombay; Scholarships for secondary school students and Govt.
Engg.
College at Pune, School Infra Improvement  and Special Coaching classes in Std.
8th, 9th and 10th.
Employability The programme has beneﬁ  ted more than 9,600 SC/ST youth across diﬀ  erent locations in the country in Fiscal 2016.
The Skilling projects include: Novice Drivers Training,  agriculture & allied training, ITI partnership & allied-auto trades;  Motor Mechanic Vehicle (MMV) and Training in marketable trades such as Retail, Tally, White goods repair, etc.
Health In Fiscal 2016, more than 1.78 Lakh community members beneﬁ  ted from our health initiatives including those who  inhabit rural/tribal areas.
PRINCIPLE 5: Human Rights 1.
Does the policy of the company on human rights cover  only the company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?
Tata Motors respects human rights and has established a Policy  on Human Rights.
The policy details the Company’s approach  towards human rights and sets the Company’s expectations of  its Channel Partners and Contractors to adhere to principles of  human rights.
We encourage our suppliers, vendors, contractors  and other business partners associated with the Company to  follow the principles laid out in the Tata Code of Conduct.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 192 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports 2.
How many stakeholder complaints have been received in  the past fi nancial year and what percent was satisfactorily  resolved by the management?
During the year, 50 concerns have been received towards actual  or potential violation of  Tata Code of Conduct, of which 44 of the  complaints were satisfactorily resolved as on March 31, 2016 PRINCIPLE 6: Envir onmental 1.
Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the  company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.
Sustainability is built into Tata Motor’s business processes  through well-deﬁ  ned Tata Group’s Sustainability Policy.
This  policy reaﬃ   rms value system committed to social expenditure,  environmental preservation and governance structure that  engages employees and other stakeholders.
The Company also has Environmental Procurement Policy which  is applicable to all its vendors, contractors and service providers.
2.
Does the company have strategies/initiatives to address  global environmental issues such as climate change,  global warming, etc.?
Y/N.
If yes, please give hyperlink for  webpage etc   Yes.
Tata Motors has adopted Tata Group’s Climate Change  policy to guide the organizational eﬀ  orts towards mitigating  and adapting to climate change.
The Company approach  towards climate change mitigation and pursuing low carbon  growth is three-fold – develop cleaner and more fuel eﬃ  cient  vehicles, reduce environmental impacts of manufacturing  operations and build awareness among stakeholders.
It has  also continually working on alternate fuel technologies like  electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technologies.
The Tata group became part of the Prime Minister’s low carbon  committee and was a member in the steering committee of  the ‘Caring for Climate’ initiative of the United Nations Global  Compact and United Nations Environment Programme.
Ahead  of the crucial global climate change talks that concluded in  Paris, global corporate leaders signed an open letter on climate  change, including Tata Sons Chairman Cyrus P Mistry.
3.
Does the company identify and assess potential  environmental risks?
Y/N   Yes.
Tata Motors has an Environmental Policy which guides  the Company’s eﬀ  orts to manage its environmental impacts  and continually improve its environmental performance.
All manufacturing plants in India are certiﬁ  ed to ISO 14001  Environmental Management Systems (EMS) standard.
As part  of EMS implementation potential environmental risks are  identiﬁ  ed and appropriate mitigation strategies are planned.
4.
Does the company have any project related to Clean  Development Mechanism?
If so, provide details thereof,  in about 50 words or so.
Also, if Yes, whether any  environmental compliance report is fi led?
Tata Motors has own ‘captive wind power’ project of 21.95  MW capacity.
In Fiscal 2016 Pimpri Works utilized wind energy  of 2.25 crores units (equivalent CO 2e Reduction of 22,125  tCO2e), resulting into net savings of R8.9 Crores in electricity  charges.
Our Sanand plant utilized wind energy of 0.68 crores  units (equivalent CO 2e Reduction of 5,573 tCO 2e) which was  purchased through TPTCL, resulting into net savings of R0.478  Crores in electricity charges.
Renewable Energy Certiﬁ  cate (REC): Company’s 21.95MW wind  power project is registered under REC scheme.
Cumulative  63,432 RECs generated; out of which 40,517 RECs sold through  auction, resulting into cumulative beneﬁ  t of R5.85 crores.
1st roof top Solar PV Power Plant of 223 KWP has been  commissioned at Pimpri Works on April 01, 2015.
The generated  solar power is utilized in the manufacturing process.
Similar  installation amounting to a total capacity of 1.8MWp capacity  is being installed at Pimpri and Chikhali Works.
Roof Top Solar  PV Power Plant 1.8MWp has been installed & commissioned on  Roof Top of Oﬃ  ce Blocks at TATA MOTORS, Pune (CVBU & PVBU).
Annual Solar Power Generation is 21.29 Lakh Kwh (equivalent  CO2e Reduction of 2,097 tCO 2e) for Fiscal 2016, resulted net  saving of R0.59 Crores in electricity charges.
5.
Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on -  clean technology, energy effi   ciency, renewable energy,  etc.
Y/N.
If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.
The Company has always been conscious of the need for  conservation of energy and has been sensitive in making  progress towards this end.
It also demonstrates its commitment  to maximize the use of Renewable energy through its climate  change policy.
Not including its subsidiaries, Tata Motors  currently sources around 8% of its electricity from renewables.
Tata Motors has solar energy installations at three plants (Pune,  Sanand, Dharwad ) of its manufacturing plants in India.
It is also  planning to source more renewable electricity from the grid in  the future through open access agreement.
Recently Tata Motors Limited has joined the RE100 initiative of  The Climate Group.
Through this initiative, Tata Motors aspires  to switch all manufacturing operations to 100 % Renewable  energy in the coming years.
Energy conservation measures have been implemented at  all the plants and oﬀ  ices of the Company and special eﬀ  orts  are being put on undertaking speciﬁ  c energy conservation  projects like:  i)  Waste Heat Recovery System to recover waste heat from  exhaust ﬂ  ue gases of Surfacer & Finish paint baking ovens,  Conversion of Indirect ﬁ  red baking ovens into Direct Fired  Burner of baking ovens, Conversion of Electrical Heating  into Natural Gas Heating system for washing machines  ii)  Use of Energy Eﬃ   cient 40W LED Batten ﬁ  ttings for Task  lighting, 100W LED High bay for General Lighting, 19W  193 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (185-196) LED Tube Lights in Oﬃ   ce area, Installation of 42W LED  street lights, Installation of 142W LED Flood Light ﬁ  ttings,    iii)  Elimination of Pump operation by using gravity ﬂ  ow  system, resizing of hydraulic power pack pump.
iv)  Compressed Air Pressure optimization at Paint shop and  at other shops, use of portable small compressors for low  compressed air requirement on holidays, Installation of  Shut Oﬀ  Valves in compressed air network, downsizing of  motors and delta to Star conversion of Motors.
v)  Installation of Variable Frequency Drives for various  applications like Blowers, Pumps & Air supply plants.
vi)  Use of Infrared sensors & timers for on-oﬀ   control of  Industrial fans, lighting system of Inspection Booths and  Fresh Air blower operation.
Modiﬁ  cation in electrical logic  for automatic switching on-oﬀ   operation of hydraulic  motors, coolant pumps, blowers etc., Optimization of AC  plant operations.
These eﬀ  orts have resulted in Electrical energy saving of  1.47 Crores units, Fuel saving – Light Diesel Oil 6 KL, LPG/ Propane 586.32MT and Natural Gas 0.61Lakh SCM.
The  whole eﬀ  ort resulted in cost savings for the company  of around R14.5 crores & annual CO 2 emission reduction  13,960 tCO2e.
Please refer to the Annexures to the Directors’ Report for  energy eﬃ  ciency initiatives.
6.
Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company  within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the  fi  nancial year being reported?
The Company is in compliance within the prescribed  permissible limits as per CPCB/SPCB for air emissions, eﬄ  uent  quality and discharge, solid and hazardous waste generation  and disposal.
7.
Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/ SPCB which are pending (i.e.
not resolved to satisfaction)  as on end of Financial Year.
There is no show cause /legal notice pending resolution by  CPCB/SPCB  PRINCIPLE 7: P olicy Advocacy 1.
Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or  association?
If Yes, Name only those major ones that your  business deals with:   The Company is member of various trade and chamber  associations.
Tata Motors actively participate in all WP29 UNECE  group activities.
Tata Motors also participate in the following  National Committees which are working on formulating  policies and regulations for improvement of environment  including GHG reduction throughout the country:  i) Standing Committee on Emissions (SCOE)  ii)  Sub-committee on CO emission 2 norms of Union Ministry  of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways of India, along  with Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI).
iii)  Expert committee to deﬁ  ne “Heavy Duty Vehicle Fuel  Economy Norms for India under Ministry of Shipping,  Road Transport and Highways of Government of India  (GoI) & Petroleum Conservation Research Association  (PCRA).
iv)  Expert committee on Fuel Economy Labeling of Passenger  Cars under Bureau of Energy Eﬃ  ciency under Ministry of  Power (GoI).
v)  Interministerial committee for upcoming emission norms  (BSV, BSVI) for Motor Vehicles of Ministry of Shipping, Road  Transport and Highways, Ministry of Heavy Industries,  Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (GoI).
vi)  Working group on Quadricycle Emission Norms for India.
vii)  Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, GoI, is promoting  and assisting technology development for GHG reduction  by way of increased usage of Biodiesel.
We are engaged  in this initiative of GoI and currently running number of  engine and vehicle programs to commercialize usage of  Biodiesel as soon as the same is made available to the  general public by oil marketing companies.
viii)  Working Group on Energy for Sub-Group on DST’s XIIth  plan on Technology Development Program (TDP).
ix)  National Electric Mobility Mission Plan - We have been  actively participating in forming hybrid performance  criteria along with SIAM-FTG group and helped  government to launch FAME scheme.
Now we are  building two types of hybrid and electric vehicles under  Technical Advisor Group under R&D scheme.
2.
Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations  for the advancement or improvement of public good?
Yes/ No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance     and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive  Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food  Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others)   Tata Motors, through various industry associations, participates  in advocating matters advancement of the industry and public  good.
It supports various initiatives of the SIAM which include  aspects of product safety, alternate fuel vehicles, environment,  fuel policies, customer information and education, to name a  few.
The Company’s AA policy is a progressive step towards  inclusive development.
PRINCIPLE 8 : I nclusive Growth 1.
Does the company have specifi  ed programmes/initiatives/ projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8?
If  yes details thereof.
Inclusive growth is at the core of the Company’s community  development strategy.
Ankur, the Company’s community  engagement strategy, is percolated to each manufacturing  plant through a detailed community development plan.
The  Corporate Overview Financial Statements 194 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports plant speciﬁ  c plan address the local needs and the corporate cell  drives some company-wide strategic community development  initiatives such as driver training.
The initiatives primarily focus  on Arogya (Health), Vidyadhanam (Education), Kaushalya  (Employability) and Vasundhara (Environment) .
Seva, the  employee volunteering initiative provides our employees with  a platform to be a part of our community initiatives.
Tata Motors  along with its employees also supports Sumant Moolgaonkar  Development Foundation (SMDF)  towards implementing  Amrutdhara, a National Drinking Water Project to provide safe  drinking water to communities.
Through adoption of Tata  Group Affi  rmative Action (AA) Policy, the Company works  toward inclusion of socially disadvantaged and marginalised  sections of society (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes).
Area Partners Involved Education Action Aid, Agastya International Foundation, Avanti Fellows, Block Resource Centre EDUCATION DEPT.
(SSA),  CATHEDRAL CHURCH SANAND, Center for Youth Development & Activities, Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness,  College of Engineering Pune, GANATAR, Global Education Trust, Gram Vikas Kendra, IIT Bombay Alumni Association,  Manav Seva Education Trust, Moinee Foundation, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Rotary  Club of Nigdi, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Samata Shikshan Sanstha, SANAND LIONS FOUNDATION TRUST, Seva Sahyog  Foundation, Shanti Seva Nidhi Trust, Shiksha Prasar Kendra, SHRI SHAKTI KELAVNI UTTEJAK TRUST, Society for Human  Environmental Development, Suprabhat Mahila Mandal, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement,  Swaroopwardhinee,  Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Tata Motors Gruhini Social Welfare Society, The Jai Narayan Charitable Trust, Urmee  Charitable Trust, Vidya Poshak, Vikas Samities Employability Ahmedabad Dist Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd, Ambika Motor Driving School, Centre for Civil Society, CII,  Gram Vikas Kendra, LAURUS EDUTECH LIFE SKILLS PVT LTD, Manikbag Automobile Pvt Ltd, MITCON Foundation,  Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Pratham Education Foundation, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar,  Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sambhav Foundation, SANAND EDUCATION TRUST, Shashwat, Skill For Progress, SUVIDHA, Vedanta  Foundation, Vigyan Ashram (IIE), Vikas Samities Health Action Aid, CHETNA, Family Planning Association of India, Gram Vikas Kendra, Jan Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Manav  Seva Education Trust, NAMASTE LIFE, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan  Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Seth G S Medical College and KEM Hospital, Sneh Foundation, Snehdeep Jankalyan Foundation,  Sumant Moolgaokar Development Foundation, Sterling Hospital, Swadhar, Vikas Samities Environment Bansilal Ramntath Agarwal Charitable Trust, Bombay Natural History Society, COLLEGE OF SOCIAL WORK (NIRMALA  NIKETAN INSTITUTE), GANATAR, Gram Vikas Kendra, Green Thumb, Manav Seva Education Trust, Paryawaran Evam Jan  Kalyan Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sarvodhaya Maha Sangh, Terre Policy Center, Tree Public Foundation, Vikas Samities,  Wildlife Research and Conservation Society The AA interventions focus on Education, Employment,  Employability and Entrepreneurship.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2015-16’ for  community engagement strategy and key initiatives.
2.
Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in- house team/own foundation/external NGO/government  structures/any other organization?
CSR Programmes and Projects are deployed by company:  directly; through its own company-promoted societies/NGOS;  partnering with govt.
and collaborating with reputed, external  non-proﬁ  t organizations under diﬀ erent models.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2015-16’ for details on  various community development programme partnerships.
3.
Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?
Yes.
The Company has adopted ‘Tata CS Protocol’ to assess  the impact of the various community interventions.
Periodic  impact assessments are conducted and the outcome forms a  critical input to the community development plan preparation  and implementation.
Additionally, this year we have engaged  external agency – M/s KPMG to conduct detailed Social Return  on Investment (SRoI) study of one of our vocational training  programs implemented in partnership with Ramkrishna  Mission Ashram, Sakwar.
This study reveals that every rupee  invested in this program has generated social return of three  times.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2015-16’ for details  on community impacts created and assessed.
195 Notice Board’s  Report Management Discussion & Analysis Corporate Governance Business Responsibility Report (185-196) 4.
What is your company’s direct contribution to community  development projects- Amount in INR and the details of  the projects undertaken?
Total expenditure reported is R20.57 Crores.
(% of proﬁ  ts: Not  Applicable in view of losses for the FY ended March 31, 2015)  The details of projects:  i)  Arogya (Health) build awareness on malnourishment  and other health problems in the community, provides  ferry mobile medical van to look into curative and  preventive health care.
ii)  Vidyadhanam (Education) supporting for infrastructure,  skills development, training and institutionalized need  based scholarships.
iii)  Kaushalya (Employability) Industrial Training to school  dropout youth in auto sector, non-auto trades, agriculture  and allied activities.
iv)  Vasundhara (Environment)  large scale sapling  plantation, construction of water conservation structures  and building awareness about environment and  renewable energy sources.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2015-16’ for details  on various community development programmes undertaken.
5.
Have you taken steps to ensure that this community  development initiative is successfully adopted by the  community?
Please explain in 50 words, or so.
Yes.
The Company adopts a collaborative and participatory  approach with communities/beneﬁ  ciaries in conceiving  and deploying CSR projects.
Partial beneﬁ  ciary contribution  is sought, wherever feasible, for project deployment/asset  creation, maintenance for them to have greater ownership of  the projects - which we believe is crucial for sustainability of  our initiatives.
Training and capacity building of communities  and relevant stakeholders to successfully adopt & carry forward  these initiatives is done from time to time.
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2015-16’ for details on  various community development programme implementation models.
PRINCIPLE 9: Cust omer Value 1.
What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases  are pending as on the end of fi nancial year.
Tata Motors provides customers with the best in class after sales  service.
We hear our customers through various mediums such  as 24X7 Call center toll free no.
website.
Passenger  Vehicle  Business Unit Commercial  Vehicle  Business Unit Total Percentage of Consumer  Cases Pending as on  March 31, 2016 0.62 0.60 0.6 2.
Does the company display product information on the  product label, over and above what is mandated as per  local laws?
Yes/No/N.A./ Remarks (additional information)   The Company displays all the requisite product information  and safety guidance on the product label as required by the  local laws.
Over and above the mandatory requirements,  the Company also subscribes to guidance by SIAM (Society  of Indian Automobile Manufactures) of various customer  information requirements such as the Fuel Economy Customer  Information.
The vehicle manual is an important source of  information for customers which contains product information,  safety guidance, customer support details and tips on eﬃ  cient  use of the vehicle.
3.
Is there any case fi  led by any stakeholder against the  company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible  advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior during the  last fi  ve years and pending as on end of fi  nancial year.
If so,  provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so    There have been no cases relating to unfair trade practices,  irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior  against Tata Motors in the last ﬁ  ve years.
4.
Did your company carry out any consumer survey/  consumer satisfaction trends?
The Company’s new Hozionext philosophy puts customer at the  core of the business strategy.
Customer engagement processes  have been aligned across the value chain to monitor customer  satisfaction and feedback.
Regular customer satisfaction  surveys are conducted to assess customer satisfaction levels  and benchmark the Company’s performance with industry  peers.
The Passenger Vehicle business uses globally renowned  J.D.Power survey scores to assess overall customer satisfaction  and benchmark with industry peers.
The Commercial Vehicle  business conduct customer satisfaction survey (eQ scores)  through External Agency AC Nielsen every year.
The eQ i.e.
CEI  scores conducted by AC Nielsen are in line with our Internal  satisfaction scores.
Tata Motors Service’ rests on three core ‘Service Promises’ –  ‘Responsive’ , ‘Reliable’ and ‘Best value’ .
A host of distinctive facilities  and services are being oﬀ  ered to deliver each of these promises  to customers in the company’s nationwide service network.
Corporate Overview Financial Statements 196 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Statutory Reports F-1 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED Report on the Standalone Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying  standalone ﬁ  nancial statements of  TATA MOTORS LIMITED (“the Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at  March 31, 2016, the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss and the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and a summary of the signiﬁ  cant accounting policies  and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Statements  The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies  Act,  2013  (“the  Act”)  with  respect  to  the   preparation  of  these  standalone  ﬁ  nancial statements that give a true and fair view of the ﬁ  nancial position, ﬁ  nancial pe rformance and cash ﬂ  ows of the  Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  including the Accounting Standards  prescribed under section 133 of the  Act, as applicable.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisi ons of the Act for safeguarding  the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of approp riate accounting policies;  making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal ﬁ  nancial controls, that  were operating eﬀ  ectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the ﬁ  nancial  statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these standalone ﬁ  nancial statements based on our audit.
We have taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required to be included in the audit report  under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder and the Order under section 143(11) of the Act.
We conducted our audit of the standalone ﬁ  nancial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing speciﬁ  ed under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁ  nancial  statements are free from material misstatement.
An  audit  involves  performing  procedures  to  obtain  audit  evidence  about  the  amounts  and  the disclosures in the ﬁ  na ncial statements.
The procedures  selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the ﬁ  nancial statements, whether due to fraud or  error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal ﬁ  nancial control relevant to the Company’s preparation of the ﬁ  nancial statements that  give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes  evaluating  the  appropriateness   of  the  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  the accounting estimates made by the Company’s Directors, as  well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the ﬁ  nancial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suﬃ  cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone ﬁ  nancial statements.
Opinion In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone ﬁ  nancial statements give the  information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  of the state of aﬀ airs of the Company as at March 31, 2016, and its proﬁ  t and its cash ﬂ  ows for the year ended on that date.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:  (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes  of our audit.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our exam ination of those  books.
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss, and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement  with the books of  account.
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone ﬁ  nancial statements comply with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act, as  applicable.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2016 taken  on  record  by  the  Bo ard  of  Directors,  none   of  the  directors  is  disqualiﬁ  ed  as  on March 31, 2016 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-1 - F-7) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-2 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 (f ) With respect to the adequacy of the internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting of the Company and the operating e ﬀ ectiveness of such  controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A” .
Our report expresses an unmodiﬁ  ed opinion on the adequacy and operating eﬀ ectiveness of  the Company’s internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting.
(g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance  with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,  2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its ﬁ  nancial position in its ﬁ  nancial statements; ii.
The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards,  for  material  foreseeable  losses  on  long- term  contracts  including derivative contracts;  iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
2.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in term s of Section 143(11) of the  Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement on the matters speciﬁ  ed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) B. P .
SHROFF Partner Mumbai May 30, 2016 (Membership No.
34382) F-3 ANNEXURE “A” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  (Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date to the Members of Tata  Motors Limited) Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Act”) We have audited the internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting of  TATA MOTORS LIMITED (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2016 in conjunction with  our audit of the standalone ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal ﬁ  nancial controls based on the internal cont rol over ﬁ  nancial reporting  criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance  of adequate internal ﬁ  nancial controls that were operating eﬀ  ectively for ensuring the orderly and eﬃ  cient conduct of its business, including adherence to  company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  and the timely preparation of reliable ﬁ  nancial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our  audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note ”) issued by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an  audit of internal ﬁ  nancial controls.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls  operated eﬀ  ectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal ﬁ  nancial controls system over ﬁ  nancial reporting  and their operating eﬀ ectiveness.
Our audit of internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal ﬁ  nancial  controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating eﬀ  ectiveness of  internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material  misstatement of the ﬁ  nancial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suﬃ  cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal ﬁ  nancial  controls system over ﬁ  nancial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting A company’s internal ﬁ  nancial control over ﬁ  nancial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the reliability of ﬁ  nancial  reporting and the preparation of ﬁ  nancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s  internal ﬁ  nancial control over ﬁ  nancial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable  detail, accurately and fairly reﬂ  ect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions  are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of ﬁ  nancial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts  and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the compan y; and (3)  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that  could have a material eﬀ  ect on the ﬁ  nancial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting, including the possibility of collu sion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any eval uation of the internal ﬁ  nancial  controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal ﬁ  nancial control over ﬁ  nancial reporting may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (F-1 - F-7) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-4 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal ﬁ  nancial  controls system over ﬁ  nancial reporting and such internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting were operating eﬀ ectively as at March 31, 2016, based on the  internal control over ﬁ  nancial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on  Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.117366W / W-100018) B.P .
SHROFF Partner (Membership No.
34382) Mumbai, May 30, 2016 F-5 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (F-1 - F-7) (Referred to in paragraph 2 under “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” section of our report of even date to the Members of Tata  Motors Limited) (i) In respect of its ﬁ  xed assets:  (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of ﬁ  xed assets;  (b)  The ﬁ  xed assets were physically veriﬁ  ed during the year by the Management in accordance with a regular programme of ver iﬁ  cation which, in our  opinion, provides for physical veriﬁ  cation of all the ﬁ  xed assets at reasonable intervals.
According to the information and explanations given to us,  no material discrepancies were noticed on such veriﬁ  cation.
(c)  According to the information and explanations given to us, the records examined by us and based on the examination of the  registered sale deed  /transfer deed /conveyance deed /conﬁ  rmation from custodians /court orders approving schemes of arrangements /amalgamations provided to  us, we report that, the title deeds, comprising all the immovable properties of land and buildings which are freehold, are held in the name of the  Company as at the balance sheet date.
In respect of immovable properties of land and buildings that have been taken on lease and disclosed as  ﬁ  xed asset in the ﬁ  nancial statements, the lease agreements are in the name of the Company, where the Company is the lessee in the agreement.
(ii) As explained to us, the stock of ﬁ  nished goods and work-in-progress in the Company’s custody have been physically veriﬁ  ed by the Management as at  the end of the ﬁ  nancial year, before the year-end or after the year-end, other than a signiﬁ  cant part of the spare parts held for sale, and raw materials in  the Company’s custody for both of which, there is a perpetual inventory system and a substantial portion of the stocks have been veriﬁ  ed during the year.
In our opinion, the frequency of veriﬁ  cation is reasonable.
In case of materials and spare parts held for sale lying with third parties, certiﬁ  cates conﬁ  rming  stocks have been received periodically for stocks held during the year and for a substantial portion of such stocks held at the year-end.
(iii) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has granted loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, ﬁ  rms, or other parties  covered in the Register maintained under Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of which: (a)  The terms and conditions of the grant of such loans are, in our opinion, prima facie, not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
(b)  The schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and repayments or receipts of principal amounts and interest     have been regular as per stipulations.
(c)  There is no amount overdue for more than 90 days at the balance sheet date.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the provisions  of Sections 185 and 186  of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of grant of loans, making investments and providing guarantees and securities, as applicable.
(v) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any deposit during the year.
In respect of unclaimed deposits,  the Company has complied with the provisions of Sections 73 to 76 or any other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
(vi) The maintenance of cost records has been speciﬁ  ed by the Central Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of its  products.
We have broadly reviewed the cost records maintained by the Company pursuant to the Companies (Cost Accounting Records) Rules, 2014 as  amended and prescribed by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, and are of the opinion that prima  facie, the prescribed cost records have been made and maintained.
We have, however, not made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view  to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii) According to the information and explanations given to us, in respect of statutory dues:   (a) The Company has generally been regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including Provident Fund, Employees’ Stat e Insurance, Income- tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, Customs Duty, Excise Duty, Cess and other material statutory dues applicable to it with the appropriate authorities.
We  are informed by the Company that the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 is applicable only to certain locations of the Company.
With regard to  the contribution under the Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme, 1976 (the Scheme), we are informed that the Company has its own Life  Cover Scheme, and consequently, an application has been made seeking an extension of exemption from contribution to the Scheme,  which is  awaited.
ANNEXURE ‘‘B’’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-6 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16   (b) There were no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales Tax,  Service Tax, Customs  Duty, Excise Duty, Cess and other material statutory dues in arrears as at March 31, 2016 for a period of more than six months from the date  they became payable.
(c) Details of dues of Income-tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, Customs Duty and Excise Duty which have not been deposited as on March 31, 2016 on account of  disputes are given below: Name of Statute Nature of Dues Forum where Dispute is  pending Period to which the Amount Relates Amount  (R In Crores) Income Tax Act 1961 Income Tax Commissioner (Appeals) 2003-04, 2004-05, 2007-08, 2009-10 23.33  Central Excise Laws1 Excise Duty & Service Tax Tribunal 1989-90 to 2013-14 2,310.25  Excise Duty & Service Tax Commissioner (Appeals) 1984-85, 1995-96, 1997-98, 2000-01, 2004-05 to  2013-14 3.26  Sales Tax Laws2 Sales Tax Supreme Court 1995-96 13.01  Sales Tax High Court 1984-85 to 1988-89, 1990-91, 2001-02 to 2005-06,  2007-08 202.39  Sales Tax Tribunal 1983-84, 1989-90, 1992-93, 2000-01 to 2010-11 23.82  Sales Tax Commissioner 1996-97, 1998-99, 2001-02, 2010-11 3.13  Sales Tax Joint Commissioner 1993-94, 1997-98, 2001-02 to 2014-15 289.05  Sales Tax Additional Commissioner 1989-90, 1997-98, 2001-02 to 2013-14 170.63  Sales Tax Deputy Commissioner 1979-80, 1986-87 to 2010-11, 2013-14 104.40  Sales Tax Assistant Commissioner 1990-91, 1995-96, 1997-98, 1999-00, 2006-07,  2008-09 to 2012-13 173.06  Sales Tax Trade Tax Oﬃ  cer 1995-96, 1996-97, 1998-99 to 2001-02, 2005-06,  2006-07 1.83  Custom Laws3 Custom Duty CESTAT 1998-99, 2008-09, 2011-12 4.46  1 Net of R66.24 crores paid under protest;  2 Net of R136.5 crores paid under protest;  3 Net of R7.01 crores paid under protest.
(viii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans or borrowings to  ﬁ  nancial institutions, banks and government and dues to debenture holders.
(ix) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, money raised by way of rights issue during the year and the term loans have  been applied by the Company for the purposes for which they were raised.
F-7 (x) To the best of our knowledge and according to the information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the Company and no material fraud on the  Company by its oﬃ  cers or employees has been noticed or reported during the year.
(xi) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has paid /provided managerial re muneration in accordance with  requisite approval mandated by the provision of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013 except for remuneration paid to Managing  Director for which the Company is in process of applying for the approval from Central Government and Shareholders of the Company.
(xii) The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting under clause (xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act,  2013, where applicable, for all transactions with the related parties and the details of related party transactions have been disclosed in the ﬁ  nancial statements  etc.
as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) During the year the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures and hence  reporting under clause (xiv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, during the year the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions  with its directors or directors of its holding, subsidiary or associate company or persons connected with them and hence provis ions of Section 192 of the  Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable.
(xvi) The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.117366W / W-100018) B.P .
SHROFF Partner (Membership No.
34382) Mumbai, May 30, 2016 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (F-1 - F-7) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-8 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 BALANCE SHEET  AS AT MARCH 31, 2016 (R in crores) Note Page As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1.
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS (a)  Share capital 2 F-15  679.18  643.78  (b)  Reserves and surplus 3 F-17  21,688.90  14,218.81   22,368.08  14,862.59  2.
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a)  Long-term borrowings 4 F-18  10,687.94  12,318.96  (b)  Other long-term liabilities 7 F-20  210.12  286.80  (c)  Long-term provisions 9 F-21  1,409.05 2,104.19  12,307.11  14,709.95 3.
CURRENT LIABILITIES (a)  Short-term borrowings 5 F-18  3,351.74  7,762.01  (b)  Trade payables 11 F-21  8,916.60  8,852.65   [includes dues of micro and small enterprises R127.39 crores   (March 31, 2015 : R139.28 crores)] (c)  Other current liabilities 8 F-20  4,267.23  3,142.88  (d)  Short-term provisions 10 F-21  1,215.49 613.09  17,751.06  20,370.63  TOTAL  52,426.25  49,943.17  II.
ASSETS   1.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a)  Fixed assets (i)  Tangible assets  12 F-22  12,252.78  12,260.50  (ii)  Intangible assets 13 F-22  3,511.19  3,522.73  (iii)  Capital work-in-progress  1,469.71  1,349.95  (iv)  Intangible assets under development  5,011.18  4,690.84   22,244.86  21,824.02  (b)  Non-current investments 14 F-23  16,975.46  16,966.95  (c)  Long-term loans and advances 16 F-26  2,363.22  2,403.56  (d)  Other non-current assets 18 F-27  136.80  175.67   41,720.34  41,370.20  2.
CURRENT ASSETS (a)  Current investments 15 F-25  1,736.00  20.22  (b)  Inventories 20 F-28  4,902.20  4,802.08  (c)  Trade receivables 21 F-28  1,568.46  1,114.48  (d)  Cash and bank balances 22 F-28  452.08  944.75  (e)  Short-term loans and advances 17 F-26  1,794.32  1,574.41  (f )  Other current assets 19 F-27  252.85  117.03   10,705.91  8,572.97   TOTAL  52,426.25  49,943.17  III.
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board   For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP       Chartered Accountants                                          B P SHROFF Partner                   Mumbai, May 30, 2016                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 F-9 STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 (R in crores) Note Page 2015-2016 2014-2015 I.
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 23 (1) F-29  46,646.67 39,531.23 Less: Excise duty  (4,276.85)  (3,229.60)  42,369.82  36,301.63 II.
OTHER INCOME 23 (2) F-29  2,132.92  1,881.41  III.
TOTAL REVENUE (I + II)  44,502.74  38,183.04  IV.
EXPENSES: (a) Cost of materials consumed 39 F-41  24,313.08  22,155.23  (b) Purchase of products for sale 35 F-39  5,259.27  5,765.24  (c) Changes in inventories of ﬁ  nished goods, work-in-progress,   and products for sale  22.94  (878.82) (d) Employee cost / beneﬁ  ts expense 24 F-30  3,026.75  3,091.46  (e) Finance cost 25 F-30  1,481.11  1,611.68  (f ) Depreciation and amortisation expense F-22  2,453.75  2,603.22  (g) Product development expense / Engineering expenses  424.61  437.47  (h) Other expenses 26 F-30  8,041.81  8,087.28  (i) Expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts  (1,034.18)  (1,118.75)           TOTAL EXPENSES    43,989.14  41,754.01  V. PROFIT / (LOSS) BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS, EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND TAX  (III - IV)  513.60  (3,570.97) VI.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (a) Exchange loss (net) including on revaluation of foreign currency borrowings,  deposits and loans  91.37  320.50  (b) Provision for investment and costs associated with closure of operations of a  subsidiary  97.86  -    (c) Employee separation cost 10.04  83.25  (d) Impairment of capitalised ﬁ  xed assets  163.94 -  363.21 403.75  VII.
PROFIT / (LOSS) BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND TAX (V - VI)  150.39  (3,974.72) VIII.
Extraordinary items  -    -      IX.
PROFIT / (LOSS) BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (VII - VIII)  150.39  (3,974.72) X.
Tax expense / (credit) (net) 6 (b) F-19  (83.84)  764.23  XI.
PROFIT / (LOSS) AFTER TAX FOR THE YEAR FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (IX - X)  234.23  (4,738.95) XII.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 27 F-31 A.
Ordinary shares  (Face value of R 2 each) a.
Basic R  0.68 (14.57) b.
Diluted R  0.68 (14.57) B.
‘A’  Ordinary shares  (Face value of R 2 each) a.
Basic R  0.78 (14.57) b.
Diluted R  0.78 (14.57) XIII.
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-8) (F-9) Statement of Profi t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board   For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP       Chartered Accountants                                          B P SHROFF Partner                   Mumbai, May 30, 2016                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-10 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016        (R in crores) 2015-2016 2014-2015 A.
Cash fl  ows from Operating Activities Proﬁ  t / (Loss) after tax  234.23 (4,738.95) Adjustments for:   Depreciation and amortisation expense  2,453.75  2,603.22  Lease equalisation adjusted in income  -    (2.27) Loss / (Proﬁ  t) on sale of assets (net) (including assets scrapped/written oﬀ  ) 382.26 657.94 Provision for investments and costs associated with closure of operations of a subsidiary  97.86 - Impairment of capitalised ﬁ  xed assets  163.94  -    Proﬁ  t on sale of investments (net)  (804.22)  (80.48) Provision for doubtful trade receivable and advances 83.61  131.64    Proﬁ  t on sale of occupancy rights  -    (36.60) Tax expense / (credit)(net)  (83.84)  764.23  Interest / dividend (net)  152.41  (189.25) Exchange diﬀ erences (net) 8.46  270.93  2,454.23 4,119.36 Operating Proﬁ  t before working capital changes 2,688.46 (619.59) Adjustments for:    Inventories  (100.12)  (939.55) Trade receivables (537.59)  (21.22)  Finance receivables  20.57  1.38  Other current and non-current assets 56.76  (607.07) Trade payables and acceptances 63.95  (843.22) Other current and non-current liabilities  333.44  114.68  Provisions  (210.30)  777.90   (373.29)  (1,517.10) Cash generated / (used in) from operations 2,315.17 (2,136.69) Income taxes credit / (paid) (net) 31.01  (77.61) Net cash from / (used in) Operating Activities 2,346.18 (2,214.30) B.
Cash fl  ows from Investing Activities    Payments for ﬁ  xed assets (3,004.15) (3,079.31) Proceeds from sale of ﬁ  xed assets 22.17  24.52  Advance towards investments in subsidiary companies  (73.11)  (26.08) Investments in Mutual Fund (purchased) / sold (net)  (1,668.51)  66.98  Investments in subsidiary companies  (59.98)  (110.56) Investments in associate companies -  (159.00) Sale / Redemption of investments in subsidiary companies  746.90  1,803.90 Sale / Redemption of investments in other companies  85.05 - (Increase) / Decrease in short term inter corporate deposit  (35.00)  (5.00) Loans given to subsidiary companies  (77.97) - Loan given to others  (0.75) - Realisation / (Deposit) of margin money / cash collateral 0.01  0.10  Fixed deposits with ﬁ  nancial institution made  (1,968.00)  (200.00) Fixed deposits with ﬁ  nancial institution realized  1,968.00  200.00  Fixed / restricted deposits with scheduled banks made  (5,511.29)  (505.28) Fixed / restricted deposits with scheduled banks realised 5,353.74  449.85  Sale of occupancy rights 7.32  14.64  Interest received  238.15  80.13  Dividend received  1,051.46  1,698.48  Net Cash (used in) / from Investing Activities  (2,925.96) 253.37 F-11 CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-10 - F-11) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board   For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP       Chartered Accountants                                          B P SHROFF Partner                   Mumbai, May 30, 2016                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016        (R in crores) 2015-2016 2014-2015   C. Cash fl  ows from Financing Activities Proceeds from Rights issue of shares (net of issue expenses)  7,433.22  -    Brokerage and other expenses / refund on Non-Convertible Debentures (NCD)  2.84  (47.95) Repayment of ﬁ  xed deposits  (2.74)  (9.31) Proceeds from long-term borrowings  73.16  7,811.23  Repayment of long-term borrowings  (1,193.64)  (4,839.66) Proceeds from short-term borrowings  3,118.25  5,005.79  Repayment of short-term borrowings  (4,956.91)  (6,670.91) Premium paid on redemption of NCD  -    (744.19) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months)  (2,529.60)  4,620.20  Dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax)  (2.85)  (648.74) Interest paid [including discounting charges paid, R364.47 crores (2014-2015  R434.16  crores)]  (2,012.87)  (1,844.93) Net Cash (used in) / from Financing Activities  (71.14)  2,631.53  Net Increase / (Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A + B + C)  (650.92)  670.60  Cash and cash equivalents as at April 01, (opening balance)    861.95  198.68  Exchange ﬂ  uctuation on foreign currency bank balances  0.71  (7.33) Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance)    211.74  861.95  Previous year’s ﬁ  gures have been restated, wherever necessary, to conform to this year’s  classiﬁ  cation.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-12 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Signifi  cant accounting policies         (a) Basis of preparation     The ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention on an accrual basis of accounting in accordance with the  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India to comply with the Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 2013 Act”).
(b) U se of estimates  The preparation of ﬁ  nancial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, that aﬀ  ect the application of accounting  policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent liabilities at the date of these ﬁ  nancial statements.
Actual results may diﬀ er from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Revisions to accounting   estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods aﬀ e c t e d .
(c) Rev enue recognition     The Company recognises revenues on the sale of products, net of discounts and sales incentives, when the products are delivered t o the dealer / customer  or when delivered to the carrier for export sales, which is when risks and rewards of ownership pass to the dealer / customer.
Sales include income from services and exchange ﬂ  uctuations relating to export receivables.
Sales include export and other recurring and non-recurring  incentives from the Government at the national and state levels.
Sale of products is presented gross of excise duty where applicable, and net of other indirect  taxes.
Revenues are recognised when collectability of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured.
Dividend from investments is recognized when the right to receive the payment is established and when no signiﬁ  cant uncertainty as to measurability or  collectability exists.
Interest income is recognized on the time basis determined by the amount outstanding and the rate applicable and where no signiﬁ  cant uncertainty as to  measurability or collectability exists.
(d) Depr eciation and amortisation     (i)  Depreciation is provided on the Straight Line Method (SLM) over the estimated useful lives of the assets considering the natur e, estimated usage,  operating conditions, past history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers warranties and maintenance support.
Taking  into account these factors, the Company has decided to retain the useful life hitherto adopted for various categories of ﬁ  xed assets, which are diﬀ erent  from those prescribed in Schedule II of the Act.
Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows :        Type of Asset       Estimated useful life     Leasehold Land  Amortised over the period of the lease     Buildings, Roads, Bridges and culverts   4 to 60 years     Plant, machinery and equipment   8 to 20 years     Computers and other IT assets   4 to 6 years     Vehicles   4 to 10 years     Furniture, ﬁ  xture and oﬃ  ce appliances   5 to 15 years     Technical Know-how  5 to 6 years     Computer software   4 years     Water system and sanitation  20 years     Assets taken on lease are amortised over the period of lease    10 years  (ii)  Product development costs are amortised over a period of upto 120 months for New Generation vehicles and powertrains on the basis of higher  of the volumes between planned and actuals and on a straight line method over a period of 36 months for Vehicle Variants, Deriv atives and other  Regulatory Projects.
(iii)  In respect of assets whose useful life has been revised, the unamortised depreciable amount has been charged over the r evised remaining useful life.
(iv)  Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and asset is ready for its intended use.
(v)  Capital assets, the ownership of which doesn’t vest with the Company, other than leased assets, are depreciated over the estimated period of their  utility or ﬁ  ve years, whichever is less.
(e) F ixed assets         (i)  Fixed assets are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation / amortization and accumulated impairment, if any.
(ii)  Product development cost incurred on new vehicle platforms, engines, transmission and new products are recognised as ﬁ  x ed assets, when feasibility  has been established, the Company has committed technical, ﬁ  nancial and other resources to complete the development and it is probable that the  asset will generate probable future beneﬁ  ts.
(iii)  Cost includes purchase price, taxes and duties, labour cost and directly attributable overhead expenditure for self con structed assets incurred up to  the date the asset is ready for its intended use.
Borrowing cost incurred for qualifying assets is capitalised up to the date the asset is ready for intended  use, based on borrowings incurred speciﬁ  cally for ﬁ  nancing the asset or the weighted average rate of all other borrowings, if no speciﬁ  c borrowings  have been incurred for the asset.
The cost of acquisition is further adjusted for exchange diﬀ  erences relating to long term foreign currency borrowings  attributable to the acquisition of depreciable asset w.e.f.
April 1, 2007.
(iv)  Tangible assets and Software not exceeding R25,000, and product development costs relating to minor product enhancements, facelifts and  upgrades, are charged oﬀ   to the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss as and when incurred.
(f ) I mpairment      At each Balance Sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is any indication that the ﬁ  xed assets with ﬁ  nite lives may be impaired.
If any such indication exists,  the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment, if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable  amount of individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
As at March 31, 2016 none of the ﬁ  xed assets were considered impaired.
F-13 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (g) Leases       (i) Finance lease      Assets acquired under ﬁ  nance leases are recognised as an asset and a liability at the commencement of the lease, at the lower of the  fair value of the assets and the pr esent value of minimum lease payments.
The ﬁ  nance expense is allocated to each period during the  lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets given under ﬁ  nance leases are  recognised as receivables at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease and the ﬁ  nance income is based on a constant rate of return on the  outstanding net investment.
(ii) Oper ating lease      Leases other than ﬁ  nance lease, are operating leases, and the leased assets are not recognised on the Company’s Balance Sheet.
P ayments / rental income  under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(h) Transactions in foreign currencies and accounting of derivatives  (i) Exchange diff erences      Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Foreign curr ency monetary assets and  liabilities are translated at year end exchange rates.
(1) Exchange diﬀ  erences arising on settlement of transactions and translation of monetary items other than those covered by (2) below are reco gnized  as income or expense in the year in which they arise.
Exchange diﬀ erences considered as borrowing cost are capitalized to the extent these relate to  the acquisition / construction of qualifying assets and the balance amount is recognized in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
(2) Exchange diﬀ  erences relating to long term foreign currency monetary assets / liabilities are accounted for with eﬀ  ect from April 1, 2007 in the  following manner:       - Diﬀ  erences relating to borrowings attributable to the acquisition of depreciable capital assets are added to / deducted from the cost of such capital  assets.
- Other diﬀ  erences were accumulated in Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Diﬀ erence Account and amortized over the period, beginning  April 1, 2007 or date of inception of such item, as applicable, and ending on March 31, 2011 or the date of its maturity, whichever was earlier.
- Pursuant to notiﬁ  cation issued by the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ  airs on December 29, 2011, the exchange diﬀ  erences on long term foreign currency  monetary items (other than those relating to acquisition of depreciable assets) are amortised over the period till the date of maturity or March 31,  2020, whichever is earlier.
(ii) Hedge accounting      The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency ﬂ  uctuations relating t o highly probable forecast  transactions.
With eﬀ ect from April 1, 2008, the Company designates such forward contracts in a cash ﬂ  ow hedging relationship by applying the hedge  accounting principles set out in Accounting Standard 30- Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
These forward contracts are stated at fair value at each reporting date.
Changes in the fair value of these forward and option contracts that are designated  and eﬀ  ective as hedges of future cash ﬂ  ows are recognized directly in Hedging Reserve Account under Reserves and Surplus, net of applicable deferred  income taxes and the ineﬀ  ective portion is recognised immediately in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
Amounts accumulated in Hedging Reserve Account are reclassiﬁ  ed to Proﬁ  t and Loss in the periods during which the forecasted transaction occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁ  es for hedge accounting.
For forecasted transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in Hedging Reserve Account is retained there until the  forecasted transaction occurs.
If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in Hedging Reserve Account is immediately  transferred to the Proﬁ  t and Loss Statement.
Foreign currency options and other derivatives are stated at fair value as at the year end with changes in fair  value recognized in the  Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
(iii) Premium or discount on forward contracts other than those covered in (ii) above is amortised over the life of such contr acts and is recognised as income  or expense.
(i) Product warranty expenses      The estimated liability for product warranties is recorded when products are sold.
These estimates are established using histo rical information on the nature,  frequency and average cost of warranty claims and management estimates regarding possible future incidence based on corrective actions on product  failures.
The timing of outﬂ  ows will vary as and when warranty claim will arise - being typically up to 3 to 4 years.
(j)  Inventories    Inventories are valued at the  lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of raw materials and consumables are ascertained on a moving weighted average /  monthly moving weighted average basis.
Cost, including variable and ﬁ  xed overheads, are allocated to work-in-progress, stock-in-trade and ﬁ  nished goods  determined on full absorption cost basis.
Net realisable value is estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost of completion  and selling expenses.
(k) Emplo yee benefi  ts   (i) Gratuity   The Company has an obligation towards gratuity, a deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t retirement plan covering eligible employees.
The plan provi des for a lump sum  payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to  15 to 30 days  salary payable for each completed year of service.
Vesting occurs upon completion of ﬁ  ve years of service.
The Company makes annual contributions  to gratuity fund established as trust.
The Company accounts for the liability for gratuity beneﬁ  ts payable in future based on an independent actuarial  valuation carried out at each Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit method.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-14 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (ii) Superannuation   The Company has two superannuation plans, a deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plan and a deﬁ  ned contribution plan.
An eligible employee on April 1, 1996 could elect  to be a member of either plan.
Employees who are members of the deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t superannuation plan are entitled to beneﬁ  ts depending on the years of service and salary drawn.
The monthly pension beneﬁ  ts after retirement range from 0.75% to 2% of the annual basic salary for each year of service.
The Company accounts for the  liability for superannuation beneﬁ  ts payable in future under the plan based on an independent actuarial valuation as at Balance Sheet date.
With eﬀ  ect from April 1, 2003, this plan was amended and beneﬁ  ts earned by covered employees have been protected as at March 31, 2003.
Employees  covered by this plan are prospectively entitled to beneﬁ  ts computed on a basis that ensures that the annual cost of providing the pension beneﬁ  ts would  not exceed 15% of salary.
During the year 2014-15, the employees covered by this plan were given a one time option to exit from the plan prospectively.
Further, the employees  who opted for exit were given a one time option to withdraw accumulated balances from the superannuation plan.
The Company maintains a separate irrevocable trust for employees covered and entitled to beneﬁ  ts.
The Company contributes up  to 15% or R1,00,000  whichever is lower of the eligible employees’ salary to the trust every year.
The Company recognizes such contributions as an expense when incurred  and has no further obligation beyond this contribution.
(iii) Bha vishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY)   Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana is an unfunded deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plan for employees of the Company.
The beneﬁ  ts of the plan include pe nsion in certain cases,  payable up to the date of normal superannuation had the employee been in service, to an eligible employee at the time of death or permanent  disablement, while in service, either as a result of an injury or as certiﬁ  ed by the appropriate authority.
The monthly payment to dependents of the  deceased / disabled  employee  under the plan equals 50% of the salary drawn at the time of death or accident or a speciﬁ  ed am ount, whichever  is  higher.
The Company accounts for the liability for BKY beneﬁ  ts payable in future based on an independent actuarial valuation a s at the Balance Sheet  date.
(iv) Post-retirement medicare scheme    Under this scheme, employees of the Company receive medical  beneﬁ  ts subject  to certain limits of amount, periods after retir ement and types of  beneﬁ  ts, depending on their grade and location at the time of retirement.
Employees  separated  from the Company as part of Early Separation Scheme,  on medical grounds or due to permanent  disablement  are also covered under the scheme.
The liability for post-retirement medical scheme is based on  an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date.
(v) P rovident fund    The eligible employees of the Company are entitled to receive beneﬁ  ts in respect of provident fund, a deﬁ  ned contribution plan, in which both employees  and the Company make monthly contributions at a speciﬁ  ed percentage of the covered employees’ salary (currently 12% of employe es’ salary).
The  contributions as speciﬁ  ed under the law are made to the provident fund and pension fund set up as irrevocable trust by the Company .
The Company is  generally liable for annual contributions and any shortfall in the fund assets based on the government speciﬁ  ed minimum rates of return or pension and  recognises such contributions and shortfall, if any, as an expense in the year incurred.
(vi) Compensated absences    The Company provides for the encashment of  leave or leave with pay subject  to certain rules.
The  employees  are entitled t o accumulate  leave subject  to certain limits, for future encashment.
The  liability is provided  based on the number of days of unutilised leave at each balance sheet date on the basis  of an independent actuarial valuation.
(l)  Investments    Long term investments are stated at cost less other than temporary diminution in value, if any.
Current investments are stated at lower of cost and fair value.
Fair value of investments in mutual funds are determined on a portfolio basis.
(m)  Income taxes   Tax expense comprises current and deferred taxes.
Current tax is the amount of tax payable on the taxable income for the year as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Current tax is net of credit for entitlement for Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT).
Deferred tax is recognised, on timing diﬀ  erences, being the diﬀ  erence between taxable income and accounting income that originate in one period and  are capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
Deferred tax assets in respect of unabsorbed depreciation and carry forward of losses are recognised if there is virtual certainty that there will be suﬃ   cient  future taxable income available to realise such losses.
Other deferred tax assets are recognised if there is reasonable certainity that there will be suﬃ   cient  future taxable income to realize such assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based on the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when asset is realised or the liability is settled,  based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
(n)  Borrowing Costs       Fees towards structuring/arrangements and underwriting and other incidental costs incurred in connection with borrowings are amortised over the period  of the loan.
(o)  Liabilities and contingent liabilities       The company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such matters in its ﬁ  nancial  statements, if material.
For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in the ﬁ  nancial statements but  does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable.
(p)  Business segments       The Company is engaged mainly in the business of automobile products consisting of all types of commercial and passenger  vehicles including ﬁ  nancing  of the vehicles sold by the Company.
These, in the context of Accounting Standard 17 on Segment Reporting are considered to constitute one single  primary segment.
Further, there is no reportable secondary segment i.e.
Geographical Segment.
F-15 (R in crores) As at As at  March 31, 2016 March 31,  2015 2.
Share Capital (a) Authorised : 350,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of  R2 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 350,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of  R2 each)  700.00  700.00  100,00,00,000 'A' Ordinary shares of R2 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 100,00,00,000 'A' Ordinary shares of R2 each)  200.00  200.00  30,00,00,000 Convertible Cumulative Preference shares of R100 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 30,00,00,000 shares of R 100 each)  3,000.00  3,000.00   3,900.00  3,900.00  (b) Issued [Note (l), page F-16] : 288,78,42,351 Ordinary shares of R2 each  577.57 547.44 (as at March 31, 2015: 273,71,97,592 Ordinary shares of R2 each) 50,87,36,805 'A' Ordinary shares of R2 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 48,22,06,515 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each) 101.75 96.44  679.32  643.88  (c) Subscribed and called-up : 288,72,03,602 Ordinary shares of R2 each   (as at March 31, 2015: 273,67,13,122 Ordinary shares of R2 each)  577.44  547.34  50,84,76,704 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each   (as at March 31, 2015: 48,19,66,945 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each)  101.70  96.40   679.14  643.74  (d) Calls unpaid - Or dinary shares  (0.01)  (0.01) (e) Paid-up ( c + d ) 679.13  643.73  (f) Forfeited Shares -  Or dinary shares  0.05  0.05  Total  ( e + f )    679.18  643.78  (g) Movement of number of shares and share capital  :  2015-2016 2014-2015 No.
of shares (R in crores) No.
of shares (R in crores) (i) Ordinary shares  Shares as at April 1 273,67,13,122  547.34 273,67,13,122  547.34   Add: Shares issued pursuant to Rights issue  150,490,480  30.10  -    -     Shares as at March 31 288,72,03,602  577.44 273,67,13,122  547.34  (ii) ‘A’  Ordinary shares  Shares as at April 1 48,19,66,945  96.40 48,19,66,945  96.40   Add: Shares issued pursuant to Rights issue  26,509,759  5.30  -  -  Shares as at March 31 50,84,76,704  101.70 48,19,66,945  96.40         (h) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :  (i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares, both of R2 each :    The Company has two classes of shares – the Ordinary shares and the ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of R2 each (together referred to as shares).
In respect of every Ordinary  share (whether fully or partly paid), voting rights shall be in the same proportion as the capital paid up on such Ordinary share bears to the total paid up Ordinary  share capital of the Company.
In case of every ‘A’ Ordinary share, if any resolution is put to vote on a poll or by postal ballot at any general meeting of shareholders,  the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms of its issue and if a resoluti on is put to vote on a show of hands, the  holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Me eting.
Further, the Board of  Directors may also declare an interim dividend.
The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to receive dividend for each ﬁ  nancial year at ﬁ  ve percentage point  more than the aggregate rate of dividend declared on Ordinary shares for that ﬁ  nancial year.
In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion  to their shareholdings.
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-16 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (ii) American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and Global Depositary Shares (GDSs) :    Each ADS and GDS underlying the ADR and GDR respectively represents ﬁ  ve Ordinary shares of R2 each.
A holder of ADS and GDS is not entitled to attend or vote  at shareholders meetings.
An ADS holder is entitled to issue voting instructions to the Depositary with respect to the Ordinary  shares represented by ADSs only in  accordance with the provisions of the Company’s ADSs deposit agreement and Indian Law.
The depositary for the ADSs and GDSs sha ll exercise voting rights in  respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit agreements.
 Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of R 2 each in all respects including entitlement of the  dividend declared.
(i) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital      As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 % of Issued  share capital No.
of shares % of Issued  share capital   No.
of shares (i) Ordinary shares : (a) Tata Sons Limited 26.98% 77,89,70,378 25.67% 70,23,33,345  (b) Tata Steel Limited ** 5.54% 15,16,87,515  (c) Life Insurance Corporation of India 6.90% 19,91,44,257 ** (d) Citibank N A as Depository  # 49,19,64,200  # 58,22,60,190  (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares : (a) HDFC Trustee Company Limited-HDFC Equity Fund 12.95%  6,58,38,405 ** (b) HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Global Investment Funds Mauritius Ltd ** 5.16% 2,48,78,664  # held by Citibank, N.A.
as depositary for American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) and  Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs) * Less than 5%               (j) I nformation regarding issue of shares in the last fi  ve years   (a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash.
(b) There has been no issue of bonus shares.
(c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares.
(k) The Company allotted 15,04,90,480 Ordinary shares (including 3,20,49,820 shares underlying the ADRs) of R2 each at a premium of R448 per share, aggregating R6,772.07 crores  and 2,65,09,759  ‘A’  Ordinary shares of R2 each at a premium of R269 per share, aggregating R718.42 crores pursuant to the Rights issue.
1,54,279 Ordinary shares and 20,531 ‘A’  Ordinary shares have been kept in abeyance.
Proceeds from the Rights issue have been utilised upto March 31, 2016, in the following manner :                                      Particulars Planned Actual Funding capital expenditure towards plant and machinery  500.00  500.00  Funding expenditure relating to research and product development  1,500.00  1,500.00  Repayment, in full or part, of certain long-term and short-term borrowings availed by the Company  4,000.00  4,000.00  General corporate purposes  1,428.00  1,401.10  Issue related expenses  70.00  64.76  Total  7,498.00  7,465.86 * * Of the above R2.34 crores was pending withdrawal as at March 31, 2016.
(l) The entitlements to 6,38,749 Ordinary shares of R2 each (as at M arch 31, 2015 : 4,84,470 Ordinary shares of R2 each)  and 2,60,101 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each  (as at March  31, 2015: 2,39,570 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each) are subject matter of various suits ﬁ  led in the courts / forums by third parties for which ﬁ  nal order is awaited and hence kept in  abeyance.
(R in crores) F-17 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) 3.
Reserves and surplus As at Additions  Deductions As at March 31, March 31, 2015 2016       (a)     Capital Redemption Reserve  2.28  -    -    2.28   2.28  -    -    2.28       (b)    Securities Premium Account [Note (i)  and (ii)]  11,811.60  7,455.09  54.43  19,212.26   11,683.09  175.05  46.54  11,811.60       (c)     Debenture Redemption Reserve  1,042.15  -    -    1,042.15   1,042.15  -    -    1,042.15       (d)    Revaluation Reserve  22.87  -    -    22.87   22.87  -    -    22.87       (e)     Amalgamation Reserve  0.05  -    -    0.05   0.05  -    -    0.05       (f )     General Reserve [Note (v)]  5,006.07  -    3,506.73  1,499.34   5,006.07  -    -    5,006.07       (g)    Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Diﬀ erence  (14.94)  (98.92)  (16.42)  (97.44)               Account (net) [Note (iii)]  (201.23)  (68.13)  (254.42)  (14.94)              (h)    Hedging Reserve Account [Note (iv)]  16.69  4.68  13.98  7.39   -    25.28  8.59  16.69        (i) Proﬁ  t and Loss Account [Surplus / (Deﬁ  cit)] [Note (vi)]  (3,667.96)  3,740.96  73.00  -     977.59  93.40  4,738.95  (3,667.96)  14,218.81  11,101.81  3,631.72  21,688.90   18,532.87  225.60  4,539.66  14,218.81  Notes 2015-2016 2014-2015 Additions Deductions  Additions  Deductions   (i)   The opening and closing balances of Securities Premium Account are net of calls in                    arrears of R 0.03 crore  (ii)    S ecurities Premium Account :     (a)   Premium on Rights issue of shares  7,455.09  -   -    -       (b)   Rights issue expenses and brokerage, stamp duty and other fees on issue of  Non-Convertible Debentures (NCD) [net of tax R Nil (2014-15 R1.41 crores)]  -   54.43  -   46.54     (c)  Reversal of premium on redemption of NCD  -   -  175.05  -    7,455.09  54.43 175.05  46.54   (iii)   F oreign Currency Monetary Item Transalation Diff  erence Account (net) :      (a)   Exchange loss during the year (net)  (98.92)  -    (68.13)  -       (b)   Amortisation of exchange ﬂ  uctuation for the year  -    (16.42)  -    (254.42)  (98.92)  (16.42)  (68.13)  (254.42)   (iv)   Hedging Reserve Account :      (a)   Fair value gain  -    13.98  25.28  -       (b)   Deferred tax on fair value gain  4.68  -    -    8.59   4.68  13.98  25.28  8.59    (v)  G eneral Reserve :    Amount transferred to Proﬁ  t and Loss Account Surplus/(deﬁ  cit)  -    3,506.73  -    -     -    3,506.73  -    -      (vi)   Pro fi  t and Loss Account [Surplus / (Defi cit)]  (a)   Proﬁ  t / loss after tax  for the year  234.23  -    -    4,738.95    (b)   Amount transferred from General Reserve  3,506.73  -  -    -      (c)   Proposed dividend  -    73.00 -  -     (d)   Reversal of dividend distribution tax of earlier year  -   -  93.40  -     3,740.96  73.00  93.40  4,738.95  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-18 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) 4.
Long-term borrowings As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015     (A)     Secured (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures [ Note I (i) (a) and (ii) (a) below] 700.00  700.00  (b) Term loans from banks : Buyers’ line of credit (at ﬂ  oating interest rate)  [Note I (i) (b) below]  -    12.92  (c) Term loans from others [ Note I (i) (c) below] 552.66  479.50  (d) Finance lease obligations [Note 30(A)(a)(ii), page F-32]  10.03  10.94  1,262.69  1,203.36  (B) Unsecured (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures [Note I (ii) (b), page F-19] 3,950.00 5,000.00  (b) Term loans from banks : Buyers' line of credit (at ﬂ  oating interest rate) [Note I (iii), page F-19] 506.31 1,428.10  (c) Senior Notes [Note I (iv), page F-19] 4,968.94  4,687.50  9,425.25  11,115.60            TOTAL (A+B) 10,687.94 12,318.96  5.
Short-term borrowings As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 (A)    Secured From banks -Loans, cash credit, overdraft accounts [Note II, page F-19]  2,454.73  3,599.90   2,454.73  3,599.90  (B)    Unsecured (a) From banks  -    700.00  (b) Loans and advances from subsidiaries and associates (repayable on demand)  472.45  288.75  (c) Commercial paper [maximum balance outstanding during the year 4,355 crores (2014-2015 : R4,155 crores)]   424.56  3,173.36   897.01  4,162.11             TOTAL (A+B)  3,351.74  7,762.01          (ii)     Schedule of repayment and redemption for Non-Convertible Debentures : (R in cr ores)                   Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) Redeemable on Principal (a) Secured : 10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2025) #  April 30, 2025 150.00  10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) # April 30, 2024 150.00  10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2023) # April 30, 2023 100.00  10.25% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) # April 30, 2022 100.00  9.95% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) March 2, 2020 200.00  # The Company has a call option to redeem, either in part or full, at the end of 8th year from the date of allotment i.e.
April 30, 2018.
I.
Information regarding long term borrowings   (i)  Nature of security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) :     (a) Rated, Listed, Secured, 9.95% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to R200 crores and 10.25% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to  R500 crores are  secured by a pari passu charge by way of an English mortgage of the Company’s freehold land together with immov able properties, plant and  machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand in the State of Gujarat.
(b) Buy ers line of credit from banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz.
stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-ﬁ nished goods,  stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from hire purchase / leasing and  all other movable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future.
Classiﬁ ed under other current liabilities being  maturity before March 31, 2017.
(c) The term loan of R541.51 crores is due for repayment from the quarter ending March 31, 2033 to quarter ending March 31, 2036, along with simple interest at the rate  of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is secured by a second and subservient charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s freehold land together with immovable  properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand plant in the State of Gujarat.
The term loan of R11.15 crores is due for repayment in the quarter ending June 30, 2030, along with a simple interest of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is s ecured by bank  guarantee as per the terms of the agreement.
F-19 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (R in crores) Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) Redeemable on Principal (b) Unsecured : 9.77% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) September 12, 2024 200.00  9.81% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) August 20, 2024 300.00  9.35% Non-Convertible Debentures (2023) November 10, 2023 400.00  9.60% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) October 29, 2022 400.00  9.02% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) December 10, 2021 300.00  9.73% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) October 1, 2020 400.00  9.70% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) June 18, 2020 150.00  9.75% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) May 24, 2020 100.00  9.90% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) May 7, 2020 150.00  9.71% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) October 1, 2019 300.00  10.00% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) May 28, 2019 110.00  9.69% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) March 29, 2019 200.00  10.30% Non-Convertible Debentures (2018) November 30, 2018 190.00  9.45% Non-Convertible Debentures (2018) March 29, 2018 200.00  8.60% Non-Convertible Debentures (2018) February 2, 2018 300.00  10.00% Non-Convertible Debentures (2017) May 26, 2017 250.00  9.84% Non-Convertible Debentures (2017) March 10, 2017* 300.00  8.73% Non-Convertible Debentures (2016) May 17, 2016* 300.00  8.95% Non-Convertible Debentures (2016) April 29, 2016* 300.00  * Classiﬁ  ed as other current liabilities being maturity before March 31, 2017 (iii) The buyers’ line of credit from banks is repayable within a maximum period of three years from the drawdown dates.
All the repayments are due from ﬁ  nancial year  ending March 31, 2017 to ﬁ  nancial year ending March 31, 2019.
(iv) S chedule of repayment of Senior Notes:  Currency Redeemable on Amount (In million) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 R in crores 4.625% Senior Notes USD April 30, 2020 500  3,312.63  3,125.00  5.750% Senior Notes USD October 30, 2024 250  1,656.31  1,562.50  II.
Information regarding short term borrowings Loans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz.
stock of raw materials, stock  in process, semi-ﬁ  nished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including  receivable  from hire purchase / leasing and all other moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future.
6.
Deferred tax liabilities (Net) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  (a) Major components of deferred tax arising on account of timing diff erences are:   Liabilities:   Depreciation  (1,485.40)  (1,471.04)   Product development cost  (2,849.13)  (2,678.50)   Others (15.64)  (11.45)  (4,350.17)  (4,160.99)   Assets:   Employee beneﬁ  ts / expenses allowable on payment basis  559.81  674.21    Provision for doubtful debts  255.48  293.62    Unabsorbed depreciation and business losses  3,492.26  3,154.21    Others  42.62  38.95   (4,350.17)  4,160.99            Net deferred tax liability  -    -     (b)  Tax expense  / (credit) (net) :   (i)  Current tax    Current tax  (88.52)  37.34    Minimum Alternate Tax  -    777.18   (88.52)  814.52   (ii)  Deferred tax      Opening deferred tax  -    43.11     Debited / (credited) to Hedging Reserve Account    (4.68)  8.59        Debited / (credited) to Securities Premium Account   -  (1.41)  (4.68)  50.29    Closing Deferred tax - -    Deferred tax charge /(credit) for the year  4.68  (50.29)    Total  (83.84)  764.23  The Company has recognised deferred tax asset of R1,861.67 cr ores (as at March 31, 2015, R 1,552.74 crores) on unabsorbed depreciation and R 1,630.59 crores    (as at March 31, 2015, R 1,601.47 crores) on brought forward business losses to the extent there is deferred tax liability on timing diﬀ  erences that will reverse in the future.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-20 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 (R in crores)   7.
O ther Long-term liabilities As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 (a)        Deferred payment liabilities  70.08  126.41  (b)        Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  1.27  0.78  (c)        Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  0.09  17.87  (d)        Deferred revenue  43.28  34.91  (e)        Liability towards employee separation scheme  69.40  80.05  (f )        Others   26.00  26.78   210.12  286.80    8.
Other current liabilities As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 (a) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings    416.01  464.19  (b) Current maturities of long-term borrowings [Note below]    1,847.57  1,053.44  (c) Liability for capital expenditure    75.11  62.80  (d) Liability for deposits and retention    212.22  198.65  (e) Deferred payment liabilities    64.50  59.75  (f ) Advance and progress payments from customers    728.78  499.13  (g) Deferred revenue    67.86  78.62  (h) Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service tax, Octroi, etc)    695.07  605.95  (i) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of      the Companies Act, 2013 not due        (i)   Unpaid dividends  14.37  17.22 (ii)  Unclaimed matured deposits and interest thereon   18.60  21.69  (iii) Unclaimed matured debentures and interest thereon   0.22  0.22 (j) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  5.65  4.14  (k) Others   121.27  77.08  4,267.23  3,142.88 Note :    Current maturities of long-term borrowings consist of :   (i)  Non-Convertible Debentures [Note I(ii)(b), page F-19]  900.00  900.00  (ii)  Buyers’ line of credit (at ﬂ  oating rate interest)  [Note I(i)(b), page F-18 and (iii), page F-19]  935.49  138.22  (iii)  Finance lease obligations [Note 30(A)(a)(ii), page F-32]    12.08  15.22   1,847.57  1,053.44     NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  F-21 (R in crores) 9.
L ong-term provisions As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 (a)  Employee beneﬁ  t obligation  525.93  505.17  (b)  Product warranty [Note 34(a), page F-39]    243.71  204.27  (c)  Provision for delinquency [Note 34(b), page F-39]    629.42  1,382.18  (d)  Provision for Annual maintenance contract [Note 34(c), page F-39]    9.99  12.57   1,409.05  2,104.19  10.
Short-term provisions As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 (a) Employee beneﬁ  t obligation  44.17  49.42  (b) Product warranty [Note 34(a), page F-39]  382.51  310.84  (c) Provision for delinquency [Note 34(b), page F-39]  631.00  214.08  (d) Current income tax (net of payment)  67.02  22.46  (e) Proposed dividend  73.00  -    (f ) Provision for Annual maintenance contract [Note 34(c), page F-39]  17.79  16.29   1,215.49  613.09    11.
Trade payables As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 (a) Acceptances  3,887.28  3,950.53  (b) Other than acceptances* [ Note 42 (ii), page F-42]  5,029.32  4,902.12   8,916.60  8,852.65  Includes payable to subsidiary companies :    * Concorde Motors (India) Ltd 8.55 - TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd  4.97  3.90  Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc  55.59  108.92  Tata Motors Finance Ltd  24.58  43.71  Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd 122.41 - Tata Technologies Ltd  48.50  28.91  Tata Motors Ltd (Thailand) Ltd 1.38 - TML Distribution Company Ltd  5.85  7.84  Trilix S.r.l.
17.81  8.75  Jaguar Land Rover Ltd  239.97  140.25  NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-22 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16  (R in crores)  12.
Tangible assets Particulars Cost as at  April 1,  2015 Additions /  adjustments   [Note (iv)] Deductions /  adjustments Cost as at  March 31,  2016 Accumulated  depreciation  as at April 1,  2015 Depreciation   for the year  [Note (v)] Deductions /  adjustments  for the year  [Note (vi)] Accumulated  depreciation   up to March  31, 2016  Net book  value as at  March 31,  2016  [I] Owned assets : (i) Land  519.76  -    3.00  516.76  -    -    -    -    516.76   519.76  -    -    519.76  -    -    -    -    519.76  (ii) Buildings [Note (i) & (ii) (a)]  2,819.35  88.30  8.36  2,899.29  699.32  88.86  1.49  786.69  2,112.60   2,714.37  105.09  0.11  2,819.35  619.76  79.64  0.08  699.32  2,120.03  (iii) Plant, machinery and equipment  19,146.80  1,202.38  92.11  20,257.07  10,137.40  1,123.75  24.90  11,236.25  9,020.82  [Note (ii) (a) & (iii)]  17,887.58  1,363.50  104.28  19,146.80  9,007.39  1,224.83  94.82  10,137.40  9,009.40  (iv) Furniture and ﬁ  xtures [Note (iii)]  146.67  12.30  0.35  158.62  60.42  7.51  0.26  67.67  90.95   132.23  23.39  8.95  146.67  56.25  7.14  2.97  60.42  86.25  (v) Vehicles   [Note (iii)]  160.41  35.37  28.60  167.18  105.06  24.46  23.83  105.69  61.49   163.96  23.21  26.76  160.41  104.57  22.78  22.29  105.06  55.35  (vi) Oﬃ   ce equipment [Note (iii)]  50.15  1.26  0.09  51.32  41.47  3.49  0.05  44.91  6.41   49.67  0.74  0.26  50.15  21.13  20.56  0.22  41.47  8.68  (vii) Computers and other IT assets [Note (iii)]  601.70  26.01  8.73  618.98  488.01  32.26  8.64  511.63  107.35   564.38  37.64  0.32  601.70  458.52  29.69  0.20  488.01  113.69  (viii) Water system and  sanitation [Note (ii)(a)]  222.78  8.57  -    231.35  74.96  10.04  -    85.00  146.35   217.57  5.21  -    222.78  64.92  10.04  -    74.96  147.82  [II] Assets given on lease : (i) Plant, machinery and equipment  425.84  1.00  1.17  425.67  393.12  1.89  0.51  394.50  31.17   425.60  0.41  0.17  425.84  390.65  4.90  2.43  393.12  32.72  (ii) Buildings  4.05  -    -    4.05  0.49  0.09  -    0.58  3.47   4.05  -    -    4.05  0.40  0.09  -    0.49  3.56  [III] Assets taken on lease : (i) Leasehold land [Note (ii)(b)]  121.38  -    -    121.38  15.01  1.21  -    16.22  105.16   121.38  -    -    121.38  13.80  1.21  -    15.01  106.37  (ii) Buildings  31.28  -    -    31.28  5.25  0.51  -    5.76  25.52   31.28  -    -    31.28  4.74  0.51  -    5.25  26.03  (iii) Plant, machinery and equipment  36.43  -    -    36.43  34.61  -    -    34.61  1.82   36.43  -    -    36.43  33.23  1.38  -    34.61  1.82  (iv) Computers & other IT assets  164.46  9.80  -    174.26  135.44  15.91  -    151.35  22.91   155.49  8.97  -    164.46  114.89  20.55  -    135.44  29.02  Total Tangible assets  24,451.06  1,384.99  142.41  25,693.64  12,190.56  1,309.98  59.68  13,440.86  12,252.78   23,023.75   1,568.16  140.85  24,451.06  10,890.25  1,423.32  123.01  12,190.56  12,260.50  Notes :  (i) Buildings include R 8,631 (as at March 31, 2015 R 8,631) being value of investments in shares of Co-operative Housing Societies.
(ii) (a) Buildings, water system and sanitation and plant and machinery  include gross block of R4.76 crores, R19.24 crores and R22.84 crores respectively (as at March 31, 2015 R4.76 crores, R18.87 crores and  R22.84 crores) and net block of R0.08 crore, R14.38 crores and R3.31 crores respectively (as at March 31, 2015 R0.08 crore, R14.87 crores and R7.52 crores) in respect of expenditure incurred on capital  assets, ownership of which does  not  vest in the Company.
(b) The registration of leasehold land of R 12.56 crores (as at March 31, 2015 R12.56 crores) is in process.
(iii) Includes plant, machinery and equipment, furniture and ﬁ  xtures, oﬃ   ce equipment, vehicles  and computers and other IT assets having gross block of R305.89 crores, R0.13 crore, R0.42 crore, R1.79  crores and R128.61 crores (as at March 31, 2015  R160.82 crores, R0.13 crore, R0.41 crore, R1.50 crores and R136.28 crores), and net block of  R17.98 crores, RNil, R0.02 crore, R0.13 crore and R0.23 crore,  respectively (as at March 31, 2015 R8.51 crores, R0.01 crore, R0.02 crore, R0.03 crore and R0.26 crore respectively) held for disposal at lower of their net book value and net realisable value.
(iv) Additions / adjustments include capitalisation of exchange loss mainly on plant, machinery and equipment  of R42.49 crores (2014-2015 R26.24 crores).
(v) Depreciation excludes lease equalisation of RNil (2014-2015 R2.27 crores) adjusted in lease rental income.
(vi) Includes impairment charge on plant, machinery and equipment of R60.32 crores (2014-2015 RNil).
13.
Intangible assets   (R in crores) Particulars Cost as at  April 1,  2015 Additions /  adjustments  [Note (iii)] Deductions /  adjustments Cost as at  March 31,  2016 Accumulated  amortisation  as at April 1,  2015 Amortisation  for the year Deductions /  adjustments  for the year  [Note (iv)] Accumulated  amortisation  up to March  31, 2016  Net book  value as at  March 31, 2016  (i) Technical know-how [Note (ii)]  275.81  -    -    275.81  71.19  25.89  -    97.08  178.73   275.81  -    -    275.81  45.30  25.89  -    71.19  204.62  (ii) Computer software [Note (ii)]  473.26  21.11  1.18  493.19  406.01  38.42  1.18  443.25  49.94   439.15  34.11  -    473.26  360.30  45.82  0.11  406.01  67.25  (iii) Product development cost [Note (i)]  6,614.08  1,214.74  -    7,828.82  3,363.22  1,079.46  (103.62)  4,546.30  3,282.52   5,052.74  1,561.34  -    6,614.08  2,255.03  1,108.19  -    3,363.22  3,250.86  Total Intangible assets  7,363.15  1,235.85  1.18  8,597.82  3,840.42  1,143.77  (102.44)  5,086.63  3,511.19   5,767.70   1,595.45  -    7,363.15  2,660.63  1,179.90  0.11  3,840.42  3,522.73  Notes :   (i) Internally generated intangible asset           (ii) Other than internally generated intangible asset           (iii) Additions / adjustments include capitalisation of exchange loss mainly on product development cost of R28.19 crores (2014-2015 R40.96 crores).
(iv) Includes impairment charge of R103.62 crores (2014-15 RNil).
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  F-23 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 14.
Non-current investments  As at  March 31, 2016   As at  March 31, 2015             Number Face value per unit          Description  I.
Long-term investments (at cost) (A) Trade investments (1) Fully paid Ordinary / Equity shares (quoted) (i) Associates 29,82,214  10 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd 108.22 108.22  (ii) Others 44,32,497  10 Tata Steel Ltd 245.04 245.04  70,249  10 Tata Chemicals Ltd 0.24 0.24  353.50 353.50  (2) Fully paid Ordinary / Equity shares (unquoted)  (i) Subsidiaries Sheba Properties Ltd (75,00,000 shares sold during the year)  -   75.00   3,03,00,600   10 Tata Technologies Ltd  224.10 224.10   3,36,97,694  10 Concorde Motors (India) Ltd  [Note 9, page F-24]  79.63 64.63  (1,50,00,000 shares acquired during the year)  11,50,00,000  10 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd  200.00 185.00  (1,50,00,000 shares acquired during the year)  7,70,00,000  10 TML Drivelines Ltd  448.85 448.85   25,00,000  10 Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd  19.31 19.31  [Note 5, page F-24] 3,43,92,495  (GBP)  1 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc, (UK) [Note 6, page F-24]  292.71 262.73  (30,00,000 shares acquired during the year) 7,900  - Tata Technologies Inc, (USA)  0.63 0.63  1,31,90,20,771  10 Tata Motors Finance Ltd [Note 11, page F-24]  2,500.00 2,500.00  8,67,00,000 10 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd  86.70 86.70 22,50,00,000  10 TML Distribution Company Ltd  225.00 225.00 2,51,16,59,418 (USD)  1 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, (Singapore)  10,158.52 10,158.52 1,34,523 (EUR)  31.28 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A., (Spain)  17.97 17.97  1,220  (IDR)  8,855 PT Tata Motors Indonesia  0.01 - 2,02,000 (MAD)  1,000 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A., (Morocco)  49.59 - (2,02,000 shares acquired during the year) 1,83,59,203 (SGD)  1 Tata Precision Industries Pte.
Ltd, (Singapore)  40.53  40.53  Trilix Srl., Turin (Italy)  [Note 7, page F-24]  11.94  11.94   1,00,000  (NGN)  1 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd -* - (100,000 shares acquired during the year)  14,355.49 14,320.91 * Less than R100,000  (ii) Associates 16,000 (TK)  1,000 NITA Co. Ltd (Bangladesh)  1.27 1.27  5,23,33,170  10 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd  77.47 77.47  3,97,50,000  10 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd  79.50 79.50   158.24 158.24  (iii) Joint venture (JV) 12,22,57,983  100 Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd  [Note 8, page F-24]  1,567.04 1,567.04  9,00,00,000  10 Tata Cummins Private Ltd  90.00 90.00   1,657.04 1,657.04  (iv) Others 50,000  1,000 Tata International Ltd  28.85  28.85  1,383  1,000 Tata Services Ltd  0.14  0.14  350  900 The Associated Building Company Ltd  0.01  0.01  1,03,10,242  100 Tata Industries Ltd  183.19  183.19  33,600  100 Kulkarni Engineering Associates Ltd  0.67  0.67  12,375  1,000 Tata Sons Ltd  68.75  68.75  2,25,00,001  10 Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd  22.50  22.50  2,40,000  10 Oriental Floratech (India) Pvt.
Ltd  0.24  0.24  43,26,651  15 Tata Capital Ltd  6.70  6.70   311.05 311.05 (3) Fully paid Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares  (unquoted) Subsidiaries 13,54,195  100 7% Concorde Motors (India) Ltd  [Note 9, page F-24]  13.54 13.54  Fully paid Optionally Convertible Preference shares (unquoted) Associates 1,59,00,000  100 9% Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd [Note 10, page  F-24]  159.00 159.00                                                                                        Carried Forward  17,007.86  16,973.28  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-24 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) As at  March 31, 2016  As at  March 31, 2015 Number Face value per unit Description I.
Long-term investments (at cost) (contd.)
Brought forward 17,007.86 16,973.28  (B) Other investments Fully paid Equity shares (unquoted) 50,000 10 NICCO Jubilee Park Ltd 0.05 0.05  17,007.91 16,973.33  Less: Provision for Diminution other than temporary in value of long term investments 105.56 55.97  II.
Advance towards investments Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc, (UK)  43.11 - Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb S.A., (Morocco)  -    49.59  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd   30.00  -     73.11  49.59  Total Non-current investments 16,975.46 16,966.95  Notes:  (1) Face Value per unit is in Rupees unless stated otherwise  (2) Book value of quoted investments  353.50  353.50    (3) Book value of unquoted investments  16,621.96  16,613.45  (4) Market value of quoted investments   270.09  275.26  (5) The Company has given a letter of comfort to HDFC Bank amounting to R1 crore against working capital facility to Tata Motor Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited  (TMIBASL).
Also the Company has given an undertaking to HDFC Bank that it will not dilute its stake in TMIBASL below 51% during the tenor of the loan.
(6) The Company had given a letter of comfort to Standard Chartered Bank, London for GBP 15 million which has been cancelled and  now the Company has given a letter of comfort  to ANZ Bank, London for GBP 2 million (R19.09 crores an on March 31, 2016) against loan extended by the bank to Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc, UK (TMETC).
Also the  Company has given an undertaking to ANZ Bank, London to retain atleast 51% ownership of TMETC at all times during the tenor of the loan.
(7) Trilix Srl., Turin (Italy) is a limited liability Company.
(8) The Company has given a letter of comfort to certain banks and other lenders against credit facilities extended to Fiat Indi a Automobiles Private Ltd for R1,000 crores and Euro 130  million (R980.08 crores as on March 31, 2016).
The letter of comfort is restricted to 50% of the value of credit facilities extended i.e.
R990.04 crores.
(9) The Company has given a letter of comfort to Tata Capital Financial Services Limited amounting to R15 crores against credit facility extended to Concorde Motors (India) Limited  (CMIL).
The Company will not dilute its stake in CMIL below 100% during the tenor of the facility.
(10) The Company has invested in 9% Optionally Convertible Preference Shares (OCPS) as per the rights oﬀ  ered by Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd to existing  equity shareholders in the ratio of 4 OCPS for every 10 equity shares.
These OCPS are redeemable at par or can be converted int o equity shares after a period of seven years from  the date of subscription.
(11) During the year 2015-2016, Tata Motors Finance Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, issued 4,34,00,000 privately placed, cumulative non-participative compulsory convertible  preference shares of R100 each convertible after 7 years.
There is call/put option with the Company/counterparty to purchase/sell 1,30,00,000 and 3,0 4,00,000 cumulative  non-participative compulsory convertible preference shares in March and April 2019, respectively.
(12) Trade Investments also include: RR Number Face value             Description  As at  March 31, 2016 As at  March 31, 2015per unit    Investments in other companies  20,000  10   Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd 25,000 25,000   50  5   Jamshedpur Co-operative Stores Ltd 250 250   16,56,517 (M$)      1   Tatab Industries Sdn.
Bhd., (Malaysia) 1 1   4  25,000   ICICI Money Multiplier Bond 1 1   100  10   Optel Telecommunications 1,995 1,995   200  10   Punjab Chemicals 1 1  F-25 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 15.
Current investments  As at   March 31, 2016   As at   March 31, 2015 Number Face value  per unit  Description  I  Current investments - others (at cost or fair value whichever is lower)   (A) Trade investments  (1) Fully paid Ordinary / Equity shares (unquoted)  Subsidiaries PT Tata Motors Indonesia  -     15.54  (33,82,697 shares sold during the year and 1,220 shares transferred to  Non-Current Investment) -   15.54   (B)  Other investments   (1) Investments in Mutual Funds (unquoted) Liquid / Liquid Plus Schemes   10,21,691 1000  Principal Cash Managment Fund - Regular Plan - Growth  150.00  -     11,82,026 1000  UTI Money Market Fund - Institutional Plan - Growth  200.00  -     4,82,533 1000  L&T Liquid Fund - Growth  100.00  -     11,64,710 1000  Religare Invesco Credit Opportunities Fund - Growth  200.00  -     47,85,781 100  ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund - Growth  100.00  -     67,03,304 100  ICICI Prudential Flexible Income Plan - Growth  190.00  -     7,36,33,056 10  HDFC Floating Rate Income Fund - Short Term Plan- Wholesale Option - Growth  190.00  -     8,41,109 1000  Tata Money Market Fund - Regular Plan - Growth  200.00  -     8,99,917 1000  UTI Treasury Advantage Fund - Institutional Plan - Growth  184.00  -     1,64,63,630 10  ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term - Growth  25.00  -     8,21,78,833 10  Kotak Treasury Advantage Fund - Growth (Regular Plan)  197.00  -    1,736.00  -   (2) Investments in Equity shares (unquoted) Tata Projects Ltd -  4.68  (1,35,000 shares sold during the year) 35,000 10 Elcot Power Control Ltd -   -    91,800 10 Munis Forge Ltd -   -    30,997 10 Rooﬁ  t Industries Ltd -  -  -  4.68        (3) Investments in Preference shares (unquoted) 1,00,000 100 15.50% Pennar Paterson Securities Ltd -  - 2,00,000 100 15.00% Atcom Technologies Ltd - Cumulative Preference Shares -  - -  -  1,736.00 20.22 Total current investments  1,736.00  20.22  Notes: (1)    Face value per unit is in Rupees unless stated otherwise (2)    Book value of quoted investments -  -   (3)    Book value of unquoted investments 1,736.00  20.22  (4)    Market value of quoted investments -    -   Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-26 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 16.
Long-term loans and advances As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  Unsecured (considered good unless stated otherwise)  (a) Loans to employees  32.62  34.20   (b) Loan to a Joint Venture  (Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd)  -    265.00   (c)  Loans to subsidiary companies :    Considered good 16.61  20.80   Considered doubtful 581.11  539.40  597.72  560.20   Less : Allowances for doubtful loans (581.11)  (539.40)    16.61  20.80   (d)  Dues from subsidiary companies      Considered doubtful  (i)   Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. 53.74 54.38  (ii)   Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb SA 4.64 -  58.38  54.38  Less : Allowances for doubtful dues (58.38)  (54.38)  -   -  (e)  Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from Government  925.66  1,127.68   (f )  Capital advances  321.40  219.10   (g)  Non-current income tax assets (net of provisions)  717.63  512.78   (h)  Others :    Considered good 349.30  224.00   Considered doubtful 18.16  8.86  367.46  232.86   Less : Allowances for doubtful loans and advances (18.16)  (8.86)  349.30  224.00   2,363.22  2,403.56   17.
Short-term loans and advances As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  (A) Secured  (a) Finance receivables #      Vehicle loans        Considered good  0.24  20.81      Considered doubtful  13.23  221.39   13.47  242.20      Less : Allowances for doubtful loans  (13.23)  (221.39)    0.24  20.81  (B) Unsecured (considered good unless stated othewise)    (a)  Advances and other receivables recoverable     Considered good  316.87  327.00      Considered doubtful  106.12  77.99   422.99  404.99      Less : Allowances for doubtful loans and advances (106.12) (77.99)    316.87  327.00    (b) Inter corporate deposits     Considered good  80.00  45.00      Considered doubtful  6.51  6.51   86.51  51.51      Less : Allowances for doubtful loans  (6.51)  (6.51)    80.00  45.00   (c)  Loan to subsidiary company (Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc, UK)  40.56  -     (d)  Dues from subsidiary companies [Note (i), page F-27]  48.90  66.14   (e)  Loan to a Joint Venture (Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd)  265.00  -     (f )  VAT, other taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from Government  993.67  955.27   (g)  Current income tax assets (net of provisions)  3.84  106.62   (h)  Others  45.24  53.57   1,794.08  1,553.60   Total (A + B)  1,794.32  1,574.41  # Loans are secured against hypothecation of vehicles F-27 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Note  : (i) Dues from subsidiary companies  (a) TML Drivelines Ltd  23.92  25.45  (b) Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd  0.11  -    (c) PT Tata Motors Indonesia  5.96  5.39  (d) Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd  0.02  -    (e) Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd  3.37  3.22  (f ) Tata Motors Nigeria Ltd  0.12  -    (g) PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia  0.82  0.82  (h) Jaguar Land Rover Ltd  -    1.34  (i) Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd  1.62  0.95  (j) JLR Automotive Plc  0.23  0.23  (k) Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd  1.53  2.64  (l) Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb SA  -    1.16  (m) Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd  11.20  24.94   48.90  66.14  (R in crores) As at  As at  March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 18.
Other non-current assets As at  As at  March 31, March 31, 2016 2015  (a) Prepaid debt issue cost 37.78  45.18   (b) Prepaid expenses  0.67  0.33   (c) Interest accrued on deposits / loans  -    102.89   (d) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  98.35  27.27   136.80  175.67  19.
Other current assets As at As at March 31, March 31, 2016 2015  (a) Prepaid debt issue cost  7.39  7.53   (b) Prepaid expenses  84.95  68.70   (c) Interest accrued on deposits / loans  123.82  1.09   (d) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  36.69  38.18              (e) Share issue expenses    -    1.53   252.85  117.03  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-28 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  21.
Trade receivables As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  (a) Due over six months : Considered good (unsecured)  291.73  223.54  Considered doubtful  578.46  535.69   870.19  759.23  Less : Allowances for doubtful debts    (578.46)  (535.69)  291.73  223.54   (b) Others : Considered good (unsecured)  1,276.73  890.94  Considered doubtful  19.58  36.58   1,296.31  927.52  Less : Allowances for doubtful debts    (19.58)  (36.58)  1,276.73  890.94   1,568.46  1,114.48  22.
Cash and bank balances As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  (A) Cash and cash equivalents (a) Cash on hand  0.26  0.24  (b) Cheques on hand  59.18  6.12  (c) Current account with banks #  152.30  855.59   211.74  861.95   (B) Other bank balances  Earmarked balance with banks  131.07  16.95   131.07  16.95   (C) Other bank balances (with more than 3 months but less than 12 months maturity) (a) Earmarked balance with banks  105.22  11.85  (b) Bank deposits  0.06  0.07   105.28  11.92   (D) Other bank balances (with more than 12 months maturity)     (a) Margin money / cash collateral with banks    -    0.01  (b) Earmarked balance with banks    3.99  53.92   3.99  53.93   452.08  944.75                # Includes   - Remittances in transit  143.94 167.94 - In foreign currencies  1.81 673.67 (R in crores)    20.
I nventories As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  (a) Stores and spare parts  137.41  131.18   (b) Consumable tools  20.90  19.56   (c) Raw materials and components  1,318.42  1,145.97   (d) Work-in-progress  471.16  445.52   (e) Finished goods  2,867.11  2,915.69   (f ) Goods-in-transit - Raw materials and components  87.20  144.16   4,902.20  4,802.08  F-29 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 23.
T otal revenue 2015-2016 2014-2015  1.
Revenue from operations (a) Sale of products (Note 1 below) [Note 38, page F-41]    45,879.45  38,829.49  (b) Sale of services   342.60  284.72  (c) Income from vehicle loan contracts  2.80 5.89   46,224.85  39,120.10  (d) Other operating revenues (Note 2 below)   421.82 411.13   46,646.67  39,531.23   2.
Other income (a) Interest income  257.99 102.45  (b) Dividend income [Notes 3 and 4 below]   1,070.71 1,698.48 (c) Proﬁ  t on sale of Investments (net)  [Note 5 below]    804.22  80.48   2,132.92 1,881.41  Note :  (1) Includes exchange (loss) / gain (net)    36.15  46.91   (2) Sale of occupancy rights   -    36.60   (3) Includes dividend on   (a) Trade investments (non-current)   58.90  30.83  (b) Dividend from subsidiary companies (non-current)   1,005.53  1,638.56   (4) Includes exchange gain (non-current)  6.28  29.09   (5)  Proﬁ  t on sale of Investment in subsidiary companies [Note 6 below]  656.36  13.49   (6) During the year ended March 31, 2016,  (i)  the Company has received an additional consideration of R324.48 crores from TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore, a wholly owned subsidiary  towards divestment of investments in the quarter ended December 31, 2013, in a foreign subsidiary.
(ii) the Company has sold its 100% stake in Sheba Properties Ltd, to its subsidiary Tata Motors Finance Ltd for a consideration  of R405.37 crores,   resulting in a proﬁ  t of R330.37 crores.
(iii) the Company has sold its investments in PT Tata Motors Indonesia Ltd, to TML holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore, a wholly owned subsidiary company.
Consequently, consideration of R17.05 crores (R145.65 crores for the year 2014-2015) was received resulting in a proﬁ  t of R1.51 crores (R13.49  crores for the year 2014-2015).
Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-30 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 24.
Employee cost / benefi ts expense  2015-2016  2014-2015   (a) Salaries, wages and bonus  2,548.89  2,524.43   (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds  172.15  225.78   (c) Staﬀ   welfare expenses 305.71  341.25   3,026.75  3,091.46  25.
Finance cost  2015-2016  2014-2015   (a) Interest  1,559.13  1,616.12   Less: Transferred to capital account  (450.89)  (465.05)  1,108.24  1,151.07   (b) Discounting charges 372.87  460.61   1,481.11  1,611.68  26.
O ther expenses  2015-2016  2014-2015   (a) Processing charges  1,507.21  1,450.57   (b) Consumption of stores and spare parts  470.94  447.36   (c) Power and fuel  402.36  395.88   (d) Rent  86.70  98.34   (e) Repairs to buildings  55.86  63.58   (f ) Repairs to plant, machinery etc.
101.64  103.23   (g) Insurance  93.92  74.62   (h) Rates and taxes  103.25  108.88   (i) Freight, transportation, port charges, etc.
1,284.57  1,049.93   (j) Publicity  669.99  745.44   (k) Excise duty on change in closing stock  0.71  145.01   (l) Works operation and other expenses  [Note below]  3,264.66  3,404.44   8,041.81  8,087.28   Not e :  Works operation and other expenses include  (a) Warranty expenses  482.72  428.68   (b) Computer expenses  625.32  615.95   (c) Consultancy  139.34  147.12   (d) Provisions and write oﬀ   for sundry debtors, vehicle loans and advances (net)  111.48  125.11   (e) Provision for carrying capital cost of buildings under construction at Singur [Note 29, page F-32]  -   309.88  (f ) Auditors’ remuneration (excluding service tax)   (i) Audit fees (including IFC certiﬁ  cation)  5.05  4.50   (ii) Audit fees for ﬁ  nancial statements as per IFRS (including ICFR certiﬁ  cation)  3.85  3.85   (iii) In other capacities :    - Company law matters (R48,534 for 2015-16, R47,500 for 2014-15) - -    - Tax audit / Transfer pricing audit  0.65  0.58     - Taxation matters  0.19  0.27    (iv) Other services*  0.75  1.60    (v) Reimbursement of travelling and out-of-pocket expenses  0.60  0.22     * - Includes payment to an aﬃ   liate ﬁ  rm of statutory auditors  0.58  0.55      - Excludes audit fees debited to Securities Premium Account related to Rights issue  1.70 -   (g) Cost Auditors’ remuneration  (excluding service tax) :   (i) Cost Audit fees  0.20  0.20    (ii) Reimbursement of travelling and out-of-pocket expenses  0.01  0.01  (h) Works operation and other expenses for the year 2015-16 includes R20.57 crores ( R18.62 crores for the year 2014-15) spent towards various  schemes of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
No amount has been  spent  on construction / acquisition of an asset of the Company.
The prescribed CSR expenditure required to be spent in the year 2015-16 as per the  Companies Act, 2013 is Nil, in view of average net proﬁ  ts of the Company being RNil (under section 198 of the Act) for last three ﬁ  nancial years.
F-31 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Earnings Per Share 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) Proﬁ  t / (loss) after tax R crores  234.23  (4,738.95) (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
287,31,88,838 276,53,39,619 (c) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS  Nos.
50,60,63,234 48,74,45,041 (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary)  R  2.00  2.00  (e) Share of proﬁ  t for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS R crores 194.85 (4,028.80) (f ) Share of proﬁ  t for  ‘A’  Ordinary shares for Basic EPS * R crores 39.38 (710.15) (g) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Basic) R 0.68 (14.57) (h) Earnings Per  ‘A’  Ordinary share (Basic) R 0.78 (14.57) (i) Proﬁ  t after tax for Diluted EPS     R crores 234.23 # (j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS  Nos.
287,31,88,838 # (k) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants and shares held in abeyance Nos.
621,045 # (l) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS  Nos.
287,38,09,883 # (m) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS  Nos.
50,60,63,234 # (n) Add: Adjustment for ‘A’ Ordinary shares held in abeyance  Nos.
257,745 # (o) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
50,63,20,979 # (p) Share of proﬁ  t for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS   R crores 194.84 # (q) Share of proﬁ  t for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS *   R crores  39.39 # (r) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Diluted)    R  0.68 (14.57) (s) Earnings Per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Diluted)    R  0.78 (14.57) * # Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2015, have been retrospectively adjusted for the bonus element in respect of  rights issue as described in Note 2(k), F-16.
‘A’ Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to receive dividend @ 5% points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by the Company on  Ordinary Shares for the ﬁ  nancial year.
Since there is a loss for the year ended March 31, 2015, potential equity shares are not considered as dilutive and hence Diluted EPS is same as  Basic EPS.
Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (R in crores) 28.
Contingent liabilities, commitments (to the extent not provided for) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015  Description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable is reported under note (1),  (2) and (4) below :  1 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts  (i) Sales tax    - Gross  1,104.04  870.58                     - Net of tax  721.95  574.67  (ii) Excise duty - Gross  1,224.34 1,276.16                     - Net of tax  800.62 842.32 (iii) Others         - Gross  218.72 265.29                    - Net of tax  143.03 175.12 (iv) Income Tax in respect of matters pending in appeal / others  92.35 92.58   2 The claims / liabilities in respect of excise duty, sales tax and other matters where the issues were decided in  favour of the Company for which the Department is in further appeal  64.34 70.66  3 Other money for which the Company is contingently liable in respect of bills discounted  and export sales on  deferred credit 217.80 234.63   4 Bonus pertaining to retrospective period as per notiﬁ  cation dated January 1, 2016 17.47 -     5 (a) Corporate guarantee given to RUAG Aerospace Structures GMBH for TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited.
66.25   62.50    (b) Commitment given for funding Tata Motors European Technical Centre’s contribution to National Automotive          Innovation Centre at the University of Warwick, UK.
158.45  -      (c) Corporate Guarantee given to YES Bank for Broadcast Audience Research Council.
1.20  -     6 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided   (i) Tangible  1,451.69  1,034.57  (ii) I ntangible  398.25  382.02   7  Purchase commitments  3,207.80  6,413.58   8 The Company has entered into an agreement to compensate Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd (TMFSL), an indirect subsidiary of the Company,  the cost of funds on overdue principal amounts for certain ﬁ  nance receivables, where TMFSL claim losses from the Company, which in the current  year amounted to R121.97 crores (previous year RNil).
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-32 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16  (R in crores) 30.
Disclosure in respect of leases   As at  As at  March 31,  March 31,  2016 2015   (A) Finance leases : Assets taken on lease : (a) (i) Total of minimum lease payments  23.95  28.80    The total of minimum lease payments for a period :   Not later than one year  13.27  16.86   Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years  10.68  11.94   (ii) Present value of minimum lease payments   Present value of minimum lease payments for a period :  22.11  26.16 Not later than one year  12.08  15.22  Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years  10.03  10.94  (b) A general description of the signiﬁ  cant leasing arrangements -   The Company has entered into Finance lease arrangements for computers and data processing equipments from a vendor.
The ﬁ  nance lease obligation is secured by a charge against the said assets.
(B) Operating leases :   Assets given on lease :   (a) Total of minimum lease payments  39.31  59.87  The total of minimum lease payments for a period :  Not later than one year  15.35  16.09  Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years  21.03  36.43  Later than ﬁ  ve years  2.93  7.35     (b) Gross block  36.93  37.10   Accumulated Depreciation  18.08  16.61   Depreciation for the year R1.98 cr ores (2014-15 R2.73 crores)     (c) A general description of signiﬁ  cant leasing arrangements-   The Company has entered into Operating  lease arrangements    for buildings and plant and machinery.
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
Capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2014 included building under construction at Singur in West Bengal of R309.88 crores for the purposes  of manufacturing automobiles.
In October 2008, the Company moved the Nano project from Singur in West Bengal to Sanand in Gujarat.
In  June 2011, the newly elected Government of West Bengal (State Government) enacted a law cancelling the land lease agreement at Singur, and  took over possession of the land.
The Company challenged the constitutional validity of the law.
In June 2012, the Calcutta Hig h Court declared  the law unconstitutional and restored Company’s rights under the land lease agreement.
The State Government ﬁ  led an appeal in the Supreme  Court of India in August 2012, which is pending disposal.
Though the Company continues to rigorously press its rights, contentions and claims in  the matter, the Company has been advised that the time it may take in disposal of the appeal is uncertain.
The Company has also been advised  that it has a good case and can strongly defend the appeal, but the questions that arise are issues of constitutional law and thus the result of the  appeal cannot be predicted.
In these circumstances, in view of the uncertainty on the timing of resolution, following the course of  prudence, the  management has during the year ended March 31, 2015, made a provision for carrying capital cost of buildings at Singur amounting to R309.88  crores included under the head “works operations and other expenses” excluding other assets (electrical installations etc.)
and expenses written  oﬀ   / provided in earlier years, security expenses, lease rent and claim for interest on the whole amount (including R309.88 crores).
The Company  shall however continue to pursue the case and assert its rights and its claims in the Courts.
F-33 31.
(i)  Related party disclosures for the year ended March 31, 2016  NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (a) Related party and their relationship 1.
Subsidiaries : Jaguar Land Rover India Limited  Concorde Motors (India) Limited Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV  Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited Tata Motors Finance Limited The Jaguar Collection Limited TML Holdings Pte.
Limited Jaguar Cars Limited TML Distribution Company Limited Land Rover Exports Limited  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. Land Rover Ireland Limited Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb S.A. Land Rover Parts Limited (Dissolved & struck oﬀ   with eﬀ  ect from July 14, 2015) TML Drivelines Limited The Daimler Motor Company Limited Trilix S.r.l.
Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited Tata Precision Industries Pte.
Limited S.S. Cars Limited  Tata Technologies Limited The Lanchester Motor Company Limited  Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited  Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and Distribution  JDHT Limited (Acquired by Jaguar Land Rover Limited on February 2, 2015) Company Limited Silkplan Limited (Acquired by Jaguar Land Rover Limited on April 16, 2015) Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o (Incorporated w.e.f.
August 27, 2015) Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte.
Ltd (Incorporated w.e.f.
November 25, 2015) PT Tata Motors Indonesia Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
February 2, 2016) PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia InMotion Ventures Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
March 18, 2016) Tata Technologies  Inc. Tata Technologies (Canada) Inc. Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 2.
Associates : Tata Technologies Pte Limited Jaguar Cars Finance Limited  Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited Tata Technologies Europe Limited Nita Company Limited  INCAT International Plc.
Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited  INCAT GmbH Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited  Cambric Limited Tata AutoComp Systems Limited Tata Technologies SRL Tata Sons Ltd (Investing Party) Cambric GmbH Cambric UK Limited Midwest Managed Services Inc. 3.
Joint Ventures : Cambric Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited Tata Cummins Private Limited Sheba Properties Limited Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (Converted from Private Ltd Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited  w.e.f .
June 4, 2015) Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Sales Company Limited  TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
Spark44 (JV) Limited  September 2, 2015) Spark44 Pty.
Ltd (Sydney)  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) Jaguar Land Rover Limited Spark44 LLC (LA & NYC) Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai) JLR Nominee Company Limited Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Limited (Mumbai) Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Spark44 Communication SL (Madrid) Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veículos e Peças, Lda.
Spark44 SRL (Rome) Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Spark44 Limited (Seoul) Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa  Spark44 KK (Tokyo) Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Company Limited TATA HAL Technologies Limited Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC  Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS  Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited   4.
Key Management Personnel : Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited Mr Guenter Butschek - CEO & Managing Director (w.e.f.
February 15, 2016) Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Veículos Mr R Pisharody - Executive Director   LTDA  (Name changed from Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Mr S B Borwankar - Executive Director Importacao e Comercia de Veiculos Ltda w.e.f.
February 10, 2016) Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia)  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-34 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                  (R in crores) 2015-2016 (b) Transactions with the related parties Subsidiaries Joint  Venture Associates Key  Management Personnel Total Purchase of goods  1,060.41  5,562.89  742.58  -    7,365.88   1,314.21  5,329.00  774.56  -    7,417.77  Sale of goods (inclusive of sales tax)  2,612.77  1,194.23  195.09  -    4,002.09   1,611.15  1,243.30  170.28  -    3,024.73  Purchase of ﬁ  xed assets  26.17  -    -    -    26.17   25.85  -    -    -    25.85  Sale of ﬁ  xed assets  5.57  -    -    -    5.57   11.46  -    -    -    11.46  Redemption / buy back of investments  -    -    -    -    -     1,658.24  -    -    -    1,658.24  Sale of investment  746.90  -    -    -    746.90   145.66  -    -    -    145.66  Services received  2,473.53  0.23  5.41  11.29#  2,490.46   2,755.01  0.86  4.48  4.37  2,764.72  Services rendered  256.40  15.94  14.26  -    286.60  245.66  5.22  7.89  -    258.77  Finance given (including loans and equity) 256.07  -    -    -   256.07  141.71  -    159.00  -    300.71  Finance taken (including loans and equity)  1,779.25  -    1,933.09  -* 3,712.34  1,667.00  -    4.00  -    1,671.00  Loans repaid by the Company  1,632.55  -    159.00  -    1,791.55   1,392.25  -    20.00  -    1,412.25  Interest / dividend paid / (received) (net)  (979.84)  (28.47)  (43.55)  -    (1,051.86)  (1,613.00)  (19.57)  116.39  -*    (1,516.18) Provision for loan given  45.71  -    -    -    45.71   -    -    -    -    -    Assets given as security 2,500.00 - - - 2,500.00  -    -    -    -    -    (c) Balances with related parties (as at March 31, 2016) Amount receivable  343.33  -    12.20  -    355.53   620.95  -    4.65  -    625.60  Amount payable  1,636.87  336.07  52.97  -    2,025.91   337.63  287.35  59.63  -    684.61  Amount receivable (in respect of loans and interest)  718.40  387.12  -    -    1,105.52   605.48  367.94  25.66  -    999.08  Provision for amount receivable (including loans) 639.49  -    -     -       639.49   593.78  -    -    -    593.78  Amount payable (in respect of loans)  445.45  -    27.00  -    472.45   288.75  -    -    -    288.75  Bills discounted (in respect of amount receivable)  -    -    5.18   -       5.18   -    -    4.86  -    4.86  Bank Guarantee /  Other assets given as security  2,502.35   -       3.00   -       2,505.35   2.35  -    3.00  -    5.35  # includes R4.61crores (RNil for the year 2014-2015) of managerial remuneration which is subject to the approval of the Central Government and shareholders  * Less than R10,000/-  Note : Current year ﬁ  gures are shown in bold and comparative ﬁ  gures for the previous year are shown below the current year F-35 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) (d) Disclosure in respect of transactions which are more than 10% of the total transactions of the same type with  related parties during the year 2015-2016 2014-2015 (i) P urchase of goods Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd  2,688.37  2,996.49  Tata Cummins Private Ltd  2,874.52  2,332.51  Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd  578.16  659.88  Jaguar Land Rover Ltd  466.12  628.57  Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd  369.15  408.46  Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd  372.07  364.80  (ii) S ale of goods (inclusive of sales tax) Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd  982.50  1,066.15  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd  742.78  599.84  Jaguar Land Rover India Ltd  1,190.52  449.68  TML Distribution Company Ltd  536.43  354.97  Tata Cummins Private Ltd  211.73  177.15  Nita Company Ltd  167.60  137.18  (iii) S ale of investment TML Holdings Pte Ltd  324.48  145.66  Tata Motors Finance Ltd  405.37  -    (iv) P urchase of fi  xed assets Tata Technologies Ltd 3.44 11.00  TML Drivelines Ltd 10.11 7.81  TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd 8.19 4.32  Jaguar Land Rover India Ltd 4.40 2.71  (v) S ale of fi  xed assets TML Drivelines Ltd 5.57 -   (vi) S ervices received TML Drivelines Ltd 826.02 766.26  Tata Technologies Ltd 599.26 556.21  Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC 253.60  367.08  Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd  2.17  2.39  Tata Sons Ltd 3.24 2.09  Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd 412.97 - Tata Cummins Private Ltd 0.22 - (vii) S ervices rendered TML Drivelines Ltd 105.35 101.78  Jaguar Land Rover Ltd 74.08  70.70  Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd 10.59 5.79  Tata Cummins Private Ltd 15.94 5.22  Tata Sons Ltd 1.78  1.39  (viii) F inance given (including loans and equity) Investment in Equity Concorde Motors (India) Ltd  45.00 -   Investment in Equity Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC 73.09 28.71  Loans Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb S.A., 58.32 -  (ix) Assets given as security Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd 2,500.00 - Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-36 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ii) Disclosures required by Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 (a) Amount of loans / advances in nature of loans outstanding from Subsidiaries and Joint Venture during 2015-2016 Name of the Company Outstanding  as at March 31,  2016 Maximum amount  outstanding during   the year R in crores R in crores i) Subsidiaries: Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc., UK [Tata Motors European Technical Centre has utilised this loan for investment in National Automotive Innovation Centre  set up jointly with University of Warwick and Jaguar Landrover Ltd and carried an interest rate of 12 months LIBOR + 3%,  prevailing rate (4.7076% p.a - 4.7738% p.a.)]
40.56  20.80   40.56  22.39  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. (Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. has utilised this loan for meeting its capex requirement and general corporate  purposes, which is fully provided) 539.40  539.40  539.40  539.40  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb S.A. (Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb S.A. has utilised this loan for general corporate purposes, which is partly  provided)  58.32  -     58.32  -     TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd (Inter Corporate Deposit utilised for working capital ﬁ  nance at the rate of interest of 10.00% p.a.
having Call / Put option) 5.00  10.00  15.00  10.00  Concorde Motors (India) Ltd (Inter Corporate Deposit utilised for working capital ﬁ  nance at the rate of interest of 10.00% p.a.
having Call / Put  option)  50.00  35.00  50.00  40.00  Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd (Inter Corporate Deposit utilised for working capital ﬁ  nance at the rate of interest of 10.00% p.a.
having Call / Put  option)  25.00 - 25.00   - ii) Joint Ventures: Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd (Loan has been utilised for meeting Capex requirement.
The Interest rate is RBI Bank rate, prevailing rate of interest is  7.75 % p.a.)
265.00  265.00  265.00  265.00  (b) Details of Investments made are given in Note 14 and 15 [Refer page F-23, F-24 and F-25].
(c) During the year 2015-16, the Company has provided Commitment for funding Tata Motors European Technical Centre’s contributio n towards the National  Automotive Innvovation Centre at the University of Warwick, UK GBP 16.6 million (R158.45 crores).
(R  in crores) 2015-2016 2014-2015 (x) Finance taken by the Company Inter Corporate Deposit Tata Technologies Ltd  1,168.80  983.70  Inter Corporate Deposit TML Drivelines Ltd  484.95  484.35  Inter Corporate Deposit Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd  28.00  4.00  Inter Corporate Deposit Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd  158.00  -    Rights issue money received Tata Sons Ltd  1,747.09  -    (xi) L oans repaid by the Company Inter Corporate Deposit Tata Technologies Ltd  1,147.30  882.20  Inter Corporate Deposit TML Drivelines Ltd  356.25 332.60  Inter Corporate Deposit Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd  158.00  167.45  (xii) Interest / Dividend paid / (received) Dividend paid / (received) Tata Sons Ltd (29.70) 140.89  Dividend received TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore (700.21)  (1,494.11) Dividend received Tata Technologies Ltd (227.25)  (99.99) Dividend received Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd (10.47) -   Dividend received Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited (4.47) -   Dividend received Tata Cummins Private Ltd (9.00) - Interest received Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd (21.97) (25.98) F-37 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32.
The Company has joint ventures with (a) Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A., Italy, Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited (FIAL), for manufacturing passenger cars, engines and  transmissions at Ranjangaon in India and (b) Cummins Inc, USA, Tata Cummins Private Limited (TCL), for manufacturing engines in  India.
The Company has an investment of  R1,567.04 crores as at March 31, 2016, representing 50% shareholding in FIAL and R90.00 crores as at March 31,2016 representing 50% shareholding in TCL.
(a) The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016 and income and expenditure for the year 2015-2016 of FIAL as per their unaudited ﬁ  nancial statement  are given below:   (R in crores) As at  March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS  167.47 10.26 INCOME Reserves and Surplus  Revenue from operations  1,768.64  2,074.38  NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Less : Excise duty  (217.01)  (215.02) Long-term Borrowings  395.15  403.78 Other operating income  169.82  188.15  Other Long term Liabilities -   73.82  Long-term Provisions  3.92  3.41 Other Income  29.04  45.50  CURRENT LIABILITIES  1,750.49  2,093.01 Short-term Borrowings  32.38  75.88    Trade Payables  129.13  157.91  Other Current Liabilities  577.40  148.03  Short-term Provisions  7.42  1.31  1,145.40 864.14 EXPENDITURE   NON-CURRENT ASSETS Manufacturing and other expenses  1,394.40  1,677.95  Fixed Assets  1,268.81 1,225.54 Depreciation  120.20  132.44  Other Long-term Loans Finance Cost  35.75  78.07  and Advances  169.57 35.13 Exchange (gain) / Loss (net) on revaluation of foreign currency borrowings, deposits and  loan givenOther Non-Current Assets  -   -   -    (48.13) CURRENT ASSETS  1,097.07 836.30 T ax expenses  43.00  52.50   2,535.45 2,096.97  1,593.35  1,892.83  Claims not acknowledged as debts 21.61 21.06  Capital Commitments 479.90 9.08  (b) The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016  and income and expenditure for the year 2015-16 of TCL as per their audited ﬁ nancial  statement are given below : (R in crores) As at  March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS Reserves and Surplus  325.51  285.84 INCOME Revenue from operations  1,738.29  1,373.18  NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Less : Excise duty  (183.27)  (129.64) Long-term Borrowings  18.56  81.84 Other operating income  3.77  4.44  Deferred tax liabilities  36.05  35.51  Other Long term Liabilities -   5.69 Other Income  1.63  1.86  Long-term Provisions  23.63  20.32  1,560.42  1,249.84 CURRENT LIABILITIES    Short-term Borrowings  45.85  100.69    Trade Payables  195.92  137.33  Other Current Liabilities  111.49 96.40 EXPENDITURE   Short-term Provisions  38.64  37.20 Manufacturing and other expenses  1,468.75  1,171.75   470.14 514.98 Depreciation  52.96  39.09  NON-CURRENT ASSETS Finance Cost  19.63  7.96  Fixed Assets  573.84 607.19 Tax expenses  7.27  5.29 Other Long-term Loans  1,548.61  1,224.09  and Advances  63.70 60.33  Other Non-Current Assets  13.99 9.08  CURRENT ASSETS  234.10 214.22  885.63 890.82  Claims not acknowledged as debts 38.06 178.18 Capital Commitments 22.02 31.16 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-38 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  33.
Defi ned benefi t plans / long term compensated absences - as per actuarial valuations as on March 31, 2016.
Gratuity, Superannuation and BKY  Compensated Absences  Post-retirement Medicare scheme   2016  2015  2014  2013  2012  2016  2015  2014  2013  2012  2016  2015  2014  2013  2012  i Components of employer expense Current Service cost  46.38  42.10  44.21  41.46  37.98  34.17  29.92  31.17  28.55  23.16  6.05  4.56  4.27  3.96  4.12  Interest cost  55.04  57.42  53.44  51.78  48.77  19.92  19.56  18.92  18.21  15.82  10.39  9.80  7.80  7.64  7.03  Expected return on plan assets  (50.13)  (47.69)  (48.06)  (46.24)  (43.69)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Actuarial (Gains) / Losses  (10.46)  49.12  3.63  (0.04)  9.50  (3.59)  30.91  (22.41)  2.58  17.81  (11.18)  12.34  2.97  0.71  (3.80) Total expense recognised in the Statement of Profi t  and Loss in Note 24, page F-30 under item :  40.83  100.95  53.22  46.96  52.56  50.50  80.39  27.68  49.34  56.79  5.27  26.70  15.04  12.31  7.35   (b) & (c)  (a)  (c) ii Actual Contribution and Benefi  t Payments for year  ended March 31, Actual beneﬁ  t payments  101.72  119.14  72.95  72.52  48.92  41.04  46.48  38.16  31.79  25.62  5.65  1.02  2.85  2.94  2.82  Actual Contributions  36.66  102.62  25.24  54.12  46.91  41.04  46.48  38.16  31.79  25.62  5.65  1.02  2.85  2.94  2.82  iii Net liability recognised in Balance Sheet as at  March 31, Present Value of Deﬁ  ned Beneﬁ  t Obligation  752.94  742.03  690.29  682.38  652.56  279.16  269.56  235.89  245.72  230.14  134.67  134.32  108.64  96.42  88.66  Fair value of plan assets  664.54  657.87  604.45  624.60  587.21  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Net liability recognised in Balance Sheet  (88.40)  (84.16)  (85.84)  (57.78)  (65.35) (279.16) (269.56) (235.89) (245.72) (230.14) (134.67) (134.32) (108.64)  (96.42)  (88.66) Experience adjustment on plan liabilities  3.16  8.18  24.05  (20.20)  (1.05)  -    (6.68)  (4.97)  N/A  N/A  (14.88)  (4.42)  3.30  8.10  (3.87) iv Change in Defi  ned Benefi t Obligations (DBO) during  the year ended March 31, Present Value of DBO at the beginning of the year  742.03  690.29  682.38  652.56  606.73  269.56  235.89  245.72  230.14  198.97  134.32  108.64  96.42  88.66  84.13  Current Service cost  46.38  42.10  44.21  41.46  37.98  34.17  29.92  31.17  28.55  23.16  6.05  4.56  4.27  3.96  4.12  Interest cost  55.04  57.42  53.44  51.78  48.77  19.92  19.56  18.92  18.21  15.82  10.39  9.80  7.80  7.64  7.03  Transfer in/ Transfer (out)  5.47  (0.60)  0.98  (9.38)  -    0.13  (0.24)  0.65  (1.97)  -    0.73  -    0.03  (1.61)  -    Actuarial (gain) / losses  5.74  71.96  (17.77)  18.48  8.00  (3.59)  30.91  (22.41)  2.58  17.81  (11.18)  12.34  2.97  0.71  (3.80) Beneﬁ ts paid  (101.72)  (119.14)  (72.95)  (72.52)  (48.92)  (41.04)  (46.48)  (38.16)  (31.79)  (25.62)  (5.65)  (1.02)  (2.85)  (2.94)  (2.82) Present Value of DBO at the end of the year  752.94  742.03  690.29  682.38  652.56  279.16  269.56  235.89  245.72  230.14  134.67  134.32  108.64  96.42  88.66  v Change in Fair Value of Assets during the year ended  March 31, Plan assets at the beginning of the year  657.87  604.45  624.60  587.21  547.03  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Transfer in/ Transfer (out)  5.40  (0.60)  0.90  (8.97)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Actual return on plan assets  66.33  70.54  26.66  64.76  42.19  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Actual Company contributions  36.66  102.62  25.24  54.12  46.91  41.04  46.48  38.16  31.79  25.62  5.65  1.02  2.85  2.94  2.82  Beneﬁ ts paid  (101.72)  (119.14)  (72.95)  (72.52)  (48.92)  (41.04)  (46.48)  (38.16)  (31.79)  (25.62)  (5.65)  (1.02)  (2.85)  (2.94)  (2.82) Plan assets at the end of the year  664.54  657.87  604.45  624.60  587.21  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  vi Actuarial Assumptions Discount Rate (%) 6.75-8.00 6.75-8.00 6.75-9.20 6.75-8.35  6.75-8.50  8.00  8.00  9.20  8.35  8.50  8.00  8.00  9.20  8.35  8.50  Expected Return on plan assets (%)  8.00  8.00  8.00  8.00  8.00  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Medical cost inﬂ  ation (%)  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  6.00  6.00  6.00  5.00  4.00  vii The major categories of plan assets as percentage of  total plan assets Debt securities 81% 73% 71% 73% 77%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Balance with approved Insurance companies 17% 21% 28% 24% 19%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Balances with banks 2% 7% 1% 4% 4%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  viii Eff ect of one percentage point change in assumed  Medical infl ation rate  One percentage point increase in Medical  infl ation rate   One percentage point decrease in Medical  infl ation rate  2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revised DBO as at March 31,  150.95  150.27  119.81  103.81  95.34  118.27  118.16  96.31  87.07  81.62  Revised service cost for the year  7.24  6.81  4.96  3.95  4.01  4.64  4.65  3.70  2.79  3.04  Revised interest cost for the year  19.66  19.14  8.55  8.20  7.66  14.24  14.24  7.15  6.67  6.46  (a) Defi ned Contribution Plans-              The Company’s contribution to deﬁ  ned contribution plan aggregating R141.62 crores (2014-15 R142.08 crores) for the year ended March 31, 2016 has been recognised in the  Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss under note 24 (b) page F-30.
(b) The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectations, at the beginning of the year, for returns over the entire life of the related obligation.
(c) The assumption of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account of inﬂ  ation, seniority, p romotion and other relevant factors, such as supply and  demand in the employment market.
(d) The Company expects to contribute R56.77 crores to the funded pension plans in the year 2016-17.
(R in crores) F-39 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 34.
Details of provision 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) P roduct warranty Opening balance  515.11  409.48  Add: Provision for the year (net)  456.01  395.61  Less: Payments / debits (net of recoveries from suppliers)  (344.90)  (289.98) Closing balance  626.22  515.11  Current  382.51  310.84  Non-current  243.71  204.27  (b) P rovision for Delinquency Opening balance  1,596.26  1,017.61  Add: Provision for the year (net)  -    1,175.94  Less: Payments / debits (net)  (335.84)  (597.29) Closing balance  1,260.42  1,596.26  Current  631.00  214.08  Non-current  629.42  1,382.18  (c) P rovision for Annual maintenance contracts Opening balance  28.86  3.12  Add: Provision / (reversal) for the year (net)  8.68  29.32  Less: Payments / debits (net)  (9.76)  (3.58) Closing balance  27.78  28.86  Current  17.79  16.29  Non-current  9.99  12.57  35.
Purchase of products for sale 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) Spare parts and accessories for sale  1,578.61 1,731.67  (b) Bodies and trailers for mounting on chassis  1,404.30  1,330.24  (c) Vehicles 51,315 nos.
(2014-15 : 54,285 nos.)
2,276.36  2,703.33   5,259.27  5,765.24  36.
Expenditure incurred on Research and Development 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) Revenue expenditure - charged to statement of proﬁ  t and loss  563.11  456.10  (b) Revenue expenditure - capitalised  1,573.20  1,651.70  (c) Capital expenditure  80.80  96.50   2,217.11  2,204.30  Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-40 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (a) Derivative Instruments outstanding as at March 31, 2016   Amount Buy / Sell Amount  (Foreign currency in millions) (R in crores) (i) Forward exchange contracts (net) USD $ / INR R  USD $ 1.00 To Buy  6.63  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 2.00 To Buy  12.50  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 128.17 To Sell  849.09  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 93.02 To Sell  581.35  GBP £ / INR R  GBP £ 0.08 To Sell  0.76  GBP £ / INR R  GBP £ 0.03 To Sell  0.26  (ii) Options (net)  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 739.50* To Buy  4,899.00  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 760.33 To Buy  4,751.90  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 4.00 To Sell  26.50  USD $ / INR R - To Sell  -    GBP £ / USD $  GBP £ 24.00 To Buy  229.06  GBP £ / USD $  GBP £ 7.63 To Buy  70.54  GBP £ / INR R  -   To Buy  -    GBP £ / INR R  GBP £ 2.49 To Buy  23.02   EURO € / USD$  EURO € 8.00 To Buy  60.30  EURO € / USD$  -   To Buy  -      (b) Foreign exchange forward contracts, designated as cash ﬂ  ow hedges as at March 31, 2016 USD $ / INR R  USD $ 157.00 To Sell  1,040.09  USD $ / INR R  USD $ 455.00 To Sell  2,843.64  (c) Foreign exchange currency exposures not covered by derivative instruments as at March 31, 2016 Amount Amount (Foreign currency in millions) (R in crores) (i) Amount receivable on account of sales of goods, loan and interest charges -  -     USD $ 22.71  141.94  EURO € 0.25  1.92   -    -    GBP £ 4.27  40.76  GBP £ 4.65  43.02   THB 305.30  57.60   THB 179.85  34.52   ZAR 26.80 12.03  ZAR 52.14  26.76  (ii) Amount payable on account of loan and interest charges and other  USD $ 98.05  649.57  foreign currency expenditure      USD $ 70.36  439.76  EURO € 5.44 41.02  EURO € 9.25 62.13  GBP £ 9.26 88.43  GBP £ 28.72 265.50  JPY ¥ 67.66 399.00  JPY ¥ 113.89 5.94   ZAR 21.63 9.71  ZAR 16.06 8.24  Others 5.08  Others 5.83 * Note: Options includes Call Spread Structures (Buy a Call option and Sell a Call option), Seagull Structures (Buy a Call option, Sell a Call option and  Sell a Put option) and Range Forward (Sell a Call option and Buy a Put option).
37.
Derivative transactions The Company uses forward exchange contracts, principal only swaps, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and currency options to hedge its exposur e  in foreign currency and interest rates.
The information on derivative instruments is as follows : F-41 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (R in crores) 38.
Information in regard to Sale of Products eff  ected by the Company 2015-2016 2014-2015 1.
Light, medium and heavy commercial vehicles, jeep type vehicles,  passenger cars, utility vehicles etc.
and bodies thereon [including export and  other incentives of R235.95 crores (2014-2015 R293.76 crores)]  41,201.55    34,151.74  2.
Spare Parts for Vehicles  3,123.93  2,991.70 3.
Others  1,553.97  1,686.05  45,879.45  38,829.49 39.
Information in regard to raw materials and components consumed  2015-2016 2014-2015 (i) Engines   2,110.72  1,841.64  (ii) Tyres, tubes and ﬂ  aps  2,807.59  2,375.75  (iii) Paints, oils and lubricants  181.59  188.00  (iv) Steel, steel tubes, steel melting scrap  581.37  609.75  (v) Non-ferrous alloys/metals, ferro alloys  77.01  89.70  (vi) Other components  18,554.80  17,050.39   24,313.08  22,155.23  The consumption ﬁ  gures shown above are after adjusting excesses and shortages ascertained on physical count, unserviceable ite ms, etc.
The ﬁ  gures   of  other  components comprise of ﬁ  nished/ semi ﬁ  nished components/ assemblies/ sub assemblies and other components (balancing  ﬁ  gure  based  on the  total consumption).
Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet (F-12 - F-42) Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (R in crores) 40.
Information regarding exports and imports and other matters    2015-2016 2014-2015 1.
Earnings in foreign exchange : (i) F.O.B.
value of goods exported [including sales through Export House, Exports to Nepal,   Bhutan and local sales eligible for export incentives and exchange diﬀ  erences (net) -   gain of R10.32 crores (2014-15 R1.78 crores)]  4,372.15  3,980.18  (ii) Commission  1.68  1.77 (iii) Interest and dividend  708.37  1,526.95 (iv) Sale of services  50.79  58.31 (v) Proﬁ  t on sale of investment      325.99  13.49  2.
C.I.F.
value of imports:    (i) Raw material and components  1,271.37  1,254.57  (ii) Machinery spares and tools  40.68  37.78 (iii) Capital goods  354.25  387.62  (iv) Vehicles / spare parts / accessories for sale  25.42  195.48  (v) Other items  17.84  16.01  3.
(a) Value of imported and indigenous raw materials and components consumed [note below] :   (i) Imported  941.99  1,073.39  (ii) Indigenously obtained  23,371.09  21,081.84  (b) Percentage to total consumption : (i) Imported  3.87 4.84 (ii) Indigenously obtained  96.13  95.16  In giving the above information, the Company has taken the view that components and spares as referred to in Clause 5(viii)(c) of Part II of Schedule III  of Companies  Act, 2013 covers only such items as are consumed directly in production.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-42 (Standalone) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) 41.
Expenditure in foreign currency (subject to deduction of tax where applicable)  2015-2016  2014-2015  (i) Technical know-how / services / consultancy fees  565.03  661.40  (ii) Interest  263.34  170.21  (iii) Consultancy / professional charges  13.42  12.08  (iv) Payments on other accounts [including exchange diﬀ  erences (net)]  219.44  327.19  42.
Other notes (i) The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material foreseeable  losses.
At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/ accounting standards for  material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in the books of account.
(ii) M icro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 The information as required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 has been determined t o the  extent such parties have been identiﬁ  ed on the basis of information  available  with the Company.
The amount of principal and interest outstanding  during the year is given below : (R in crores)  2015-2016   2014-2015  (a) Amounts outstanding but not due as at March 31,  127.39  139.28  (b) Amounts due but unpaid as at March 31, - Principal  -    -    (c) Amounts paid after appointed date during the year - Principal  122.51  125.55  (d) Amount of interest accrued and unpaid as at March 31, - Interest  1.17  1.15  (e) Amount of estimated interest due and payable for the period from April 1,2016 to actual date of payment or May 30, 2016 (whichever is earlier)  - Interest 0.03 0.04 (iii) Current year ﬁ  gures are shown in bold prints.
(iv) Previous year ﬁ  gures have been regrouped / reclassiﬁ  ed wherever necessary to correspond with the current year classiﬁ  cation / disclosure.
For and on behalf of the Board                                                              N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 F-43 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  TO THE MEMBERS OF  TATA MOTORS LIMITED  Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements  We have audited the accompanying consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements of TATA MOTORS LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding  Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) its associates and jointly  controlled entities, comprising the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2016, the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss, the  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and a summary of the signiﬁ  cant accounting policies and other explan atory  information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements”).
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements   The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of these consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements in terms of the  requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) that give a true and fair view of the consolidated ﬁ  nancial  position, consolidated ﬁ  nancial performance and consolidated cash ﬂ  ows, of the Group including its Associates and Jointly controlled entities  in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133  of the Act, as applicable.
The respective Boards of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled  entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the  assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropri ate accounting  policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of ade quate  internal ﬁ  nancial controls, that were operating eﬀ ectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to  the preparation and presentation of the ﬁ  nancial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether  due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements by the Directors of the  Holding Company, as aforesaid.
Auditor’s Responsibility  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements based on our audit.
While conducting the audit, we have  taken into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and auditing standards and matters which are required to be included in the audit  report under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing speciﬁ  ed under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Those Standards require  that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated  ﬁ  nancial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and the disclosures in the consolidated ﬁ  na ncial  statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of  the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal ﬁ  nancial  control relevant to the Holding Company’s preparation of the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design  audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies  used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the Holding Company’s Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their repor ts referred  to in sub-paragraph (a) of the Other Matters paragraph below, is suﬃ   cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
(F-43 - F-47) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-44 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Opinion  In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements  give the information required by the Act in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles  generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of aﬀ  airs of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities as at March 31, 2016,  and their consolidated proﬁ  t and their consolidated cash ﬂ  ows for the year ended on that date.
Emphasis of Matter  We draw attention to Note j (i) under signiﬁ  cant accounting policies.
As stated in the note, the changes in actuarial valuation (net) amounting  to R3,702.60 crores (net of tax) for the year ended March 31, 2016, has been credited and R6,659.25 crores (net of tax) has been debited as at  March 31, 2016 to “Reserves and Surplus” in respect of a group of subsidiary companies.
Our opinion is not qualiﬁ  ed in respect of the above matter.
Other Matters  a)  We did not audit the ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information of thirteen subsidiaries, whose ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial  information reﬂ  ect total assets (net) of R75,780.71 crores as at March 31, 2016, total revenues of R2,31,743.47 crores and net cash  outﬂ  ows amounting to R264.02 crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
The  consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements also includes the Group’s share of net proﬁ  t of R4.34 crores for the year ended March 31, 2016, as  considered in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, in respect of one associate, whose ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information  has not been audited by us.
These ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information have been audited by other auditors whose report s  have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, in so far as it relates to the  amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
b)  We did not audit the ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information of six subsidiaries and one jointly controlled entity, whose ﬁ  nancial  statements / ﬁ  nancial information reﬂ  ect total assets (net) of R983.89 crores as at March 31, 2016, total revenues of R 2,211.67 crores and  net cash inﬂ  ows amounting to R52.59 crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
The consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements also include the Group’s share of net proﬁ  t of R11.19 crores for the year ended March 31, 2016,  as considered in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, in respect of two associates, whose ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information  have not been audited by us.
These ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information are unaudited and have been furnished to us by the  Management and our opinion on the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included  in respect of these subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, is based solely on such unaudited ﬁ  nancial state ments /  ﬁ  nancial information.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, these  ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion on the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below is not  modiﬁ  ed in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the  ﬁ  nancial statements / ﬁ  nancial information certiﬁ  ed by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:  a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessar y  for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated ﬁ  nancial  statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors.
c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the  consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
F-45 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (F-43 - F-47) d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements comply with the Accounting Standards prescribed under Sectio n 133  of the Act, as applicable.
e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on March 31, 2016 taken on record  by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, associa te  companies and jointly controlled companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, its associate  companies and jointly controlled companies incorporated in India are disqualiﬁ  ed as on March 31, 2016 from being appointed as a  director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f ) With respect to the adequacy of the internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting and the operating eﬀ ectiveness of such controls,  refer to our Report in “Annexure A” , which is based on the auditors’ reports of the Holding Company, subsidiary companies, associate  companies and jointly controlled companies incorporated in India.
Our report expresses an unmodiﬁ  ed opinion on the adequacy  and operating eﬀ ectiveness of the Holding Company’s/ subsidiary companies’ / associate companies’ / jointly controlled companies’  incorporated in India internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and  Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:  i.
The consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated ﬁ  nancial position of the Group,  its associates and jointly controlled entities.
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting standa rds, for  material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund  by the  Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and jointly controlled companies incorporated in India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP  Chartered Accountants  (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) B. P .
SHROFF Partner  (Membership No.
34382) MUMBAI, May 30, 2016 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-46 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 ANNEXURE “A” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Referred to in paragraph (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date to  the Members of Tata Motors Limited)  Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the  Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March 31, 2016, we have  audited the internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting of TATA MOTORS LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”)  and its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and jointly controlled companies, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that  date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The respective Boards of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and jointly contro lled  companies, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal ﬁ  nancial controls based  on the internal control over ﬁ  nancial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of in ternal  control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting ( “the Guidance Note”) iss ued by  the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of a dequate  internal ﬁ  nancial controls that were operating eﬀ  ectively for ensuring the orderly and eﬃ   cient conduct of its business, including adherence  to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the ac curacy and  completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable ﬁ  nancial information, as required under the Com panies  Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting based on our audit.
We  conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on  Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal ﬁ  nancial controls.
Those  Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reaso nable  assurance about whether adequate internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting were established and maintained and if such controls  operated eﬀ  ectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal ﬁ  nancial controls system over ﬁ  nancial  reporting and their operating eﬀ ectiveness.
Our audit of internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting included obtaining an understanding  of internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design  and operating eﬀ  ectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement,  including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the ﬁ  nancial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the subsidiary com pany,  which is company incorporated in India, in terms of their report referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is suﬃ   cient and  appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal ﬁ  nancial controls system over ﬁ  nancial reporti ng.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting A company’s internal ﬁ  nancial control over ﬁ  nancial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the  reliability of ﬁ  nancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁ  nancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted  accounting principles.
A company’s internal ﬁ  nancial control over ﬁ  nancial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain  to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reﬂ  ect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the  company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of ﬁ  nancial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in  accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding preve ntion  or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material eﬀ  ect on the ﬁ  nancial  statements.
F-47 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (F-43 - F-47) Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting Because of the inherent limitations of internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting, including the possibility of collu sion or improper  management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation  of the internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal ﬁ  nancial control over ﬁ  nancial  reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may  deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and taking into consideration the reports of the other  auditors referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and jointly  controlled companies, which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal ﬁ  nancial controls system  over ﬁ  nancial reporting and such internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial reporting were operating eﬀ ectively as at March 31, 2016, based on the  internal control over ﬁ  nancial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the  Guidance Note issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating eﬀ ectiveness of the internal ﬁ  nancial controls over ﬁ  nancial  reporting insofar as it relates to one subsidiary company, which is incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding report of the auditors of  such company incorporated in India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP  Chartered Accountants  (Firm Registration No.
117366W/W-100018) B. P .
SHROFF Partner  (Membership No.
34382) MUMBAI, May 30, 2016 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-48 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2016 (R in crores) Note Page As at    March 31, 2016 As at   March 31, 2015 I.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1.
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS (a)  Share capital 2 F-58  679.18  643.78  (b)  Reserves and surplus 3 F-60  80,103.49  55,618.14   80,782.67  56,261.92  2.
MINORITY INTEREST   888.26  433.34   3.
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES   (a)  Long-term borrowings 4 F-62  51,876.31  56,071.34  (b)  Deferred tax liabilities (net) 6 F-64  3,166.08  1,343.20  (c)  Other long-term liabilities 7 F-65  9,946.52  9,141.92  (d)  Long-term provisions 9 F-66  11,817.30  15,134.27   76,806.21  81,690.73  4.
CURRENT LIABILITIES (a)  Short-term borrowings 5 F-62  11,223.63  13,140.14  (b)  Trade payables 11 F-66  63,632.89  57,407.28  (c)  Other current liabilities 8 F-65  27,261.82  23,688.58  (d)  Short-term provisions 10 F-66  8,702.12  6,036.00   110,820.46  100,272.00  TOTAL  269,297.60 2,38,657.99 II.
ASSETS   1.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a)  Fixed Assets (i)  Tangible assets 12 F-67  63,107.34  52,326.21  (ii)  Intangible assets 13 F-67  38,482.89  31,456.29  (iii)  Capital work-in-progress  7,808.51  9,330.47  (iv)  Intangible assets under development  19,451.93  19,309.62   128,850.67 1,12,422.59  (b)  Goodwill (on consolidation) 14 F-68  4,836.52  4,696.99  (c)  Non-current investments 15 F-68  1,253.15  1,240.50  (d)  Deferred tax assets (net) 6 F-64  2,726.43  2,733.20  (e)  Long-term loans and advances 17 F-69  13,940.82  14,948.31  (f )   Other non-current assets 19 F-70  2,374.88  858.00   153,982.47   136,899.59  2.
CURRENT ASSETS (a)  Current investments 16 F-69  19,212.94  14,096.24  (b)  Inventories 21 F-70  33,398.98  29,272.34  (c)  Trade receivables 22 F-70  12,989.96  12,579.20  (d)  Cash and bank balances 23 F-70  32,879.98  32,115.76  (e)  Short-term loans and advances 18 F-69  14,757.51  10,746.44  (f )  Other current assets 20 F-70  2,075.76  2,948.42   115,315.13  101,758.40  TOTAL  269,297.60 2,38,657.99  III.
NOTES FORMING  PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board   For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP       Chartered Accountants                                          B P SHROFF Partner                   Mumbai, May 30, 2016                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 F-49 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 (R in crores) Note Page 2015-2016 2014-2015 I.
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 24 (I) F-71  280,096.72  266,707.90  Less: Excise duty  (4,535.61)  (3,548.92)  275,561.11  263,158.98  II.
OTHER INCOME 24 (II) F-71  981.72  898.74  III.
TOTAL REVENUE (I + II)  276,542.83  264,057.72  IV.
EXPENSES: (a) Cost of materials consumed  152,445.39  149,956.54  (b) Purchase of products for sale  12,850.27  13,293.82  (c) Changes in inventories of ﬁ  nished goods,  work-in-progress and products for sale  (2,876.62)  (3,330.35) (d) Employee cost / beneﬁ  ts expense 25 F-72  29,198.89  25,548.96  (e) Finance cost 26 F-72  4,623.35  4,861.49  (f ) Depreciation and amortisation expense  17,014.18  13,388.63  (g) Product development / Engineering expenses  3,480.43  2,875.17  (h) Other expenses 27 F-72  60,424.95  50,980.37 (i) Expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts  (16,718.43)  (15,404.18) TOTAL EXPENSES  260,442.41  242,170.45  V. PROFIT  BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS,  EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND TAX (III - IV)  16,100.42  21,887.27   VI.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (a) Exchange loss (net) including on revaluation  of foreign currency borrowings, deposits and loans  240.19  91.72  (b) Employee separation cost  32.72  92.99  (c) Provision for costs associated with closure of operations  and impairment of intangibles of a subsidiary company  44.31 - (d) Impairment of capitalised ﬁ  xed assets  163.94  -    (e) Others  39(a) F-86  1,638.39  -     2,119.55 184.71 VII.
PROFIT  BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND TAX (V -VI)  13,980.87  21,702.56  VIII.
Ex traordinary items - - IX.
PROFIT  BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (VII - VIII)  13,980.87  21,702.56   X.
Tax expense (net) 6(c) F-64  2,872.60  7,642.91  XI.
PROFIT  AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (IX - X)  11,108.27  14,059.65  XII.
Share of proﬁ  t / (loss) of associates (net)  21.34  13.42  XIII.
M inority interest     (105.86)  (86.78) XIV.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR    11,023.75  13,986.29   XV.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 28 F-73 A.
Ordinary shares (Face value of R 2 each) a.
Basic R  32.61  42.98  b.
Diluted R  32.60  42.97  B.
‘A’ Ordinary shares (Face value of R 2 each) a.
Basic  R  32.71  43.08  b.
Diluted R  32.70  43.07  XVI.
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (F-48) (F-49) In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board   For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP       Chartered Accountants                                          B P SHROFF Partner                   Mumbai, May 30, 2016                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-50 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 (R in crores) 2015 -2016  2014 - 2015 A.
Cash fl  ows from operating activities Proﬁ  t for the year  11,023.75  13,986.29  Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortization expense (including lease equalisation adjusted in income)  17,014.18  13,386.36  Loss on sale of assets (including assets scrapped / written oﬀ  ) 792.04 699.83 Proﬁ  t on sale of investments (net)  (181.39)  (119.57) Diminution in value of investment  1.50  Provision for costs associated with closure of operations and impairment  of intangibles of a subsidiary  44.31  -    Provision made for doubtful ﬁ  nance receivables  506.68  1,587.46  Provision made for doubtful trade receivables and advances  103.61  217.66  Gain on settlement of deferred sales tax liability  (163.68)  (178.64) Share of (proﬁ  t) / loss of associates (net)  (21.34)  (13.42) Impairment of capitalised ﬁ  xed assets  163.94  -    Exceptional items - others  1,638.39  -    Minority interest  105.86  86.78  Tax expense (net)  2,872.60  7,642.91  Interest / dividend (net)  3,823.02  4,082.32  Exchange diﬀ erence (net)  885.65  2,019.13   27,585.37  29,410.82  Operating proﬁ  t before working capital changes  38,609.12  43,397.11  Adjustments for:    Inventories Trade receivables  (5,234.24)  (3,692.41) Finance receivables  (136.40)  (3,008.02) Other current and non-current assets  (2,628.23)  (170.97) Trade payables  153.08  (624.61) Other current and non-current liabilities  4,741.40  3,597.82  Provisions  2,376.42  423.83   3,279.50  (197.45)  2,551.53  (3,671.81) Cash generated from operations  41,160.65  39,725.30 Income taxes paid (net)  (1,993.94)  (4,194.04) Net cash from operating activities  39,166.71  35,531.26  B.
Cash fl  ows from investing activities Payment for ﬁ  xed assets  (32,682.08)  (31,962.17) Proceeds from sale of ﬁ  xed assets  58.84  74.19  Investments in mutual fund sold / (made) (net)  (4,714.73)  (5,450.10) Acquisition of subsidiary company  (111.44)  -    Investment in Associate companies  -    (160.00) Investments - others  (12.91)  (10.51) Investments in Pass-through certiﬁ  cates (PTC) sold / (made) (net)  35.53  57.12  Sale / redemption of investments - others  89.20  42.34  Fixed deposits with Financial Institutions made  (1,968.00)  (200.00) Fixed deposits with Financial Institutions realised  1,968.00  232.50  Deposits of margin money / cash collateral  (153.85)  -    Realisation of margin money / cash collateral  83.87  36.17  Fixed / restricted deposits with banks made  (47,048.78)  (28,550.25) Fixed / restricted deposits with banks realised  44,947.13  30,340.77  Interest received  768.14  697.74  Dividend received from associates  15.42  15.33  Dividend / income on investments received  42.27  64.65  Loan to Others (net)  7.58  -    (Increase) / decrease in short term Inter-corporate deposit  65.00  (95.00) Net cash used in investing activities  (38,610.81)  (34,867.22) F-51 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 (R in crores) 2015 -2016 2014 - 2015 C. Cash fl  ows from fi  nancing activities Proceeds from Rights issue of shares (net of issue expenses)  7,433.22 - Brokerage and other expenses on Non-Convertible Debentures (NCD)  2.84  (47.95) Premium paid on redemption of NCD  -    (744.19) Proceeds from long-term borrowings (net of issue expenses)  10,887.42  27,393.38  Repayment of long-term borrowings   (13,964.34)  (17,714.72) Proceeds from short-term borrowings   13,964.41  8,969.27  Repayment of short-term borrowings  (15,132.23)  (9,771.64) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months)  (932.13)  4,153.95  Repayment of ﬁ  xed deposits  (2.74)  (9.31) Dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax)  (86.28)  (681.06) Dividend paid to minority shareholders  (87.66)  (39.31) Proceeds from issue of preference shares to minority shareholders (net of issue expenses)  428.44 - Interest paid [including discounting charges paid R681.99 crores (2014-2015 R885.00 crores)]  (5,703.90)  (6,306.98) Net cash (used in) / from ﬁ  nancing activities  (3,192.95)  5,201.44  Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)  (2,637.05)  5,865.48  Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1 (Opening balance)  21,128.33  16,627.98  Cash and cash equivalent on acquisition of subsidiary  -    0.46  Eﬀ ect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents  859.20  (1,365.59) Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31 (Closing balance)  19,350.48  21,128.33  Previous year's ﬁ  gures have been restated, wherever necessary,  to conﬁ  rm to this year's classiﬁ  cation.
(F-50 - F-51) In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board   For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP       Chartered Accountants                                          B P SHROFF Partner                   Mumbai, May 30, 2016                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-52 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 1.
Basis of Consolidation and Signifi  cant Accounting Policies  (I) Basis of consolidation:   The consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements relate to Tata Motors Limited (the Company), its subsidiary companies, joint ventures a nd associates.
The Company and its subsidiaries constitute the Group.
(a) Basis of preparation      The ﬁ  nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India to co mply with the Accounting  Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 2013 Act”)   (b) Use of estimates       The preparation of ﬁ  nancial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, that aﬀ  ect the application of  accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent liabilities at the date of these  ﬁ  nancial statements.
Actual results may diﬀ  er from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods aﬀ ected.
(c) Principles of consolidation:     The consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements have been prepared on the following basis:     i.
The ﬁ  nancial statements of the subsidiary companies / joint ventures / associates used in the consolidation are drawn upto the same reporting  date as of the Company i.e.
year ended March 31, 2016.      ii.
The ﬁ  nancial statements of the Company and its subsidiary companies have been combined on a line-by-line basis by addi ng together like      items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The intra-group balances and intra-group transactions and unrealised proﬁ  ts have been fully      eliminated.
iii.
The consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements include the share of proﬁ  t / loss of the associate companies which has been ac counted as per the ‘Equity  method’ , and accordingly, the share of proﬁ  t / loss of each of the associate companies (the loss being restricted to the cost of investment) has  been added to / deducted from the cost of investments.
An associate is an enterprise in which the investor has signiﬁ  cant inﬂ uence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture of the investor.
iv.
The ﬁ  nancial statements of the joint venture companies have been combined by using proportionate consolidation method and accordingly,      venturer’s share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly controlled entity is reported as separate line items in      the Consolidated Financial Statements.
v.  The excess of cost to the Company of its investments in the subsidiary companies / joint ventures over its share of equity of the subsidiary  companies / joint ventures, at the dates on which the investments in the subsidiary companies / joint ventures are made, is rec ognised as  ‘Goodwill’ being an asset in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
Alternatively, where the share of equity in the subsidiary companies / joint  ventures as on the date of investment is in excess of cost of investment of the Company, it is recognised as ‘Capital Reserve’ and shown under  the head ‘Reserves and Surplus’ , in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
vi.
Minority interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries consists of the amount of equity attributable to the minority shareholders at  the dates on which investments are made by the Company in the subsidiary companies and further movements in their share in the equity,  subsequent to the dates of investments as stated above.
(d) The following subsidiary companies are considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements: % of equity holding either directly or through subsidiaries Sr No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Country of incorporation  As at  March 31, 2016 As at  March 31, 2015   Direct Subsidiaries 1 TML Drivelines Limited India  100  100  2 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited India  100  100  3 Concorde Motors (India) Limited India  100  100  4 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Limited India  100  100  5 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc UK  100  100  6 Tata Technologies Limited India  72.32  72.32  7 Tata Motors Finance Limited India  100  100  8 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited India  51  51  9 TML Holdings Pte Limited Singapore  100  100  10 TML Distribution Company Limited India  100  100  11 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera  S.A. Spain  100  100  12 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A. Morocco  100  100  13 Trilix S.r.l Italy  80  80  14 Tata Precision Industries Pte Limited Singapore  78.39  78.39  Indirect subsidiaries  * 15 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Limited South Korea  100  100  16 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle  Sales and Distribution Co. Limited South Korea  100  100  17 Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited Thailand  95.28  95.28  18 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited South Africa  60  60  19 PT Tata Motors Indonesia Indonesia  100  100  20 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited  Thailand  72.32  72.32  21 Tata Technologies Pte.
Limited, Singapore Singapore  72.32  72.32  22 INCAT International Plc UK  72.32  72.32  23 Tata Technologies Europe Limited UK  72.32  72.32  24 INCAT GmbH.
Germany  72.32  72.32  25 Tata Technologies Inc USA  72.37  72.52  26 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico  72.37  72.52  27 Tata Technologies (Canada) Inc. Canada  72.37  72.52  28 Cambric Limited, Bahamas USA  72.32  72.32  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-53 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts * Eﬀ  ective holding % of the Company directly and through its subsidiaries.
(e)  The following Joint Venture companies are considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements: 29 Cambric UK Limited UK  72.32  72.32  30 Cambric GmbH Germany  72.32  72.32  31 Midwest Managed Services Inc, Utah USA  72.32  72.32  32 Tata Technologies SRL Romania  72.32  72.32  33 Cambric Manufucaturing Technologies (Shangai) Co. Limited China  72.32  72.32  34 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc UK  100  100  35 Jaguar Land Rover Limited UK  100  100  36 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH Austria  100  100  37 Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV Belgium  100  100  38 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited Japan  100  100  39 Jaguar Cars South Africa (pty) Limited South Africa  100  100  40 JLR Nominee Company Limited UK  100  100  41 The Daimler Motor Company Limited UK  100  100  42 The Jaguar Collection Limited UK  100  100  43 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited UK  100  100  44 S.S. Cars Limited UK  100  100  45 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited UK  100  100  46 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Germany  100  100  47 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited (formerly known as Land Rover) UK  100  100  48 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC USA  100  100  49 Land Rover Ireland Limited Ireland  100  100  50 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Netherlands  100  100  51 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veiculos e Pecas, LDA Portugal  100  100  52 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Australia  100  100  53 Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa Italy  100  100  54 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL (formerly known as Land Rover Espana SL) Spain  100  100  55 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Co. Limited South Korea  100  100  56 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Co. Limited China  100  100  57 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC Canada  100  100  58 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS France  100  100  59 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (pty) Limited South Africa  100  100  60 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Veículos LTDA  (Name changed from Jaguar e  Land Rover Brasil Importacao e Comercia de Veiculos Ltda w.e.f.
February 10, 2016) Brazil  100  100  61 Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia) Russia  100  100  62 Land Rover Parts Ltd (Dissolved on July 14, 2015) UK  100  100  63 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited UK  100  100  64 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited India  100  100  65 Jaguar Cars Limited UK  100  100  66 Land Rover Exports Ltd. (non-trading) UK  100  100  67 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited UK  100  100  68 Jaguar Daimler Heritage Trust Limited UK  100  100  69 Silkplan Ltd (Acquired on April 16, 2015) UK  100  -    70 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited China  100  100  71 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o (Incorporated w.e.f.
August 27, 2015) Slovakia  100  -    72 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte Ltd (incorporated w.e.f November 25,2015) Singapore  100  -    73 Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
February 2, 2016) UK  100  -    74 InMotion Ventures Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
March 18, 2016) UK  100  -    75 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Indonesia  100  100  76 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (Converted from Private Ltd w.e.f June 4, 2015) India  100  100  77 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited (incorporated w.e.f September 2, 2015) Nigeria  100  -    78 Sheba Properties Ltd (indirect subsidiary w.e.f March 31, 2016) India  100  100                 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sr No.
Name of the joint venture company Country of incorporation % of equity holding either directly or through subsidiaries  As at  March 31, 2016  As at March 31, 2015   1 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited India  50  50  2 Tata Cummins Private Limited India  50  50  3 Tata HAL Technologies Limited** India  36.16  36.16  4 Spark 44 (JV) Limited UK  50  50  5 Spark44 Pty.
Limited.
(Sydney) Australia  50  50  6 Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) Germany  50  50  7 Spark44 LLC (LA & NYC) USA  50  50  8 Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) China  50  50  9 Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai) UAE  50  50  10 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Limited (Mumbai) India  50  50  11 Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) UK  50  50  12 Spark44 Pte Limited (Singapore) Singapore  50  50  13 Spark44 Communication SL (Madrid) Spain  50  50  14 Spark44 SRL (Rome) Italy  50  50  15 Spark44 Limited (Seoul) South Korea  50  50  16 Spark44 KK (Tokyo) Japan  50  50  17 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) Canada  50  50  18 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co Limited China  50  50  19 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Auto Sales Company Limited China  50  50  **        Eﬀ ective holding % of the Company as it is a Joint Venture of Tata Technologies Limited % of holding either directly or through subsidiaries Sr No.
Name of the Subsidiary Company Country of  incorporation  As at  March 31, 2016  As at  March 31, 2015 (176 206) (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-54 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (II) Signifi  cant accounting policies :  (a) Revenue recognition     (i) Sale of products          The Company recognises revenue on the sale of products, net of discounts, sales incentives, customer bonuses and rebates grant ed, when the  products are delivered to the dealer / customer or when delivered to the carrier for exports sales, which is when risks and rew ards of ownership pass  to the dealer / customer.
Sales include income from services and exchange ﬂ  uctuations relating to export receivables.
Sales include export and other  recurring and non-recurring incentives from the Government at the national and state levels.
Sale of products is presented gross of excise duty where  applicable, and net of other indirect taxes.
Revenues are recognised when collectibility of the resulting receivables is reasonably assured.
(ii) Revenue from sale of vehicles with guaranteed repurchase option / repurchase arrangement      Some of the subsidiary companies sell vehicles to daily rental car companies and other ﬂ  eet customers subject to guaranteed r epurchase options and  to Ford Motor Group management employees, with repurchase arrangements.
At the time of sale, the proceeds are recorded as defer red revenue in  other current liabilities and the cost of the vehicles are recorded as inventories.
The diﬀ  erence between the proceeds and the guaranteed repurchase  amount is recognised in Sales over the term of the arrangement, using a straight-line method.
The diﬀ erence between the cost of the vehicle and the  estimated auction value is netted oﬀ  against revenue over the term of the lease.
(iii)  Revenue from software consultancy on time and materials contracts is recognised based on certiﬁ  cation of time sheet a nd billed to clients as per  the terms of speciﬁ  c contracts.
On ﬁ  xed price contracts, revenue is recognised based on milestone achieved as speciﬁ  ed in the contracts on the  proportionate completion method on the basis of the work completed.
Foreseeable losses on such contracts are recognized when probable.
Revenue  from rendering annual maintenance services is recognised proportionately over the period in which services are rendered.
Revenue from third party  software products and hardware sale is recognised upon delivery.
(iv)  Dividend from investments is recognized when the right to receive the payment is established and when no signiﬁ  cant uncertainty as to measurability  or collectability exists.
(v)  Interest income is recognized on the time basis determined by the amount outstanding and the rate applicable and where no signiﬁ  cant uncertainty  as to measurability or collectability exists.
(b ) Depreciation and Amortisation              (i) Depreciation is provided on the Straight Line Method (SLM) over the estimated useful lives of the assets consi dering the nature, estimated usage,  operating conditions, past history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers warranties and maintenance support.
Taking into  account these factors, the Company and its domestic group companies have decided to retain the useful life hitherto adopted for various categories  of ﬁ  xed assets, which are diﬀ erent from those prescribed in Schedule II of the Act.
Type of Asset Estimated useful life      Leasehold Land  amortised over the period of the lease      Buildings, Roads, Bridge and culverts        4 to 60 years      Plant, machinery and equipment         3 to 30 years      Computers and other IT assets   3 to 6 years      Vehicles  3 to 10 years      Furniture, ﬁ  xtures and oﬃ   ce appliances    3 to 20 years      Technical know-how  2 to 10 years      Developed technologies  10 years      Computer software  1 to 8 years      Special tools are amortised on a straight line basis over the lives of the model concerned, which is 7 to 10 years.
(ii)  Capital assets, the ownership of which does not vest with the Company, other than leased assets, are depreciated over the  estimated period of their  utility or ﬁ  ve years, whichever is less.
(iii) Product development costs are amortised over a period of upto 120 months for New Generation vehicles and power trains on the basis of highest  of the volumes between planned and actuals and on a straight line method over a period of 36 months for Vehicle Variants, Deriv atives and other  Regulatory Projects.
(iv)  In respect of assets whose useful life has been revised, the unamortised depreciable amount has been charged over the rev ised remaining useful life.
(v)  Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress / intangible assets under development until construction and installation are complete and  asset is ready for its intended use.
(c) Fixed Assets   (i) Fixed assets are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation / amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
(ii)  The product development cost incurred on new vehicle platform, engines, transmission and new products are recognised as  ﬁ  xed assets, when  feasibility has been established, the Company has committed technical, ﬁ  nancial and other resources to complete the development and it is probable  that the asset will generate probable future beneﬁ  ts.
(iii)  Cost includes purchase price, taxes and duties, labour cost and directly attributable overhead expenditure for self co nstructed assets and other direct  costs incurred upto the date the asset is ready for its intended use.
Borrowing cost incurred for qualifying assets is capitalised up to the date the asset  is ready for intended use, based on borrowings incurred speciﬁ  cally for ﬁ  nancing the asset or the weighted average rate of all other borrowings, if no  speciﬁ  c borrowings have been incurred for the asset.
The cost of acquisition is further adjusted for exchange diﬀ  erences relating to long term foreign  currency borrowings attributable to the acquisition of depreciable asset w.e.f.
April 1, 2007.
(iv)  Heritage assets are measured at cost and not depreciated as they are considered to have useful economic life in excess of 50 years.
An annual  impairment review is performed and any impairment in the carrying value is recognized immediately in the statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
(v)  Tangible asstes and Software not exceeding R25,000 and product development costs relating to minor product enhancements, facelifts and upgrades      are charged oﬀ   to the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss as and when incurred.
F-55 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts  (d) Impairment of Tangible Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill   At each Balance Sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is any indication that the tangible assets, intangible assets including Goodwilll ma y be  impaired.
If any such impairment indicators exists, the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment, if any.
Where  it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of t he cash-generating unit to  which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, th e impairment loss is allocated  ﬁ  rst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of carrying amount of  esach asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in the subsequent peroid unless there are changes in external events.
As at March 31, 2016, none of the ﬁ  xed assets were considered impaired.
(e) Leases             (i) Finance lease       Assets acquired under ﬁ  nance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets at inception and the pr esent value of minimum  lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the ﬁ  nance charge and the outstanding liability.
The ﬁ  nance charge is allocated to periods  during the lease term at a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets given under ﬁ  nance leases are recognised  as receivables at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease and the ﬁ  nance income is based on a constant rate of return on the outstanding  net investment.
(ii) Oper ating lease  Leases other than ﬁ  nance lease are operating leases and the leased assets are not recognised on the Company’s Balance Sheet.
P ayments / rental  income under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss on a straight line basis over the lease term.
(f ) Transactions in foreign currencies and accounting of derivatives   (i) Exchange diff  erences     Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Foreign cur rency monetary assets and    liabilities are translated at year end exchange rates.
(1)  Exchange diﬀ erences arising on settlement of transactions and translation of monetary items other than those covered by (2) below are recognised  as income or expense in the year in which they arise.
Exchange diﬀ  erences considered as borrowing cost are capitalised to the extent these relate  to the acquisition / construction of qualifying assets and the balance amount is recognised in the Statment of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
(2)  Exchange diﬀ  erences relating to long term foreign currency monetary assets / liabilities are accounted for with eﬀ  ect from April 1, 2007 in the  following manner:       -  Diﬀ  erences relating to borrowings attributable to the acquisition of the depreciable capital asset are added to / deducted from the cost of  such capital assets.
-  Other diﬀ  erences were accumulated in Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Diﬀ  erence Account, and amortised over the period,  beginning April 1, 2007 or date of inception of such item, as applicable, and ending on March 31, 2011 or the date of its maturity, whichever  is earlier.
-  Pursuant to notiﬁ  cation issued by the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀ  airs, on December 29, 2011, the exchange diﬀ  erences on long term foreign  currency monetary items (other than those relating to acquisition of depreciable asset) are amortised over the period till the date of maturity  or March 31, 2020, whichever is earlier.
(3)  On consolidation, the assets, liabilities and goodwill or capital reserve arising on the acquisition, of the Group’s overseas operations are translated  at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expenditure items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year/ month.
Exchange diﬀ  erences arising in case of Integral Foreign operations are recognised in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss and exchange  diﬀ erences arising in case of Non integral Foreign Operations are recognised in the Group’s Translation Reserve classiﬁ  ed under Reserves and  surplus.
(ii) Hedge accounting   The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency ﬂ  uctuations relating to highly probable  forecast transactions.
With eﬀ ect from April 1, 2008, the Company designates such forward contracts in a cash ﬂ  ow hedging relationship by applying  the hedge accounting principles set out in Accounting Standard 30- Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
These forward contracts are stated at fair value at each reporting date.
Changes in the fair value of these forward contracts that are designated and  eﬀ ective as hedges of future cash ﬂ  ows are recognised directly in Hedging Reserve Account under Reserves and Surplus, net of ap plicable deferred  income taxes and the ineﬀ  ective portion is recognised immediately in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
Amounts accumulated in Hedging Reserve Account are reclassiﬁ  ed to proﬁ  t and loss in the same periods during which the forecasted transaction  aﬀ  ects Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁ  es for hedge accounting.
For forecasted transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in Hedging Reserve Account is retained there until the  forecasted transaction occurs.
If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in Hedging Reserve A ccount is immediately  transferred to the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss for the year.
(iii) Premium or discount on forward contracts other than those covered in (ii) above is amortised over the life of such contracts and is recognised as income or  expense.
(g) Product warranty expenses    The estimated liability for product warranties is recorded when products are sold.
These estimates are established using hist orical information on the nature,  frequency and average cost of warranty claims and management estimates regarding possible future incidence based on corrective actions on product  failures.
The timing of outﬂ  ows will vary as and when warranty claim will arise - being typically upto ﬁ  ve years.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-56 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16  (h) Income on vehicle loan    Interest income from loan contracts in respect of vehicles are accounted for by using the Internal Rate of Return method.
Consequently, a constant rate of  return on the net outstanding amount is accrued over the period of contract.
The Company provides an allowance for ﬁ  nance rece ivables based on the  prudential norms issued by the RBI relating to income recognition, assets classiﬁ  cation and non-performing assets.
In addition to the provisioning as per the  RBI norms, provision is also being made for the anticipated loss to be incurred by the Company on resale of repossessed vehicles.
(i) Inventories    Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of raw materials and consumables are ascertained on a moving weighted average /  monthly moving weighted average basis, except for Jaguar and Land Rover which is on FIFO basis.
Cost, including variable and ﬁ  xed overheads, are allocated to  work-in-progress and ﬁ  nished goods determined on full absorption cost basis.
Net realisable value is estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business  less estimated cost of completion and selling expenses.
(j) Employee benefi  ts   (i) Pension plans     One of the major subsidiary groups, Jaguar Land Rover, operates several deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t pension plans, which are contracted out of the second stat e  pension scheme.
The assets of the plan are held in separate trustee administered funds.
The plans provide for monthly pension after retirement as per  salary drawn and service period as set out in rules of each fund.
Contributions to the plans by the subsidiary group take into consideration the results of actuarial valuations.
The plans w ith a surplus position at the  year end have been limited to the maximum economic beneﬁ  t available from unconditional rights to refund from the scheme or reduction in future  contributions.
Where the subsidiary group is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the pension plan above the accounting value of the  liabilities, an onerous obligation is recognised.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, R3,702.60 crores (net of tax) has been credited and R6,659.25 crores (debit) (net of tax) as at March 31, 2016,  have been accounted in “Reserves and Surplus” representing changes in actuarial valuation of pension plans of Jaguar Land Rover group in the UK, in  accordance with IFRS principles and as permitted by AS 21 in the consolidated ﬁ  nancial statements.
A separate deﬁ  ned contribution plan is available to employees of a major subsidiary group, Jaguar Land Rover.
Costs in respect of this plan are charged  to the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss as incurred.
(ii) Gr atuity     The Company and some of  its subsidiaries in India have an obligation towards gratuity, a deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t retirement plan c overing eligible employees.
The plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of empl oyment of an  amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days salary payable for each completed year of service.
Vesting occurs upon completion of ﬁ  ve ye ars of service.
The  Company and the said subsidiaries make annual contributions to gratuity funds established as trusts.
Some subsidiaries have obt ained insurance  policies with the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The Company and some of its subsidiaries account for the liability for gratuity beneﬁ  ts payable in  future based on an independent actuarial valuation carried out at each Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit method.
(iii) Superannuation     The C ompany and some of its subsidiaries have two superannuation plans, a deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plan and a deﬁ  ned contribution plan.
An eligible  employee on April 1, 1996 could elect to be a member of either plan.
Employees who are members of the deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t superannuation plan are entitled to beneﬁ  ts depending on the years of service and salary drawn.
The monthly pension beneﬁ  ts after retirement range from 0.75% to 2% of the annual basic salary for each year of service.
The Company and the said  subsidiaries accounts for the liability for superannuation beneﬁ  ts payable in future under the plan based on an independent actuarial valuation as at  Balance Sheet date.
With eﬀ ect from April 1, 2003, this plan was amended and beneﬁ  ts earned by covered employees have been protected as at March 31, 2003.
Employees  covered by this plan are prospectively entitled to beneﬁ  ts computed on a basis that ensures that the annual cost of providing the pension beneﬁ  ts  would not exceed 15% of salary.
During the year 2014-15, the employees covered by this plan were given one time option to exit from the plan prospectively.
Fur ther, the employees  who opted for exit were given one time option to withdraw accumulated balances from the superannuation plan.
The Company maintains a separate irrevocable trust for employees covered and entitled to beneﬁ  ts.
The Company contributes up to 15% or R1,00,000  whichever is lower of the eligible employees’ salary to the trust every year.
The Company recognizes such contributions as an expense when incurred.
The Company has no further obligation beyond this contribution.
(iv) Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY)     Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana is an unfunded deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plan.
The beneﬁ  ts of the plan include pension in certain case, payable upto the date of normal  superannuation had the employee been in service, to an eligible employee at the time of death or permanent disablement, while in service, either as  a result of an injury or as certiﬁ  ed by the Company’s Medical Board.
The monthly payment to dependents of the deceased / disabled employee under  the plan equals 50% of the salary drawn at the time of death or accident or a speciﬁ  ed amount, whichever is higher.
The Compan y accounts for the  liability for BKY beneﬁ  ts payable in future based on an independent actuarial valuation as at Balance Sheet date.
(v) Severance indemnity     Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (TDCV), a subsidiary company incorporated in Korea has an obligation towards  sev erance  indemnity, a deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t retirement plan, covering eligible employees.
The plan provides for a lump sum payment to all employees with more than  one year of employment equivalent to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year of service    (vi) Post-retirement medicare scheme     Under this scheme, employees of the Company and some of its subsidiaries get medical beneﬁ  ts subject to certain limits of amount, periods after  retirement and types of beneﬁ  ts, depending on their grade and location at the time of retirement.
Employees separated from the Company as part  of Early Separation Scheme, on medical grounds or due to permanent disablement are also covered under the scheme.
The  Company and the said  subsidiaries account for the liability for post-retirement medical scheme based on an independent actuarial valuation as at Balance Sheet date.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  F-57 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts   (vii) Provident fund and family pension     The eligible employees of the Company and some of its subsidiaries are entitled to receive beneﬁ  ts in respect of  providen t fund, a deﬁ  ned contribution  plan, in which both employees and the company/subsidiaries make monthly/annual contributions at a speciﬁ  ed percentage of the covered employees’  salary (currently 12% of employees’ salary).
The contributions, as speciﬁ  ed under the law, are made to the provident fund and pension fund set up as  irrevocable trust by the Company and its subsidiaries or to respective Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and the Central Provident Fund under  the State Pension scheme.
The Company and some of its subsidiaries are generally liable for  monthly/annual contributions and any shortfall in the fund  assets based on the government speciﬁ  ed minimum rates of return or pension and recognises such contributions and shortfall, if any, as an expense  in the year incurred.
(viii) C ompensated absences     The Company and some of its subsidiaries provides for the encashment  of leave or leave with pay subject to certain rules.
The employees are entitled  to accumulate leave subject to certain limits, for future encashment.
The liability is provided based on the number of days of unutilized leave at each  balance sheet date on the basis of an independent actuarial valuation.
(k) Investments   (i) Long term investments are stated at cost less other than temporary diminution in value, if any.
(ii)  Investment in associate companies are accounted as per the ‘Equity method’ , and accordingly, the share of post acquisition reserves of each of the  associate companies has been added to / deducted from the cost of investments.
(iii) Current investments are stated at lower of cost and fair value.
Fair value of investments in mutual funds are determined on portfolio basis.
(l) Income taxes    Tax expense comprises current and deferred taxes.
Current taxes are determined based on respective taxable income of each taxable entit y and tax rules  applicable for respective tax jurisdictions.
Current tax is net of credit for entitlement for Minimum Alternative Tax.
Deferred tax is recognised, on timing diﬀ  erences, being the diﬀ  erence between taxable income and accounting income that originate in one period and are  capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.Deferred tax assets in respect of unabsorbed depreciation and carry forward of losses are recognised if  there is virtual certainty that there will be suﬃ   cient future taxable income available to realise such losses.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed  separately for each taxable entity and for each taxable jurisdiction.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based on the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when asset is realised or the liability is settled,  based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The tax expense is not comparable with the proﬁ  t before tax, since it is consolidated on a line-by-line addition for each subsidiary company and no tax eﬀ ect  is recorded in respect of consolidation adjustments.
This accounting treatment is as per accounting standard AS-21.
(m) Borrowing costs    Fees towards structuring / arrangements and underwriting and other incidental costs incurred in connection with borrowings ar e amortised over the period  of the loan.
(n) Liabilities and contingent liabilities    The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such matt ers in its ﬁ  nancial  statements, if material.
For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in the ﬁ  nancial statements but  does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-58 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) As at As at  March 31, 2016 March 31,  2015 2.
Share Capital (a) Authorised : 350,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of  R2 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 350,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of  R2 each)  700.00  700.00  100,00,00,000 'A' Ordinary shares of R2 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 100,00,00,000 'A' Ordinary shares of R2 each)  200.00  200.00  30,00,00,000 Convertible Cumulative Preference shares of R100 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 30,00,00,000 shares of R 100 each)  3,000.00  3,000.00   3,900.00  3,900.00  (b) Issued [Note (l), page F-59] : 288,78,42,351 Ordinary shares of R2 each  577.57 547.44 (as at March 31, 2015: 273,71,97,592 Ordinary shares of R2 each) 50,87,36,805 'A' Ordinary shares of R2 each  (as at March 31, 2015: 48,22,06,515 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each) 101.75 96.44  679.32  643.88  (c) Subscribed and called-up : 288,72,03,602 Ordinary shares of R2 each   (as at March 31, 2015: 273,67,13,122 Ordinary shares of R2 each)  577.44  547.34  50,84,76,704 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each   (as at March 31, 2015: 48,19,66,945 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each)  101.70  96.40   679.14  643.74  (d) Calls unpaid - Or dinary shares  (0.01)  (0.01) (e) Paid-up ( c + d ) 679.13  643.73  (f) Forfeited Shares -  Or dinary shares  0.05  0.05  Total  ( e + f )    679.18  643.78  (g) Movement of number of shares and share capital  :  2015-2016 2014-2015 No.
of shares (Rin crores) No.
of shares (R in crores) (i) Ordinary shares  Shares as at April 1 273,67,13,122  547.34 273,67,13,122  547.34   Add: Shares issued pursuant to Rights issue  150,490,480  30.10  -    -     Shares as at March 31 288,72,03,602  577.44 273,67,13,122  547.34  (ii) ‘A’  Ordinary shares  Shares as at April 1 48,19,66,945  96.40 48,19,66,945  96.40   Add: Shares issued pursuant to Rights issue  26,509,759  5.30  -  -  Shares as at March 31 50,84,76,704  101.70 48,19,66,945  96.40         (h) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :  (i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares, both of R2 each :    The Company has two classes of shares – the Ordinary shares and the ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of R2 each (together referred to as shares).
In respect of every Ordinary  share (whether fully or partly paid), voting rights shall be in the same proportion as the capital paid up on such Ordinary share bears to the total paid up Ordinary  share capital of the Company.
In case of every ‘A’ Ordinary share, if any resolution is put to vote on a poll or by postal ballot at any general meeting of shareholders,  the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms of its issue and if a resoluti on is put to vote on a show of hands, the  holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares.
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Me eting.
Further, the Board of  Directors may also declare an interim dividend.
The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to receive dividend for each ﬁ  nancial year at ﬁ  ve percentage point  more than the aggregate rate of dividend declared on Ordinary shares for that ﬁ  nancial year.
In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion  to their shareholdings.
F-59 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (F-52 - F-86)  (ii) American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and Global Depositary Shares (GDSs) :    Each ADS and GDS underlying the ADR and GDR respectively represents ﬁ  ve Ordinary shares of R2 each.
A holder of ADS and GDS is not entitled to attend or vote  at shareholders meetings.
An ADS holder is entitled to issue voting instructions to the Depositary with respect to the Ordinary  shares represented by ADSs only in  accordance with the provisions of the Company’s ADSs deposit agreement and Indian Law.
The depositary for the ADSs and GDSs sha ll exercise voting rights in  respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit agreements.
 Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of R2 each in all respects including entitlement of the  dividend declared.
(i) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital      As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 % of Issued  share capital No.
of shares % of Issued  share capital   No.
of shares (i) Ordinary shares : (a) Tata Sons Limited 26.98% 77,89,70,378 25.67% 70,23,33,345  (b) Tata Steel Limited ** 5.54% 15,16,87,515  (c) Life Insurance Corporation of India 6.90% 19,91,44,257 ** (d) Citibank N A as Depository  # 49,19,64,200  # 58,22,60,190  (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares : (a) HDFC Trustee Company Limited-HDFC Equity Fund 12.95%  6,58,38,405 ** (b) HSBC Global Investment Funds A/C HSBC Global Investment Funds Mauritius Ltd ** 5.16% 2,48,78,664  # held by Citibank, N.A.
as depositary for American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) and  Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs) * Less than 5%               (j) I nformation regarding issue of shares in the last fi  ve years   (a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash.
(b) There has been no issue of bonus shares.
(c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares.
(k) The Company allotted 15,04,90,480 Ordinary shares (including 3,20,49,820 shares underlying the ADRs) of R2 each at a premium of R448 per share, aggregating R6,772.07 crores  and 2,65,09,759  ‘A’  Ordinary shares of R2 each at a premium of R269 per share, aggregating R718.42 crores pursuant to the Rights issue.
1,54,279 Ordinary shares and 20,531 ‘A’  Ordinary shares have been kept in abeyance.
Proceeds from the Rights issue have been utilised upto March 31, 2016, in the following manner:                                      Particulars Planned Actual Funding capital expenditure towards plant and machinery  500.00  500.00  Funding expenditure relating to research and product development  1,500.00  1,500.00  Repayment, in full or part, of certain long-term and short-term borrowings availed by the Company  4,000.00  4,000.00  General corporate purposes  1,428.00  1,401.10  Issue related expenses  70.00  64.76  Total  7,498.00  7,465.86 * * Of the above R2.34 crores was pending withdrawal as at March 31, 2016.
(l) The entitlements to 6,38,749 Ordinary shares of R2 each (as at M arch 31, 2015 : 4,84,470 Ordinary shares of R2 each)  and 2,60,101 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each  (as at March  31, 2015: 2,39,570 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of R2 each) are subject matter of various suits ﬁ  led in the courts / forums by third parties for which ﬁ  nal order is awaited and hence kept in  abeyance.
(R in crores) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-60 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Notes:  2015 - 2016  2014 -2015  Additions Deductions  Additions  Deductions  (i) The opening and closing balances of Securities Premium Account are net of calls in arrears of R0.03 crore (ii) S ecurities Premium Account : (a) Premium on Rights issue of Shares  7,455.09 -  -    -    (b) Rights issue expenses and brokerage, stamp duty and other fees on issue of Non-Convertible Debentures  (NCD) [net of tax RNil (2014-15 R1.41 crores)] -  54.43  -    46.54  (c) Reversal of premium on redemption of NCD --  175.05  -     7,455.09  54.43  175.05  46.54  (iii) The addition/deduction to Capital Reserve represents exchange gain/(loss) on opening balances in respect of  foreign subsidiaries.
(iv) Hedging Reserve : (a) Fair value gains / losses  -    788.31  -    14,662.42  (b) Deferred tax on fair value gains / losses  94.55  -    2,933.08  -     94.55  788.31  2,933.08  14,662.42  (v) P ension Reserve : (a) Actuarial losses (net)  4,837.84  -   -    3,525.06  (b) Movement in restriction of pension assets  -   13.91  26.82  -    (c) Deferred Tax impact on acturial losses (net) and movement in restriction of pension assets  -   1,121.33  704.77  -     4,837.84  1,135.24  731.59  3,525.06  (R in crores) 3.
Reserves and surplus As at   March 31, 2015 Additions Deductions As at   March 31, 2016 (a) Capital Redemption Reserve    2.28 - -  2.28   2.28 - -  2.28  (b) Securities Premium Account [Notes (i)  and (ii)]    11,811.60  7,455.09  54.43  19,212.26   11,683.09  175.05  46.54  11,811.60  (c) Debenture Redemption Reserve    1,042.15 - -  1,042.15   1,042.15 - -  1,042.15  (d) Capital Reserve (on consolidation) [Note (iii)]    507.24  14.29 -  521.53   504.56  2.68 -  507.24  (e) Revaluation Reserve     22.87 - -  22.87   22.87 - -  22.87  (f ) Amalgamation Reserve    0.05 - -  0.05   0.05 - -  0.05  (g) Special Reserve    269.38  22.88 -  292.26   229.97  39.41 -  269.38  (h) Hedging Reserve Account  [Note (iv)]    (6,329.79)  94.55  788.31  (7,023.55)  5,399.55  2,933.08  14,662.42  (6,329.79) (i) Pension Reserve [Note (v)]  (10,361.85) 4,837.84  1,135.24  (6,659.25)  (7,568.38)  731.59  3,525.06  (10,361.85) (j) Earned Surplus Reserve [Note (vi), page F-61]    14.51  9.49 -  24.00   14.51  -   -  14.51  (k) Reserves for Research and Human Resource Development [Note (vii) page F-61]  169.29 - -  169.29   169.29 - -  169.29  (l) Restricted Reserve  0.39 - -  0.39   0.39 - -  0.39  (m) Legal Reserve     0.44  0.61 -  1.05   0.33  0.11 -  0.44  (n) Translation Reserve [Note (viii) page F-61]    2,979.09  1,730.87 -  4,709.96   7,173.03  -    4,193.94  2,979.09  (o) General Reserve [Note (ix), page F-61]  5,230.39  38.99  3,483.73  1,785.65   5,181.62  48.77  -    5,230.39  (p) Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Diﬀ  erence Account (Net) [Note (x), page F-61]  (4,227.07)  (271.89)  (1,651.12)  (2,847.84)  573.88  (5,710.31)  (909.36)  (4,227.07) (q) Proﬁ  t and Loss Account / Surplus [Note (xi), page F-61]  54,487.17  14,507.48  144.26  68,850.39   40,530.48  14,079.69  123.00  54,487.17   55,618.14  28,440.20  3,954.85  80,103.49   64,959.67  12,300.07  21,641.60  55,618.14  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  F-61 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (R in crores) 2015 - 2016  2014 - 2015  Additions Deductions  Additions  Deductions  (ix) G eneral Reserve : (a) Government grants/incentives received [net of tax R1.04 crores  (2014-15 R Nil)]  38.99  -    27.77 - (b) Amount transferred from Proﬁ  t and Loss Account  -   - 21.00 - (c) Amount transferred to Proﬁ  t and Loss Account  -    3,483.73 -  38.99  3,483.73  48.77  -    (x) F oreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Diff  erence Account  (Net) : (a) Exchange gain / (loss) during the year (net)  (271.89)  -    (5,710.31)  -    (b) Amortisation of exchange ﬂ  uctuation for the year  -    (1,651.12)  -    (909.36)  (271.89)  (1,651.12)  (5,710.31)  (909.36) (xi) Pro fi  t and Loss Account / Surplus : (a) Proﬁ  t for the year  11,023.75  -    13,986.29  -    (b) Tax on interim dividend by subsidiaries  -    13.42  -    8.40  (including Group’s share of subsidiaries’ dividend tax) (c) Proposed dividend  -    73.00  -    -    (d) Tax on proposed dividend  -    24.10  -    51.81  (including Group's share of subsidiaries' dividend tax) (e) Reversal of dividend distribution tax of earlier year  -   -  93.40  -    (f ) Dividend on cummulative preference shares of a subsidiary -  0.76  -    2.27  (g) General Reserve  3,483.73 -  -    21.00  (h) Special Reserve  -    22.88  -    39.41  (i) Earned Surplus Reserve  -    9.49  -   -   (j) Legal Reserve  -    0.61  -    0.11   14,507.48  144.26  14,079.69  123.00  (vi) Under the Korean Commercial Code, Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Ltd. (TDCV), an indirect subsidiary, is required to appropriate annually at least 10% of  cash dividend declared each year to a legal reserve, ‘Earned Surplus Reserve’ until such reserve equals 50% of capital stock of  TDCV.
This reserve may not be utilized for cash  dividends but may only be used to oﬀ  -set against future deﬁ  cit, if any, or may be transferred to capital stock of TDCV.
(vii) Under the Special Tax Treatment Control Law, TDCV appropriated retained earnings for research and human resource developme nt.
The reserve, which was used for its own  purpose, is regarded as ‘Discretionary Appropriated Retained Earnings’ .
(viii) Translation Reserves represents conversion of balances in functional currency of foreign subsidiaries (net of minority share) and associates.
[Note (f ) (i), page F-55] NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-62 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (R in crores) 4.
Long-term Borrowings  As at   As at    March 31,  2016  March 31, 2015 (A) Secured :             (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures [Notes 1(a) below, 2(a) and 2(b), page F-63]  2,310.23  2,493.34              (b) Term loans :      (i) From banks [Notes 1(b) below, 2(d) and 2(f ), page F-63]  4,214.37  5,329.79       (ii) From others [Note 2(e), page F-63]  577.89  489.75              (c) Finance Lease Obligations [Note 31(A)(a)(ii), page F-74]  38.38  11.42   7,140.87  8,324.30  (B) Unsecured :            (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures [Note 1(a) below]        6,079.90  8,129.90  (b) Subordinated perpetual debentures        375.30  375.30  (c) Term loans :       (i) From banks [Note 1(b) below]  8,441.90  8,654.59        (ii) From others 48.70  200.17  (d)  Senior Notes  [Note 1(c) below]  29,789.64  30,387.08   44,735.44  47,747.04  Total (A+B)  51,876.31  56,071.34  5.
Short-term borrowings  As at   As at    March 31,  2016  March 31, 2015 (A) Secured :            (a) Loan from banks [Note 2(c), page F-63]  5,388.48  6,327.44  (b) Loan from others  98.23  77.07   5,486.71  6,404.51  (B) Unsecured : (a) Loan from banks  1,044.18  1,663.05  (b) Loan from others  13.78  49.91  (c) Inter corporate deposits from associates  27.00  60.00  (d) Commercial paper  4,651.96  4,962.67   5,736.92 6,735.63  Total (A+B)  11,223.63  13,140.14  Notes :                  (1)    Terms of redemption / repayments :               (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures will be redeemed from ﬁ  nancial year 2016-17 to 2025-26.
(b) Term Loans from Banks are repayable from ﬁ  nancial year 2016-17 to 2023-24.
(c) Schedule of repayment of Senior notes : Currency Amount (in million)  As at  March  31, 2016 (Rin crores)  As at  March  31, 2015 (Rin crores) 5.750% Senior Notes due 2024 USD 250  1,656.31  1,562.50  5.625% Senior Notes due 2023 USD 500  3,327.47  3,130.46  3.875% Senior Notes due 2023 GBP 400  3,818.09  3,697.96  5.000% Senior Notes due 2022 GBP 400  3,818.09  3,697.96  8.125% Senior Notes due 2021 USD 83.58*  556.24  523.30  5.75% Senior Notes due 2021 USD 300  1,987.43  1,874.93  8.25% Senior Notes due 2020 GBP  -    -    540.38  4.625% Senior Notes due 2020 USD 500  3,312.63  3,125.00  3.50% Senior Notes due 2020 USD 500  3,327.47  3,130.46  4.25% Senior Notes due 2019 USD 500  3,327.47  3,130.46  4.125% Senior Notes due 2018 USD 700  4,658.45  4,382.63  4.25% Senior Notes due 2018 SGD  -    -    1,591.04   29,789.64  30,387.08  * Prepaid subsequent to March 31, 2016 F-63 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes: (2) Nature of Security (on loans including interest accrued thereon): (a) Rated, Listed, Secured, 9.95% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to R200 crores and 10.25% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures  amounting to R500 crores are  secured by a pari passu charge by way of an English mortgage of the Company’s freehold land together with immovable  properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand in the State of Gujarat.
(b)  Privately placed non-convertible debentures amounting to R1,610.23 crores are fully secured by :   (i) First pari passu charge on residential ﬂ  at of Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL), a subsidiary of the Company (ii) Pari passu charge is created in favour of debenture trustee on :             - All receivables of TMFL arising out of loan, lease and hire purchase transactions,         - All book debts, trade advances forming part of movable property of TMFL.
(iii) Any other security as identiﬁ  ed by TMFL and acceptable to the debenture trustee.
(c)  Loans from Banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz.
stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-ﬁ  nished  goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from  hire purchase / leasing and all other moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and  future.
(d)  Term loans from banks amounting to R2,750 crores are secured by a pari passu charge in favour of the security trustee on all receivables of the Company  arising out of loan, lease and hire purchase transactions, all other book debts, receivables from senior and junior pass-through-certiﬁ  cates  in which  Company has invested; and such other current assets as may be identiﬁ  ed by the Company from time to time and accepted by the r elevant lender/ security trustee.
Term loan from bank amounting to R19.84 crores is secured by hypothecation by way of exclusive charge on all the moveable Plant and Machinery at  the “Generic Facility” at Nagpur.
Loan from bank is secured by exclusive charge on the factory land and building of ISLE Project at Phaltan (termed as TCL 3) and hypothecation charge  on movable ﬁ  xed assets of TCL 3 plant on pari passu with HSBC bank.
(e)  The term loan of R541.51 crores is due for repayment from the quarter ending March 31, 2033 to quarter ending March 31, 2036, along with simple  interest at the rate of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is secured by a second and subservient charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s freehold  land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand plant in  the State of Gujarat.
The term loan of R11.15 crores is due for repayment in the quarter ending June 30, 2030, along with a simple interest of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is secured  by bank guarantee as per the terms of the agreement.
The term loan of R17.98 crores is due for repayment in the quarter ending March 31, 2026, along with a simple interest of 0.10% p.a.
The loan is secured  by bank guarantee .
(f )  The term loan of R1,029 crores (CNY 1,001 Million) taken by Jaguar Landrover Automotive PLC, an indirect subsidiary of the Company is for the  syndicated loan of Chery Jaguar LandRover Automotive Co. Ltd in China, a Joint Venture (JV) of the Company, secured over the ﬁ  xed assets of the JV.
(g)  During the year 2015-16, TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore, a subsidiary of the Company, has reﬁ  nanced the existing SGD 350 million 4.25% Senior notes  due in May 2018 by a new syndicated loan of USD 250 million maturing in March 2020.
(3)  Dur ing the year ended March 31, 2016, TML Holdings Pte Ltd., Singapore, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company has reﬁ  nanced existing: (i) Unsecured Multi currency loan of USD 600 million (USD 250 million and SGD 62.8 million maturing in November 2017 and USD 210 million and SGD  114 million maturing in November 2019) by a new syndicated loan of USD 600 million (USD 300 million maturing in October 2020 and USD 300 million  maturing in October 2022) and (ii) SGD 350 million 4.25% Senior notes due in May 2018 by a new syndicated loan of USD 250 million maturing in March 2020.
(F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-64 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 6.
(a) Deferred tax assets and liabilities (net) classifi  ed on a company wise basis : (i) Deferred tax assets   2,726.43  2,733.20  (ii) Deferred tax liabilities  (3,166.08)  (1,343.20) Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)  (439.65)  1,390.00  (b) Major components of deferred tax arising on account of timing diff  erences are: Liabilities: Depreciation  (1,816.77)  (1,782.45) Intangibles / Product development cost and Reserves for Research and Human Resource Development  (10,785.42)  (9,843.79) Others  (306.20)  (263.38)  (12,908.39)  (11,889.62) Assets: Unabsorbed depreciation / business loss  5,261.10  5,878.08  Employee beneﬁ  ts / expenses allowable on payment basis  4,442.52  4,943.59  Provision for doubtful debts  715.73  733.90  Derivatives  1,925.76  1,610.46  Others  123.63  113.59   12,468.74  13,279.62  Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)  (439.65)  1,390.00  (c) Tax expense : 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 (i) Current tax Current tax [including Minimum Alternate Tax / (credit)]  1,961.21  4,558.81  (ii) Deferred tax charge  911.39  3,084.10  Total (i + ii)  2,872.60  7,642.91  (d) Deferred tax charge for the year 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 Opening net deferred tax assets  1,390.00  774.75  (Debited) / Credited to Securities Premium Account  -    1.41  (Debited) / Credited to Hedging Reserve  94.54  2,933.08  (Debited) / Credited to Pension Reserve  (1,121.33)  704.77  Translation diﬀ  erences in respect of foreign subsidiaries 108.53  60.09   471.74  4,474.10  Closing net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)  (439.65)  1,390.00  Deferred tax charge for the year  911.39  3,084.10  F-65 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (R in crores) 7.
Other long-term liabilities As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (a) Deferred payment liabilities  70.08  126.41  (b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  1.36  23.22  (c) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  7,744.11  7,721.94  (d) Deferred revenue  1,668.81  923.62  (e) Others  462.16  346.73  Total  9,946.52  9,141.92  8.
Other current liabilities As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (a) Liability towards vehicles sold under repurchase arrangements  2,550.44  1,820.60  (b) Liability for capital expenditure  3,503.13  4,605.24  (c) Deposits and retention money  219.11  211.21  (d) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  968.12  1,004.72  (e) Current maturities of long-term borrowings (Note below)  7,368.55  4,398.91  (f ) Deferred payment Liabilities  64.50  59.75  (g) Advance and progress payments from customers  2,163.70  2,288.91  (h) Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc)  2,528.70  1,864.75  (i) Employee beneﬁ  t obligations  18.89  43.00  (j) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund  under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 (IEPF) not due  33.19  40.50  (k) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  6,476.69  6,445.98  (l) Deferred revenue  956.19  621.56  (m) Others  410.61  283.45  Total  27,261.82  23,688.58  Notes: Current maturities of long term borrowings consists of : (i) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures  2,372.49  1,778.68  (ii) Term loans from banks and others  4,981.79  2,604.66  (iii) Finance lease obligations  [Note 31(A)(a)(ii), page F-74]  14.27  15.57  Total  7,368.55  4,398.91  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-66 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 (R in crores) 9.
Long-term provisions As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (a) Employee beneﬁ  t obligations  4,604.68  8,964.79  (b) Warranty and product liability [Note 35(i), page F-81]  6,826.06  5,693.64  (c) Residual risk [Note 35(ii), page F-81]  123.42  142.55  (d) Environmental cost [Note 35(iii), page F-81]  222.15  244.88  (e) Provision for Annual maintenance contract [Note 35(iv), page F-81]  9.99  12.57  (f ) Others  31.00  75.84  Total  11,817.30  15,134.27  10.
Short term provisions As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (a) Employee beneﬁ  t obligations  1,878.86  341.82  (b) Warranty and product liability [Note 35(i), page F-81]  5,618.72  4,663.66  (c) Current income tax (net of payment)  928.77  835.90  (d) Proposed dividend  73.00  -    (e) Provision for tax on dividend  28.95  66.36  (f ) Residual risk [Note 35(ii), page F-81]  57.42  42.72  (g) Environmental cost [Note 35(iii), page F-81]  68.99  44.18  (h) Provision for Annual maintenance contract [Note 35(iv), page F-81]  17.79  16.29  (i) Others  29.62  25.07  Total  8,702.12  6,036.00  11.
Trade payables As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (a) Acceptances  3,981.33  4,076.75  (b) Other than acceptances  59,651.56  53,330.53  Total  63,632.89  57,407.28  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-67 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts 12.
Tangible assets (R in cr ores)                   Particulars Cost as at   April 1, 2015  Additions/ adjustments [Note (ii)] Translation adjustment  Deductions/ adjustments  Cost as at  March 31,  2016   Accumulated  depreciation  as at April 1,  2015  Depreciation  for the year [Note (iii)]   Translation  adjustment-  accumulated  depreciation  Deductions/ adjustments for the year [Note (iv)]   Accumulated  depreciation  up to March 31,  2016   Net book value  as at March 31,  2016  [I]  Owned assets : (i)  Land  2,242.49  485.64  43.75  24.25  2,747.63  -    -    -    -    -    2,747.63   2,027.99  328.33  (112.39)  1.44  2,242.49  -    -    -    -    -    2,242.49  (ii)  Buildings      13,329.80  2,231.56  241.00  35.03  15,763.33  4,232.59  463.82  99.20  34.90  4,760.71  11,006.62   10,946.48  3,169.82  (620.66)  165.84  13,329.80  4,313.93  324.57  (246.09)  159.82  4,232.59  9,097.21  (iii)  Plant, machinery and   88,493.04  14,851.14  1,753.61  1,844.16  103,253.63  49,567.02  7,402.60  1,081.04  1,675.17  56,375.49  46,878.14   equipment [Note (i)]  79,061.70  16,046.70  (4,692.94)  1,922.42  88,493.04  48,411.14  5,846.04  (2,813.09)  1,877.07  49,567.02  38,926.02  (iv)  Fur niture, ﬁ xtures  1,149.40  257.64  22.68  37.69  1,392.03  560.41  140.23  11.46  35.49  676.61  715.42   and oﬃ   ce appliances [Note (i)]  1,010.56  232.79  (52.98)  40.97  1,149.40  476.04  141.85  (25.27)  32.21  560.41  588.99  (v)  Vehicles [Note (i)]  280.40  57.42  1.38  45.18  294.02  152.77  43.19  0.30  37.61  158.65  135.37      270.33  52.38  (5.13)  37.18  280.40  142.83  39.17  (1.82)  27.41  152.77  127.63  (vi)  Heritage assets  482.12  -    15.66  -    497.78  -    -    -    -    -    497.78   -    514.19  (32.07)  -    482.12  -    -    -    -    -    482.12  (vii)  Computers and other  1,363.66  384.76  10.81  41.24  1,717.99  841.37  141.37  7.52  29.34  960.92  757.07   IT assets [Note (i)]  1,125.82  294.07  (40.89)  15.34  1,363.66  757.04  110.20  (14.65)  11.22  841.37  522.29  [II] Assets given on lease : (i)  Plant and machinery   411.02  3.26  -    1.03  413.25  382.75  3.17  -    0.76  385.16  28.09   404.32  7.35  -    0.65  411.02  380.92  4.17  -    2.34  382.75  28.27  (ii)  Land  -   21.66  (0.67)  -    20.99  -    -    -    -    -    20.99  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (iii)  Buildings  -    34.93  (1.11)  -    33.82  -    0.74  (0.02)  -    0.72  32.10   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    [III] Assets taken on lease : (i)  Leasehold land  270.48  0.02  -    -    270.50  36.06  3.77  -    -    39.83  230.67   268.47  2.37  -    0.36  270.48  32.32  3.74  -    -    36.06  234.42  (ii)  Buildings      66.10  6.08  (0.24)  14.84  57.10  20.21  5.46  0.26  0.77  25.16  31.94   63.65  3.84  (0.68)  0.71  66.10  14.85  6.14  (0.28)  0.50  20.21  45.89  (iii)  Plant and machinery   38.52  -    -    -    38.52  37.77  0.25  -    -    38.02  0.50   38.96  0.09  -    0.53  38.52  36.64  1.70  (0.04)  0.53  37.77  0.75  (iv)  Computers and other  166.69  9.80  -    -    176.49  136.56  15.91  -    -    152.47  24.02   IT assets  157.73  8.97  (0.01)  -    166.69  116.01  20.55  -    -    136.56  30.13  TO TAL TANGIBLE ASSETS  108,293.72  18,343.91  2,086.87  2,043.42  126,681.08  55,967.51  8,220.51  1,199.76  1,814.04  63,573.74  63,107.34   95,376.01  20,660.90  (5,557.75)  2,185.44  108,293.72  54,681.72  6,498.13  (3,101.24)  2,111.10  55,967.51  52,326.21  Notes: (i) Includes buildings, plant, machinery and equipment, furniture, ﬁ  xtures and oﬃ   ce appliances, vehicles and computers and other IT assets having gross block of R17.59 crores, R466.38 crores, R7.52 crores,  R1.89 crores and R136.68 crores (as at March 31, 2015  R0.56 crore, R250.22 crores, R6.16 crores, R1.50 crores and R143.78 crores) and net block of  R14.27 crores, R42.39 crores, R0.58 crore, R0.13 crore and  R0.65 crore (as at March 31, 2015  R0.51 crore, R16.21 crores, R0.50 crore, R0.03 crore and R0.63 crore) respectively, held for disposal at lower of their net book value and net realisable value.
(ii) Additions / adjustments: (a) include capitalisation of exchange loss mainly on plant, machinery and equipment  of R42.49 crores (2014-2015 R26.24 crores) (b) is net of capital government grants received R36.25 crores (2014-15 R93.61 crores) (iii) Depreciation excludes lease equalisation of RNil  (2014-15 R2.27 crores) adjusted in lease rental income.
(iv) Includes impairment charge on plant, machinery and equipment in deduction / adjustment for the year of R60.32 crores (2014-2015 RNil).
13.
Intangible assets                 Particulars Cost as at   April 1, 2015  Additions/ adjustments [Note (i)] Translation adjustment Deductions/ adjustments Cost as at  March 31,  2016   Accumulated  amortisation as  at April 1, 2015   Amortisation  for the year   Translation  adjustment-  accumulated  amortisation   Deductions/ adjustments for the year [Note (ii)]  Accumulated  amortisation  up to March 31,  2016   Net book value  as at March 31,  2016  (i)  Technical know-how  83.50  28.18  0.12  -    111.80  47.32  7.32  -    -    54.64  57.16   56.65  26.82  0.03  -    83.50  46.13  1.19  -    -    47.32  36.18  (ii)  Computer software  4,572.82  1,638.42  86.30  179.05  6,118.49  1,948.86  760.69  32.05  162.96  2,578.64  3,539.85   3,118.71  1,787.75  (278.86)  54.78  4,572.82  1,555.64  524.59  (104.39)  26.98  1,948.86  2,623.96  (iii)  Product development cost  40,456.62  13,557.42  819.95  3,560.06  51,273.93  15,688.51  7,929.69  292.88  3,457.71  20,453.37  30,820.56    29,229.51  15,265.62  (2,469.42)  1,569.09  40,456.62  11,833.55  6,248.50  (827.21)  1,566.33  15,688.51  24,768.11  (iv)  Trade marks and brand  3,677.51  -    119.71  -    3,797.22  -    -    -    -    -    3,797.22    3,958.94  -    (281.43)  -    3,677.51  -    -    -    -    -    3,677.51  (v)  Developed technologies  1,122.39  0.49  32.21  0.49  1,154.60  771.86  95.97  18.67  -    886.50  268.10   1,188.40  1.91  (67.92)  -    1,122.39  698.34  116.22  (42.70)  -    771.86  350.53   T OTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS  49,912.84  15,224.51  1,058.29  3,739.60  62,456.04  18,456.55  8,793.67  343.60  3,620.67  23,973.15  38,482.89    37,552.21  17,082.10  (3,097.60)  1,623.87  49,912.84  14,133.66  6,890.50  (974.30)  1,593.31  18,456.55  31,456.29  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes: (i)       Additions/adjustments:       (a) include capitalisation of exchange loss mainly on product development cost of R28.19 crores (2014-15 capitalisation of exchange loss of R40.96 crores)       (b) is net of capital government grants received R284.80 crores (2014-15 R48.53 crores)  (ii)      Includes impairment charge of R103.62 crores (2014-15 R Nil).
(F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-68 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 (R in crores) 14.
Goodwill (on consolidation) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 Opening balance  4,696.99  4,978.83  Add :     Addition due to acquisition of subsidiary  -    9.05  Less :     Impairment  (2.59)  -    Add :     Impact of foreign currency translation  142.12  (290.89) Closing balance  4,836.52  4,696.99  15.
Non-current investments As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (A) Investments in equity accounted investees : (a)   Carrying amount of investments in associates (Note 4 below)  391.75  382.59  (b)  9% optionally convertible preference shares  160.00  160.00   551.75  542.59  (B) Others (at cost) (i) Quoted  Equity shares  313.98  302.08  (ii) Unquoted (a)         Equity shares  381.46  382.31  (b)         Non cumulative redeemable preference shares  2.00  2.00  (c)         Cumulative redeemable non-participating preference shares  6.00  6.00  (d)         Non-convertible debentures  3.50  3.50  (e)         Retained interest in securitisation transactions  0.14  6.20   707.08  702.09  (C) Provision for diminution in value of Investments (net)  (5.68)  (4.18)               Total (A + B + C )  1,253.15  1,240.50  Notes: (1) Book value of quoted investments (other than in associates)  313.98  302.08  (2) Book value of unquoted investments (other than in associates)  387.42  395.83  (3) Market value of quoted investments (other than in associates)  210.50  210.61  (4) The particulars of investments in associate companies as of March 31, 2016 are as follows: Sr.  No.
Name of the Associates Country of  Incorporation Ownership  Interest  (%) Original Cost  of Investment Amount of  Goodwill/ (Capital Reserve)  in Original Cost Share of post  acquisition  Reserves and  Surplus Carrying  amount of  Investments (i) Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd India  26.00  77.47  -    139.92  217.39   26.00  77.47  -    138.18  215.65  (ii) NITA Company Ltd Bangladesh  40.00  1.27  (0.43)  26.08  27.35   40.00  1.27  (0.43)  20.92  22.19  (iii) Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd India  47.19  109.63  55.28  33.47  143.10   47.19  109.63  55.28  31.21  140.84  (iv) Jaguar Cars Finance Ltd UK  49.90  3.91  -    -    3.91   49.90  3.91  -    -    3.91  (v) Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery  Company Ltd India  40.00  80.20  0.20  (80.20)  -     40.00  80.20  0.20  (80.20)  -    Total  272.48  55.05  119.27  391.75   272.48  55.05  110.11  382.59    NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-69 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
Current investments As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015(at cost or fair value whichever is lower) (fully paid) (A) Unquoted (a) Mutual funds  19,211.01  14,058.36  (b) Optionally convertible debentures  -    1.49  (c) Equity shares  -    4.68  (d) Retained interest in securitisation transactions  1.93  31.41   19,212.94  14,095.94  (B) Advance against investments  -  0.30  Total (A+B)  19,212.94  14,096.24  Note: Book value of unquoted investments  19,212.94  14,096.24  17.
Long-term loans and advances As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (A) Secured: Finance receivables [Note below]  10,372.61  11,812.60  Total  10,372.61  11,812.60  (B) Unsecured: (a) Loans to employees  38.17  40.06  (b) Loan to Joint Venture (FIAT India Automobile Private Ltd)  -    132.50  (c) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government  980.40  1,173.10  (d) Capital advances  470.31  234.93  (e) Credit entitlement of Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT)  58.26  89.88  (f ) Non-current income tax assets (net of provision)  1,343.48  947.70  (g) Loan to others  33.81  42.14  (h) Others  643.78  475.40  Total  3,568.21  3,135.71  Total (A + B)  13,940.82  14,948.31  Note: Finance receivables (Gross)*  10,525.25  13,551.30  Less: Allowances for doubtful loans (152.64)  (1,738.70) Total  10,372.61  11,812.60  *Loans are secured against hypothecation of the underlying vehicles 18.
Short-term loans and advances As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 (A) Secured: Finance receivables [Note below]  8,626.77  5,065.22  Others  23.51  85.37  Total  8,650.28  5,150.59  (B) Unsecured: (a) Advances and other receivables  1,089.26  889.21  (b) Inter corporate deposits  30.30  95.30  (c) Loan to Joint Venture (FIAT India Automobile Private Ltd)  132.50  -    (d) Fixed deposit with Financial Institutions  5.00  5.00  (e) VAT, other taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government  4,529.79  4,269.28  (f ) Current income tax assets (net of provisions)  159.01  212.08  (g) Others  161.37  124.98    Total 6,107.23  5,595.85   Total (A + B)  14,757.51  10,746.44  Note : Finance receivables (Gross)*  10,455.51  6,104.98  Less: Allowances for doubtful loans  (1,828.74)  (1,039.76) Total  8,626.77  5,065.22  *Loans are secured against hypothecation of the underlying vehicles (R in crores) (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-70 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 19.
Other non-current assets As at As at March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 (a) Prepaid expenses  446.83  224.62  (b) Prepaid debt issue cost / loan arrangement fees  335.80  338.54  (c) Interest accrued on loans and deposits  0.56  62.56  (d) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  1,591.69  232.28  Total  2,374.88  858.00  20.
Other current assets As at As at March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 (a) Prepaid expenses  1,187.58  1,163.41  (b) Prepaid debt issue cost / loan arrangement fees  84.39  101.99  (c) Interest accrued on loans and deposits  77.02  12.12  (d) Derivative ﬁ  nancial instruments  726.77  1,670.90  Total  2,075.76  2,948.42  21.
Inventories As at As at March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 (a) Stores and spare parts  206.97  196.64  (b) Consumable tools  283.89  215.81  (c) Raw materials and components  2,679.90  2,201.82  (d) Work-in-progress  4,280.75  3,367.26  (e) Finished goods  25,369.82  22,824.04  (f ) Goods-in-transit - Raw materials and components  577.65  466.77  Total  33,398.98  29,272.34  22.
Trade receivables (unsecured) As at As at March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 (a) Over six months  1,147.24  1,001.02  (b) Others 13,083.07  12,316.04   14,230.31  13,317.06  Less : Allowances for doubtful debts  (1,240.35)  (737.86) Total  12,989.96  12,579.20  23.
Cash and bank balances As at As at March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 (A) Cash and cash equivalents (a) Cash on hand  40.09  36.97  (b) Cheques on hand  115.11  51.64  (c) Current account with banks #  9,271.65  8,070.61  (d) Bank deposits with upto 3 months maturity  9,923.63  12,969.11  Total  19,350.48  21,128.33  (B) Other bank balances  Earmarked balances with banks  248.22  18.37  Total  248.22  18.37 (C) Other bank balances (with more than 3 months but less than 12 months maturity) (a) Bank deposits  12,776.18  10,434.24  (b) Earmarked balances with banks  282.60  216.36  Total  13,058.78  10,650.60  (D) Other bank balances (with more than 12 months maturity) (a) Earmarked balances with banks  206.87  218.33  (b) Margin money / cash collateral with banks  15.63  100.13  Total  222.50  318.46  Total (A + B + C + D)  32,879.98  32,115.76  # Includes remittances in transit  145.25  169.30  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) F-71 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts 24.
Total revenue 2015-2016 2014-2015 (I) Revenue from operations (a) Sale of products [including export and other incentive of R1,232.92 crores (2014-2015 R 1,599.19 crores)]  273,501.03  261,071.20  (b) Sale of services  1,294.15  1,020.22  (c) Income from vehicle loan contracts (Note 1 below)  2,386.27  2,191.83   277,181.45  264,283.25  (d) Other operating revenues [including export and other incentive of R1,328.12 crores  (2014-2015 R 1,011.40 crores)]  2,915.27  2,424.65  Total  280,096.72  266,707.90  (II) Other income (a) Interest income  755.66  714.96  (b) Dividend income (Note 2 below)  44.36  58.97  (c) Proﬁ  t on sale of investments (net) (Note 3 below)  181.39  119.57  (d) Other non-operating income  0.31  5.24  Total  981.72  898.74  Notes: 1) Includes:     (a) Income from securitisation / sale of receivables of loan contracts (net)  71.06  24.85    (b) Interest income from loan contracts (net of income reversal)  2,167.42  2,011.11  2) Includes dividend on:   (a) Trade investments (current)  3.12  7.51    (b) Trade investments (non-current)  41.24  51.46  3) Includes:   (a) Proﬁ  t on sale of investments including Mutual funds (current)  181.33  109.50    (b) Proﬁ  t on sale of investments (non-current)  0.06 10.07 (R in crores) NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-72 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 25.
Employee cost / benefi  ts expenses 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) Salaries, wages and bonus  22,670.51  19,802.49  (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds  3,341.74  2,799.21  (c) Staﬀ   welfare expenses  3,186.64  2,947.26  Total  29,198.89  25,548.96  26.
Finance cost 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) Interest  5,037.14  5,695.36  Less: Transferred to capital account  (1,184.51)  (1,651.71)  3,852.63  4,043.65  (b) Discounting charges  770.72  817.84  Total  4,623.35  4,861.49  27.
Other expenses 2015-2016 2014-2015 (a) Processing charges  1,110.68  1,050.48  (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts  2,097.24  1,782.94  (c) Power & fuel  1,169.44  1,121.75  (d) Rent  453.20  516.04  (e) Repairs to buildings  118.28  120.47  (f ) Repairs to plant, machinery etc.
524.37  471.86  (g) Insurance  376.25  287.49  (h) Rates & taxes  376.77  380.53  (i) Freight, transportation, port charges etc.
9,787.41  7,754.97  (j) Publicity  8,847.93  8,501.36  (k) Excise duty on change in closing stock  13.87  160.10  (l) Works operation and other expenses (Note below and Note 39 (b), page F-86)  35,549.51  28,832.38  Total  60,424.95  50,980.37  Note: Works operation and other expenses include: (i) Warranty and product liability expenses  6,953.18  5,945.99  (ii) Computer expenses  2,459.24  2,163.25  (iii) Engineering expenses  6,505.57  6,113.10  (iv) Miscellaneous contract jobs / Outsourcing expenses  4,843.62  4,310.97  (v) Lease rentals in respect of plant, machinery and equipment  332.76  216.63  (vi) Provision and write oﬀ   of sundry debtors, vehicle loans and advances (net)  893.33  1,800.78  (vii) Exchange loss on Maturity and MTM on trading forward and options  3,716.03  39.48  (viii) MTM loss on commodity derivatives  1,155.53  362.65  (ix) Provision for carrying capital cost of buildings under construction at Singur [Note 30, page F-74] -  309.88  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) F-73 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Earnings Per Share 2015-2016 2014-2015** (a) Proﬁ  t for the year Rin crores  11,023.75  13,986.29  (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
287,31,88,838 276,53,39,619  (c) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
50,60,63,234 48,74,45,041  (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and 'A' Ordinary) R  2.00  2.00  (e) Share of proﬁ  t for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Rin crores  9,368.57  11,886.23  (f ) Share of proﬁ  t for 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS * Rin crores  1,655.18  2,100.06  (g) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Basic) R  32.61  42.98  (h) Earnings Per 'A' Ordinary share (Basic) R  32.71  43.08  (i) Proﬁ  t for the year for Basic EPS Rin crores  11,023.75  13,986.29  (j) Proﬁ  t for the year for Diluted EPS Rin crores  11,023.75  13,986.29  (k) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
287,31,88,838 276,53,39,619  (l) Add: Adjustment for options relating to warrants, shares  held in abeyance Nos.
6,21,045 4,84,470  (m) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
287,38,09,883 276,58,24,089  (n) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos.
50,60,63,234 48,74,45,041  (o) Add: Adjustment for 'A' Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos.
2,57,745 2,39,570  (p) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos.
50,63,20,979 48,76,84,611  (q) Share of Proﬁ  t for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Rin crores  9,368.16  11,885.67  (r) Share of Proﬁ  t for 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS * Rin crores  1,655.59  2,100.62  (s) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Diluted) R  32.60  42.97  (t) Earnings Per 'A' Ordinary share (Diluted) R  32.70  43.07  * ‘A’ Ordinary share holders are entitled to receive dividend @ 5% points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by  the  Company on Ordinary shares for the ﬁ  nancial year.
** Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2015, has been retrospectively adjusted for the bonus element in  respect of rights issue as described in Note 2 (k) in page F-59.
(F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-74 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (R in crores) 29.
Contingent liabilities, commitments (to the extent not provided for): As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31,  2015 Description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable is reported under notes (1), (2) and (3) below: (1) Claims against the company not acknowledged as debt  2,922.87  2,782.27  (2) Provision  not  made  for income tax matters  in  dispute  134.08  134.55  (3) The claims / liabilities in respect of excise duty, sales tax and other matters where the issues were decided in favour of  the Company for which Department is in further appeal  267.03  70.71  (4) The Company has given guarantees for liability in respect of  receivables assigned by way of securitisation  229.95  215.45  (5) Other money for which the Company is contingently liable: (i) In respect of bills discounted and export sales on deferred credit  451.54  706.10  (ii) Cash margin / collateral  15.24  240.89  (iii) Corporate guarantee  1.20  -    (iv) In respect of subordinated receivables  0.10  0.93  (v) Bonus pertaining to retrospective period to the notiﬁ  cation date January 1, 2016  34.84  -    (vi) Others  313.21  62.06  (6) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for  10,183.94  9,005.09  (7) Purchase commitments  19,472.19  9,127.77  31.
Disclosure in respect of leases: As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31,  2015 (A) Finance leases: Assets taken on lease: (a) (i) Total of minimum lease payments  80.81  29.76  The total of minimum lease payments for a period:   Not later than one year  17.27  17.27    Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years  26.31  12.49    Later than ﬁ  ve years  37.23  -     (ii) Present value of minimum lease payments  52.65  26.99  Present value of minimum lease payments for a period:   Not later than one year  14.27  15.57    Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years  19.91  11.42    Later than ﬁ  ve years  18.47  -    (b) A general description of the signiﬁ  cant leasing arrangements -  The Company has entered into ﬁ  nance lease arrangements for computers and data processing equipments from  various vendors.
(B) Operating leases: Assets given on lease: (a) Total of minimum lease payments 118.87 15.19 The total of minimum lease payments for a period:  Not later than one year 17.59 15.19  Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years 8.07 -  Later than ﬁ  ve years 93.21 - (b) Gross block 54.81 - Accumulated Depreciation 0.72 - Depreciation for the year R0.74 crores (2014-15 RNil) Assets taken on lease: (a) Total of minimum lease payments  1,717.08  1,279.16  The total of minimum lease payments for a period:  Not later than one year  499.82  464.82   Later than one year and not later than ﬁ  ve years  778.79  571.07   Later than ﬁ  ve years  438.47  243.27  (b) A general description of signiﬁ  cant leasing arrangements -  The Company has entered into operating lease arrangements for property, computers and data processing  equipments from various vendors.
30.
Capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2014 included building under construction at Singur in West Bengal of R309.88 crores for the purposes of manufacturing automo- biles.
In October 2008, the Company moved the Nano project from Singur in West Bengal to Sanand in Gujarat.
In June 2011, the n ewly elected Government of West Bengal  (State Government) enacted a law cancelling the land lease agreement at Singur, and took over possession of the land.
The Company challenged the constitutional validity of  the law.
In June 2012, the Calcutta High Court declared the law unconstitutional and restored Company’s rights under the land lease agreement.
The State Government ﬁ  led  an appeal in the Supreme Court of India in August 2012, which is pending disposal.
Though the Company continues to rigorously press its rights, contentions and claims in  the matter, the Company has been advised that the time it may take in disposal of the appeal is uncertain.
The Company has also been advised that it has a good case and can  strongly defend the appeal, but the questions that arise are issues of constitutional law and thus the result of the appeal cannot be predicted.
In these circumstances, in view  of the uncertainty on the timing of resolution, following the course of  prudence, the management has during the year ended March 31, 2015, made a provision for carrying  capital cost of buildings at Singur amounting to R309.88 crores included under the head “works operations and other expenses” excluding other assets (electrical installations  etc.)
and expenses written oﬀ    / provided in earlier years, security expenses, lease rent and claim for interest on the whole amount (including R309.88 crores).
The Company  shall however continue to pursue the case and assert its rights and its claims in the Courts.
F-75 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts 32.
Related party disclosures for the year ended March 31, 2016 (A) Related parties and their relationship     Joint Ventures : Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) Nita Company Limited Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited Spark44 Communication SL (Madrid) Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited Tata Cummins Private Limited Spark44 SRL (Rome) Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited Tata HAL Technologies Limited Spark44 Limited (Seoul) Jaguar Cars Finance Limited Spark 44 (JV) Limited Spark44 KK (Tokyo) Tata Sons Ltd (Investing Party) Spark44 Pty.
Ltd. (Sydney) Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited Key Management Personnel : Spark44 LLC (LA & NYC) Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Sales Company Limited Mr. Guenter Butschek (w.e.f February 15, 2016) Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) Mr. R Pisharody Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai) Associates Mr. S B Borwankar Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Limited (Mumbai) Tata Auto Comp Systems Limited In Subsidiary Companies : Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited Dr. Ralf Speth (D) Disclosure in respect of transactions which are more than 10% of the total transactions of the same type with related parties during the year 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 (i) Purchase of goods Tata Cummins Private Limited  1,437.26  1,166.25  Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited  1,344.19  1,498.25  Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited  386.26  375.68  Tata AutoComp Systems Limited  485.11  582.78  (ii) Sale of goods (inclusive of sales tax) Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited  491.25  533.07  Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited 1,552.34 735.04 Nita Company Limited  167.60  137.18  (iii) Services received Tata Sons Ltd  22.02  19.43  Spark 44 (JV) Limited 420.74 45.85 (iv) Services rendered Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited 313.12 111.15 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited 16.51 7.94 (v) Finance taken (including loans and equity)         Rights Issue money received Tata Sons Ltd  1,747.09  -          Inter-corporate deposits Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited  158.00  -          Inter-corporate deposits Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited  28.00  64.00  (vi) Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity) Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited  (158.00)  -    (vii) Interest / Dividend paid / (received)       Dividend received Tata Sons Ltd  (29.70)  (9.90)       Dividend received Tata Cummins Private Limited  (4.50)  -          Dividend received Tata AutoComp Systems Limited  (10.47)  (10.47)       Dividend received Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited  (4.47) -       Interest received Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited  (10.98)  (12.99)       Interest paid Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited 3.73 - NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (F-52 - F-86)  (R in crores)  (B) Transactions with related parties Joint Venture Associates  Key Management  Personnel  2015 - 2016 Total  Purchase of goods  2,781.45  872.73  -    3,654.18   2,664.50  959.76  -    3,624.26  Sale of goods (inclusive of sales tax)  2,149.70  196.29  -    2,345.99   1,357.13  172.96  -    1,530.09  Services received 422.20  24.22 62.66 *  509.08   48.48  21.83  83.12  153.43  Services rendered 321.14  21.23  -    342.37   113.76  11.10  -    124.86  Finance given (including loans and equity)  -    -    -    -     -    160.00  -    160.00  Finance taken (including loans and equity)  -    1,933.09  -#    1,933.09   -    64.00  -    64.00  Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity)  -    159.00  -    159.00   -    30.00  -    30.00  Interest / Dividend paid / (received) (net)  (14.24)  (41.68)  -    (55.92)   (9.79)  120.38  -#    110.59  (C) Balances with the related parties Amount receivable  336.86  16.48  -   353.34   218.09  8.76  -    226.85  Amount payable  175.70  77.52  -    253.22   144.25  78.34  -    222.59  Amount receivable (in respect of loans, interest and dividend) 193.56  -    -   193.56  183.97  25.66  -    209.63  Amount payable (in respect of loans, interest and dividend)  -    27.00  -    27.00   -    3.49  -    3.49  Bills discounted (in respect of amount receivable)  -    5.18  -    5.18   -    4.86  -    4.86  Bank Guarantee / Other assets given as security  -    3.00  -    3.00    -    3.00  -    3.00  * Includes R4.61 crores (2014-2015 RNil) of managerial remuneration which is subject to the approval of the Central Government and shareholders.
# Less than R10,000/- Note: Current year ﬁ  gures are shown in bold and comparative ﬁ  gures for the previous year are shown below current year.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-76 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 33.
Consolidated segment information for the year ended March 31, 2016                                                                                                                                                                    (R in crores) (A) Primary segment Automotive Others  Inter- Segment  Eliminations   Total  Tata Vehicles  and fi nancing  thereof * Jaguar and  Land Rover Intra  Segment  Eliminations Total (a) Revenue External sales and income from other operations  49,665.89   224,463.12  -    274,129.01  1,432.10  -    275,561.11   44,003.88  217,828.44  -    261,832.32  1,326.66  -    263,158.98  Inter segment/Intra segment sales and other income  76.91  8.00  (75.42)  9.49  1,502.72  (1,512.21)  -     114.25  -    (106.84)  7.41  1,421.13  (1,428.54)  -    Total revenue  49,742.80  224,471.12  (75.42)  274,138.50  2,934.82  (1,512.21)  275,561.11   44,118.13  217,828.44  (106.84)  261,839.73  2,747.79  (1,428.54)  263,158.98  (b) Segment results before other income,  fi nance cost, tax and exceptional items  2,285.75  17,100.75  -    19,386.50  439.49  (83.94)  19,742.05   (2,505.90)  28,127.33  -    25,621.43  375.96  (147.37)  25,850.02  (c) (i)   Other income  981.72    898.74  (ii)   Finance cost  (4,623.35)  (4,861.49) (iii) Exceptional items : -     Exchange loss (net) including on revaluation of         foreign currency borrowings, deposits and loans  (240.19)  (91.72) -     Employee separation cost  (32.72)  (92.99) -     Provision for costs associated with closure        of operations and impair ment of intangibles       of a subsidiary company  (44.31) - -     Impairment of capitalised fixed assets  (163.94) - -     Others [Note 39(a), page F-86]  (1,638.39) - (d) Profi  t before tax  13,980.87   21,702.56  Tax expense (net)  2,872.60   7,642.91  (e) Profi  t after tax  11,108.27   14,059.65   (f) Segment assets  60,727.13  165,916.64  (10.00)  226,633.77  2,208.37   (935.19)  227,906.95   57,553.16  146,134.60  -    203,687.76  2,092.68  (1,074.50)  204,705.94  (g) Segment liabilities  14,090.71  83,198.65  (10.00)  97,279.36  603.42  (281.31)  97,601.47   14,115.52  76,234.35  -    90,349.87  629.56  (283.61)  90,695.82  (h) Other information (a)    Depreciation and amortisation expense  2,810.47   14,138.05  -    16,948.52  65.66  -    17,014.18   3,013.16  10,319.73  -    13,332.89  55.74  -    13,388.63  (b)    Capital expenditure  3,725.79 28,257.78  -  31,983.57 124.65  (83.80)  32,024.42   3,228.98  31,732.49 -  34,961.47  75.15  (147.01)  34,889.61  (i) Segment assets exclude: (i)    Deferred tax assets  2,726.43    2,733.20  (ii)   Current and non-current investments  20,466.09   15,336.74  (iii)  Income tax assets (net of provision) including MAT          credit entitlement  1,560.75  1,249.66  (iv)  Other unallocated assets  16,637.38   14,632.45   41,390.65   33,952.05  * Other brand vehicles includes Tata Daewoo and Fiat traded vehicles NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-77 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts  (R in crores)  (j) S egment liabilities exclude:  (i)     Minority interest  888.26   433.34  (ii)    Long-term borrowings  51,876.31   56,071.34  (iii)   Short-term borrowings  11,223.63   13,140.14  (iv)   Current maturities of long term debt  7,368.55   4,398.91  (v)    Deferred tax liabilities (net)  3,166.08   1,343.20  (vi)   Proposed dividend and tax thereon  101.95   66.36  (vii) Provision for income tax (net of payment)  928.77   835.90  (viii) Other unallocated liabilities  15,359.91   15,411.06   90,913.46   91,700.25  (B) Secondary segment United  States UK Rest of  Europe India China Rest of  World  Total  Revenue from external customers  43,692.61 46,007.94  41,583.95  41,979.43  53,123.58  49,173.60  275,561.11   31,469.53  35,484.92  31,791.99  35,676.53  76,170.40  52,565.61  263,158.98  Carrying amount of segment assets 3,514.18 136,080.86 4,442.72 56,394.25 13,376.82 14,098.12 227,906.95  3,480.97  119,577.63  2,694.32  54,566.39  14,082.82  10,303.81  204,705.94  Capital expenditure 50.13 25,300.83 183.05 3,681.75 1,640.00 1,168.66 32,024.42  51.40  29,642.62  14.90  3,102.05  1,779.83  298.81  34,889.61  Notes:    (1)  The Company has disclosed business segment as primary segment.
The Company primarily operates in the Automative segment.
A utomotive  segment consists of business of automobile products consisting of all types of commercial and passenger vehicles including ﬁ  nancing of the ve- hicles sold by the Company, wherever applicable.
Others comprises primarily activities relating to information technology or IT services, machine  tools and factory automation solutions.
(2)  Segment revenues, expenses and results include transfer between business segments.
Such transfers are undertaken either at competitive market  prices charged to unaﬃ   liated customers for similar goods or at contracted rates.
These transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-78 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16   (a) Deﬁ  ned contribution plans-   The Company’s contribution to deﬁ  ned contribution plan aggregated R193.92 crores (2014-15 R192.74 crores) for the year ended March 31, 2016 has been recognised in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and      Loss in note 25(b) on page F-72  (b) The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation, at the beginning of the year, for returns over the entire life of the related obligation.
(c)  The assumption of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inﬂ  ation, seniority, promo tion and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
(d) The Company expects to contribute R70.03 crores to the funded pension plans in the year 2016-2017.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34.
(a) Defi ned benefi  t plans / Long term compensated absences (R in crores) Particulars Gratuity, Superannuation and BKY / PSY Compensated Absences Post-retirement Medicare scheme As at / for the year ended on March 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (i) Components of employer expense Current service cost  64.26  56.43  58.75  52.84  47.09  41.94  36.53  38.81  34.90  28.34  7.68  5.71  5.18  4.06  4.22  Interest cost  66.96  69.05  63.93  60.20  55.57  22.82  22.17  21.95  20.78  18.00  12.18  11.31  9.06  8.34  8.14  Expected return on plan assets  (60.63)  (57.15)  (57.02)  (53.64)  (49.95)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Past service cost  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.70  0.55  -    -    Actuarial Losses / (Gains)  (8.30)  60.00  (0.43)  4.99  21.89  (0.81)  39.23  (25.65)  5.88  22.85  (8.69)  16.15  2.65  2.00  (6.02) Total expense recognised in the Statement  of Profi  t and Loss in Note 25, page F-72 :  62.29  128.33  65.23  64.39  74.60  63.95  97.93  35.11  61.56  69.19  11.17  33.87  17.44  14.40  6.34  (b) & (c)  (a)  (c)  (ii) Actual Contribution and Benefi  t Payments Actual beneﬁ  t payments  120.66  137.19  85.87  81.64  56.44 50.16  56.57  49.27  41.36  32.34  6.78  2.20  3.90  4.07  3.90  Actual contributions  50.78  122.62  42.40  68.00  68.36 50.16  56.57  49.27  41.36  32.34  6.78  2.20  3.90  4.07  3.90  (iii) Net asset/(liability) recognised in Balance  Sheet Present value of Deﬁ  ned Beneﬁ  t Obligation  923.92  901.85  827.79  814.79  757.76  323.59  309.90  268.65  283.58  263.38  160.11  155.72  124.05  110.51  100.18  Fair value of plan assets  799.73  789.18  720.63  737.38  676.74  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Net asset / (liability) recognised in  Balance Sheet  (124.19)  (112.67)  (107.16)  (77.41)  (81.02)  (323.59)  (309.90)  (268.65)  (283.58)   (263.38)  (160.11)   (155.72)   (124.05)   (110.51)   (100.18) Experience adjustment on plan liabilities  6.85  7.82  23.55  (23.73)  (7.37) 0.51  (6.68)  N/A  N/A  N/A  (16.20)  (3.80)  3.46  8.76  (2.83) (iv) Change in Defi  ned Benefi t Obligations  (DBO) Present value of DBO at beginning of year  901.85  827.79  814.79  757.76  692.38  309.90  268.65  283.58  263.38  226.31  155.72  124.05  110.51  100.18  97.74  Liability on acquisitions  -    -    -    0.04  0.43  -    -    -    -    0.22  -    -    -    Current service cost  64.26  56.43  58.75  52.84  47.09  41.94  36.53  38.81  34.90  28.34  7.68  5.71  5.18  4.06  4.22  Past service cost  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.70  0.55  -    -    Interest cost  66.96  69.05  63.93  60.20  55.57  22.82  22.17  21.95  20.78  18.00  12.18  11.31  9.06  8.34  8.14  Plan amendments  -    (0.20)  -    -    -    (0.10)  (0.11)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Settlement cost / (credit)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (0.77)  -    -    -    -    Actuarial (gains) / losses  11.51  85.97  (23.81)  25.59  18.73  (0.81)  39.23  (25.65)  5.88  22.85  (8.69)  16.15  2.65  2.00  (6.02) Beneﬁ  ts paid  (120.66)  (137.19)  (85.87)  (81.64)  (56.44)  (50.16)  (56.57)  (49.27)  (41.36)  (32.34)  (6.78)  (2.20)  (3.90)  (4.07)  (3.90) Present value of DBO at the end of year  923.92  901.85  827.79  814.79  757.76  323.59  309.90  268.65  283.58  263.38  160.11  155.72  124.05  110.51  100.18  (v) Change in fair value of assets Plan assets at beginning of year  789.18  720.63  737.38  676.74  618.02  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Liability on acquisitions -  -    -    0.04  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Actual return on plan assets 80.44  83.12  33.65  74.24  46.80  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Actual Company contributions 50.78  122.62  42.40  68.00  68.36 50.16  56.57  49.27  41.36  32.34  6.78  2.20  3.90  4.07  3.90  Beneﬁ  ts paid  (120.66)  (137.19)  (85.87)  (81.64)  (56.44)  (50.16)  (56.57)  (49.27)  (41.36)  (32.34)  (6.78)  (2.20)  (3.90)  (4.07)  (3.90) Others  -    -    (6.93)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Plan assets at the end of year 799.74  789.18  720.63  737.38  676.74  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (vi) Actuarial Assumptions Discount rate (%)  6.75-8.00  6.75-8.00  6.75-9.30  6.75-8.35  6.75-8.90  7.90-8.00  7.90-8.00  9.20 8.35 8.50  8.00  8.00  9.20  8.35  8.50  Expected return on plan assets (%)  8.00-9.25  8.00-9.25  8.00-9.25  8.00-9.25  8.00-9.25  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Medical cost inﬂ  ation (%)  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  6.00  6.00  6.00  5.00  4.00  (vii) The major categories of plan assets as  percentage to total plan assets Debt securities 79% 73% 71% 73% 77%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Balance with approved insurance companies 19% 21% 28% 24% 19%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Balances with banks 2% 6% 1% 4% 4%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  (viii) Eff  ect of one percentage point change in  assumed medical infl ation rate  One percentage point increase in  medical infl ation rate  One percentage point decrease in  medical infl ation rate 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revised DBO  181.56  176.28  137.03  121.00  108.44  142.21  138.52  111.55  101.33  81.62  Revised service cost  9.53  8.71  6.05  4.86  4.88  6.21  5.96  4.47  3.41  3.04  Revised interest cost  24.55  23.32  9.94  9.30  8.85  17.81  17.24  8.30  7.54  6.81  F-79 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts  As at / for the year ended on March 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 i Components of employer expense Current service cost  55.53  42.16  38.75  37.24  21.18  Interest cost  7.61  8.05  5.64  9.30  10.26  Past service cost  -    -    -    (6.17)  -    Expected return on plan assets  (8.21)  (6.07)  (0.04)  -    -    Actuarial losses / (gains)  (61.22)  69.92  (7.14)  (62.40)  (8.39) Total expense recognised in the Statement of Profi t and Loss  in Note 25(b), page F-72 :  (6.29)  114.06  37.21  (22.03)  23.05  ii Actual Contribution and Benefi  t Payments Actual beneﬁ  t payments  3.31  4.73  6.83  87.97  14.64  Actual contributions  52.15  75.48  135.03  87.97  14.64  iii Net liability recognised in Balance Sheet Present value of Deﬁ  ned Beneﬁ  t Obligation  333.91  330.78  219.54  164.44  252.58  Fair value of plan assets  261.78  202.54  129.43  -    -    Net liability recognised in Balance Sheet  (72.13)  (128.24)  (90.11)  (164.44)  (252.58) Experience adjustment on plan liabilities  (4.09)  19.83  6.54  79.62  19.01  Experience adjustment on plan assets  -    -    -    -    -    iv Change in Defi  ned Benefi t Obligations (DBO) Present Value of DBO at the beginning of the year  330.78  219.54  164.44  252.58  220.62  Current service cost  55.53  42.16  38.75  37.24  21.18  Interest cost  7.61  8.05  5.64  9.30  10.26  Past service cost  -    -    -    (6.17)  -    Actuarial losses / (gains)  (66.11)  67.29  (7.14)  (62.40)  (8.39) Beneﬁ  ts paid  (3.31)  (4.73)  (6.83)  (87.97)  (14.64) Exchange ﬂ  uctuation  9.41  (1.53)  24.68  21.86  23.55  Present Value of DBO at the end of the year  333.91  330.78  219.54  164.44  252.58  v Change in fair value of assets Plan assets at the beginning of the year  202.54  129.43  -    -    -    Actual return on plan assets  3.32  3.44  0.04  -    -    Actual Company contributions  52.15  75.48  135.03  87.97  14.64  Beneﬁ  ts paid  (3.31)  (4.73)  (6.83)  (87.97)  (14.64) Exchange ﬂ  uctuation  7.08  (1.08)  1.19  -    -    Plan assets at the end of the year  261.78  202.54  129.43  -    -    vi Actuarial assumptions Discount Rate 1.90% 2.30% 3.60% 3.07% 4.03% Expected return on plan assets 2.00% 3.60%  N/A  N/A  N/A  (R in crores) (a) Deﬁ  ned Contribution Plans-  The Company’s contribution to deﬁ  ned contribution plan aggregated R19.41cr ores (2014-15 R16.66 crores) for the year ended March 31, 2016 has been recognised in the   Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss in note 25(b) on page F-72.
(b) The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation, at the beginning of the year, for returns over the entire life of the related obligation.
(c) The assumption of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inﬂ  ation, seniority, promoti on and other relevant factors, such as supply and   demand in the employment market.
(d) The Company expects to contribute R40.53crores to the funded pension plans in the year 2016-2017.
NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (F-52 - F-86) 34.
(b)  Details of Severance Indemnity plan applicable to Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd. and Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and  Distribution  Co. Ltd., Korea.
Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-80 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Post-retirement Pension scheme Post-retirement Medicare scheme As at / for the year ended on March 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (i) Components of employer expense Current service cost  2,140.58  1,584.36  1,626.77  1,009.27  780.53  0.59  0.49  0.58  0.52  0.46  Interest cost  2,661.70  2,772.76  2,587.53  2,177.34  1,829.87  0.49  0.39  0.48  0.60  0.53  Expected return on plan assets  (2,218.84)  (2,342.67)  (2,203.42)  (1,917.76)  (1,833.99)  -    -    -    -    -    Amortisation of past service cost  1.38  5.13  54.72  49.10  112.99  -    -    -    -    -    Settlement  -    (2.07)  -    -    -    -    -    -    (0.52)  -    Expenses paid  -    -    1.35  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Total expense recognised in the Statement of Profi t and Loss in Note  25(b), page F-72  2,584.82  2,017.51  2,066.95  1,317.95  889.40  1.08  0.88  1.06  0.60  0.99  (ii) Actual contribution and benefi  t payments Actual beneﬁ  t payments  1,601.62  1,437.45  1,314.88  1,112.62  866.72  -    0.10  0.10  0.09  -    Actual contributions  937.70  3,409.01  3,202.75  1,442.36  1,760.55  -    0.10  0.10  3.10  -    (iii) Amount recognised in Pension Reserve Actuarial loss / (gain)  (4,836.85)  3,523.68  1,283.81  3,972.49  1,490.14  (0.99)  1.38  (2.40)  0.86  0.84  Movement in restriction of pension assets  13.91  (26.82)  21.45  (235.08)  (42.75)  -    -    -    -    -    Onerous obligation  -    -    -    (1,056.73)  (37.41)  -    -    -    -    -    Economic beneﬁ  t from pre payment of normal contribution  -    -    -    300.08  (266.44)  -    -    -    -    -    Deferred tax 1,121.33    (704.77)  (40.39)  (626.73)  (1,272.50)  -    -    -    -    -    Amount recognised in Pension Reserve  (3,701.61)  2,792.09  1,264.87  2,354.03  (128.96)  (0.99)  1.38  (2.40)  0.86  0.84  (iv) Net liability recognised in Balance Sheet Present value of Deﬁ  ned Beneﬁ  t Obligation  73,179.83  72,871.09  60,249.67  49,426.92  40,065.65  12.48  11.73  9.15  9.60  10.76  Fair value of plan assets  67,803.25  64,688.30  53,576.49  44,046.30  38,372.91  -    -    -    -    -    Restriction of pension asset  (34.36)  (3.51)  (29.56)  (6.16)  (229.00)  -    -    -    -    -    Onerous obligation  -    -    -    -    (1,001.94)  -    -    -    -    -    Economic beneﬁ  t from pre payment of normal contribution  -    -    -    -    284.52  -    -    -    -    -    Net asset recognised in balance sheet  21.29  3.61  4.38  3.61  15.49  -    -    -    -    -    Net (Liability) recognised in Balance Sheet  (5,432.23)  (8,189.91)  (6,707.12)  (5,390.39)  (2,654.65)  (12.48)  (11.73)  (9.15)  (9.60)  (10.76) Experience adjustment on plan liabilities (621.32)  (995.83)  69.24  56.75  610.62  -    -    -    -    -    (v) Change in Defi  ned Benefi t Obligations (DBO) Present Value of DBO at beginning of year  72,871.09  60,249.67  49,426.92  40,065.65  30,723.35  11.73  9.16  9.60  10.32  7.69  Current service cost  2,140.58  1,584.36  1,626.77  1,009.27  780.53  0.59  0.49  0.58  0.52  0.46  Interest cost  2,661.70  2,772.76  2,587.53  2,177.34  1,829.87  0.49  0.39  0.48  0.60  0.53  Amendments  -    -    55.78  49.10  51.53  -    -    -    -    -    Actual member contributions 16.37  18.34  13.08  59.93  112.99  -    -    -    -    -    Actuarial losses / (gains)    (5,344.70)  15,108.87  (2,628.99)  7,314.38  2,797.44  (0.99)  1.38  (2.40)  0.86  0.84  Beneﬁ  ts paid  (1,601.62)  (1,437.45)  (1,314.88)  (1,112.62)  (866.72)  -    (0.10)  (0.10)  (0.09)  -    Expenses paid  (27.61)  -    -    (0.77)  (1.22)  -    -    -    -    -    Past service cost 1.38  5.13  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Plan combination -  (1.58)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Plan curtailment  -    -    (1.06)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Plan settlement  -    (13.11)  -    -    -    -    -    -    (3.53)  -    Exchange ﬂ  uctuation  2,462.64  (5,415.90)  10,484.52  (135.36)  4,637.88  0.66  0.41  0.99  0.92  0.80  Present Value of DBO at the end of year  73,179.83  72,871.09  60,249.67  49,426.92  40,065.65  12.48  11.73  9.15  9.60  10.32  (vi) Change in fair value of assets Plan assets at beginning of year  64,688.30  53,576.49  44,046.30  38,372.91  29,816.11  -    -    -    -    -    Actual return on plan assets  1,710.99  13,927.87  (1,709.38)  5,259.65  3,141.29  -    -    -    -    -    Actual company contributions  937.10  3,409.01  3,202.18  1,442.36  1,760.55  -    0.10  0.10  3.10  -    Actual member contributions  16.37  18.34  13.08  59.93  51.53  -    -    -    -    -    Beneﬁ  ts paid  (1,601.62)  (1,437.45)  (1,314.88)  (1,112.62)  (866.72)  -    (0.10)  (0.10)  (0.09)  -    Expenses paid  (29.19)  (1.77)  (1.35)  (0.77)  (1.22)  -    -    -    -    -    Plan settlement  -    (11.04)  -    -    -    -    -    -    (3.01)  -    Exchange ﬂ  uctuation  2,081.30  (4,793.15)  9,340.54  24.84  4,471.37  -    -    -    -    -    Plan assets at the end of year  67,803.25  64,688.30  53,576.49  44,046.30  38,372.91  -    -    -    -    -    (vii) Actuarial assumptions Discount rate (%)  2.92-3.63  2.45-3.37  3.71-4.59  3.69-4.40  4.38-5.10  3.95  3.75  4.35  4.10  4.88  Inﬂ  ation (%)  2.00-3.01  2.00-3.06  2.00-3.44  2.00-3.40  2.00-3.30  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Expected return on plan assets (%)  2.92-3.63  3.37  2.07-3.94  4.75-6.34  4.85-6.34  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Medical cost inﬂ  ation (%)  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  4.50  4.50  4.50  (viii) The major categories of plan assets as percentage to  total plan assets Equity securities  10%-19%  8%-20%  10%-37%  17%-38%  19%-38.4%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Debt securities  48%-67%  49%-70%  35%-69%  38%-68%  38.4%-67%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  Other  22%-33%  18%-31%  19%-27%  15%-24%  8%-23.2%  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  (R in crores)   (a) Deﬁ  ned Contribution Plans-   Jaguar Land Rover group’s contribution to deﬁ  ned contribution plan aggregated R463.52 cr ores (R325.37 crores) for the year ended March 31, 2015) has been recognised in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss in note 25(b) on page F-72.
(b) The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation, at the beginning of the year, for returns over the entire life of the related obligation.
(c)  The assumption of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inﬂ  ation, seniority, promo tion and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
(d) The Company expects to contribute R1,656.84 crores to the funded pension plans in the year 2016-2017.
34.
(c)  Details of Defi ned benefi t plans applicable to Jaguar and Land Rover group F-81 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts (R in crores) 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 35.
(i) Movement of provision for warranty and product liability Opening balance  10,357.30  9,482.22  Add: Provision for the year (net) (including additional provision for earlier years)  6,925.88  5,912.78  Less: Payments / debits (net of recoveries from suppliers)  (5,156.82)  (4,152.96) Foreign currency translation  318.42  (884.74) Closing balance  12,444.78  10,357.30  Current portion  5,618.72  4,663.66  Non-current portion  6,826.06  5,693.64   12,444.78  10,357.30   The provision is expected to be utilized for settlement of warranty claims within a period of 5 years.
(ii) Movement of provision for residual risk Opening balance  185.27  148.94  Add: Provision / (reversal of provision) for the year  (2.86)  43.98  Less: Payments / debits  (14.79)  -    Foreign currency translation  13.22  (7.65) Closing balance  180.84  185.27  Current portion  57.42  42.72  Non-current portion  123.42  142.55   180.84  185.27  In certain markets, some subsidiaries are responsible for the residual risk arising on vehicles sold by dealers  on a leasing arrangement.
The provision is based on the latest available market expectations of future  residual value trends.
The timing of the outﬂ  ows will be at the end of the lease arrangements – being  typically up to three years.
(iii) Movement of provision towards environmental cost Opening balance  289.06  206.68  Add: Provision for the year (net)  (7.29)  98.29  Less: Payments  -    -    Foreign currency translation  9.37  (15.91) Closing balance  291.14  289.06  Current portion  68.99  44.18  Non-current portion  222.15  244.88   291.14  289.06  This provision relates to various environmental remediation costs such as asbestos removal and land clean  up.
The timing of when these costs will be incurred is not known with certainty.
(iv) Movement of provision for annual maintenance contract Opening balance  28.86  3.12  Add: Provision for the year (net)  8.68  29.32  Less: Payments  (9.76)  (3.58) Closing balance  27.78  28.86  Current portion  17.79  16.29  Non-current portion  9.99  12.57   27.78  28.86  NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-82 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 36.
The Company has joint ventures with (a) Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A., Italy, Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited (FIAL), for manufacturing passenger cars, engines and transmissions at  Ranjangaon in India (b) Cummins Inc, USA, Tata Cummins Private Limited (TCL), for manufacturing engines in India (c) Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, Tata HAL Technologies Ltd for providing  engineering and design solutions and services in the domain of aerostructures for aerospace industry and (d) Spark 44 Ltd for advertising and (e) Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co.  Ltd. for manufacture and assembly of vehicles.
The Company has an investment of R1,567.04 crores in FIAL, R90.00 crores in TCL, R3.40 crores  in Spark 44 Ltd and R2,748.28 crores in Chery  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Ltd representing 50% shareholding and R3.67 crores representing 36.16% shareholding in Tata HAL Technologies Ltd.  (a)The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016 and income and expenditure for the year 2015-16 of FIAL as per their unaudited ﬁ  nancial statements are given below: (R in crores) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS INCOME Reserves and Surplus  167.47  10.26 Revenue from operations  1,768.64  2,074.38 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Less : Excise duty  (217.01)  (215.02) Long-term Borrowings  395.15  403.78 Other operating income  169.82  188.15  Other Long term Liabilities -  73.82 Other Income  29.04  45.50  Long-term Provisions  3.92  3.41  1,750.49  2,093.01 CURRENT LIABILITIES Short-term Borrowings  32.38  75.88    Trade Payables  129.13  157.91  Other Current Liabilities  577.40  148.03  Short-term Provisions  7.42  1.31 EXPENDITURE    1,145.40  864.14 Manufacturing and other expenses  1,394.40  1,677.95  NON-CURRENT ASSETS Depreciation  120.20  132.44  Fixed Assets  1,268.81  1,225.54 Finance Cost  35.75  78.07  Other Long-term Loans and Advances  169.57  35.13 Exchange (gain) / Loss (net) on revaluation of foreign currency borrowings, deposits and  loan givenOther Non-Current Assets  -    -    -    (48.13) CURRENT ASSETS  1,097.07  836.30 Tax expenses  43.00  52.50   2,535.45  2,096.97  1,593.35  1,892.83  Claims not acknowledged as debts  21.61 21.06  Capital Commitments  479.90 9.08    (b) The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016 and income and expenditure for the year 2015-16 of TCL as per their audited ﬁ nancial statements are given below: (R in crores) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS Reserves and Surplus  325.51  285.84 INCOME Revenue from operations  1,738.29  1,373.18  NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Less : Excise duty  (183.27)  (129.64) Long-term Borrowings  18.56  81.84 Other operating income  3.77  4.44  Deferred Tax Liabilities  36.05  35.51 Other Income  1.63  1.86  Other Long term Liabilities -  5.69  1,560.42  1,249.84 Long-term Provisions  23.63  20.32  CURRENT LIABILITIES   Short-term Borrowings  45.85  100.69    Trade Payables  195.92  137.33  Other Current Liabilities  111.49  96.40 EXPENDITURE   Short-term Provisions  38.64  37.20 Manufacturing and other expenses  1,468.75  1,171.75   470.14  514.98 Depreciation  52.96  39.09  NON-CURRENT ASSETS Finance Cost  19.63  7.96  Fixed Assets  573.84  607.19 Tax expenses  7.27  5.29  Other Long-term Loans and Advances  63.70  60.33  Other Non-Current Assets  13.99  9.08  CURRENT ASSETS  234.10  214.22   885.63  890.82  1,548.61  1,224.09  Claims not acknowledged as debts  38.06 178.18 Capital Commitments  22.02 31.16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  F-83 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (c) The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016 and income and expenditure for the year 2015-16 of  Tata HAL Technologies Ltd as per their audited ﬁ nancial statements  are given below: (R in crores) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS INCOME Reserves and Surplus  (2.00)  (2.13) Service income  3.21  4.49  NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Other Income  0.21  0.09  Long-term Provisions  0.08  0.07  3.42  4.58  CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade Payables  0.72  0.46  Other Current Liabilities  0.07  0.06  Short-term Provisions  0.01  0.01   0.88  0.60 EXPENDITURE   NON-CURRENT ASSETS Cost of traded items & services  0.58  0.02  Fixed Assets  0.11  0.22 Salary & other general expenses  2.55  3.89  Other Long-term Loans and Advances  0.09  0.32 Depreciation  0.13  0.17  Other Non-Current Assets  0.20  0.05 Income tax  0.04 - CURRENT ASSETS  2.15  1.55   2.55  2.14  3.30  4.08  (d) The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016  and income and expenditure for the year 2015-16 of  Spark 44 (JV) Limited as per their audited ﬁ  nancial  statements are given below: (R in crores) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS INCOME Reserves and Surplus  43.71  25.89 Revenue from operations  233.85  128.87  NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Other Long-term Liabilities  2.48  0.65  CURRENT LIABILITIES  233.85  128.87  Trade Payables  78.99  27.83    Short-term Provisions  1.62  0.37   83.09  28.85 EXPENDITURE   NON-CURRENT ASSETS Manufacturing and other expenses  195.09  112.89  Fixed Assets  26.69  9.15 Depreciation  7.15  3.45  CURRENT ASSETS  100.13  45.58 Tax expenses  10.37  3.85   126.82  54.73  212.61  120.19  Capital Commitments - 176.58  (e) The proportionate share of assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2016 and income and expenditure for the year 2015-16 of Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited as per their   audited ﬁ nancial statements are given below:  (F-52 - F-86) (R in crores) As at March 31, 2016 As at March 31, 2015 2015-2016 2014-2015 RESERVES AND SURPLUS Reserves and Surplus  3,268.19  2,621.39 INCOME NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Revenue from operations 5,452.40 781.29 Long-term Borrowings  1,028.98  893.61 Other income  108.78  15.97  CURRENT LIABILITIES  5,561.18  797.26  Short-term Borrowings  163.61  258.49    Trade Payables  2,421.24  1,274.22  Other Current Liabilities  200.64  51.03 EXPENDITURE   Short-term Provisions  140.22  15.53 Manufacturing and other expenses  4,184.52  796.47   3,954.69  2,492.88 Depreciation  287.44  81.15  NON-CURRENT ASSETS Finance Cost  260.01  14.20  Fixed Assets  3,860.47  2,555.56 Tax expenses / (credit)  216.97 (29.09) Other Long-term Loans and Advances  -    37.35  Other Non-Current Assets  28.73  115.19  CURRENT ASSETS  3,333.67  2,406.17   7,222.87  5,114.27  4,948.95 862.73  Capital Commitments 973.61 175.65 Purchase Commitments 343.63 - Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-84 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  37.
Additional information as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of enterprises consolidated  as subsidiary / Associates / Joint Ventures Name of the entity Net Assets, i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in profi t or loss As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount (R in crores)s As % of  consolidated   profi  t or loss Amount (R in crores) Parent  Tata Motors Limited 27.56%  22,368.08 2.12%  234.23  Subsidiaries  Indian TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited 0.09%  69.97 -0.13%  (13.98) TML Drivelines Limited 1.00%  813.21 0.50%  54.76  Concorde Motors (India) Limited -0.01%  (6.05) -0.37%  (40.54) Sheba Properties Limited 0.24%  197.61 0.10%  11.02  Tata Technologies Limited 0.76%  617.10 2.02%  222.63  Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Limited 0.02%  12.42 0.05%  5.84  TML Distribution Company Limited 0.34%  277.01 0.07%  7.94  Tata Motors Finance Limited 4.43%  3,599.98 0.87%  95.62  Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited 1.82%  1,479.01 0.07%  7.72  Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited 0.11%  86.36 -0.08%  (8.32) Jaguar Land Rover India Limited 0.27%  217.20 -0.19%  (21.28) Foreign Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Limited 2.60%  2,109.32 2.60%  286.90  Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc 0.27%  215.68 -0.02%  (2.60) Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited 0.01%  10.15 0.00%  (0.36) Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited -0.38%  (307.29) -1.13%  (124.88) TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore 12.21%  9,910.70 8.91%  982.74  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera  S.A -0.81%  (655.45) -0.11%  (11.60) Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb -0.01%  (9.16) -0.40%  (43.85) Trilix S.r.l 0.05%  41.61 0.20%  21.51  Tata Precision Industries Pte Limited 0.00%  1.15 0.00%  -    PT Tata Motors Indonesia 0.17%  134.01 -0.04%  (4.91) INCAT International Plc 0.06%  46.42 -0.01%  (0.59) Tata Technologies Inc 0.41%  336.62 0.16%  17.92  Tata Technologies (Canada) Inc. 0.01%  4.08 -0.02%  (2.20) Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 0.00%  3.88 0.00%  0.15  Tata Technologies Europe Limited 0.71%  574.13 1.14%  125.77  INCAT GmbH.
0.02%  16.08 0.00%  0.35  Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited 0.01%  11.41 0.00%  0.49  Tata Technologies Pte.
Ltd, Singapore 0.92%  744.45 -0.06%  (6.83) Cambric Limited, Bahamas 0.02%  20.11 0.01%  1.17  Cambric UK Limited 0.00%  3.89 0.01%  0.61  Cambric GmbH 0.00%  1.99 0.00%  0.40  Midwest Managed Services Inc, Utah 0.00%  0.77 0.01%  0.80  Tata Technologies SRL, Romania 0.02%  15.51 0.11%  11.82  Cambric Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited 0.01%  7.06 0.04%  4.95  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc 21.59%  17,523.43 26.09%  2,876.62  Jaguar Land Rover Limited 89.75%  72,854.61 99.22%  10,937.50  Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited 59.67%  48,438.17 73.71%  8,125.95  JLR Nominee Company Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC 0.65%  528.22 1.38%  152.47  Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH 0.70%  568.07 0.92%  101.37  Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH 0.10%  79.78 0.13%  13.95  Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa 0.46%  374.93 1.04%  114.80  Jaguar Land Rover Portugal-Veiculos e Pecas, Lda.
-0.01%  (4.96) 0.03%  2.84  Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS 0.13%  107.68 0.28%  30.87  Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited 0.12%  99.98 0.73%  81.02  Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Co. Limited 4.87%  3,953.88 14.04%  1,548.19  Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited 0.36%  294.14 0.23%  25.53  Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited  0.13%  106.59 0.51%  56.76  Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC 0.09%  70.06 0.65%  71.82  F-85 Independent Auditors’ Report Balance Sheet Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss Cash Flow Statement Notes to Accounts NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Name of the entity Net Assets, i.e.
total assets  minus total liabilities Share in profi t or loss As % of  consolidated  net assets  Amount (R in crores)s As % of  consolidated   profi  t or loss Amount (R in crores) Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Veículos 0.03%  22.14 -3.23%  (355.67) Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia) 0.85%  687.82 4.35%  480.02  Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 0.17%  138.97 0.85%  94.05  Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV 0.07%  56.83 0.18%  19.65  Jaguar Land Rover South Africa Holdings Limited 2.83%  2,294.81 0.41%  45.14  Land Rover Ireland Limited 0.01%  7.82 0.01%  0.63  Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL 0.51%  413.20 0.52%  57.15  Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV 0.03%  20.94 0.01%  0.95  The Lanchester Motor Company Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    The Daimler Motor Company Limited 0.02%  14.33 0.00%  -    S S Cars Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    The Jaguar Collection Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Cars (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Cars Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Land Rover Exports Ltd (non-trading) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited 0.01%  4.72 -0.09%  (10.36) JDHT Ltd (acquired w.e.f February 2, 2015) 0.00%  0.15 0.00%  -    Silkplan Ltd (Acquired on April 16, 2015) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o (Incorporated w.e.f.
August 27, 2015) 0.24%  193.11 -0.30%  (33.37) Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte Ltd (incorporated w.e.f November 25,2015) 0.00%  3.61 0.00%  0.02  Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
February 2, 2016) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    InMotion Ventures Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
March 18, 2016) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle  Sales and Distribution Co. Limited 0.03%  20.65 0.04%  4.59  PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia 0.01%  5.88 -0.45%  (49.43) TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd (incorporated w.e.f September 2, 2015) 0.00%  (0.13) 0.00%  (0.13) Minority Interests   Indian Concorde Motors (India) Limited -0.01%  (11.81) 0.00%  -    Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited -0.05%  (42.33) 0.04%  4.08  Tata Motors Finance Limited -0.54%  (434.42) 0.00%  (0.42) Tata Technologies Limited -0.47%  (385.34) -0.96%  (105.64) Foreign Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited 0.00%  (4.04) 0.00%  (0.14) Tata Precision Industries Pte Limited 0.00%  (0.31) 0.00%  -    Trilix S.r.l -0.01%  (10.01) -0.03%  (3.74) Joint ventures (as per proportionate consolidation / investment as per the equity method) Indian Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited 1.71%  1,390.05 2.01%  221.71  Tata Cummins Private Limited 0.51%  415.50 0.11%  11.84  Tata HAL Technologies Limited 0.00%  1.66 0.00%  0.12  Foreign Spark 44 (JV) Limited 0.05%  43.72 0.19%  20.63  Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co Limited 4.03%  3,268.19 5.39%  594.03  Adjustments arising out of consolidation -142.04%  (115,296.65) -144.65%  (15,946.39) Sub - total ( a )  80,782.67  11,002.41  Associates (Investment as per the equity method) Indian Tata AutoComp Systems Limited 0.27%  217.39 0.10%  11.19  Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited 0.18%  143.10 0.06% 6.81 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Foreign Nita Company Ltd 0.03%  27.35 0.03% 3.34 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited  -    -    -    -    Jaguar Cars Finance Limited 0.00%  3.91 0.00%  -    Sub - total ( b )  391.75  21.34  Total 100.00%  81,174.42 100.00%  11,023.75  (F-52 - F-86) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-86 (Consolidated) 71st Annual Report 2015-16  (e) Previous year ﬁ  gures have been regrouped / reclassiﬁ  ed wherever necessary to correspond with the current year classiﬁ  cation / disclosure.
(f ) The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for ma terial foreseeable losses.
At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/ accounting standards for material  foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in the books of account.
(g) Current year ﬁ  gures are shown in bold prints.
(R in crores) Net Worth as at  March 31, 2016 Total Revenue for  the year ended  March 31, 2016 Net Increase /  (Decrease) in Cash  & Cash equivalent  during 2015-2016 (i)  Subsidiaries :  T ata Motors European Technical Centre Plc  215.69  273.92  29.27   Trilix S.r.l  41.61  115.07  (1.21)  Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 1.15 - 0.01  Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera  S.A  (655.45)  6.16  (8.31)  Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A (9.16)  9.59  22.07   (406.16)  404.74  41.83  (ii)  Joint venture :  F iat India Automobiles Private Ltd  1,390.01  1,806.93  10.76   Total (i + ii)  983.85  2,211.67  52.59  For the year ended / as at March 31, 2015  788.68  2,557.55  204.71  38.
The additional disclosure as required by AS 7 (Revised) on Construction Contracts:  (a) Advances received are R6.49 crores (as at March 31, 2015 R5.79 crores)         (b)  Retention money is R4.63 crores (as at March 31, 2015 R6.07 crores)  (c) Contract revenue recognised during the year is R33.63 crores (2014-15  R13.81 crores)  (d) Aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised proﬁ  ts (less recognised losses) R64.15 crores (as at March 31, 2015 R161.49 crores) 39.
Other Notes  (a) A provision against the carrying value of inventory of R1,638.39 crores (GBP 157 million) was recognised in the year 2015-16, for the explosion at the port of  Tianjin in China in August 2015.
A provision of R2,493.18 crores (GBP 245 million) against the carrying value of inventory was recorded in the quarter ended  September 30, 2015, based on the assessment of the physical condition of the vehicles involved.
Subsequent to that, insurance proceeds and other recoveries  of R854.79 crores (GBP 88 million) have been recognised, partially reversing the exceptional charge recognised during the quarter ended September 30,  2015.
The process for ﬁ nalising ongoing insurance claims may take some months to conclude, so further insurance and other potential recoveries will only  be recognised in future periods when paid or conﬁ  rmed and have not been recognised in this period.
(b)  In  May 2016, a passenger airbag safety recall was announced in the United States by National Highway Traﬃ   c System Administration (NHTSA) in respect  of airbags from a supplier (Takata).
Certain front-passenger airbags from Takata are installed in vehicles sold by Jaguar Land Rover Group.
The Company  has considered this to be an adjusting Post Balance Sheet event and has recognised an additional provision of R641.50 crores (GBP 67.4 million) for the  estimated cost of repairs in the Statement of Proﬁ  t and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2016.
The provision is expected to b e utilised over 1-4  years.
(c) During the year ended March 31, 2014, legislation was enacted that allows United Kingdom (UK) companies to elect for the Research and  Development Expenditure Credit (RDEC) on qualifying expenditures incurred since April 1, 2013, instead of the existing super-deduction rules.
As a result of this election by the Company’s subsidiary in the UK, R647.65 crores and R 645.81 crores of the RDEC, for the years ended March 31,  2016 and 2015, respectively, the proportion relating to capitalized product development expenditure, have been oﬀ   set against intangibles under  development.
(d)  The following subsidiaries / joint venture have been considered on Unaudited basis.
Details for the same as per individual entity’s ﬁ  nancials are as under: NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   For and on behalf of the Board                                                                                 N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016 F-87 Finacial Highlights Statement pursuant to fi rst proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule  5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Part - A (` in crores) Sr.  No  Subsidiary Country Reporting  currency   Exchange  Rate Share  capital (incl.
advances  towards  capital where  applicable)  Reserves  and Surplus  Total  Assets  Total  Liabilities  Turnover Profi  t/  (Loss)  Before  Tax  Tax  Expense/  (Credit)  Profi t/ (Loss) after  tax  Profi t/  (Loss) for the  period/  year *  Proposed  dividend  and tax  thereon  Investments  (except in case  of investment in  the subsidiaries)  % of  shareholding 1 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited India INR 1.00  115.00  (45.03)  276.46  206.49  231.26  (13.98)  -    (13.98)  (13.98)  -    -   100.00  2 TML Drivelines Limited India INR 1.00  77.00  736.21  1,046.59  233.38  545.53  79.74  24.98  54.76  54.76  4.63  25.00 100.00  3 Concorde Motors (India) Limited India INR 1.00  88.05  (94.10)  357.28  363.33  908.62  (40.54)  -    (40.54)  (40.54)  -    -   100.00  4 Sheba Properties Limited India INR 1.00  75.00  122.61  204.99  7.38  0.09  12.14  1.12  11.02  11.02  3.97  193.40 100.00  5 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Limited South Korea KRW 0.06  57.35  2,051.97  3,630.27  1,520.95  4,994.43  348.18  61.28  28 6.90  286.90  -    3.95 100.00  6 Tata Technologies Limited India INR 1.00  43.22  573.88  996.69  379.59  1,082.31  265.29  42.66  222.63  222.63  103.57  68.47 72.32  7 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Limited India INR 1.00  2.50  9.92  16.91  4.49  25.93  6.67  0.83  5.84  5.84  -    0.66 100.00  8 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc UK GBP 95.45  335.48  (119.80)  338.64  122.96  271.92  1.86  4.46  (2.60)  (2.60)  -    -   100.00  9 TML Distribution Company Limited India INR 1.00  225.00  52.01  387.49  110.48  548.28  11.75  3.81  7.94  7.94  -    -   100.00  10 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited South Africa ZAR 4.49  13.00  (2.85)  93.03  82.88  80.58  (0.20)  0.16  (0.36)  (0.36)  -    -   60.00  11 Tata Motors Finance Limited India INR 1.00  1,753.02  1,846.96  20,217.74  16,617.76  2,314.77  131.90  36.28  95.62  95.62  48.13  453.10 100.00  12 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited India INR 1.00  1,500.50  (21.49)  5,502.67  4,023.66  590.96  6.05  (1.67)  7.72  7.72  -    73.15 100.00  13 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited India INR 1.00  170.00  (83.64)  349.09  262.73  541.33  (8.32)  -    (8.32)  (8.32)  -    -   51.00  14 Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited Thailand THB 1.89  525.41  (832.70)  414.21  721.50  105.54  (124.88)  -    (124.88)  (124.88)  -    -   95.28  15 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore GBP 95.45  10,791.87  (881.17)  17,715.63  7,804.93  -    994.08  11.34  982.74  982.74   -    -   100.00  16 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera  S.A Spain EUR 75.37  3.70  (659.15)  79.51  734.96  6.16  (11.60)  -    (11.60)  (11.60)  -    -   100.00  17 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb Morocco MAD 6.88  146.30  (155.46)  76.78  85.94  9.59  (43.80)  0.05  (43.85)  (43.85)  -    -   100.00  18 Trilix S.r.l Italy EUR 75.37  0.61  41.00  71.48  29.87  115.07  30.34  8.83  21.51  21.51  -    -   80.00  19 Tata Precision Industries Pte Limited Singapore SGD 49.24  74.21  (73.06)  1.16  0.01  -    -    -    -    -    -    -   78.39  20 PT Tata Motors Indonesia Indonesia IDR 0.01  197.52  (63.51)  138.96  4.95  -    (4.89)  0.02  (4.91)  (4.91)  -    -   100.00  21 INCAT International Plc UK GBP 95.45  2.32  44.11  47.95  1.53  -    (0.59)  -    (0.59)  (0.59)  -    -   72.32  22 Tata Technologies Inc USA USD 66.25  793.01  (456.39)  510.53  173.91  785.81  34.97  17.05  17.92  17.92  -    -   72.37  23 Tata Technologies (Canada) Inc. USA USD 66.25  0.01  4.07  4.19  0.11  1.27  (1.97)  0.23  (2.20)  (2.20)  -    -   72.37  24 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. USA USD 66.25  1.03  2.85  10.87  6.99  20.32  0.27  0.12  0.15  0.15  -    -   72.37  25 Tata Technologies Europe Limited UK GBP 95.45  0.10  574.03  1,071.61  497.48  1,084.10  139.96  14.19  125.77  125.77  -    -   72.32  26 INCAT GmbH.
Germany EUR 75.37  1.24  14.85  16.72  0.64  0.35  0.35  -    0.35  0.35  -    -   72.32  27 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited Thailand THB 1.89  6.65  4.75  13.16  1.75  13.99  0.62  0.13  0.49  0.49  -    -   72.32  28 Tata Technologies Pte.
Limited Singapore USD 66.25  357.74  386.71  750.56  6.11  25.66  (6.70)  0.13  (6.83)  (6.83)  -    -   72.32  29 Cambric Limited, Bahamas USA USD 66.25  17.89  2.22  20.11  -    5.56  1.17  -    1.17  1.17  -    -   72.32  30 Cambric UK Limited UK USD 66.25 -  3.89  4.18  0.29  29.94  0.28  (0.33)  0.61  0.61  -    -   72.32  31 Cambric GmbH Germany USD 66.25  0.20  1.79  2.14  0.15  4.38  0.56  0.16  0.40  0.40  -    -   72.32  32 Midwest Managed Services Inc, Utah USA USD 66.25 -  0.77  2.90  2.13  2.94  0.80  -    0.80  0.80  -    -   72.32  33 Tata Technologies SRL, Romania Romania USD 66.25  8.98  6.53  21.92  6.41  67.92  14.11  2.29  11.82  11.82  -    -   72.32  34 Cambric Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited China USD 66.25  3.31  3.75  47.33  40.27  60.39  6.59  1.64  4.95  4.95  -    -   72.32  35 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc UK GBP 95.45  14,323.95  3,199.47  40,730.74  23,207.32  -    2,863.57  -    2,863.57  2,863.57  1,489.81  -   100.00  36 Jaguar Land Rover Limited UK GBP 95.45  25,034.43  50,143.93  191,507.07  116,328.71  182,094.78  8,954.95  50.00  8,904.96  8,904.96  -    17,343.68 100.00  37 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited UK GBP 95.45  47.73  48,237.98  49,717.49  1,431.78  -    8,467.54  372.06  8,095.48  8,095.48  -    -   100.00  38 JLR Nominee Company Limited UK GBP 95.45 -  -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  39 Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC USA USD 66.25  1,042.07  (526.01)  7,870.87  7,354.80  43,154.14  238.49  92.75  145.74  145.74  -    -   100.00  40 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Germany EUR 75.37  19.26  333.82  3,059.19  2,706.10  11,430.69  118.83  36.25  82.58  82.58  -    -   100.00  41 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH Austria EUR 75.37  1.75  74.90  382.12  305.47  1,673.07  15.33  3.68  11.65  11.65  -    -   100.00  42 Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa Italy EUR 75.37  188.43  242.79  1,577.86  1,146.64  9,025.56  89.41  34.23  55.19  55.19  -    -   100.00  43 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal-Veiculos e Pecas, Lda.
Portugal EUR 75.37  90.23  (95.19)  158.34  163.30  661.75  6.78  2.26  4.52  4.52  -    -   100.00  44 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS France EUR 75.37  31.66  66.33  1,358.60  1,260.62  7,151.11  63.66  31.50  32.17  32.17  -    -   100.00  45 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Australia AUD 50.95  3.57  85.14  2,003.55  1,914.84  5,671.02  119.67  36.06  83.61  83.61  -    -   100.00  46 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Co. Limited China CNY 10.27  68.79  7,990.16  12,825.85  4,766.91  47,076.90  1,319.93  329.78  990.15  990.15  -    -   100.00  47 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited Japan JPY 0.59  234.90  36.14  956.39  685.36  1,957.64  20.00  10.31  9.69  9.69  -    -   100.00  48 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited  Korea KRW 0.06  34.67  72.30  1,826.72  1,719.75  4,331.49  76.47  19.71  56.76  56.76  -    -   100.00  49 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC Canada CAD 51.22  -    16.35  935.47  919.13  4,228.05  25.77  9.42  16.35  16.35  -    -   100.00  50 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Veículos Brazil BRL 18.50  109.56  (55.49)  3,021.27  2,967.20  2,776.71  (276.16)  (8.90)  (267.25)  (267.25)  -    -   100.00  51 Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia) Russia RUB 0.99  64.90  510.28  1,300.37  725.19  5,015.10  578.50  120.97  457.53  457.53  -    -   100.00  52 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited South Africa ZAR 4.49 -  152.12  1,067.30  915.19  2,559.03  210.04  57.93  152.12  152.12  -    -   100.00  53 Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV Belgium EUR 75.37  9.42  54.94  801.50  737.13  3,405.37  33.02  13.02  20.00  20.00  -    -   100.00  54 Jaguar Land Rover South Africa Holdings Limited UK ZAR 4.49  874.99  730.36  1,617.23  11.88  -    165.25  11.86  153.39  153.39  -    -   100.00  55 Land Rover Ireland Limited Ireland EUR 75.37 -  7.81  20.38  12.57  -   -  -   - -  -    -   100.00  56 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL Spain EUR 75.37  332.92  102.72  1,440.97  1,005.33  4,792.78  48.04  16.97  31.07  31.07  -    -   100.00  57 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Netherlands EUR 75.37  0.34  34.51  420.85  386.00  1,465.06  14.33  3.51  10.82  10.82  -    -   100.00  58 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited India INR 1.00  280.25  (63.04)  532.64  315.43  1,611.26  (21.28)  -    (21.28)  (21.28)  -    -   100.00  59 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited UK GBP 95.45 -  -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  60 The Daimler Motor Company Limited UK GBP 95.45  14.32 -  14.32  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  61 S S Cars Limited UK GBP 95.45 -  -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  62 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited UK GBP 95.45 -  -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  63 The Jaguar Collection Limited UK GBP 95.45 - -  0.01  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  64 Jaguar Cars (South Africa) (Pty) Limited South Africa ZAR 4.49  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  65 Jaguar Cars Ltd UK GBP 95.45  8.19  (8.19)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  66 Land Rover Exports Ltd (non-trading) UK GBP 95.45 - - -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  67 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited UK GBP 95.45  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  68 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited China CNY 10.27  16.42  (8.68)  62.27  54.53  102.04  2.17  7.81  (5.65)  (5.65)  -    -   100.00  69 JDHT Limited (acquired w.e.f February 2,2015) UK GBP 95.45 -  0.15  0.15  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  70 Silkplan Limited UK GBP 95.45  -    0.95  0.95  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  71 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o (Incorporated w.e.f.
August 27, 2015) Slovakia EUR 75.37  226.15  (33.34)  310.35  117.55  -    ( 33.34) -  (33.34)  (33.34)  -    -   100.00  72 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte Limited (incorporated w.e.f November  25,2015) Singapore SGD 49.24  3.69  (0.09)  30.20  26.60  -    (0.09)  -    (0.09)  (0.09)  -    -   100.00  73 Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
February 2, 2016) UK GBP 95.45  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  74 InMotion Ventures Limited (Incorporated w.e.f.
March 18, 2016) UK GBP 95.45  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  75 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd (incorporated w.e.f September 2, 2015) N igeria Niara 0.34  -    (0.13)  -    0.13  -   (0.13)  -   (0.13)  (0.13)  -    -   100.00  76 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle  Sales and Distribution Co. Limited South Korea KRW 0.06  4.00  16.65  60.69  40.04  134.32  6.22   1.63  4.59  4.59  -    -   100.00  77 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Indonesia IDR 0.01  136.18  (130.30)  56.97  51.09  53.59  (49.43)  0.09  (49.52)  (49.52)  -    -   100.00  (F-87 - F-88) Statutory ReportsCorporate Overview Financial Statements F-88 (Subsidary companies) 71st Annual Report 2015-16 Sr. No Name of Associates/Joint Ventures Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company on the year end Profi t/(loss) for the year Latest audited Balance Sheet Date No.
of  shares Amount of Investment in Associates/ Joint Venture (` in crore) Extent of Holding % Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet (` in crore) Considered in consolidation (` in crore) Not considered in consolidation (` in crore) Description of how there is signifi cant infl uence Reason why the associate/ joint venture is not consolidated                Joint ventures  1 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited* March 31,2016 122,257,983  1,567.04 50%  1,390.05  221.71  -    Note (a)  -    2 Tata Cummins Private Limited March 31,2016 90,000,000  90.00 50%  415.50  11.84  -    Note (a)  -    3 Tata HAL Technologies Limited March 31,2016 10,140,000  3.67 50%  1.66  0.12  -    Note (a)  -    4 Spark44 (JV) Limited March 31,2016 500,000  3.40 50%  43.72  20.63  -    Note (a)  -    5 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co Limited March 31,2016 -  2,748.28 50%  3,268.19  594.03  -    Note (a)  -                Associates 1 Tata AutoComp Systems Limited March 31,2016 52,333,170  77.47 26%  217.39  11.19  -    Note (b)  -    2 Nita Company Limited March 31,2016 16,000  1.27 40%  27.35  3.34  -    Note (b)  -    3 Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited March 31,2016 3,030,529  109.63 47.19%  143.10  6.81  -    Note (b)  -    4 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited March 31,2016 49,900  3.91 49.90%  3.91  -    -    Note (b)  -    5 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private  Limited March 31,2016 40,000,000  80.20 39.99%  -    -    -    Note (b)  -     * Unaudited financials considered for consolidation  Note : (a) - There is a significant influence by virtue of joint control             (b) - There is a significant influence due to percentage (%) of share capital Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint  Ventures Part - B Statement pursuant to fi rst proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule  5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Part - A Sr.  No  Subsidiary Country Reporting  currency  Exchange  Rate Share  capital (incl.
advances  towards  capital where  applicable)  Reserves  and Surplus  Total  Assets  Total  Liabilities  Turnover Profi  t/  (Loss)  Before  Tax  Tax  Expense/  (Credit)  Profi t/ (Loss) after  tax  Profi t/  (Loss) for the  period/  year *  Proposed  dividend  and tax  thereon  Investments  (except in case  of investment in  the subsidiaries)  % of  shareholding Details of Direct subsidiaries, on consolidated basis including their respective subsidiaries included above 1 Tata Technologies Limited  43.22  1,253.46  2,292.37  995.69  2,688.23  460.89  79.23  381.66  381.66  103.57  68.47 72.32  2 Tata Motors Finance Limited  1,753.02  1,227.55  24,004.72  21,024.15 2,901.52  301.63  34.60  267.03  267.03  48.13  719.65 100.00  3 TML Holdings Pte Limited, Singapore**  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   100.00  4 PT Tata Motors Indonesia  197.52  (193.81)  56.08  52.37  46.50  (54.11)  0.13  (54.24)  (54.24)  -    -   100.00  **TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore holds fully Jaguar Land Rover Automtive Plc.
and Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd., the  consolidated accounts of which are given below : 1 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc  14,323.95  58,748.60  199,735.94  126,663.39  222,512.94  15,347.11  2,743.36  12,603.75  12,603.75  1,489.81  17,343.68 100.0 0  2 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Limited  61.07  1,967.38  3,558.01  1,529.56  4,820.59  354.40  62.91  291.49  291.49  -   - 100.00  * Profit for the year is after share of minority interest and share of profit/(loss) in respect of investment in associate companies.
(` in crores)  For and on behalf of the Board                                                              N N WADIA [DIN: 00015731] R A MASHELKAR [DIN: 00074119] S BHARGAVA [DIN: 00035672] N MUNJEE [DIN: 00010180] V K JAIRATH [DIN: 00391684] R SPETH [DIN: 03318908] Directors CYRUS P MISTRY [DIN: 00010178] Chairman  GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375]   CEO & Managing Director   R PISHARODY [DIN: 01875848]   Executive Director   S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948]   Executive Director   C RAMAKRISHNAN   Group Chief Financial Offi  c e r   H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary  Mumbai, May 30, 2016  BOMBAY HOUSE, 24 HOMI MODY STREET, MUMBAI 400 001 www.tatamotors.com Tata Motors Jamshedpur Manufacturing Facility Tata Motors Lucknow Manufacturing Facility Jaguar Land Rover Wolverhampton Manufacturing Facility Jaguar Land Rover Engine Manufacturing Centre, Wolverhampton, UK TOWARDS   TOMORROW