OCTANEOCTANE PERFORMANCE HIGH Integrated Annual  Report 2021-22 At IndianOil, we believe ‘high-octane’ is not  just a characteristic of the fuel we produce,  it defines the spirit of every IOCian.
With the  zeal, enthusiasm, and quest to provide the best  to customers, stakeholders, channel partners  and associates, we have been transforming  relentlessly to be a socially responsible and  sustainable energy company.
Performance and Experience that is unparalleled, is what, IndianOil offers  to its stakeholders.
Over the years, the Company has strived relentlessly  to develop best-in-class energy solutions for the nation.
Consolidating its  existing businesses, converting each challenge into an opportunity, realising  sustainable energy alternatives, innovating across domains, and traversing  across the skies and deep seas, IndianOil’s agility and tenacity keeps the wheels  of growth moving year after year.
The commitment, dedication and passion  of the Company as a whole has indeed gravitated IndianOil’s character of  being a game-changer across the oil and gas industry.
This is IndianOil’s  Integrated Annual Report  for the Year 2021-22  It provides detailed information about IndianOil’s progress  and highlights for the year ended March 31, 2022.
This  is the primary report to our stakeholders in which we aim  to provide a balanced and accurate reflection of our value  creation methodology, risks and opportunities, materiality  assessment, stakeholder engagement and our performance  scorecard through the deployment of each capital as well as  our future roadmap.
Integrated and Sustainable  Thinking At IndianOil, we understand that value  creation cannot happen in a vacuum.
It is possible only through careful  consideration of the relationship  between the capitals that we use and the  potential linkages between our strategic  choice and actions that we undertake to  deliver on our vision.
This has an impact  on our ability to create value for our  stakeholders over the short, medium  and long term.
In addition, our activities also contribute  to the United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) covering a  range of multi-stakeholder goals that we  aspire to achieve.
For more information visit www.iocl.com or scan QR code Corporate Overview 04 Fuelling India’s Growth  Sustainably 06 High-Octane Performance  Achieved through our Capitals 08 Chairman’s Message 16 Strong Governance in Letter  and Spirit 18 Managing Risks with Clear  Foresight 22 A Sustainable Model for Long- term Value Creation 24 Wide-ranging Interactions with  all Stakeholders 28 Materiality Assessment 30 Supporting the SDGs Description of Capitals 32 Financial Capital 36 Manufactured Capital 44 Intellectual Capital 52 Natural Capital 56 Human Capital 62 Social and Relationship Capital 67 Awards and Recognitions Corporate Information 70 Core Team 72 Senior Management Team 75 Main Offices & Major Units 75 RTA, Bankers, etc.
76 Auditors 76 Group Companies 78 Performance at a Glance Statutory Reports 82 Directors’ Report 105 Annexure I - SC / ST / OBC Report 106 Annexure II - Highlights of CSR  Activities 119 Annexure III - Secretarial Audit Report 121 Annexure IV - Report on Energy   Conservation, Technology Absorption   and Foreign Exchange Earning 132 Report on Corporate Governance 157 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Financial Statements Standalone Financial Statements 177 Independent Auditors’ Report 196 Balance Sheet 198 Statement of Profit & Loss 200 Cash Flow Statement 202 Statement of Changes in Equity 206 Notes 322 Income & Expenditure Account- Township Consolidated Financial Statements 323 Independent Auditors’ Report 332 Balance Sheet 334 Statement of Profit & Loss 336 Cash Flow Statement 338 Statement of Changes in Equity 342 Notes 466 Comments of Comptroller and   Auditor General of India  469 Notice Contents Reporting Frameworks The report follows the International  Integrated Reporting Council framework,  which allows us to tell our members and  other stakeholders how we create value  for them.
A consolidated assessment  of the six capitals provides both our  strategy as well as the internal materiality  process we have used to determine the  content and structure of this report.
The financial and statutory data  presented in this report are in line with  the requirements of the Companies  Act, 2013 and rules notified thereunder,  the Indian Accounting Standards, the  Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and  the Secretarial Standards.
Reporting Period This integrated report primarily covers  the 12-month period from April 1, 2021  to March 31, 2022.
However, certain  sections of this report represent facts  and figures of the previous years as  well.
The details and information in the  Integrated Report pertain to Indian Oil  Corporation Limited on a standalone  basis, unless otherwise specified.
Both  the financial and non-financial aspects  are in accordance with the applicable  laws, regulations and standards of the  Republic of India.
Forward-looking Statements We have exercised utmost care in the preparation of this report.
It might include forecasts and/ or information relating to forecasts.
Facts,  expectations, and past data are typically the basis of forecasts.
As with all forward-looking statements, the actual result may deviate from  the forecast.
As a result, we can provide no assurance on the correctness, completeness, and up-to-date nature of the information for  our forward-looking statements, as well as for those declared as taken from third parties.
Therefore, appropriate discretion on the part of  readers is advised.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,  future events, or otherwise.
IndianOil‘s brand mascot -  the ‘IndianOil Rhino’  People Ethics Environment Technology Innovation Customers VISION VALUES Leading with  passion to excel Setting high  standards for ethics  and values Caring for the  environment and  community Harnessing   frontier   technology Pioneering the  spirit of creativity  and research Fostering  relationships   for a lifetime A Globally Admired Company The Energy of India Fuelling India’s  Growth Sustainably Our values and vision empower us to attain new  pinnacles of success year-on-year.
Through our operations, we not  only create value for ourselves  and our stakeholders, but also  contribute towards uplifting  the communities in which we  operate.
A leading, diversified and integrated energy major  with presence across all the streams of oil, gas,  petrochemicals and alternative energy sources,  IndianOil is driven by its vision and grounded by  its values.
To achieve  our vision,  we analyse  the macro- economic  environment  that we  operate in to  identify the  material issues  central to  our business  (refer page  28), the  evolving  needs and  expectations  of our  stakeholders  (refer page  24), along  with risks and  opportunities  (refer page  18) arising  from changing  market  dynamics.
We address these changing dynamics through our sound strategies and robust  business model across our business clusters, which include: Refining, Pipelines  and Marketing We have the largest  share in the market  among downstream  companies in  India, alongside  of maintaining the  largest petroleum  pipeline networks  in the world.
To reach out to  maximum number  of customers,  we continue to  strengthen our  petroleum marketing  and distribution  network — which is  one of the largest in  Asia.
Petrochemicals With the endeavour  to be the largest  petrochemicals  player in India,  we are making  significant strides  towards integrating  our downstream  operations and  establishing a  strong international  presence.
Other Energy  Segments and  Businesses We continue to  expand our presence  in the renewable  and bio-energy  space to accelerate  India’s journey  towards carbon- neutrality.
We also  have strong presence  in explosives,  cryogenics and have  invested in fertiliser  business.
Natural Gas Being the second  largest player in  the space, we  have been making  consistent progress  in up-scaling our  operations to ensure  the steady supply of  clean and safe gas  across the country.
(for more details on our business  model refer to page 22 and Page  36 for business clusters) Care Innovation Passion Trust Exploration &  Production We are cementing  our position in the  E&P segment by  investing towards  acquiring E&P assets  in domestic and  international markets.
Corporate Overview   Fuelling India’s Growth Sustainably Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance 04 05 Indian Oil Corporation Limited High-Octane  Performance Achieved  through our Capitals At IndianOil, our capitals range from our mega infrastructure  and assets, growing talent pool, advanced technology  backbone, to best-of-breed R&D and governance practices.
Our high-octane performance is underpinned by these  capitals and their interplay enables us to unlock stakeholder  value responsibly and sustainably.
Financial  Capital Highest ever Revenue from operations   (J 7,28,460 crore) and   PAT (J 24,184 crore)  83.25 MMT Throughput of our  countrywide network of  pipelines J 47,568 crore EBITDA J 30,391 crore Capital expenditure J 21,177 crore Operating cash flow US$ 11.25 per barrel GRM as compared to US$ 5.64 per  barrel in 2020-21  67.67 MMT Crude throughput Manufactured  Capital Highest Number of patents (225) filed  in 2021-22 7,79,229 hours Training provided  ~240 MW Renewable energy capacity  1,519 Patents filed till  March 31, 2022 J 116.18 crore Spent on training and  development  77.46 lakh People benefitted  from our CSR activities  3.36 MMT CO2-eq Emission avoided/mitigated 30%  R&D team members hold  PhD degrees  8.7%  Female employees 493 CSR projects 439 MT Waste paper recycled Intellectual  Capital  Social &   Relationship Capital Human  Capital Natural  Capital  Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 06 07 High-Octane Performance Achieved through our Capitals Chairman’s Message  As always, their humane face shone bright amidst extreme  adversities.
The spirit of ‘Nation before Self’ essentially defines our  DNA, and it was illustrated again as we diverted the commercial  oxygen production from our petrochemical plant to hospitals  for medical use.
These efforts were well acknowledged at every  level giving us a sense of deep satisfaction.
More importantly,  our focus on operational excellence remained unwavering, and  our energy soldiers ensured that even the country’s remotest  corners remained energised.
However, some of our IOCians  and frontline energy warriors succumbed to the menacing virus  while serving the nation and I salute them for their contribution.
The memory of our Covid martyrs will be etched in the annals of  the Company’s history in golden letters.
Our teams have been continuously setting new benchmarks  of business excellence.
Our ability to justify the faith reposed in  us by the country, is deeply satisfying for us .
The year 2021-22  witnessed IndianOil registering record profits and last year, We  once again surpassed our best, by notching up the highest-ever  revenue and setting a record net profit.
This stellar success in  business numbers also validates our sustained focus on fuelling  the socio-economic aspirations of ‘New India’.
We are indeed  grateful for your unstinted support that gives us the strength to  keep moving ahead and fuels our spirit of service excellence.
At IndianOil, we take pride in being the ‘Energy of India’, and our  robust financials validate our determination to excel against all  odds.
In fact, during 2021-22, IndianOil’s revenue from operations  went up by over 41% compared to the previous year, and our net  profit went up by nearly 11%.
This growth is remarkable, and to  put it in context, we must remember that even the year before,  we notched up record numbers.
This is an extraordinary feat that  will surely inspire Team IndianOil to aim for new benchmarks of  operational excellence in the coming years.
Challenges and Champions As the year 2021-22 set in, the nation witnessed the ravaging  second wave of Covid-19.
India’s economy and health  infrastructure reeled under the severe impact of the virus.
It  took a series of inspired and coordinated endeavours from the  Government of India to reboot the nation.
Let me proudly share  that your Company led corporate India’s efforts to align with  the initiatives of the Government in alleviating the strain on the  economy and citizens.
From shoring up liquid medical oxygen  supply in the country to strengthening medical infrastructure,  the IndianOil team went all out to accomplish the mission.
The year 2020-21 witnessed IndianOil  registering record profits and during  2021-22 we once again surpassed our  best, by notching up the highest-ever  revenue and a new record net profit.
Optimised Operations Call of Capex  Operational excellence is mostly about nurturing a team and  a system that can work together to rise above every challenge  and chase greatness.
Your Company left no stone unturned  to meet the high capital expenditure (capex) targets and rose  above every constraint even during the pandemic to meet  these targets consistently.
You’ll be happy to know that since  2018-19, IndianOil has contributed more than a quarter of  the combined capex spend of all Public Sector Undertakings  (PSUs), under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.
Last  year was no exception as we replayed the success story and  met the target of H 29,347 crore, which is over 28% of the  Ministry’s overall outlay.
Dear Members, I hope you are doing well.
Inspired by Indianness   Reflections and Records As I present IndianOil’s Integrated Annual Report 2021-22, I  am reminded of the Company’s first Annual Report, published  in 1960.
The modest report wrote, “The Company shall build  up facilities as may be warranted by the growing demand of  petroleum products (in India)”.
Back then, IndianOil did not  have any petroleum storage capacity.
In that context, the  Company’s journey over the past six decades has been a saga  of phenomenal growth and unshakable faith to fuel the nation  while rising above every possible challenge.
Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil Rise of Refining The ambitious capital expenditure caters to the fundamental  tenets of our future growth strategy, namely refinery expansion  and petrochemical integration.
Never has IndianOil rolled out  megaprojects of the magnitude that the Refineries Division is  witnessing now.
As I write to you, projects worth more than   H 1 lakh crore are in various stages of implementation.
These mega  projects will enhance the installed group refining capacity of your  Company from the current 80.55 million metric tonnes per annum  (MMTPA) to an estimated 107 MMTPA by the year, 2024-25.
Our journey towards a robust petrochemical presence is also  witnessing new highs every year.
During 2021-22, our Naphtha  throughput touched 3.0 MMTPA, about 28% higher than the  target.
Your Company is India’s second-largest petrochemicals  player, with a capacity of around 3.2 MMT.
With various  projects in the pipeline at Gujarat, Barauni, Panipat and Paradip  refineries, the present Petrochemical Intensity Index (PII) of  about 5% will go up to about 7% by 2025 and 15% by 2030.
The commissioning of the grassroot Mono Ethylene Glycol  (MEG) plant at Paradip, Phase-1 Naphtha Cracker expansion at  Panipat and Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB) expansion at Gujarat  Refinery will go a long way in enhancing your Company’s  profitability.
We are determined to ensure the timely  completion of these projects and leverage them to the best of  our advantage.
I must add that our petrochemical forays will be critical  catalysers for IndianOil’s growth engine and the memorandum  of understanding (MoU) signed with the Government of Gujarat  in June 2021, reflects that validation.
The MoU envisages setting  up the Petrochemical and Lube Integration (LuPech) Project  and Acrylics/Oxo Alcohol Project at Gujarat Refinery.
IndianOil is committed to realise the socio-economic  aspirations of ‘New India’ Liquid Medical Oxygen being transported by IndianOil during  Covid pandemic Mr Rameswar Teli, Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural  Gas, Labour and Employment, being handed over IndianOil’s  Brand Mascot by Mr S M Vaidya, Chairman, IndianOil Committed IOCians ensured the nation is on the move  24x7x365 Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 08 09 Chairman’s Message In the LPG sector, IndianOil now has the value - added  XTRATEJ, for commercial and industrial use, 5Kg Variant –  ‘Chhotu’, 2 Kg Variant – ‘Munna’ and the Composite cylinder Pipelines Prowess Our mammoth network of underground highways of more  than 15,000 km is all set to increase with the completion of  the 1,200 km-long Paradip-Hyderabad product pipeline.
The Board has also approved the establishment of a 1,033  km-long Mundra-Panipat crude oil pipeline with a capacity  of 17.5 MMTPA to meet the enhanced crude oil requirement  of the Panipat Refinery, that is due for expansion from 15 to  25 MMTPA.
We have also commissioned the Dahej-Koyali  dedicated Natural Gas Pipeline (106 km long, 5 MMSCMD  capacity).
The pipeline connects the Dahej LNG terminal of  Petronet LNG Ltd. to the Gujarat Refinery in Vadodara.
This has  enhanced IndianOil’s self-sufficiency in pipeline operations.
Marketing Milestones Our ambitious infrastructural investments are bound by two key  focus areas — ensuring India’s energy security and constantly  delighting our invaluable customers.
Adding to the bouquet of  customer-centric initiatives, we launched XP95 in May 2021,  the best-in-class branded fuel (with 95 Octane specification),  that is not only more powerful and efficient than normal petrol  but is also competitively priced.
The fuel is available at 7,805  fuel stations across the country (till July 2022).
We also rolled- out XTRAGREEN diesel in July 2021, and at the end of July  2022, the lower emission fuel is being sold at 1,078 fuel stations  across India.
Such innovative offerings ensure IndianOil has the  most enriched product basket to cater to the preferences of  every section of customers.
Connect, where customers can book refill cylinders on behalf  of family members or friends across India.
Earlier, the ‘Missed  Call’ facility for Indane refill delivery as well as for obtaining  a new connection was launched in January 2021 making  the process quite convenient.
I would like to share another  significant feat of your Company, wherein IndianOil released  50 lakh LPG connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjawla  Yojana 2.0, before the target date of March 31, 2022.
Amid these accomplishments, fuel retailing remains our  prime focus area, and we are determined to make concerted  efforts to retain our market leadership, both through network  expansion and enhanced throughput per pump.
We have  commissioned 2,521 fuel stations during 2021-22, taking the  total tally to 34,559, including the Kisan Seva Kendra.
In a bid  called by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) for  wayside amenities (WSA), IndianOil secured 10 out of 20 sites in  the strategic greenfield Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, reinforcing  your Company’s presence along major corridors.
It is also heartening to share that we have kept our foot firmly  on the digital accelerator to continuously deliver enhanced  customer delight.
One such shining example is the IndianOil  XTRAREWARDS – Google Pay retail collaboration that was  launched in September 2021.
This synergy has enabled us to  enrol GPay customers in the fold of our loyalty programme  and enhance brand loyalty of our retail customers.
I am happy to share that our teams have been at their  innovative best while creating new benchmarks of excellence  in this sector.
Taking the vision forward, we have introduced  ‘differentiated diesel with green combo lubes’ that offer higher  fuel efficiency with lower emissions.
IndianOil has also begun  trials of low-sulphur, low-aromatic kerosene with the Indian  Army.
We also commenced the dispatch of common winter- grade diesel from Leh and Kargil for the retail market.
I am  happy to share that our revamped storage depot and fuel  stations at Kavaratti and Minicoy in Lakshadweep Islands were  inaugurated in March 2022.
IndianOil is the sole fuel supplier in  the islands which reaffirms the trust that the Government and  people of India have reposed in the capabilities of IndianOil.
Robust R&D  The year was quite special for IndianOil R&D Centre, which  celebrated its Golden Jubilee on March 10, 2022.
Throughout  its 50 years journey, the Centre has set several benchmarks of  innovation and excellence that have transformed IndianOil’s  forays and the overall Indian energy landscape.
True to this  spirit, the R&D Golden Jubilee celebrations culminated in  a grand finale on March 22, 2022 at Vigyan Bhawan, where  we launched the pathbreaking ‘Surya Nutan’ solar cooktop.
It  was a reiteration of our business strategies being in complete  alignment with the national priorities.
The patented cooking  solution is green, cost-efficient and can be a gamechanger for  the benefit of the masses.
IndianOil is a pioneer in petroleum pipelines in the country  and manages one of the world’s largest energy pipeline  networks IndianOil’s superbrand Indane, that has been igniting millions  of kitchens across the nation, has completed 56 glorious years Launch of 2Kg LPG cylinder, ‘Munna’ by IndianOil  IndianOil’s highest altitude bulk storage depot at Kargil IndianOil Whole-time Directors at R&D Center, Faridabad  during the Golden Jubilee Celebrations More importantly, we are ushering in a series of initiatives that  infuse greater agility into our customer service.
One such  example is the Indane Tatkal Seva that was rolled out in January  2022 for our customers to avail guaranteed LPG delivery within  two hours of booking at a nominal fee.
The facility has been  launched in Hyderabad and will soon be extended across the  country.
Another addition to this bouquet is the Indane Family  Mr Hardeep S Puri, Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural  Gas and Housing & Urban Affairs, launching the indoor solar  cooking stove ‘Surya Nutan’ in the presence of Mr Rameswar  Teli, Minister of State, Petroleum & Natural Gas, Labour and   Employment and Mr S M Vaidya, Chairman IndianOil Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 10 11 Chairman’s Message Power Partners We are also pursuing synergistic collaborations to explore new  avenues of opportunities.
The brightest of such partnerships  is the Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), where  we have joined hands with other PSUs, namely, NTPC Ltd.,  Coal India Ltd., The Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd., and  Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Ltd., to develop three gas- based urea fertiliser plants at Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri.
over our future but has started affecting our present.
‘Green’ is  the word driving the priorities of the energy sector worldwide.
India’s green agenda, including achieving net zero emission  target by 2070, continues to be an inspiring force as far as our  future strategies are concerned.
To meet the net-zero commitment, the Indian Government  has announced the Green Hydrogen and Ammonia Policy to  boost green hydrogen production to 5 MMT by 2030 and make  India an export hub for this clean fuel.
As the ‘Energy of India’,  your Company is committed to leveraging this policy support  to power India’s march towards the new energy frontiers of  tomorrow.
Aligning with the national priority, IndianOil will be producing  green hydrogen in stages at the Mathura and Panipat refineries.
As a first step, we will be implementing a 5 KTA (40 MW) green  hydrogen plant at Mathura Refinery and a 2 KTA (16 MW)  plant at Panipat Refinery.
To sync with the entire hydrogen  value chain, IndianOil has forged crucial collaborations  to develop green hydrogen production assets, associated  renewable assets and manufacture electrolysers.
This will be  a gamechanger as electrolysers contribute to approximately  30% of the overall cost of green hydrogen.
Due to the policy  interventions by the Government of India, we foresee strong  momentum in the electrolysers market and renewable power,  with a commensurate decline in the cost of production of  green hydrogen.
Your Company is also exploring multiple  hydrogen production pathways, including solar electrolysis,  biomass gasification and bio-methanation.
The hydrogen  produced will be used for fuelling 15 fuel cell buses to establish  the efficacy, efficiency and sustainability of the fuel cell  technology and hydrogen production processes.
In addition,  we will commission a hydrogen dispensing station at the  Gujarat Refinery to enlarge hydrogen-based mobility coverage.
We have also sharpened our focus on bioenergy and  renewables.
Under the ambitious SATAT scheme on CBG  (Compressed Biogas), IndianOil has awarded over 2,374 letters  of intent (LOI) till July 2022, and is now marketing CBG from  eighteen plants through thirty one fuel stations spread across  nine states in the country.
Let me also touch upon electric vehicles (EVs), which may bring  in a paradigm change in the mobility ecosystem across the globe.
We target to provide EV charging stations (EVCS) at 10,000 fuel  stations in the next three years.
As a strategic initiative, your  Company is pursuing the setting up of EVCS at public parking  spaces at airports and tourist places.
Your Company is also exploring new technologies in the battery  development sector.
The joint venture (JV) of IndianOil and  the Israeli technology company, Phinergy, has been working  on the manufacture and commercialisation of aluminum-air  technology in India.
Taking this forward, a tripartite agreement  was recently inked among IOC Phinergy Private Limited,  (IOP), Hindalco Industries Limited, India’s leading aluminum  producer, and Phinergy Ltd. for R&D and pilot production of  aluminium plates for the batteries, and recycling of aluminium,  after usage in these batteries.
Greater Aspirations Greener Avenues Let me reiterate that your Company is already the leading voice  in the Indian energy sector, even in endeavours related to the  immediate future.
Our aggressive approach in the 11th round of  the City Gas Distribution (CGD) bidding process reflected this  resolve as we secured 9 high market potential geographical areas  (GAs) covering twenty six districts across the country.
IndianOil,  along with its JV companies, is now present in forty nine GAs.
We are now poised to emerge as a dominant player in the  Indian CGD market.
These plants will augment domestic fertiliser production  capacity by producing over 38 lakh Tonnes of neem-coated  urea per annum.
In December 2021, the Gorakhpur plant was  dedicated to the nation by the Hon’ble Prime Minister.
The  other two plants at Barauni and Sindri are also in an advanced  stage of completion.
Cheering for Green Hi-Five to Hydrogen  Green captures the essence of today’s energy world.
The  concerns over global warming, melting ice caps, shifting  ocean currents and crop-destroying heat waves are far too  real and palpable today, as compared to what was even a few  years back.
The environmental concern just no longer looms  Prime Minister Mr Narendra Modi inaugurated the Hindustan  Urvarak & Rasayan Limited (HURL) Fertiliser Plant in  Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh IndianOil signed an agreement with Nepal Oil Corporation to  build a H 275 crore petroleum product pipeline from Raxaul in  Bihar to Amlekhgunj in Nepal India’s first Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle launched by Mr Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, in the  presence of Chairman, IndianOil Indane’s solar powered bottling plant at Madanpur Khadar,  New Delhi Chairman, IndianOil riding India’s first hydrogen fuel cell  powered bike at R&D Campus, Faridabad Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 12 13 Chairman’s Message As your Company continues to enhance the green quotient  of its refineries, IndianOil has signed an agreement with NTPC  Ltd. to form a joint venture company to meet the power  requirements of upcoming projects at IndianOil’ s refineries.
In another significant development, IndianOil and Praj  Industries Ltd. signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU)  on October 20, 2021, to explore and collaborate on business  opportunities in the biofuels arena, including CBG, Sustainable  Aviation Fuel (SAF), Biodiesel, Ethanol, and so on, through the  formation of a JV company in India.
Nuturing Nature I must add that our environment and sustainability focus  extends well beyond business-related endeavours.
Due to  reckless exploitation, excessive hunting and inadequate  protection laws, the cheetah was driven to extinction in India  over seven decades ago.
To reintroduce the cheetah to its  natural habitat in India, IndianOil is collaborating with National  Tiger Conservation Agency (NTCA) to undertake a historical  project.
This unique project involves transcontinental relocation  (from South Africa and Namibia) of cheetahs to Kuno National  Park in Madhya Pradesh.
Your Company is collaborating with  NTCA to take this initiative forward.
In line with this spirit, we  launched the Rhino as our mascot that stands tall as IndianOil’s  commitment to protecting India’s biodiversity.
Lives Enriched Beyond Business Cornerstone of Care As a brand with one of the most extensive customer interfaces  in India, corporate stewardship is not a business obligation,  but a stepping-stone towards enduring excellence for your  Company.
I’m reminded of the Dalai Lama who once said,  “More compassionate mind, more sense of concern for other’s  well-being, is source of happiness”.
In the last three years, we have supported projects covering  areas such as skilling and education, health care, and,  environment and sustainability.
IndianOil has also been in  the forefront as far as the initiatives of corporate India are  concerned, and has been steering the ‘Skill India’ revolution.
We took a major leap as the permanent campus of IndianOil- run Skill Development Institute, Bhubaneswar, was inaugurated  on August 20, 2021.
Speaking of healthcare, cancer care has been one of our key  focus areas, and over the next 3 to 5 years, we will be contributing  significantly to bolster India’s cancer care infrastructure.
Recently your Company aided the implementation of the  Phase-2 expansion of Tata Medical Centre in Kolkata.
In  addition, we are planning to support the Indian Institute of  Science (IISc), Bengaluru for their upcoming Medical Hospital  & Research Centre, including setting up an oncology wing.
Tuberculosis (TB) continues to be one of India’s severest  health challenges.
Considering the national importance of this  challenge, IndianOil has committed to support the National TB  elimination Programme (NTEP) in each of the 75 districts of  Uttar Pradesh and 23 districts of Punjab.
The programme’s key  objective will be to screen and test the entire population of  UP and Punjab every year for the next 3 years, to help India  eradicate the disease by 2025.
Strengthening Sports IndianOil has consistently walked the extra mile to revitalise  India’s sporting landscape.
You would recall that IndianOil’s  remarkable sporting contributions were acknowledged at the  highest level when your Company were bestowed with the  ‘Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar’ for 2021.
It was an honour  for me to accept the award from the Hon’ble President of India at  Rashtrapati Bhawan last November on behalf of your Company.
IndianOil also received the ‘Sportstar Aces Award, 2022’ under  the category of the ‘Best PSU for the Promotion of Sports’.
Such  accolades and recognitions strengthened our resolve to walk  the extra mile to support Indian sporting excellence.
Speaking  of sporting excellence, IndianOil inducted 9 women hockey  players into the IndianOil family on International Women’s Day,  2022.
This was a momentous occasion as IndianOil emerged as  the first Indian corporate with a full-fledged Women’s Hockey  Team.
IndianOil will also collaborate with the Ministry of Youth  Affairs and Sports for a unique programme, ‘IndianOil Shakti’, to  extend comprehensive support to talented young girl athletes.
More importantly, we have extended our focus on sports to  reach out to the acutely disadvantaged sections of society.
As  the nation celebrated its 75th Independence Day on August 15,  2021, IndianOil embarked on an extraordinary journey through  a unique programme, ‘Parivartan —Prison to Pride’, for a radical  social transformation through the powerful medium of sports.
Under this scheme, the galaxy of IndianOil sportspersons teamed  up with external coaches and encouraged prison inmates to  cultivate their sporting interests.
The campaign was an exemplary  demonstration of our core value of Care and has touched the lives  of over 1,750 inmates from 37 prisons across the nation, till now.
The journey has been deeply satisfying and has strengthened our  commitment to power more such endeavours in the days ahead.
Towards a Better Tomorrow for All Our energy requirements in the coming years are bound to  grow as there is a need to bridge the energy access deficit in the  country equitably and efficiently.
So, oil and gas will continue to  be the mainstay of your Company’s operations at least for the  next two to three decades and our core business will continue  to play a defining role in crafting your Company’s destiny.
Team  IndianOil is determined to strengthen our grasp as market leaders  by focusing on two essential factors, service quality and the width  and depth of our product offerings.
As I already mentioned, your  Company is geared up for the inevitable energy transition while  dealing with fierce competition in our traditional business line.
IndianOil is poised for a great future.
We have everything going  our way — an energetic team, vast resources, R&D prowess,  an operational and marketing network par excellence, and a  strong financial position.
At IndianOil, we have always chosen values over profits and  Nation over corporate gains.
More importantly, our actions  as a social enterprise speak louder than words in terms of  our priorities that extend beyond the realm of business.
Your  Company is committed to carrying forward every business  endeavour in a free, fair, and transparent manner.
Let me  emphasise that our core values of Care, Innovation, Passion  and Trust will continue to guide us in the journey ahead.
Once again, thank you for your unstinted support that has been  your Company’s greatest strength and an eternal source of  inspiration to take IndianOil towards a more prosperous future.
We are committed to energising a nation and a world where  happiness and peace thrive.
As the great Nelson Mandela said,  “What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived.
It  is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will  determine the significance of the life we lead.”  Stay healthy, stay safe!
sd/- Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman IndianOil adopted six one-horned Rhinos at the Assam State  Zoo.
The cheque being handed over by Chairman, IndianOil Care being one of IndianOil’s corporate core values, IndianOil  continues to invest in healthcare, education, skilling and  uplifting communities through its CSR initiatives IndianOil announced India’s first Corporate Women’s Hockey  Team, a step towards encouraging sports in India IndianOil always believes in inclusivity.
In line with the same,  Chairman, IndianOil, continues to encourage women RO  attendants across the country Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 14 15 Chairman’s Message Strong Governance in  Letter and Spirit Transparency, integrity and accountability are the three principles that guide  corporate governance at IndianOil.
The governance system is intended to set high  standards of ethical and responsible conduct of the Company’s business to maximise  value for all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees, contractors,  vendors, and society at large.
It aims to strengthen the relationship of trust between  IndianOil and its stakeholders and help the Company achieve its goals and objectives.
IndianOil’s governance structures and processes are duly evolved and adapted from  time to time to reflect emerging best practices.
Whole-time Directors  Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar Director (Research & Development) Shri V. Satish Kumar Director (Marketing)  w.e.f.
28.10.2021 Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning & Business  Development) w.e.f.
23.02.2022 Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra Director (Human Resources) Shri D. S. Nanaware Director (Pipelines) w.e.f.
28.12.2021 Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance)   Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) w.e.f.
07.02.2022 Government Nominee Director Independent Directors   Ms Lata Usendi Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker  w.e.f.
24.11.2021 Shri Krishnan Sadagopan w.e.f.
24.11.2021 Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung w.e.f.
24.11.2021 Shri Prasenjit Biswas  w.e.f.
24.11.2021 Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh w.e.f.
08.04.2022 Dr Ashutosh Pant  w.e.f.
24.11.2021 Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray  w.e.f.
24.11.2021 Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 16 17 Strong Governance in Letter and Spirit Managing Risks with  Clear Foresight Our operations are prone to both internal and external risks, which can substantially  impact our ability to create value for the short, medium and long term.
Our Enterprise  Risk Management (ERM) policy and integrated assurance methodologies ensure  that we have the right risk resilience mechanism.
Our internal processes are strong  enough to monitor and manage risks in a holistic manner, taking into cognisance  the interests of all stakeholders.
Our ERM framework is regularly reviewed in line  with the changing risk landscape relevant to our business.
Data on risk management  is submitted by respective risk owners through internally designed ERM portal in  order to enable all users to have access to data on real time basis.
Risk assessment   and categorisation   (based on risk appetite)  Regular review by risk  owners to optimise risks with  appropriate mitigation plan Risk   identification  Risk Management  Process  Risk Management Framework  Risk Management Compliance Board Unit level Committees Risk Management Committee Audit Committee Board of Directors Risk Champions Chief Risk Officer Risk Owners Identification and Mitigation of Key Risks   Key risks   Mitigation plan  Market  risk Material issues  addressed  and capitals  impacted The year saw significant fluctuations in crude oil prices owing  to pandemic-induced supply chain disruptions and geopolitical  tensions.
The latter also led to significant increase in inflation  worldwide.
The increasingly dynamic macro-economic  environment might have an adverse impact on our operations  and financial stability.
Material topics addressed: • Market volatility • Economic performance Notwithstanding the externalities beyond our control, we strive  to focus on robust physical performance and efficiency to  offset the impact of these risks.
Diversified crude oil sources,  low cost domestic / foreign currency borrowings and all-round  process innovations ensure that the economies are achieved.
Capitals impacted:  Financial  Manufactured   Key risks   Mitigation plan  Loss of Competitiveness  risk Material issues  addressed  and capitals  impacted With increasing competitiveness across industries we operate  in, it is paramount for us to keep up with evolving consumer  demand, optimise our costs and improve the overall efficiency  of processes.
Inability to achieve the same might result in loss  of consumers’ confidence and have an adverse impact on  revenue, profitability and brand value.
Material topics addressed: • Product stewardship  • Customer satisfaction and brand  loyalty  At IndianOil, our zeal to explore new horizons of innovative  excellence in our products and services is underpinned by  our endeavour to be a future-ready organisation and retain  market leadership.
This also enables us to deliver best-in-class  services and offer one-of-its kind products to our customers.
Additionally, our state-of-the-art R&D centre, which constantly  innovates new products as per market trends, helps us to  remain ahead of competition and build brand loyalty.
Capitals impacted:  Manufactured  Financial Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 18 19 Managing Risks with Clear Foresight   Key risks   Mitigation plan  Alternative Energy and Environment Conservation  risk Material issues  addressed  and capitals  impacted Ensuring optimum utilisation of scarce resources, reducing  environmental footprint and increasing consumption of  renewable sources of energy has never been more important.
Inability to reduce our environmental footprint, maintain  emissions below the prescribed levels and invest in alternative  source of energy, might have adverse impact on our reputation  and might have financial implications  in the form of fines and  penalties.
Material topics addressed: • Climate change mitigation • Product stewardship  • Managing environmental impact We continue to make big strides towards reducing our  environmental footprint.
Our approach towards environmental  stewardship encompasses measures and initiatives around  emissions reduction, increased water and energy conservation,  waste reduction and increased usage of renewable energy.
We are also investing towards building presence in the green  energy segment that empowers our customers to reduce their  environmental footprint.
Capitals impacted:  Financial  Social and Relationship  Natural   Key risks   Mitigation plan  Financial  risk Material issues  addressed  and capitals  impacted Our operations are exposed to the risks from foreign exchange  rate fluctuations and interest rate as we have a dominant  presence in the international market as well.
This might impact  our financial position and our ability to create value for our  stakeholders.
Material topics addressed: • Economic performance • Market volatility We constantly assess the fluctuation in exchange and interest  rates and based on potential of these risks being realised,  appropriate hedging positions are being taken as per approved  policy.
We also continuously undertake cost control measures  that empower us to ensure consistent growth in profitability  despite headwinds.
Capitals impacted:  Financial   Key risks   Key risks   Mitigation plan    Mitigation plan  Cyber Threats and IT Security  risk Human Resource  risk Material issues  addressed  and capitals  impacted Material issues  addressed  and capitals  impacted With the adoption of disruptive technologies and platforms,  there lies a significant risk of cyber-attack.
Loss of sensitive and  private data and information might have adverse impact on our  reputation as well as our profitability.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key  talent who can use their skills to create value for our consumers  and make strategic changes that enable us to achieve our goals  in today’s highly competitive market.
Additionally, ensuring  their health, safety and well-being, and upgrading their skills  with changing market dynamics have gained significant  importance.
Material topics addressed: • Customer satisfaction and brand  loyalty • Security practices Material topics addressed: • Health and safety • Employee practises  • Labour rights and retentions  To ensure protection of sensitive and confidential information,  we have implemented a defence-in-depth cyber security  architecture.
We also have a robust data privacy policy and all  our data centres are ISO 27001:2013 certified.
At IndianOil, the health, safety and well-being of employees  and contractual workers have always been a priority.
All  our refineries are certified to Occupational Health & Safety  Management System (OHSMS/OHSAS018001), besides having  fully equipped occupational health care centres.
IndianOil is  the first PSU to launch Project ‘Happiness and Well-being’.
Our vision is to ‘Align our People and Talent Capability to  Deliver Our Energy Promise to the Nation’.
Thus, we continue  to organise various training and development programmes  for new and existing employees, covering an array of topics  including functional, behavioural and technical aspects.
We  also leverage digital platforms to increase our employees’  productivity and efficiency.
Most of our top executives have  risen from within the ranks.
This stands as a testimony to our  ability to upskill our employees and provide them unlimited  opportunity to grow and expand their professional as well as  personal life.
Capitals impacted:  Financial  Intellectual Capitals impacted:  Financial  Human Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 20 21 Managing Risks with Clear Foresight A Sustainable Model for  Long-term Value Creation Financial Capital H 1,31,286 crore Equity H 1,10,799 crore Debt Manufactured Capital 9 Refineries  15,000+ Km Pipeline  58,000+ Marketing touch points Human Capital 31000+ Employees 8.7% Female Employees H 116.18 crore Spend towards  training and development Intellectual Capital H 577 crore R&D Spend 448 Total team size at R&D centre Social & Relationship  Capital H 298.29 crore Spent towards  CSR activities 493 CSR projects Natural Capital 98.68 billion litres Water  consumed H 708.5 crore Invested on  development of alternative source  of energy 314 Trillion BTU Total energy consumed ECONOMICENVIRONMENTSOCIAL Input Exploration & Production Our  Focus Passion Trust Care Innovation Customers Technology People Innovation Environment Ethics Our  Values Our Process Crude Oil Mid-Level Storages Integrated Refinery & Petrochem icals Complexes Liquefied Natural Gas Natural Gas Re-Gasification Terminal Alternative Energy Our attractive growth trajectory since inception and sustained contribution to the  progress of the nation bear testimony to the strength of our business model.
As one  of India’s biggest commercial enterprises, we continue to evolve our value creation  framework in response to the changing expectations of all stakeholders.
Aviation Fuelling Stations Lube Blending Plants Financial Capital H 24,184 crore PAT H 47,568 crore EBITDA Manufactured Capital 67.67 MMT Refineries  throughput 83.25 MMT of   throughput achieved by  pipelines 86.41 MMT Product sales Human Capital 7,79,229 hours Training  provided H 23.30 crore Revenue  per employee Intellectual Capital 1,519 Patents filed 1,410 Effective patents Social & Relationship  Capital  48% Dividend payout   ratio 77.46 lakh People benefited  from our CSR activities H 2,64,436 crore  Contributed to exchequer Natural Capital 3.36 MMT CO2-eq  Avoidance of GHG emissions 104.1 Energy Intensity  Index 43.57 billion litres Waste  water recycled 439 MT Waste paper  recycled Outcomes SDGsOutputs Product  Storage,  Blending and   Distribution  Infrastructure Fuels for Large  Consumers Aviation Efficient, high-end  fuels and lubricants Defence Shipping Rail Product retailing Automated fuel  stations Petrol Diesel Blended fuels CNG CBG Electric Charging Facility Bio-energy 237.42 MW Renewable energy  portfolio Commenced sale of CBG  under the SATAT scheme  from fuel stations at Pune  and Kolhapur under the brand  name “IndiGreen” in Sept 2019 Wind energy 167.6 MW  of wind-power capacity Solar energy 69.82 MW  of solar photo-voltaic capacity Natural Gas to Bulk Consumers City gas distribution networks  Ensuring consistent growth in  revenue and profitability   Ensuring healthy dividend  payout  Maintaining healthy balance  sheet and liquidity position  Investing towards growth and  expansion  Increase in overall efficiency of  processes  Improving our throughput and  quality of products and services  Investing towards upgrading to  state-of-the-art technologies   Building strong brand value and  recall  Increasing our investment  towards R&D  Preparing Corporation for  future by using the ‘Power of  Possibilities’  Reducing our environmental  footprint  Ensuring resource optimisation  and waste reduction  Reduce our carbon emission  Building a safe, diverse and  inclusive work environment  Investing towards training and  development of employees  in line with changing market  dynamics  Ensuring mental as well  as physical well-being of  employees  Building mutually beneficial  and long-standing relationship  with stakeholders  Working towards improving  the quality of life of people  residing in the communities in  which we operate Oil Depots and Terminals LPG Bottling Plants Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 22 23 A Sustainable Model for Long-term Value Creation Wide-ranging Interactions  with all Stakeholders  Stakeholders are key to our success and value creation strategy.
We have  always been deeply engaged with our growing stakeholder fraternity  in order to understand their aspirations and concerns and align our  strategies accordingly.
Effective and continuous communication with  stakeholders helps us build trust and deliver positive outcomes.
Investors  Value we create We strive to provide sustainable return  on investments to the providers of  financial capital through dividend  payment, share price appreciation,  capital and interest payment.
We also  ensure proper disclosure of sustainability  KPIs, and financial and non-financial  factors that provide valuable information  to investors.
Needs and expectations • Long-term and sustainable return on  investments • Constant growth in revenue and  profitability • Optimum debt-equity ratio • Transparent and proper disclosure of  strategy, value creation philosophy  and resource management Mode of engagement • Public disclosures on website and  stock exchanges • Annual General Meeting • Press briefing • Social media The investors community  provides us access to equity  and debt funds.
They also  drive demand for our shares,  strengthening our market  capitalisation.
Customers Employees and Contractual Workers Value we create We constantly create value for our  customers through continuous supply of  petroleum products and cater to market  aspiration by continuously offering  novel products and services.
We ensure  continuous and steady supply of services  at fuel stations and timely redressal of  complaints.
We also provide timely and  doorstep service to our B2B clients.
Value we create At IndianOil, we recognise our role as  a responsible employer to provide a  diverse, inclusive and rewarding working  environment.
We organise various  training and development programmes  for new and existing employees,  while encouraging internal hiring and  promotions.
Needs and expectations • Superior quality, reliable and  affordable products and services • Value-added products and services • Timely resolution of queries and  complaints  • Responsive communication on  relevant programmes and services Needs and expectations • Fair and timely remuneration • Reward, recognition and appreciation  for performance • Diverse, open, non-discriminatory  and safe working environment • Job security • Opportunities to grow within the  Company Mode of engagement • Advertisements • Corporate website • Mobile App (IndianOil ONE) • Customer satisfaction survey • Safety Clinics • Customer care / grievance portal • Social media Mode of engagement • Annual employee satisfaction survey • Grievance redressal / HR portal • Electronic communications • Conclaves, workshops, seminars and  training programmes Serving our customers  is a primary concern  that drives our brand.
Their evolving demand  for our products and  services enables us  to generate healthy  revenues.
Our employees  possess the required  skills and expertise  for core operations  and supporting  business processes.
They are our  growth enablers,  ensuring sustainable  performance and  value creation.
Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 24 25 Wide-ranging Interactions with all Stakeholders Government and Regulatory Bodies Value we create We contribute towards the country’s  economic growth through payment of  taxes, licence fees and investment in  infrastructure development.
We also align  our activities with government initiatives  such as ‘Make in India’ and ‘Aatmanirbhar  Bharat’.
Robust engagements with  government and regulatory bodies  enable us to participate in national and  international policy formulations and  contribute towards the establishment of  regulatory frameworks.
Needs and expectations • Timely and transparent disclosure • Compliance with rules • Fair competition in the market • Ensuring quality and affordable  products and services • Contribution towards national  economic growth Mode of engagement • Official meetings / MoU reviews • Monthly / periodic project updates • Electronic communications • Public disclosures • Conclaves, seminars and events • Inspection, audits and compliance  reports  • Public disclosures on financial / ESG  performance Business Partners Value we create We support our business partners in  reducing their carbon footprint through  automation and green energy solutions.
We also support local employment  through engagement with local  contractors.
Further, we undertake  services from our business partners at  fair terms, allowing individual businesses  to grow and expand.
Needs and expectations • Timely payments • Adherence to laws and regulations • Ethical and transparent code of  conduct •  Quality products Mode of engagement • Annual dealer and distributor  conventions • Transporters’ meet • Meetings with contractors / vendors • Seminars and workshops Government and  Regulatory Bodies  formulate laws and  regulations that we  must comply with,  while conducting  our daily activities.
We have strong relationship  with our business partners  which enables us to ensure  supply of superior quality  products and services to our  customers.
They underpin  our value chain and directly  influence our ability to  ensure timely supply of  products and services.
They also influence our  ability to meet the needs  and expectations of our  customers.
Communities and Society Value we create At IndianOil, we are committed to  generating economic value that uplifts the  community by addressing its needs and  challenges.
We constantly work towards  minimising our environmental footprint  and generating sustainable profit.
Through our CSR intervention, we  focus on ‘providing safe drinking  water and protection of water  resources’, ‘healthcare and sanitation’,  ‘education and employment enhancing  vocational skills’, ‘rural development’,  ‘environmental sustainability’ and  ‘empowerment of women and socially/  economically backward groups’.
Needs and expectations • Employment creation and business  opportunity • Financial support • Reduction of adverse environmental  impact Mode of engagement • Need assessment surveys • CSR activities • Grievance redressal forums Communities form an  integral part of our  social existence and we  have a responsibility to  contribute to the socio- economic needs of the  communities where we  operate.
Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 26 27 Wide-ranging Interactions with all Stakeholders Materiality Assessment  Appropriate assessment of material issues is critical to ensuring  long-term value creation for all stakeholders in a dynamic operating  environment.
At IndianOil, we had undertaken a materiality assessment  during 2020-21 to identify economic, social, environmental and  governance matters that present material risks, while simultaneously  taking cognisance of our external operating context and those issues  which are of particular concern to stakeholders.
We align our identification of material sustainability topics with the GRI standards, UN Global Compact, as well as considering  information relating to the energy sector, our regulatory requirements and matters raised during engagements with our people  and our external stakeholders.
Our Approach  Analysis of key  trends in oil  and gas space Peer  benchmarking  of material  topics Analysis of  key risks and  opportunities Feedback and  validation  from  stakeholders Economic Environment Social Governance  Key material  topics identified  01 0302 04 02 04 Economic Market volatility Supply chain management Economic performance Governance  Compliance and  governance Business ethics and  accountability Environment Climate change mitigation Product stewardship Managing environmental  impact Social  Health and safety Labour rights and retentions Customer satisfaction and  brand loyalty  Community development Employee practices  Security practices 01 03 Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 28 29 Materiality Assessment Supporting the SDGs SDG 3  Ensure safety of  workforce with a well- defined safety management  system and defined roles  and responsibilities.
SDG 6 Strive to optimise water  consumption across  locations with several water  conservation initiatives SDG 8 As a Maharatna PSU, we have  contributed over last six decades  towards the economic growth of  India, generating several  employment opportunities  and promoting multiple  businesses SDG 9 Continuous investments  in technological  upgradation of our  refineries and pipelines backed  by our robust R&D team for  development of fuels and  petroleum products SDG 7 Apart from spearheading the  Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana  (PMUY) and Sustainable Alternative  Towards Affordable Transportation  (SATAT) scheme, we are  diversifying our product portfolio  with introduction of clean  energy products IndianOil is working towards identifying solutions to the social and  environmental challenges and create an inclusive, peaceful, and  prosperous world for all.
We are proud to make steady progress towards  the SDG goals, touching all seventeen goals directly or indirectly,  through our day-to-day operations, community development, and   initiatives to protect the environment.
However we focus on 10 SGDs  where we can create maximum impact.
SDG 12  Complying with various regulatory norms  and promoting sustainability initiatives  across our supply chain.
We are moving towards a  circular economy through our efforts in developing  bio-energy from waste, plastic recycling and promoting  indigenous purchases SDG 15  Continue to develop  greenbelt / eco-parks across  our operating locations for  conservation of flora and  fauna, while also planting  trees to restore  ecosystems SDG 17 Partnering with NGOs,  academic institutions,  industry bodies and several  business partners in our  endeavour to create a  positive impact on  lives we touch.
SDG 13  Reducing emissions from  our operations through energy  efficiency measures and through  use of greener fuels like natural  gas and renewable energy.
We  are reducing emissions from  our products through innovative  products and green offerings like  CBG and Natural Gas.
SDG 16 Committed to highest  standards of  accountability and  integrity within our  operations Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 30 31 Supporting the SDGs IndianOil strives to maximise returns on  its financial resources and investments,  with critical evaluation of risks involved  in our operating scenario.
Our financial  performance in 2021-22 demonstrates the  robustness of our business model, along  with various short-term and medium-term  strategies adopted in view of the shifting  dynamics of the energy market.
Despite  challenges posed by the pandemic and  geopolitical conflicts, we have been able  to notch up the highest ever revenue and  net profit, a high-octane performance.
41%  YoY growth in revenue from  operations H 26.34  EPS 15.44%  RoCE ~99%  Growth in GRM H 47,568 crore  EBITDA Material  issues  addressed Market Volatility Sustainable  Supply Chain Economic  Performance FINANCIAL  CAPITAL SDGs covered  Our Inputs   During the year, we  continued to maintain an  optimum debt to equity ratio  of 0.84:1.
We continue to  adopt lean financial measures  across operations to maintain  liquidity with minimum stress  on the balance sheet.
Wealth Creation  Our consistent growth in  revenue and profitability has  enabled us to create superior  and consistent value for our  shareholders year-after- year.
During 2021-22, the  EPS registered a growth of  11% from H 23.78 per share  in previous year to H 26.34  per share.
We declared a  total dividend of H 11,568  crore (including interim  dividend of H 8,263 crore)  for the year.
We also issued  bonus equity shares in the  ratio of one equity share of   H 10 each for every two equity  shares of H 10 each held.
Robust Outcomes  With the revival of demand,  we geared our operations  to address the rising energy  needs of India.
During the  year, we reported highest  ever revenue and net profit  which stood at H 7,28,460  crore and H 24,184 crore  respectively.
We continue to maintain  healthy balance sheet and  robust liquidity position on  the back of our prudent  capital allocation strategy.
Our long-term credit rating  from CRISIL — AAA/Stable   — stands as a testimony to  our dominant position in the  oil refining and marketing  sector, and our strong  operating efficiency.
During the year, we continued  to maintain comfortable  liquidity position.
We also  have access to bank lines and  overdraft facilities to maintain  sustainable cash flow.
EBITDA   (H in crore) 2020-21 47,568  42,614  2021-22 Revenue from  operations (H in crore) 2020-21 7,28,460  5,14,890  2021-22 Long-term borrowing   (H in crore) 2020-21 50,58048,966 2021-22 Equity share capital  (H in crore) 2020-21 9,1819,181 2021-22 Market capitalisation   (H in crore as on March 31) 2020-21 1,11,981  86,469  2021-22 PAT  (H in crore) 2020-21 24,184  21,836  2021-22 Dividend pay-out    (in %) 2020-21 4850 2021-22 EPS   (in H) 2020-21 26.34 23.78 2021-22 Operating cash flow    (H in crore) 2020-21 21,177 48,784 2021-22 Corporate Overview   32 33 Financial Capital Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited Key Ratios Achieved  Value Created and Distributed to Stakeholders  J 99,105 crore Direct value generated K 10,992 crore Employee benefit K 14,469 crore Interest/Dividend to  providers of capital K 7,549 crore Income Tax to  Government   K 323 crore Community  investments  K 40,222 crore Operational cost  K 25,550 crore  Retained in business Return on Average Net  Worth (in %) 2020-21 22.5923.24 2021-22 Return on Assets    (in %) 2020-21 6.236.54 2021-22 Debt-Equity Ratio   2020-21 0.84:10.85:1 2021-22 Return on Average  Capital Employed (in %) 2020-21 15.4415.20 2021-22 Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 34 35 Financial Capital Map not to scale (as on March 31, 2022) Crude Oil Pipeline (Existing) Crude Oil Pipeline (Ongoing) Product Pipeline (Existing) Product Pipeline (Ongoing) Gas Pipeline (Existing) Gas Pipeline (Ongoing) LPG Pipeline (Existing) LPG Pipeline (Ongoing) Single Point Mooring IndianOil Refineries Gas Terminal Research and Development Centre LEGEND REFINERY   (LOCATION) CAPACITY IN MMTPA  (as on 31st March, 2022) Digboi 0.65 Guwahati 1.00 Barauni 6.00 Gujarat (Koyali) 13.70 Haldia 8.00 Bongaigaon 2.70 Mathura 8.00 Panipat 15.00 Paradip 15.00 CPCL (Subsidiary) Refinery Manali, Chennai 10.50 Total 80.55 Details of Group Refineries S.NO.
PIPELINE LENGTH (KM) CAPACITY (MMTPA) Product Pipelines (as on March 31, 2022) 1 Koyali Ahmedabad Pipeline 79 1.10 2 Koyali Sanganer Pipeline with extension upto Panipat via JPNPL 1644 5.00 3 Koyali Dahej Pipeline 197 2.60 4 Koyali Ratlam Pipeline 265 2.00 5 Barauni Kanpur Pipeline and branch line to Motihari, Baitalpur  and Amlekhgunj 1227 3.50 6 Haldia Mourigram Rajbandh Pipeline 277 1.35 7 Haldia Barauni Pipeline 526 1.25 8 Guwahati Siliguri Pipeline 435 1.40 9 Panipat Bhatinda Pipeline 219 3.00 10 Panipat Rewari Pipeline 155 2.10 11 Panipat Ambala Jalandhar Pipeline and branch line to Una 495 3.50 12 Panipat Delhi Pipeline 189 3.00 13 Panipat Bijwasan ATF line 111 14 Mathura Delhi Pipeline 147 3.70 15 Mathura Tundla Pipeline 56 1.20 16 Mathura Bharatpur Pipeline 21 17 Chennai Trichy Madurai Pipeline 683 2.30 18 Chennai Bengaluru Pipeline 290 2.45 19 Paradip Raipur Ranchi Pipeline 1073 5.00 20 Chennai Meenambakkam ATF Pipeline 95 0.18 21 Devangonthi Devanhalli Pipeline 36 0.66 22 Kolkata ATF Pipeline 27 0.20 Total (Product pipelines excluding LPG) 8247 45.49 Details of Pipelines Network Details of Pipelines Network (Contd...) S.NO.
PIPELINE LENGTH (KM) CAPACITY (MMTPA) LPG Pipelines 1 Panipat Jalandhar LPG Pipeline 280 0.7 2 Paradip Haldia Durgapur LPG Pipeline and extension to Banka 873 1.27 Total (LPG Pipelines) 1153 1.97 Crude Oil Pipelines 1 Salaya Mathura Pipeline 2660 25 2 Mundra Panipat Pipeline 1194 8.4 3 Paradip Haldia Barauni Pipelines 1447 15.2 Total (Crude Oil Pipelines) 5301 48.6 Total Existing (Product + LPG + Crude Oil Pipelines) 14701 96.06 Gas Pipelines 1 Dadri-Panipat Gas Pipeline 141 9.5 2 Ennore-Tuticorin-Bengaluru Gas Pipeline 165 13.09 3 Dahej-Koyali RLNG Pipeline 106 5.23 Total Existing (Gas Pipelines) 412 27.82 Capacity (MMSCMD) Map not to scale (as on March 31, 2022) At IndianOil, our robust performance is  the outcome of our strong commitment  to fulfil India’s energy needs responsibly  and our presence in the entire value  chain of the hydrocarbon industry.
Our manufactured capital comprises  best-in-class, diverse assets and an  integrated operating model that enables  us to deliver sustainable and consistent  performance, despite volatility in the  operating environment.
9  RefineriesMANUFACTURED  CAPITAL SDGs covered Security  Practices Compliance and  Governance  Sustainable  Supply Chain 15,000+ Km   Pipeline 58,000+    Marketing touch points 01 Refining 96.6%    Capacity utilisation 70.05 MMTPA    Refining capacity Highlights for the year  • Successful development of BS-VI complaint Diesel High  Pour Point (DHPP) product for military usage, suitable for  extreme cold weather such as Leh-Ladakh.
• Reused 60% of the high-value regenerated spent catalyst  at Barauni Refinery PrimeG unit for the first time, resulting  in cost savings of H 23.97 crore over the next three years.
• 138 new energy schemes have been identified at Guwahati,  Mathura, Paradip, Panipat, Barauni and Haldia refineries,  under Mandatory Energy Audit (MEA), that have energy  saving potential of around 207,906 SRFT/year.
• First consignment of PROPEL Polymers was dispatched to  our subsidiary in Sri Lanka in line with our plan to establish  PROPEL brand in the neighbouring countries.
• Seven new crude oil grades were included in our basket  increasing its size to 210 crude variants.
Road ahead With increasing demand for petroleum products, we are  constantly investing towards expanding our capacities.
We  are planning to expand the refining capacity to 107 MMTPA  by 2025 with capacity expansion under implementation at  Guwahati, Barauni, Gujarat, Panipat, Digboi and Cauvery Basin  (CPCL) refineries.
With a share of approximately 28% of India’s  refining capacity, IndianOil has been fuelling  the Government of India’s vision of achieving  self-reliance in oil refining and marketing.
We have nine refineries strategically placed  across the country, catering to the growing  energy requirements of the country.
• Operating the largest number of refineries  in India • Ability to commission several grassroot  refineries and modern process units • Strong technological backbone • Vast industry experience and expertise  Strategic  advantages  67.67 MMT    Refineries throughput  Material  issues  addressed Corporate Overview   36 37 Manufactured Capital Indian Oil Corporation Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance As the second biggest player in India’s  petrochemicals market, IndianOil is  working towards siezing the high growth  opportunities that this market presents.
Our  full range of petrochemical products under  the brand ‘PROPEL’, serve everyday needs of  our customers.
Road ahead Going forward, we have planned to invest H 35,000 crore  towards projects that will utilise product streams from our  existing refineries, thereby achieving better exploitation of the  hydrocarbon value chain.
PX-PTA and Ethylene Glycol projects  at Paradip and Oxo Alcohol project at Gujarat are three major  petrochemical projects under execution.
Ethylene Glycol  project is scheduled for commissioning in 2022-23.
Market share of the products in India 3,200 KTA   Current petrochemicals  production capacity 15%  Polymers 10%  Mono Ethylene Glycol  (MEG) 1 MMT  Milestone of 1 MMT  polypropylene sale crossed 6%    Purified Terephthalic  Acid (PTA) 2.92 MMT    Highest ever annual  petrochemical sales 17%   Linear Alkyl Benzene  (LAB) 1.75 MMT  Highest ever Polymer sales Highlights for the year  • Poly Propylene Random Copolymer, high melt reactor  grade 2300 MC, was launched on PROPEL for usage in  household bottles and containers.
• Initiated export of Polymer to Sri Lanka and Turkey  • 22 OEM approvals received including Tata Steel, Amara  Raja Batteries and Reckitt Benckiser.
02 Petrochemicals • Adoption of best-in-class technologies • Robust supply chain and distribution  network  • Best-in-class quality standards  • Strong brand name and recall • Robust R&D capabilities   Strategic  advantages  Managing one of the world’s largest petroleum pipeline networks, IndianOil ensures safe,  cost-effective, energy-efficient and environment-friendly transportation of crude oil and  petroleum products.
Road ahead We are implementing three major projects including new  grassroot refinery at Nagapattinam (Tamil Nadu), capacity  augmentation of Koyali Refinery (Gujarat) from 13.7 MMTPA  to 18 MMTPA (J-18), Barauni Refinery (Bihar) from 6 MMTPA  to 9 MMTPA (BR-9) capacity augmentation of Panipat Refinery  (Haryana) from 15 MMTPA to 25 MMTPA (P-25).
These three  projects would guide the other project activities that will be  implemented in the Pipelines Division in near future, to cater  to the rise in requirement of crude oil and for evacuation of  petroleum products arising out of implementation of these  major projects to demand centres.
83.25 MMT  of liquid throughput  achieved in 2021-22 15,113 km    Total network of pipelines 96.06 MMTPA  Capacity of crude oil and  product pipelines 27.82 MMSCMD  Capacity of gas pipeline Highlights for the year  • Crude oil pipelines achieved throughput of 48.53 MMT  which is around 10% higher than last year.
• Product pipelines achieved throughput of 34.72 MMT,  which is around 9% higher than that of last year.
• Gas pipelines achieved highest ever throughput of 2,985  MMSCM, which is around 11% higher than that of last year.
• Launch of indigenously developed Drag Reducing Additive  (DRA) - ‘XTRAFLO’, for usage in pipelines.
• Investment approval for projects worth H 17,703 crore  - New Mundra Panipat Crude Oil pipeline, pipelines  connecting Kamarajar Port, Vallur Terminal and CPCL at  Chennai and CGD projects in 9 geographical areas (GAs).
• Tenders for optical fibre-based Pipeline Intrusion  Detection and Warning System (PIDWS) were floated in  January and March, 2022.
This system would help detect,  alert and prevent any third-party intrusion in the mainline  ROW of underground petroleum pipelines.
These are by  far the largest tender for PIDWS ever floated in India.
03 Pipelines • Our infrastructure ensures most reliable and  safest mode of transportation of high volumes of  petroleum products over long distances compared  to other modes such as rail, road and tankers.
• Ensures uninterrupted supply of petroleum  products in all weather conditions • Energy efficient mode of transportation with  negligible transit losses • Minimal impact on environment due to lesser  carbon emission Strategic  advantages  Product Application & Development Centre, Panipat Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 38 39 Manufactured Capital 04 Natural Gas IndianOil is the second biggest player in the RLNG market in India and is strenghtening  its position across the natural gas value chain by scaling up LNG sourcing, strengthening  import terminals, pipelines and city gas distribution networks and providing ‘LNG at the  doorstep’ service to customers.
Road ahead For the next year, Gas-in at CGS / LNG hub for five geographical  areas namely Morena, Bhagalpur, Deoghar, hub of Salem and  hub of Visakhapatnam is proposed.
Further, 120 CNG stations  are expected to be mechanically completed by March 2023.
Over the next five years, IndianOil envisages growth up to 18- 20 MMTPA by connecting the north-eastern refineries through  Northeast Gas Grid, expansion at Ennore and development  of CGD infrastructure at geographical areas, thus striving to  capture nearly 40% market share in the RLNG segment.
Highlights for the year  • Successful development and launch of Mobile app —  ‘INDIANOIL PNG’ — for PNG customers on Google play  and Apple iOS store.
• CNG sales registered a sustained growth over previous  year and is in the range of 26,000 Kg/day (35,000 SCMD).
• Purchased domestic natural gas for the first time by  bidding in an e-auction conducted by the Consortium of  Reliance Industries Limited and BP Exploration (Alpha) Ltd.  for sale from the KG D6 Gas fields.
• Procured 30 LNG cargoes equivalent to 1.94 MMT.
• Commissioned Dahej-Koyali natural gas pipeline in March,  2022 which is the first dedicated pipeline of IndianOil.
• Acquired 4.93% of equity in the Indian Gas Exchange  Limited and also became its Proprietary member.
2,985 MMSCM  Throughput achieved  in 2021-22 1,100+ Km    Gas pipeline network 20  Auto-LNG dispensing  stations being set up  • Robust infrastructure • Capability to steadily step-up  investments and expand its operations • Long-standing relationships with value  chain partners  Strategic  advantages IndianOil has been undertaking exploration and production activities both within and outside  the country in collaboration with consortium partners to enhance our upstream integration.
9   Domestic  upstream blocks 11   Overseas  upstream blocks Highlights for the year • Registered 9.8% YoY growth in production, which stood at  4.26 MMtoe • In our first overseas operatorship asset, Block-1, Abu  Dhabi, appraisal well testing established an encouraging  hydrocarbon flow of close to 4 thousand barrels per day • We are holding Participating Interest (PI) ranging from  20% up to 100% in 9 domestic and eleven overseas oil  & gas assets in partnership with various domestic and  international companies.
Road ahead We are constantly eyeing for opportunities to further  strengthen our market standing in the segment.
We plan to  expand our upstream footprint to ~10% upstream integration  with the production share of 11 MMTPA by 2030.
05 Exploration and Production • Strong financials • Presence across the value chain  • Strong relationships with domestic and  international partners Strategic  advantages  Ongoing operations at well no.
BR-51 in the Coal Bed Methene (CBM) Block, Jharkhand Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 40 41 Manufactured Capital 06 Marketing IndianOil addresses the energy needs of millions of people daily through its vast network  of fuel stations, bulk storage terminals, inland depots, aviation fuel stations, LPG bottling  plants and lube blending plants.
For decades, the Company is living up to the commitment  of uninterrupted supply of petroleum products to every part of the country.
Highlights for the year  • We maintained our market leadership position with a total  40.8% market share in India.
• To expand our customer base, we launched Fuel@Call  — a platform through which customers can get diesel  delivered at their doorsteps.
• We have solarised 1,166 outlets, as a part of our endeavour  to increase the consumption of green energy in our retail  network.
• All segments of LPG including Domestic, NDNE, Bulk and  Auto registered positive growth during 2021-22.
• We, along with Total Energies, France, have started the  production and distribution of value-added bituminous  products from our Institutional Business facilities in  Jodhpur, Chennai and Kolkata.
• We commissioned grassroot POL Depot at Guntakal  (Andhra Pradesh) and Railhead Depot at Cachar Valley,  Moinarbond and Silchar (Assam).
• Mechanical completion achieved in brownfield projects  for POL terminal at Ratlam (Madhya Pradesh), Manmad  (Maharashtra) and Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) and  grassroot projects at Motihari (Bihar) and Asanur (Tamil  Nadu).
• Mechanical completion achieved for LPG Import Terminal  at Paradip (Odisha), additional tankage at LPG Bottling  Plant Bikaner (Rajasthan) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).
• Commissioning of Greenfield Bottling plant at Agartala  (Tripura), Korba (Chhattisgarh), Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh)  and Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh) and additional tankage at  Raninagar (West Bengal).
• Strong brand value and recall  • Integrated player with presence across the value chain  • Superior customer support and service  • Automated procedure to enhance quality and quantity  • Optimised operations and logistics smart terminals  Strategic  advantages  Road ahead With a strong push towards E-vehicle and adoption of cleaner  fuels, we are continuously investing towards building EV  charging stations across the country.
Moreover, to ensure  the uninterrupted supply of products, we are focusing on  increasing our distribution network as well as expanding our  client base.
We are also harnessing the power of new and  innovative technologies to automate our processes to improve  our overall efficiency and reduce cost.
In our non-fuel business,  the focus will be on expanding the range of products offered  to customers to include FMCG and home care products and  services also.
We are also planning to develop bio-fuel facilities  in line with functional requirements.
120  Terminals and depots 126    Aviation fuel station 34,559  Retail outlets (including KSKs) 101  LPG bottling plants/terminals 12,813  LPG distributors 1,488  CNG stations in India 10  Lube blending plants in India 6,993  Consumer pumps 10,723  LPG bottling capacity (TMTPA) 2,179  EV charging stations (including  34 Battery Swapping Stations) Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 42 43 Manufactured Capital SDGs Covered  As a diversified, integrated  energy major, IndianOil’s world  of high-octane operations  is driven by best-of-breed  technologies and cutting-edge  innovation.
The intellectual  capital that we have nurtured  and developed for years resides  at the core of our strategy and  operational excellence.
Our  approach is to leverage our  intellectual assets and steadily  enhance and enrich our smart  energy solutions.
1,519  Patents filed till March, 2022 448  Total R&D team size H 577 crore#  Spent on R&D # Includes Capital and Revenue expenditure.
In addition there is an increase of H 226 crore  in Capital advance INTELLECTUAL  CAPITAL Climate Change  Mitigation Economic  Performance Product  Stewardship Material  issues  addressed R&D Centre at Faridabad, Haryana Our R&D Centre serves as the bedrock of our strategy and  future growth prospects.
The year under review has been a year  of many achievements.
The relentless pursuit of innovation,  countless hours of lab work and unstinted faith in the power of  possibilities have driven our growth.
Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, we crossed a  huge milestone — 225 patents, the highest number of patents  filed in a year in IndianOil’s history, out of which 155 were  granted.
As on March 31, 2022, we have a portfolio of 1,519  patents with 1,410 effective patents, double as compared to  2017-18.
Our R&D focus continues to revolve around our core areas  of expertise which include fuels and lubricants, refining  technologies and catalysts, petrochemical and polymers.
We are also diversifying into emerging sectors such as nano  technology, solar, bioenergy, hydrogen, fuel cell, and energy  storage.
Our aim is to develop cost-effective, environmentally and  socially responsible technology solutions.
With the Government  of India’s thrust towards ‘Make in India’ and ‘Aatmanirbhar  Bharat’, we have been developing technologies and solutions  across multiple target segments, especially in competitive and  licensor-controlled areas dominated by MNCs.
We are also  diversifying into  emerging sectors  such as nano  technology,  solar, bio-energy,  hydrogen, fuel cell,  and energy storage.
Indian Oil Corporation Limited 44 High OCTANE Performance Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Corporate Overview   Intellectual Capital 45 Highlights for the year   Successfully commercialised XTRAFLO  indigenous Drag Reducing Additives (DRA) technology,  resulting in significant cost savings.
The performance  of in-house developed DRA in crude as well as product  found at par with commercial products.
A new  genre of ‘Mixed Metal Oxide’  isomerisation catalyst developed in  collaboration with M/s Viridis Chemicals and  planned for demonstration at Bongaigaon  Refinery in 2023.
A high temperature oxidation stability  test developed to assess oxidation stability  of engine oils of API SM, SN and CJ-4  performance levels at elevated operating  temperatures.
Developed eco-friendly engine oils such as ‘SERVO  Greenmile 5W-30’ for passenger cars and ‘SERVO Raftaar  15W-40’ for commercial vehicle segment, with distinguished  friction and oxidation properties in BS-VI vehicles.
Successfully completed performance guarantee test runs  for 1.2 MMTPA grassroot indeDiesel® unit at Haldia Refinery  for BS-VI Diesel and 35 KTA grass-root INDAdeptG unit at  Guwahati refinery for BS VI gasoline production.
Supported the country’s Defence forces by developing  and producing Winter grade BS-VI diesel at Panipat Refinery  meeting IS1460-17 and Army Grade DHPP (Winter Grade)  specifications.
Developed an in-house 28-inch inline inspection tool  (IPIG) based on Magnetic Flux Leakage (MFL) technology for  our Pipelines Division.
Developed and launched ‘IndianOil XTRAGUARD’ -  surface disinfectant spray with silver nano particles dispersed  in Hydrogel.
The patented product is a first-of-its-kind nano- based healthcare product.
With the endeavour to develop long life, energy  efficient lubricants and greases that addresses  customers’ needs as well as serves as an import  substitution, 135 lubricant formulations were  issued and approvals from 68 major global OEMs  was obtained.
Servo Pride XL Plus 5W-40 is cleared for  K9 Vajra high altitude application (Artillery  Guns – Engine ATU and Final Drive Units)  and Servosynco E46 got approval by the  Ordnance factory, Medak (Telangana) in  Ingersoll Rand Make compressor in hull  machine shop.
Green Innovation  Alongside of working towards reducing import  dependency, we are also untiringly working in alternative  energy areas to provide renewable energy solutions such  as 2G ethanol from agri-waste, fuel cell technology for  automobiles, bio-diesel production from solar power,  and energy storage devices.
We have also aligned our  focus areas with the vision of the Honourable Prime  Minister to develop efficient and environment-friendly  differentiated fuels and additives.
During the year under review, we developed high cetane  XTRAGREEN diesel and green combo lubricants to reduce  air pollution.
This underlines our unwavering commitment  to provide niche and specialised solutions, while working to  enhance the user experience.
Additionally, to further accelerate  and bolster engine performance, we launched XP95 and  XP100 across India.
During the year, we also received VDA  license on Diesel Exhaust Fluid ‘Clear Blue’ developed by us  for meeting NOX requirements in diesel vehicles.
Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 46 47 Intellectual Capital Creating Hydrogen-based Mobility Solutions  IndianOil has recently launched a project to assess  multiple hydrogen production pathways based on  indigenously available resources and technologies  such as solar electrolysis, biomass gasification and  bio-methanation.
Our endeavour is to build green hydrogen  production capacity of approximately 1 Tonne  per day for trial purposes at R&D centre.
The  hydrogen produced will be deployed in 15 fuel  cell buses for determining the efficacy, efficiency  and sustainability of the production processes and  the fuel cell technology.
IndianOil is also on its  way to commission hydrogen dispensing facilities  at Gujarat Refinery to facilitate the introduction  of fuel cell electric buses on the iconic route of  Vadodara to the Statue of Unity, the world’s tallest  monument.
Digital Transformation We continue to make steady progress in our digital  transformation journey.
During the year under review, the  launch of our project ePIC – e-Platform for Customers,  proved to be a game changer.
We have built a platform that  integrates all the end customers across different lines of  business under one roof.
This has empowered us to increase  the overall efficiency of our processes and maximising the value  creation for all stakeholders by automating various processes  such as KYC, multi-channel LPG refill booking, payments,  invoicing, and loyalty programmes management.
We also provided an interface for rolling out customer- centric welfare schemes of GoI such as PMUY 2.0 and  PMGKY.
Additionally, we utilised SAP S/4 HANA (IS-Utilities)  to strengthen our foray into CGD business by onboarding of  more than fifty thousand customers during the year.
During the year, we continued to work towards digitising  our operations through measures such as implementation  of paperless offices, vendor invoice management and  document management systems.
We have also strengthened  our Enterprise-wide Unified Digital Business Ecosystem  to address the pandemic-induced challenges and ensured  seamless supply of products and services to customers across  the country.
Alongside of deploying new technologies and  platforms, we also strengthened our IT security measures to  ensure robust data privacy and security.
We have also rolled out an Integrated Transaction  Processing Server (ITPS) solution at major retail outlets for  providing fidelity of actual sales with payment and loyalty.
This  ensures delivery of e-receipts, platform for providing service  rating and earn loyalty points (XTRAREWARDS Points) against  the transaction in a seamless manner.
Another landmark project — End-to-End Project Management  Suite (E2EPMS) — was rolled out during the year.
It is a digital  dashboard with comprehensive project management and  monitoring abilities to track project life cycles of all volume  ranges, facilitating easy, on-the-go, and dynamic project  progress status and updates to all concerned stakeholders.
Smart Labs for a Digitally   Driven India With rapid advancement in digital  technologies, the quality control  department of marketing division  has taken up the initiative of  converting all the labs to smart  labs in a phased manner.
This  upgradation is expected to derive  the following benefits: • Increase the automation and digitisation of  laboratory operation with state-of-the-art  testing equipment; • Enhance the overall efficiency of our  processes, right from sample collection to  test report generation through IT and SAP  enabled value-added services on a real- time  basis; • Introduce automatic pop-up of SAP test  report numbers and auto-generation of  email to the sample initiator; • Improve internal and external customer  satisfaction by quick and accurate testing.
16,500+  Retail outlets having ITPS  solution  50,000+  CGD customers data integrated  in our system through SAP S/4  HANA (IS-Utilities) 14  Marketing labs upgraded  to the status of a smart  lab in 2021-22 40 Total smart labs as on  March 31, 2022 Corporate Overview   48 49 Intellectual Capital Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited Road Ahead With the aim to further expand our footprint and facilitate  transformation as an integrated energy major, IndianOil is setting  up a second R&D facility in Faridabad — IndianOil Technology  Development and Deployment Centre.
The facility is going to  be the world’s largest net-zero (power and water) facility with a  GRIHA-5-star rating, LEED platinum standards and consisting of  many new research centres of excellence in areas of alternative  and renewable energy, corrosion research, nanotechnology  and synthetic biology.
It is expected to be commissioned in   2023-24.
Going forward, we will also focus on building a complete digital  business ecosystem that is convenient, efficient, automated,  delivery-centric, agile and fully secured.
The ecosystem will  encapsulate a full-fledged e-Commerce portal including not- for-retail products and service wherein all line of businesses can  be integrated, and all stakeholders can be provided with a unified  and seamless experience.
Certifications The ISO 17025 accreditation  is one of the most  important standards for  testing and calibration  of laboratories around the  world.
Additionally, NABL  accreditation is mandatory  for all laboratories for  ensuring accuracy of the  test results released by  any laboratory.
51 quality  control laboratories in  marketing division have  been accredited by National  Accreditation Board for  Testing and Calibration  Laboratories (NABL) as  per International Standard  ISO/IEC 17025: 2017 for  ‘Testing Discipline’ while 3  laboratories are accredited  by NABL for ‘Calibration  Discipline’.
51    ISO/IEC 17025:  2017 accredited  marketing QC  laboratories   Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 50  NATURAL  CAPITAL SDGs Covered  As a responsible energy major,  IndianOil is cognisant of the  impact our operations have on the  natural ecosystem.
Shouldering  our responsibilities with pride, we  have chosen to lead by example  on environmental stewardship  and ensure a positive outcome for  our customers, communities and  other stakeholders.
~240 MW  Renewable energy 7.17%  YoY reduction of total water  consumption 3.36   MMTCO2-eq emission Reduction in emission  0.283 MMTCO2-eq emission  Emission mitigation from  renewable power H 708.5 crore  Expenditure on alternative energy Climate Change  Mitigation Managing  Environmental  Impacts Our Environmental Performance We have implemented several business practices that are  focused on enhancing our environmental performance such  as reduction of GHG emissions, greener fuel, green building,  energy efficiency, water conservation and many more.
We  are also working towards various initiatives such as waste- to-value, which uses waste plastic, used cooking oil, and  other materials to generate fuels directly.
Combating Climate Change We strive to reduce the negative impact on our climate.
We  have also taken all the required steps to manage and reduce  the GHG emissions caused by our operations.
In addition,  fuel quality upgradation project helps us reduce SO X  emissions to the environment.
Sustainable development  initiatives such as rainwater harvesting, water, carbon and  waste footprint mapping, installation of solar panels, LED  light and tree plantations are some of the efforts taken by us  to reduce our carbon footprint.
Launch of  XTRAGREEN XTRAGREEN was launched  by IndianOil, which  reduces emissions and  improves fuel economy by  5.78%.
We have taken ambitious  targets to realise our vision  of being carbon neutral,  internalising circular  economy on water and  waste management and  being a benchmark in the  energy sector.
With thrust on Sustainable Growth, IndianOil continues to grow year-on year.
An overview of IndianOil Paradip Refinery Material  issues  addressed Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Corporate Overview Indian Oil Corporation Limited 52 53 Natural CapitalHigh OCTANE Performance Energy management is one of our main focus areas, as it  has direct impact on the overall business operations.
We  are constantly working towards the use of cleaner energy  sources such as bioenergy, green hydrogen, plastic to fuel  that support our efforts of reducing our carbon footprint.
The  various governments initiatives and the Production-Linked  Incentive (PLI) scheme foster our efforts to move towards  clean and sustainable energy sources.
Moreover, energy  management system (EMS) is implemented to optimise  energy consumption.
Our robust water management strategy focuses on measuring  water withdrawals and consumption, as well as taking initiatives  to raise water efficiency in our operations.
We ensure ‘Zero liquid  Discharge’ from our operations.
We also undertake rainwater  harvesting at our facilities to ensure the optimal use of water.
We carrried out a water consumption study for all our refineries  to understand the water consumption patterns and water- saving potential.
Monthly water audits are also conducted to  periodically monitor consumption patterns.
Moreover, refineries  have internal MoUs that include indicators such as specific  freshwater consumption, percentage of reuse, and specific  discharge that are monitored, and real achievements are  examined monthly during performance review meetings with  the top management, and annual targets are revised with strict  targets.
Renewable Energy mix Total Installed Capacity (till 31.03.2022) Wind PowerSolar Power 69.82 MW 167.60 MWTotal 237.42 MW 314 Trillion BTU   Total energy   consumption  ~1 Tonne per day  Green hydrogen production  capacity   52  Energy conservation  schemes implemented  We are actively promoting the  adoption of green power by  our retail network.
Our 1,166  outlets implemented solar  energy in their operations.
As  on April 1, 2022, our outlets  have a total installed capacity of  111.5 MW and an annual energy  generating potential of 118  million units of solar power.
IndianOil took the following initiatives to be energy efficient  and transform our organisation into a green campus: Conventional lighting  replaced with LEDs  Conducted 52 energy- saving projects with a total  benefit of 66886 SRFT Installed rooftop solar  PV with 3802 kW  capacity in the refineries  complex Pilot project for generating  energy from waste  Plan to use plastic to  convert it into fuel Energy Management Water Management At IndianOil, we ensure that efficient waste management  practices are in place.
We follow laws and policies implemented  by statutory bodies including State Pollution Control Boards  (SPCBs).
We are responsibly taking all the steps, which involve  identifying and diverting waste generated by our operations.
We have initiated relevant measures for waste reduction,  recycling and efficient waste treatment.
IndianOil is working  in the realm of waste-to-value, using plastic waste, and used  cooking oil to make fuels.
Similarly, spent catalyst and adsorbents are generated in  substantial quantities in refineries and petrochemicals units.
Spent catalyst disposal is done as per nature of catalyst.
During  the year, about 8,933 MT of spent catalyst was recycled safely  disposed through authorised Treatment, Storage, and Disposal  Facilities (TSDFs), e-auction to authorised metal recyclers  and authorised coprocessors of RFCC spent catalyst.
Waste  disposable practise by IndianOil is mentioned below: • E-waste is disposed in IndianOil by way of buy-back against  new procurements or through government approved  trading agency such as MSTC Limited.
• Bio Medical Waste (BMW) generated is handed over to an  outsourced agency approved by SPCB for treatment and  disposal.
• Solid waste generated in Refinery Townships and canteens  is treated in waste management plants to convert it into  biogas or manure.
• Recyclable waste (Ferrous waste, plastic waste, and so on)  are segregated and stored in a safe condition in storage  yards before disposal.
These are sold through auction by   MSTC to recyclers.
Refineries are the main source of hazardous waste generation  including oily sludge and spent catalyst.
Oily sludge gets  generated during storage tank bottom cleaning and ETP  operation.
In 2021-22, 1.17 lakh MT sludge disposal was done  by processing in Delayed Coker Unit (DCU), Sludge Processing  Unit, Confined Bio-remediation and On-site bio-remediation.
Conserving Biodiversity  Under the Corporate Environment Responsibility (CER)  Scheme, IndianOil undertook first-of-its-kind project —  protection of Olive Ridley turtles – in collaboration with  the Wildlife Department of Chennai.
Olive Ridley turtle eats  invertebrates and is considered to play a vital role in both  open ocean and coastal ecosystems.
Through the initiative,  hatchlings of the turtles were released into the sea.
Waste Management Waste  generated  due to our  operations:  Recyclable waste  (Ferrous waste,  plastic waste) Spent catalyst Bio-medical waste E-waste  Oil sludge Organic waste Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 54 55 Natural Capital High-octane performance at IndianOil  is driven by our intrepid go-getters.
We  empower our talent pool by creating  an enabling work-culture that prepares  them for future challenges as well  as opportunities.
We are now widely  acclaimed as an ‘Academy Company’,  because of the diverse growth avenues that  we provide to our employees.
IndianOil’s  leadership talent pipeline is regarded as  the finest in the business, owing to our  people development activities and the  performance-driven work culture.
We  continually keep on re-energising our  human resources so that the business,  personal and professional excellence are  attained at all times.
7,79,229 hours  of training provided  <1%  Attrition rate H 116.18 crore  Spent on training and development  H 23.30 crore  Revenue per employee HUMAN  CAPITAL SDGs Covered  Compliance and  Governance Labour Rights  and Relations Employee  Practices Health and  Safety Material  issues  addressed Our Talent Vision and Strategy We are one of the first oil and gas PSUs to develop a talent  vision and strategy framework.
During the year under review,  we developed this framework for the next three years with the  underlining theme of ‘Future of Work’.
Our Vision is to ‘Align  our People and Talent Capability to Deliver Our Energy  Promise to the Nation’.
We are guided by the ‘DARE2’ framework, which stands for  Demonstrating Dexterity in Decision-Making, Building an  Adaptable Workforce, Being Resilient in the Face of Uncertainty,  and Motivating People through Continuous Engagement.
Empathy is our critical guiding concept and the framework’s  unique foundation.
We continue to undertake an array of  initiatives to embed the framework in our culture.
Occupational Health and Safety Various health and safety initiatives were carried out throughout  the year, including competence building and training  programmes on occupational health and safety-related  themes that covered the whole spectrum of the Company’s  activities.
Following are some major initiatives: • We accomplished the vaccination of more than 5 lakh  beneficiaries, including employees, ex-employees, channel  partners, stakeholders, contract workers, and their families.
All the stakeholders have been administered free-of-cost  vaccines under ‘Mission Vaccination’.
To further make the  process seamless, we uploaded the vaccination data of all  beneficiaries and have been maintaining a database on the  Vaccination Portal of IndianOil Covid-19 dashboard.
• IndianOil actively cares about the mental well-being of its  employees and hence we have developed an employee  assistance programme, ‘Paramarsh’ to aid our workforce in  dealing with anxiety, stress, despair, and irritation.
A total of  27 ‘Emotional Wellness Interactive seminars’ were held,  with workers, ex-employees, and their family members  actively participating from across all Divisions.
A 24x7 toll- free number is available for consultation/ counselling for  employees, ex-employees, and their family members.
• We have developed a telemedicine application for tele- consultation during the pandemic.
The app has operated  with the help of 242 Company and retainer doctors for  employees, ex-employees, and their family members.
More than 9,400 consultations were provided using the  telemedicine app during the year when physical consultation  was not possible.
• E-learning modules on lessons learnt from past incidents,  and various health-related topics have been prepared and  uploaded on ‘Swadhyaya’, our e-learning platform.
• Facility of medical health check-up plan was extended to  dependents and it now encompasses all IOCians and their  dependents of the 40+ age group, allowing employees to  adopt a proactive approach towards their health and that of  their loved ones.
Contributing to the National Cause  of Employability as a Socially  Responsible Corporate The Skill Development Institute (SDI),  Bhubaneswar was dedicated to the  nation by the Chief Minister of Odisha in  the august presence of the Union Minister  of Education and Skill Development and  Entrepreneurship, the Union Minister of  Petroleum and Natural Gas and Housing  and Urban Affairs, Minister of State for  Petroleum and Natural Gas and Labour  and Employment; and other dignitaries.
The infrastructure of SDI is designed  to have a self-contained campus for  more than 1,200 students and 200  faculty and staff members, smart  classrooms, and workshops for hands- on skill training focussed on increasing  employability of the attendees.
Over  200 students have already benefited  from SDI Bhubaneshwar which has  been operating from a pilot campus till  August 2021.
Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 56 57 Human Capital An Inclusive Work Culture To expand and improve the skills of our employees and achieve  our future objectives, we, at IndianOil, have established robust  people processes benchmarked to the best global practises.
Our HR policy is aimed at building an inclusive, engaged, open  and diverse work culture, wherein employees can grow and  thrive in their professional as well as personal lives.
We harness the power of technologies that are pre-configured  with checks and routines to enable optimal policy execution.
Effective grievance redressal methods are also designed to  maintain our team’s trust, respect, and confidence.
Upholding human rights, creating employment and being an  equal opportunity employer – these tenets are at the core of  our policies and practices.
Freedom of association, collective  bargaining, Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Organisation  (POSH), and the Whistle-Blower Policy are among the key  HR policies followed by us.
Human rights provisions are also  considered in our acquisitions, mergers, and investment choices.
IndianOil believes that a diverse, equitable and inclusive  workplace fosters more innovation and resilience than a  homogeneous one.
Thus, to consolidate workforce capacity  and enhance productivity, a Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I)  Index has also been established for tracking DEI progress  through metrics.
The IndianOil DEI Index (based on the Gartner Inclusion  Index 2021 and McKinsey’s concept for assessing inclusion)  is calculated using 15 items from our current Employee  Engagement And Satisfaction Survey (Pratidhwani).
Treating  all our employees equally and in a fair manner, integrating  differences, decision-making, providing psychological safety,  instilling trust, belonging, and meaningful work are the seven  aspects of the DE&I Index.
We have always sought to develop  an inclusive work culture that fosters a healthy and equitable  workplace as a forward-thinking ethical business.
Creating a more Gender Sensitive  Team  On International Women’s Day, we  became the first PSU to have a women’s  hockey team, inducting nine women  hockey stars.
We also welcomed Satwik  Sai Raj Rankireddy, a star doubles  badminton player, into our squad.
In recognition of the unique needs of  our women employees, the maximum  amount of sick leaves that a woman  employee can take in a calendar year  (without submitting a medical certificate)  has been increased from 10 to 24 days,  effective January 1, 2022.
For women employees with infants up to  two years of age, the travel expenses for  the infant along with one attendant are  borne by the Company.
8.7%  Female employees Learning and Development  IndianOil’s Learning and Development (L&D) vision is to nurture  leaders at all levels, who will lead with integrity, conviction,  and clarity to fulfil our energy commitment to the country.
Our priority lies in being an inclusive organisation, developing  leadership competencies, and acquiring and retaining essential  skillsets.
Human resource development is emphasised in our policies  and practices, encouraging a consultative and collaborative  approach to solutions.
We have made considerable progress  in developing flagship programmes that build leadership  abilities at all levels.
Employees in various groups have received  trainings pertaining to their positions in the organisation.
A few of the key L&D initiatives undertaken by us during the  year include: 7,79,229 hours  Of training and development  provided to employees We continued our efforts to improve workforce competency  with recent trends by utilising the Learning Management  System.
During the year under review, we accelerated our  progress by implementing the Swadhyaya – our e-learning  initiative.
Through this platform, employees completed around  1.5 million courses, highlighting the zeal among our people to  learn and grow.
IndianOil has partnered with Harvard ManageMentor®, one of  the leading online self-paced learning systems for developing  and maintaining leadership skills.
The evolved methods of  thinking, from the Harvard Business School, the Harvard  Business Review, and other world-renowned management  professional institutions fuels the HMM modules.
The HMM  access has been given to willing executives, who would benefit  from timely and appropriate ‘right-sized learning’ depending  on their needs.
E-learning  Initiative  (Swadhyaya) HMM (Harvard  Manage Mentor) Paridrishya  Programme We, at IndianOil, have a profound awareness of the recent  developments in the Global Energy Trends.
We have  implemented a flagship programme (Paridrishya), which aims  to creating awareness about the global energy scenario.
Committed to Serve the Nation by  Sharing Critical Knowledge  In order to utilise our expertise in  capability enhancement for the larger  cause of serving the nation through  sharing of critical knowledge, IndianOil  collaborated with the Ministry of External  Affairs and the Ministry of Defence  through Indian Technical & Economic  Cooperation (ITEC) and National  Academy of Defence Production (NADP)  respectively.
We are organising state-of-the-art  training to foreign delegates at our  locations and units and providing them  first hand knowledge on downstream  oil business nitty gritties like refining,  marketing and so on.
We have tied up  with the Ministry of Defence to train  defence officials and providing them  with practitioner led strategic leadership  inputs which are essential part for newly  formed defence PSUs.
Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 58 59 Human Capital Engaging and Enabling Work Environment At IndianOil, we continue to invest towards organising various  employee engagement initiatives as well as conducting  employee satisfaction surveys to create an inclusive culture.
An ecosystem which supports our employees to achieve their  full potential, while listening to and addressing the feedback  received from them.
During the year, few of our employee engagement initiatives  include: At IndianOil, we have democratised the learning process  by providing various learning opportunities to our workers.
While mentoring newly hired employees is common in most  companies, IndianOil has taken it a step further and created  a comprehensive mentoring framework that allows all  employees, regardless of grade, age, or location, to help each  other grow through collaboration, common goal achievements  and psycho-social support.
Abhigyan will enable co-worker  interactions, on-the-job learning opportunities, help exchange  best practises throughout the company, and encourage them  to connect regardless of their location.
Abhigyan  (Integrated  Corporate  Mentoring  Framework) Srijan has been formed, with members drawn from all divisions  of the Company, in recognition of the crucial role of innovation  today.
The cell investigates all facets of HR’s developmental  activities.
Through technological interventions, simplicity,  re-engineering, optimisation, developing stronger employee  connections, and focusing on organisational growth, Srijan  regularly analyses the internal and external world for new and  enhanced HR services.
Srijan (HR Re- engineering and  Innovation Cell) HR Vista : A Legacy of  Wisdom As one of the  largest commercial  enterprises of the  country, IndianOil has  been contributing  positively to the Indian  HR landscape for  several decades by  keeping in sync with  the contemporary,  dynamic, and futuristic HR trends.
Over the  years, it was felt that documenting the nature  of these HR trends is critical for sustaining  focus on excellence and moving towards  brighter workplaces of tomorrow.
In line  with these objectives, we launched an HR  e-Magazine – HR Vista on the 62nd IndianOil  day.
The magazine aspires to reach out to  fellow corporates and academia and share a  complete perspective of HR practices across  the globe.
HR Vista has been co-created with  thought leaders, academicians and industry  members.
Covering the entire gamut of HR  processes, it attempts to bridge the gap  between the two worlds of industry and  academia and help disseminate knowledge  amongst all stakeholders.
Corporate Overview   Fuelling India’s Growth Sustainably Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 60 61  Community  Development SOCIAL AND  RELATIONSHIP  CAPITAL IndianOil engages and  connects with millions  of customers and  stakeholders every day,  and their insights help us  improve our operations  and maintain our high- octane performance.
We  energise their lives with  our innovative energy  solutions, and together  we build sustainable  value for the nation.
Material  issues  addressed Economic  Performance Customer Satisfaction  and Brand Loyalty SDGs Covered  Customers At IndianOil, we cater to diverse requirements of our customers.
We strive to resolve their concerns/grievances and engage  with them through in-person interactions, via mobile app,  chatbot and feedback mechanism.
These initiatives enable us  to elevate customer experience.
Our digital platform ePIC maintains a constant connect with  customers through IndianOil ONE mobile app and our  customer portal which provides access to the entire energy  product basket of IndianOil.
This platform also helps us host  various customer relationship management (CRM) facilities  such as Grievance Redressal Campaign, Loyalty management,  Sales Force Automation, and Lead Opportunities Key Accounts  management (LOKAM).
Additionally, we have launched the secondary dealer  management system (SDMS), which is a secure, scalable and  robust platform, providing omni-channel capabilities, Next- Gen integrated CRM, predictive capabilities for improved  99.32%  Customers’ complaints resolved at  retail outlets during the year ‘Pure Aur Poora Dono Hee’  campaign Through this campaign  IndianOil reinforces customers’  confidence, which helps build its  brand reputation.
We leverage  various social media platforms  such as Facebook, YouTube,  LinkedIn, direct SMS to widen  our reach and recall.
business forecasting and decision-making.
It is capable to  deliver high-quality responses to customers across multiple  channels, reduce resolution time and provide more accurate  information, service customers about their account and history  and enable knowledge transfer to take customer service to the  next level.
Moreover, our engagement methods such as ‘Customer  Opinions’ showcase the testimonials and photos at IndianOil  retail outlets, capturing customer Quality and Quantity  (Q&Q).
Q&Q helps us strengthen our customer experience.
Our relationships with customers enable us to improve our  operations and service delivery that helps in overall business  growth.
WhatsApp Chatbot  Smart Indane  Assistant (SIA) has  been facilitated for  customers, enabling  them to book refill,  track order and make  payment at ease.
75.62 lakh+  LPG customers enrolled  H 2,64,436 crore   Contribution to exchequer 100%  Packaging materials of lubes is  sourced from local vendors  30  Vendor engagement programmes  conducted by contract cell 48%  Dividend payout ratio Indian Oil Corporation Limited 62 High OCTANE Performance Corporate Overview   Social and Relationship Capital 63 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Suppliers and Business Partners Our suppliers and business partners are an integral part of  our business.
They play a key role in providing services to our  customers.
For a sustainable and long-term relationship with  our suppliers, we have evolved a culture that is transparent,  professional and outcome-oriented.
We align our operations and vision with the Government of  India’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat,’ mission.
We buy from local  merchants and suppliers to help empower our country’s  economy, and create livelihood opportunities.
We believe in  engaging regularly with our business partners to understand  their perspectives and improve our performance.
We maintain  close coordination with our supplier and business partners  across the value chain to ensure uninterrupted supplies to  customers.
We also launched Traders’ and Schedulers’ Workbench (TSW),  SAP module having provision of mapping contractual terms and  obligation of gas sale, purchase and transmission.
This module  helps us in end-to-end tracing of gas molecule as well as in  inventory management.
Our E-site also helps us strengthen  the organisation by providing the omni-channel customer  connect, common interface, robust grievance management  system and centralised data repository.
48%  Dividend pay-out ratio  13.68 lakh  Shareholders as on   March 31, 2022 58,000+  Touch points of  Marketing  Investors and Shareholders We are proactive in understanding and resolving the concerns  of investors.
We also empower our investors through effective  financial resource management and proper capital allocation.
The trust of our investors plays a critical role in sharpening our  abilities to deliver good results.
We remain in constant touch with our investors to understand  their aspirations and concerns through earnings call, press  releases, meetings and conferences.
Additionally, we have  investor grievance mechanism to address the issues raised  by our investors.
Our ability to successfully engage with  the investing community and our strong and transparent  governance framework make our long-term relationship with  our investors fruitful.
7,403  Grievances lodged  and resolved  K 1,11,981 crore  Market capitalisation as on  March 31, 2022 K 2,64,436 crore  Contribution to exchequer in 2021-22 K 1,57,181 crore  Central exchequer K 1,07,255 crore  States exchequer K 11,568 crore  Dividend for 2021-22 Government and Industrial Bodies At IndianOil we regularly interact with multiple government  bodies within our area of operation to maintain an open  relationship with them.
Working closely, whenever needed, we  proactively participate in discussions with the government and  associated regulatory bodies to bring forward issues that need  discussion.
We partner with them to strengthen the country’s  energy security, develop and propagate clean energy.
Through  our operations, we contribute and promote various government  initiatives, such as ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, ‘Swachh Bharat  Abhiyan’ and the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY).
Aligned to the government’s ambitious target of building clean  energy, we are regularly introducing products and improvising  processes that contribute to the government’s goals.
Community We, at IndianOil, not only believe in boosting the nation economically but also understand our responsibility towards developing  the community socially.
Our CSR initiatives are aimed at addressing the requirements and uplifting the communities as a whole.
Through our collaboration with various government organisation and NGOs, we try to reach the length and breadth of the country.
Health and  nutrition  Art and  culture  Education Women  empowerment Skill  development  Environment  sustainability  Rural  development  Animal  welfare  Intervention areas 493  CSR projects  undertaken 284  Youth skilled through our  Skill Development Institute 6,000+  Non-employee patients treated  at Assam Oil Division Hospital,  Digboi (Assam) 82  Participants of our  integrated pottery  development initiative 35  Aspirational  districts covered  2.72 lakh  Patients treated through  Aarogyam initiative 166  Sportspersons  sponsored  120  Girl students benefitted  through Vidushi initiative  600+  Students graduated from  Assam Oil School of  Nursing, Digboi since 2014 2  Hospitals with bed capacity 350  beds and 180 beds being set- up to provide affordable cancer  care treatment at the doorstep  of the people of Purvanchal and  adjoining areas Key outcomes achieved  For more details, please refer to  the CSR report on page 106 IndianOil supported Covid hospital at Odisha Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 64 65 Social and Relationship Capital Awards and Recognitions Mr S M Vaidya, Chairman,  IndianOil conferred CMD  Leadership Award at the  Governance Now 8 th PSU  Awards A V Ogale Award for  demonstrating highest  standards in Safety & Fire  prevention was awarded to  Barauni Refinery.
Guwahati  & Panipat Naphtha Cracker  won the 1st & 2nd runners up  trophy IndianOil was adjudged  winner for its diligently  crafted cleanliness initiatives  and activities during the  Swachhta Pakhwada held  from July 1-15, 2021 IndianOil bagged 19th FICCI  CSR Award for ‘Madhur  Muskaan’ initiative IndianOil team emerged  champions at the  International Project  Management Olympiad  and Team Excellence  Award competition in  November 2021 organised  by the Centre for Excellence  in Project Management in  collaboration with i2P2M IndianOil Jamshedpur  Bottling Plant conferred  with the National Safety  Award for outstanding  performance in Industrial  Safety IndianOil bagged the  prestigious Asian Oil and  Gas Award for Covid  Management and New  Product of the Year IndianOil won the Best  PSU for the Promotion of  Sports Award at Sportstar  Aces 2022 IndianOil received the Asia  Corporate Excellence  & Sustainability (ACES)  Award 2021 IndianOil was adjudged the  Best PSU 2021 by Dun and  Bradstreet IndianOil bagged the 7 th  CII Industrial Intellectual  Property Award 2021 Mathura Refinery  recognised as Excellent  Energy Efficient Unit for  its Energy performance  during the year 2020-21 by  the Confederation of Indian  Industry (CII).
Mathura  Refinery won this award in  2019-20 also IndianOil Panipat Naphtha  Cracker won the Best  Energy Efficient case study’  conducted by CHT Paradip Refinery was  adjudged Winner in Gold  Category for the prestigious  Kalinga Safety Excellence  Award-2020 in the  National Safety Conclave,  Bhubaneswar IndianOil won the Global  Healthy Workplace  Award-2021 under large  employer category.
This  award was instituted by  Global Centre for Healthy  Workplaces (GCHW)  based on ‘WHO Healthy  Workplace Model’ Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar for the year 2021 was conferred to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. for encouraging sports  through Corporate Social Responsibility Federation of Indian  Petroleum Industry  bestowed IndianOil with  the following awards:   • Digitally Advanced  Company of the Year  award for the 2 nd  consecutive year National Safety Council  Award - 2021 won by  IndianOil:   • Sarvashreshtha Suraksha  Puraskar Jury’s Special  Award for continual  improvement in SHE  performance during  last three award years –  Guwahati Refinery • Shreshtha Suraksha  Puraskar –   • Digboi Refinery,  Assam  • Paradip Haldia  Barauni Pipeline,  Haldia • Prashansha Patra –   • Western Region  Pipelines, Jaipur,  Rajasthan  • Patna Terminal  • Indane Bottling Plant,  Hoskote, Bangalore  • Patna Bottling Plant,  Gidha, Bihar  • Mathura Marketing  Terminal, UP • Certificate of  Appreciation for 78  locations • Refinery of the Year,  less than 9 MMTPA –  Mathura Refinery; more  than 9 MMTPA capacity  – Panipat Refinery • Woman Executive of  the Year in Oil and Gas  industry - Ms Archna  Bhardwaj, ED (Shipping),  IndianOil • Innovative Team of  the Year - IndianOil  Team lead by Dr SSV  Ramakumar, Director  R&D, IndianOil • Initiatives in Clean  Energy Company of the  year  Corporate Overview Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 66 67 Awards and Recognitions IndianOil won the ISTD  31st National special  commendation award  under Services category for  innovative training practices The ePIC project won Govt of  India’s 24th National Awards  for e-Governance under  “Excellence in Adopting  Emerging Technologies IndianOil won ISGF Innovation  Awards 2022 under Smart  Technology (Gas Distribution)  for CGD digital business system IndianOil won SAP ACE 2021  Award in the Community  Catalyst category for  implementation of DMS in SAP IndianOil won SUSE India  Innovation Hero Award 2021  for the Vertical – Oil & Gas SERVO bagged the cost  excellence award for year  2020-21 from Tata Motors  for Grease Servosynthplex  2, which has a projected  annual savings of H 40  Crores to Tata Motors IndianOil-SERVO was  adjudged the Most  Innovative Partner of the  Tata Group, edging out  over 600 other partners in  the Tata InnoVista contest -  2021, for the development  of the SERVO Synthplex 2  – Innovative Synthetic Hub  grease Odisha State Office, Bihar State  Office, IOAOD State Office were  awarded Rajbhasha Puraskar  by Town Official Language  Implementation Committee  (TOLIC) for excellent Hindi  implementation Corporate Information Whole-time Directors 1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman 2.
Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar, Director (Research & Development) 3.
Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra, Director (Human Resources) 4.
Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta, Director (Finance)   5.
Shri V. Satish Kumar, Director (Marketing) w.e.f.
28.10.2021 6.
Shri D. S. Nanaware, Director (Pipelines) w.e.f.
28.12.2021  7.
Ms Sukla Mistry, Director (Refineries) w.e.f.
07.02.2022 8.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury, Director (Planning & Business Development) w.e.f.
23.02.2022 9.
Shri G. K. Satish, Director (Planning & Business Development) upto 31.08.2021  Government Nominee Directors 10.
Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari                  11.
Ms Indrani Kaushal, upto 24.09.2021  Independent Directors   12.
Ms Lata Usendi 13.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung, w.e.f.
24.11.2021 14.
Dr Ashutosh Pant, w.e.f.
24.11.2021 15.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker, w.e.f.
24.11.2021 16.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas, w.e.f.
24.11.2021 17.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray, w.e.f.
24.11.2021 18.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan, w.e.f.
24.11.2021 19.
Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh, w.e.f.
08.04.2022 20.
Shri Rajendra Arlekar, upto 10.07.2021 Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani   Board of Directors   Company Secretary IndianOil was in the list of  top 20 winners globally in  the 2022 BEST Awards by  the Association for Talent  Development (ATD) for  demonstrating employee  talent development  IndianOil was adjudged the  winner in Excellence in  Learning & Development;  Excellence in Developing  Leaders of Tomorrow  categories at the SHRM HR  Excellence Awards 2021,  and Special Mention for  Excellence in Community  Impact Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 68 69 Corporate Information Core Team Seated Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya,  Chairman Standing (from left to right) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar,  Director (Research & Development) Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta,  Director (Finance)  Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra,  Director (Human Resources) Shri D. S. Nanaware,   Director (Pipelines) Shri V. Satish Kumar,   Director (Marketing)  Shri Sujoy Choudhury,   Director (Planning &  Business Development)  Ms Sukla Mistry,  Director (Refineries) High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 70 Corporate Overview   Core Team 71 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Anant Kumar Singh Chief Vigilance Officer  Rahul Bhardwaj Executive Director I/C (Quality Control), Marketing  U. P. Singh Executive Director I/C (Human Resources), Marketing  Subimal Mondal Executive Director (Lubes), Marketing  D. L. Pramodh Executive Director & State Head (Karnataka State Office),  Marketing Partha Ghosh Executive Director & Refinery Head (Haldia Refinery) Ms Archna Bhardwaj  Executive Director (Shipping), Refineries  Manish Sinha Executive Director (Explosives), Business Development Dr G. S. Kapur Executive Director I/C (Chemical Technology and Technology  Promotion & Forecasting), R & D  Vibhash Kumar Executive Director & State Head (Bihar State Office), Marketing Arup Sinha Executive Director (Regional Services - Northern Region),  Marketing Sanjaya Bhatnagar Executive Director & Refinery Head (Gujarat Refinery) Amitabh Akhauri Executive Director (Retail Sales - South & West), Marketing  Sanjay Sahay Executive Director (Aviation), Marketing  P. Jayadevan Executive Director (LPG), Marketing  Vigyan Kumar Executive Director (Retail Sales - North & East), Marketing  Hridesh Baindail Executive Director (Exploration & Production), Business  Development Shyam Bohra Executive Director & State Head (Delhi State Office), Marketing Sanjeev Gupta Executive Director (Corporate Strategy), Corporate Office R. S. S. Rao Executive Director & State Head (Telangana & Andhra Pradesh  State Office), Marketing Sunil Garg Executive Director & State Head (Rajasthan State Office),  Marketing T. Sathish Kumar  Executive Director (Planning & Economic Studies), Marketing  S. Sekar Executive Director (Materials & Contracts), Refineries  Sanjiv Kumar Surchowdhury Executive Director (Projects), Pipelines K. K. Sharma Executive Director (Sustainable Development), Marketing  Liton Nandy Executive Director (Information Systems), Corporate Business  Technology Centre Dr Uttiya Bhattacharyya Executive Director (Corporate Communications), Corporate  Office Sanjay Kumar V. Executive Director (South Eastern Region Pipelines), SERPL,  Bhubaneswar Region HQ D. S. Sehgal Executive Director (Process-Projects), Refineries P. S. Mony Executive Director (Institutional Business), Marketing Sanjay Kaushal Executive Director (Corporate Affairs & Taxation), Corporate  Office Debasis Bhattacharyya Executive Director (Technology Implementation Cell), R & D  Vinod Kumar Executive Director (International Trade), Corporate Office Sandeep Jain Executive Director (Business Development)  Raj Kumar Dubey Executive Director & State Head (Uttar Pradesh State Office-II),  Marketing Rajesh Kumar Sayal Executive Director I/C (Supplies), Marketing  V. S. Jain Executive Director & Refinery Head (Paradip Refinery)   List of Senior Executives Sandeep Makker Executive Director (Retail Transformation), Marketing  Atish Chandra Ghosh Executive Director I/C (Regional Services - Eastern Region),  Marketing Chinmoy Ghosh Executive Director (Western Region Pipelines)  Shridhar Bhagwat Executive Director (Employee Relations & CSR), Corporate  Office S. S. Sawant Executive Director (Operations), Pipelines D. Srivastava Executive Director (Marketing Strategy), Marketing  S. S. Pandita Executive Director (Health, Safety & Environment), Pipelines Rajesh Gupta Executive Director (Construction), Pipelines G. S. P. Singh Executive Director (Cryogenics), Business Development Ms Urvija Bajpai  Executive Director (IndianOil Institute of Petroleum  Management)  Ameet Gohain Executive Director (Finance), R & D  Kailash Pati Executive Director I/C (Human Resources), Refineries  G Ramesh Executive Director & State Head (AOD State Office), Marketing Anirban Ghosh Executive Director & State Head (Maharashtra State Office),  Marketing Dr Madhusudan Sau Executive Director (Refining Technology), R&D Sanjay Kumar Jha Executive Director (City Gas Distribution), Pipelines T. C. Shankar  Executive Director (Finance), Pipelines S. P. Singh Executive Director & Refinery Head (Guwahati Refinery) Anil Sarin Executive Director (Security), Corporate Office D. N. Badarinarayan Executive Director (Engineering & Projects), Marketing M. Annadurai  Executive Director & State Head (Gujarat State Office),  Marketing K. Sailendra Executive Director (Regional Services - Southern Region),  Marketing Manas Bora Executive Director (Human Resources), Refineries T. Chatterjee Executive Director (Finance), Eastern Region Office Jawahar Lal Executive Director (Materials & Contracts), Pipelines Sanjiv Kakkar Executive Director & State Head (Uttar Pradesh State Office-I),  Marketing Manish Taskar Executive Director (Pricing), Marketing  Ranjan Mehrotra Executive Director (Health, Safety & Environment), Corporate  Office Rajendra Kumar Jha Executive Director & Refinery Head (Barauni Refinery) J. S. Oberoi Executive Director (Co-ordination), Corporate Office Saikat Sikdar Executive Director (Projects), Paradip Refinery Vineet Singhal Executive Director (Vigilance), Corporate Office Atul Gupta Executive Director (Optimization), Corporate Office Jagdish Gupta Executive Director (Finance), Marketing  Sanjay Malik Executive Director (Pricing), Corporate Office Parmanand Goyal Executive Director (Finance), Refineries Sanjeev Kumar Kanojia Executive Director (Eastern Region Pipelines) Shailendra Shukla Executive Director (Quality Control), Marketing  M. K. Sharma Executive Director (Finance), Business Development Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 72 73 Senior Management Team Dr C. Kannan Executive Director (Chemical Technology and Technology  Promotion & Forecasting), R & D  Manish Grover Executive Director (Strategic IS & IS), Refineries  Santanu Gupta Executive Director (Alternative Energy & Sustainable  Development), Business Development Dipak Kumar Basu Executive Director & State Head (Madhya Pradesh State  Office), Marketing L. K. S. Chauhan Executive Director (Retail Sales), West Bengal State Office,  Marketing Alok Kumar Panda Executive Director (Retail Sales), Rajasthan State Office,  Marketing B. Anil Kumar Executive Director (Retail Sales), Telangana & Andhra Pradesh  State Office, Marketing Senthil Kumar N. Executive Director (Northern Region Pipelines)  Dr M. R. Das Executive Director (Human Resources), Marketing  K. S. Rao Executive Director (Operations), Marketing  S. K. Bajpai Executive Director (Health, Safety & Environment), Marketing Gur Prasad Executive Director (Retail Sales), Karnataka State Office,  Marketing Rajiv Kacker Executive Director (Projects), Refineries  Ms Padma D.  Executive Director (Corporate Planning & Economic Studies),  Business Development Sanjay Parashar Executive Director (Supplies), Marketing  Subhajit Sarkar Executive Director (Operations), Refineries  M. L. Dahriya Executive Director (Technical), Panipat Refinery  V. C. Asokan Executive Director & State Head (Tamil Nadu State Office),  Marketing Dr Tapas Kumar Pattanayak Executive Director (Human Resources), Pipelines Jitendra Kumar Executive Director & State Head (Punjab State Office),  Marketing Manish Patil Executive Director (Human Resources), Corporate Office Shailesh Tiwari Executive Director (Southern Region Pipelines)  Ms Rashmi Govil Executive Director (Human Resource Development),  Corporate Office A S Sahney Executive Director (Petrochemicals), Business Development Debajit Gogoi Executive Director (Technical), Mathura Refinery Registered Office IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051 Corporate Office 3079/3, Sadiq Nagar, J.B. Tito Marg,  New Delhi - 110 049 Refineries Division Head Office SCOPE Complex, Core-2, 7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110 003 Barauni Refinery P. O. Barauni Refinery, Dist.
Begusarai - 861 114 Bihar Digboi Refinery AOD, P. O. Digboi - 786 171 Assam Gujarat Refinery P. O. Jawahar Nagar, Dist.
Vadodara - 391 320 Gujarat Guwahati Refinery P. O. Noonmati,  Guwahati - 781 020 Assam Haldia Refinery P. O. Haldia Refinery, Dist.
Midnapur - 721 606 West Bengal Mathura Refinery P. O. Mathura Refinery, Mathura - 281 005 Uttar Pradesh Panipat Refinery P. O. Panipat Refinery, Panipat - 132 140 Haryana MAIN OFFICES & MAJOR UNITS Bongaigaon Refinery P. O. Dhaligaon - 783 385 Dist.
Chirang Assam Paradip Refinery P.O.
Jhimani, via Kujang, Dist.
Jagatsinghpur – 754 141 Odisha Pipelines Division Head Office A-1, Udyog Marg, Sector-1,   NOIDA - 201 301 Uttar Pradesh Northern Region P. O. Panipat Refinery, Panipat - 132 140 Haryana Eastern Region 14, Lee Road, Kolkata - 700 020 West Bengal Western Region P. O.
Box 1007,  Bedipara, Morvi Road, Gauridad, Rajkot - 360 003 Gujarat Southern Region 6/13, Wheatcrafts Road,  Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034 Tamil Nadu South Eastern Region 3rd Floor, Alok Bharti Tower, Saheed Nagar,  Bhubaneshwar - 751 007 Odisha R&D Centre: Sector 13,  Faridabad - 121 007 Haryana Marketing Division Head Office IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051 Maharashtra Northern Region IndianOil Bhavan,  1, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Yusuf Sarai, New Delhi - 110 016 Eastern Region IndianOil Bhavan, 2, Gariahat Road (South), Dhakuria, Kolkata - 700 068 West Bengal Western Region IndianOil Bhavan  Plot No.
C-33, ‘G’ Block Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051 Maharashtra Southern Region IndianOil Bhavan, 139, Nungambakkam High Road, Chennai - 600 034 Tamil Nadu Business Group Cryogenics A-4, MIDC Ambad Nashik- 422010 Maharashtra Business Development Group IndianOil Bhavan,  1, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Yusuf Sarai,  New Delhi - 110 016 Business Group Explosives IBP House, 34A, Nirmal Chandra Street Kolkata - 700013 West Bengal REGISTRAR & TRANSFER AGENT KFin Technologies Ltd. Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,  Gachibowli Financial District,  Nanakramguda,  Hyderabad – 500 032 Toll Free No.
: 1800 309 4001 E-mail Address : einward.ris@kfintech.com Website : www.kfintech.com STOCK EXCHANGES BSE Ltd. P.J.
Towers, Dalal Street  Mumbai - 400 001  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.  Exchange Plaza,  5th Floor, Plot C/1, ‘G’ Block,  Bandra - Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051  BANKERS State Bank of India  HDFC Bank Ltd.
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE SBICAP Trustee Company Ltd. Mistry Bhavan , 4th Floor, 122, Dinshaw Wachha Road,  Churchgate, Mumbai - 400 020 Website: www.sbicaptrustee.com REGISTRAR & TRANSFER AGENT, STOCK EXCHANGES, BANKERS & DEBENTURE TRUSTEE Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 74 75 Main Offices & Major Units / RTA, Bankers, etc.
AUDITORS FOR THE YEAR 2021-22 STATUTORY AUDITORS  1.
G. S. Mathur & Co., New Delhi 2.
K. C. Mehta & Co., Mumbai 3.
Singhi & Co., Kolkata  4.
S R B & Associates, Kolkata BRANCH AUDITOR O. Aggarwal & Co., New Delhi COST AUDITORS  1.
Narasimha Murthy & Co.,  Hyderabad  2.
K. G. Goyal & Associates, New Delhi  3.
DGM & Associates, Kolkata  4.
G. R. Kulkarni & Associates, Mumbai  5.
P. Raju Iyer, M. Pandurangan &  Associates, Chennai Narasimha Murthy & Co., Hyderabad is  the Central Cost Auditor.
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries,  Mumbai Name Business Indian Subsidiaries Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
Refining of petroleum products Foreign Subsidiaries IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd., Mauritius Terminalling, Retailing, Aviation refueling & Bunkering Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering IOC Middle East FZE, UAE Lube Blending & Marketing of Lubricants & Base Oil IOC Sweden AB, Sweden Investment company for E&P Project in Venezuela and Battery Technology Company in Israel IOCL (USA) Inc., USA Participation in Shale Gas Asset Project  IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands Investment company for E&P Assets in Canada and UAE IOCL Singapore Pte Ltd. Trading operation for procurement of Crude Oil, Import / Export of petroleum products and  Investment Company for E&P Assets & Alternative Energy Technology Company SUBSIDIARIES GROUP COMPANIES Name Business Partners Avi-Oil India Pvt.
Ltd. Manufacturing of Speciality lubricants Neden BV, Netherlands Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd. Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Pvt.
Ltd.
Setting up and operation of Aviation Fuel  Facility at Delhi Airport.
Delhi International Airport Ltd.   Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Green Gas Ltd. City Gas Distribution GAIL (India) Ltd. GSPL India Transco Ltd.
Setting up of Natural Gas Pipelines Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. GSPL India Gasnet Ltd.
Setting up of Natural Gas Pipelines Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd.
Setting up and operating fertilizer plants at  Sindri, Gorakhpur and Barauni Coal India Ltd. NTPC Ltd.
Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd. Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Ltd. IHB Ltd.
Laying, buidling, operating or expanding LPG  Pipeline from Kandla (Gujarat) to Gorakhpur  (UP) Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Indian Oiltanking Ltd. Terminalling EPC services and production of  Compressed Bio-Gas (CBG) Oiltanking India GmbH, Germany IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. City Gas Distribution Adani Total Gas Ltd. IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. Terminalling services and parallel marketing  of LPG Petronas, Malaysia.
IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd. LNG Terminal at Ennore Maximus Investment Advisory Pvt.
Ltd.  ICICI Bank Ltd. Tamil Nadu Industrial Development  Corporation Ltd. IndianOil Skytanking Pvt.
Ltd. Aviation fuel facility projects and Into Plane  services Skytanking GmbH, Germany Indian Synthetic Rubber Pvt.
Ltd. Manufacturing of Styrene Butadiene Rubber  at Panipat Trimurti Holding Corporation, B.V.I.
JOINT VENTURES Name Business Partners Indradhanush Gas Grid Ltd.
Setting up Natural Gas Pipeline in North East  India Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.  GAIL (India) Ltd. Oil India Ltd. Numaligarh Refinery Ltd. IndianOil Total Pvt.
Ltd.
Undertaking bitumen business, LPG business  as conducted at LPG facilities Total Marketing and Services S.A., France IOC Phinergy Pvt.
Ltd. Commercialization of the Al-Air battery  technology in India Phinergy, Israel Kochi Salem Pipelines Pvt.
Ltd.
Laying pipeline for transportation of LPG from  Kochi to Salem Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Lubrizol India Pvt.
Ltd. Manufacturing of Lube Additives Lubrizol Corp., USA Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Pvt.
Ltd.
Setting up common user integrated aviation  fuel infrastructure at Mumbai Airport Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.   Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Mumbai International Airport Ltd. NPCIL – IndianOil Nuclear Energy  Corporation Ltd.
Setting up Nuclear Power Plant Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. Paradeep Plastic Park Ltd. Development and implementation of  Paradeep Plastic Park project Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development  Corporation Petronet LNG Ltd. LNG imports / distribution and regasification Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.  GAIL (India) Ltd.  Petronet VK Ltd. Construction and operation of pipeline for  transportation of POL products from Vadinar  to Kandla Reliance Industries Ltd.  Nayara Energy Ltd.  Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd.  Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Deendayal Port Trust  State Bank of India  Canara Bank Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. Refinery and Petrochemical Project in  Maharashtra Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Suntera Nigeria 205 Ltd. Oil exploration activities.
Oil India Ltd.  Suntera Resources Ltd., Cyprus Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 76 77 Auditors / Group Companies Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 ( US $ Million ) (H in crore) I Financial Revenue from operations  97,767  69,374  7,28,460  5,14,890  5,66,354  6,05,932  5,06,428  Profit Before Exceptional Items,  Finance Cost, Tax, Depreciation  & Amortisation (EBITDA)  6,384  5,742  47,568  42,614  22,356  36,952  43,114  Profit Before Exceptional Items,  Finance Cost & Tax (EBIT)  4,907  4,421  36,562  32,810  13,590  29,438  36,047  Profit Before Exceptional Items  & Tax 4259 4004  31,733  29,716  7,611  25,127  32,564  Profit Before Tax 4259 4004  31,733  29,716  (3,694)  25,127  32,564  Profit After Tax 3246 2942  24,184  21,836  1,313  16,894  21,346  Other Comprehensive Income  (net of tax) 840 618  6,260  4,584  (10,409)  (2,324)  397  Total Comprehensive Income 4086 3560  30,444  26,420  (9,096)  14,570  21,743  Contribution to Central & State  Exchequer 35490 32173  2,64,436  2,38,786  1,82,067  1,93,422  1,90,670  Cumulative Dividend  86,505  74,937  63,920  60,018  51,109  Value Added 7859 7185  58,560  53,326  19,844  48,054  53,193  Distribution : To Employees 1475 1443  10,992  10,712  8,793  11,102  10,079  To Providers of Capital   - Finance Cost 648 417  4,829  3,094  5,979  4,311  3,483  - Dividend 1294 1299  9,640  9,640  4,820  9,671  9,479  To Government- Income Tax &  Dividend Tax 1013 1062  7,549  7,880  (4,021)  10,218  13,139  Retained in Business    - Depreciation 1477 1321  11,006  9,804  8,766  7,514  7,067  - Retained earnings 1952 1643  14,544  12,196  (4,493)  5,238  9,946  What Corporation Owns Net Fixed Assets 19379 19612  1,46,889  1,43,400  1,33,682  1,18,708  1,13,927  Capital Work In Progress (CWIP) 5864 4520  44,446  33,052  29,738  23,599  14,348  Investments 7624 6649  57,787  48,619  39,139  49,940  47,488  Other Non Current Assets 912 744  6,912  5,437  6,279  6,401  9,029  Other Current Assets 17091 13829  1,29,557  1,01,117  98,000  1,13,931  94,657  Total 50870 45354  3,85,591  3,31,625  3,06,838  3,12,579  2,79,449  What Corporation Owes Equity  - Share Capital 1211  1,256  9,181  9,181  9,181  9,181  9,479   - Other Equity 16109  13,857  1,22,105  1,01,319  84,588  99,477  1,00,692  Total  17,320  15,113  1,31,286  1,10,500  93,769  1,08,658  1,10,171 Performance at a Glance Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 ( US $ Million ) (H in crore) Borrowings 14617  12,912  1,10,799  94,413  1,08,620  82,848  54,409  Tax Liability (Net) 1516  1,550  11,491  11,334  7,160  13,989  10,726  Other Non Current Liabilities 1523  1,478  11,548  10,810  10,278  6,408  7,366  Other Current Liabilities 15894  14,301  1,20,468  1,04,569  87,010  1,00,677  96,778  Total  50,870  45,354  3,85,591  3,31,625  3,06,838  3,12,579  2,79,449 Net worth (as per Companies  Act) 15044  13,685  1,14,031  1,00,064  87,851  92,424  91,664  Market Capitalisation 14773  11,826  1,11,981  86,469  76,867  1,53,310  1,71,511  Enterprise Value 29297  24,695  2,22,070  1,80,568  1,84,951  2,36,119  2,25,866  Key Financial Indicators IOCL Reported GRM ( in $/bbl) 11.25 5.64 0.08 5.41 8.49  IOCL Normalised GRM (in $/bbl) 7.61 2.31 2.64 4.81 7.37  Singapore GRM (in $/bbl)# 4.99 0.54 3.21 4.88 7.22  Earnings Per Share* (in $/H) 0.35 0.32 26.34 23.78 1.43 17.89 22.52  Cash Earnings Per Share*(in $/H) 0.51 0.46 38.33 34.46 10.98 25.85 29.98  Book Value Per Share* (in $/H) 1.89 1.65 143.00 120.36 102.13 118.35 116.23  Market Price Per Share (NSE)*  (in H)  118.95  91.85  81.65  162.85  176.60  Price Earning Ratio  4.52  3.86  57.08  9.10  7.84  Dividend Payout Ratio 48% 50% 297% 53% 52% Total Payout Ratio 48% 50% 358% 63% 63% Retention Ratio 52% 50% -258% 37% 37% Debt Equity Ratio  - Total Debt To Equity 0.84:1 0.85:1 1.16:1 0.76:1 0.49:1  - Long Term Debt To Equity 0.39:1 0.44:1 0.46:1 0.29:1 0.14:1 Current ratio 0.76:1 0.73:1 0.69:1 0.81:1 0.76:1 Return on Average Net Worth (%) 22.59 23.24 1.46 18.35 24.66  Return on Average Capital  Employed (%) 15.44 15.20 6.45 15.34 22.50  Total Asset Turnover Ratio  (times) 2.03 1.61 1.82 2.05 1.89  Trade Receivables Turnover  (times) 45.95 38.96 39.62 46.64 53.44  Inventory Turnover Ratio (times) 7.98 7.20 8.30 8.72 7.80  Interest Service coverage ratio  (times) 8.25 11.24 1.79 8.57 12.31  Debt Service coverage ratio  (times) 4.93 5.00 1.67 4.31 3.30  EBITDA Margin (%) 6.53 8.28 3.95 6.10 8.51  Operating Profit Margin (%) 4.43 5.49 1.77 4.34 6.44  Net Profit Margin (%) 3.32 4.24 0.23 2.79 4.22  Note:   Exchange rate used:-  For 2021-22 Average Rate 1 US $ = H 74.51 and Closing Rate 1 US $ = H 75.80 as on 31.03.2022 For 2020-21 Average Rate 1 US $ = H 74.22 and Closing Rate 1 US $ = H 73.12 as on 31.03.2021 * Absolute figures in US$ and H Adjusted for Bonus Shares (1:1 issued in March 2018) # Source Reuters Corporate Overview  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 78 79 Performance at a Glance 1 Revenue from operations Sales (net of discount) + Sale of Services+ other operating revenue+net claim/ (surrender) of SSC and other claims+ subsidy from Central/state govt.+Grant  from govt.
2 Value Added Profit Before Tax + Finance Cost + Depreciation & Amortisation + Employee  benefit expenses  3 Investments Non-current Investments + Current Investments 4 Other Current Assets Current Assets - Current Investments-Current tax assets 5 Borrowings (Total Debt) Short Term Borrowing + Long Term Borrowings 6 Tax Liability (Net) Deferred Tax Liability + Curent Tax Liability + Income Tax Liability - (Curent Tax  Asset + Income Tax Asset) 7 Other Current Liabilities Current Liabilities - Short Term Borrowing -Current Tax Liability  8 Enterprise Value Market Capitalisation + Borrowings - Cash and Cash Equivalents 9 Equity Equity Share Capital + Other Equity 10 Capital Employed Equity+Borrowings+Deferred Tax Liability 11 Earnings Per Share Profit After Tax / Weighted average number of Equity shares 12 Cash Earnings Per Share (Profit after tax + Depreciation) / Weighted average number of Equity shares 13 Book Value Per Equity Share Equity / Number of Equity Shares 14 Dividend Payout Ratio Total Dividend/Profit After Tax 15 Total Payout Ratio (Total Dividend + Total Dividend Distribution Tax)/ Profit After Tax 16 Retention Ratio (Profit After Tax-Total Dividend-Total Dividend Distribution Tax)/ Profit After Tax 17 Total Debt To Equity Borrowings / Equity 18 Long Term Debt To Equity Long Term Borrowing / Equity 19 Return on Average Net Worth (%) Profit after Tax / Average Net worth (as per Companies Act) 20 Return on Average Capital Employed (%) EBIT / Average Capital Employed.
21 Interest Service coverage ratio (Profit before tax+Finance cost in P&L+Depreciation)/ [Finance Costs (P&L +  Capitalised)] 22 Debt Service coverage ratio (Profit after tax+Finance cost in P&L+Depreciation)/[Finance cost  (P&L+Capitalised)+ Lease & Principal repayment (long term)] 23 Operating Profit Margin (Profit before Exceptional item and tax+Finance cost-Other non operating  income)/ (Revenue from operations) 24 Total Asset Turnover Ratio Total Income/AverageTotal Assets 25 Inventory Turnover Ratio Sales (Net of Discounts)/ Average Inventory 26 Current Ratio Current Assets/ Current Liabilities II Operations Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 Operating Performance Product Sales Domestic  - Petroleum Products 73.743 69.353 78.541 79.453 77.133   - Gas 3.592 3.279 3.318 2.461 1.904   - Petrochemicals 2.871 2.675 2.224 2.553 2.275   - Explosives 0.287 0.266 0.205 0.183 0.177  Total Domestic 80.493 75.573 84.288  84.650  81.489  Export 5.914 5.454 5.408 5.244 7.274  Total 86.407 81.027 89.696  89.894  88.763  Refineries Throughput 67.665 62.351 69.419 71.816 69.001  Pipelines Throughput 83.248 76.019 85.349 88.527 85.675  III Manpower Numbers Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18  No.
of Employees as on March 31 31254 31648 32998 33498 33157  Figures for the previous year have been regrouped, wherever necessary.
Million Metric Tones Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 80  Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 82 83 Directors’ Report Dear Shareholders, It gives me immense pleasure to present the 63rd Annual Report  and the Fifth Integrated Annual Report of the Company for the  financial year ended March 31, 2022, along with the Audited  Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements and  Auditor’s Report thereon on behalf of the Board of Directors  of the Company.
The year 2021-22 was remarkable for IndianOil both in terms  of challenges and opportunities.
The uncertainties on crude  prices coupled with wide demand fluctuations further reiterated  the fact that agility and innovations are the keys to survival  and sustenance in today’s complex business environment.
IndianOil navigated through the Covid-19 pandemic induced  plummeting product demand with innovative strategies,  launch of new products and by optimising its functions  across the value chain from crude procurement to product  positioning.
Through the course of this tumultuous journey, IndianOil  remained committed to ensuring uninterrupted supply of fuel.
Every IOCian and members of the extended IndianOil family  reinforced service excellence and ensured that there was no  panic over fuel availability across the country.
Going beyond  the call of duty, the Company worked on supply of the life- saving liquid medical oxygen with the best possible logistic  solutions leveraging our expansive supply chain.
Performance Review Financial  The Company reported the highest Revenue from Operation  by any Indian company at Standalone as well as Consolidated  Financial Statement level for the financial year 2021-22 which  is also its highest ever achievement.
The Company also  registered its highest ever net profit.
The summarised standalone performance and appropriations for 2021-22 are given below: Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 US$ Million J crore US$ Million J crore Revenue from Operations (Inclusive of Excise Duty & Sale of Services) 97,767 7,28,460 69,374 5,14,890 EBITDA  (Earnings Before Finance Cost, Tax, Depreciation & Amortisation) 6,384 47,568 5,742 42,614 Finance Cost 648 4,829 417 3,094 Depreciation and Amortisation 1,477 11,006 1,321 9,804 Profit Before Tax 4,259 31,733 4,004 29,716 Tax Provision 1,013 7,549 1,062 7,880 Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 US$ Million J crore US$ Million J crore Profit After Tax 3,246 24,184 2,942 21,836 Interim Dividend paid 1,109 8,263 1,299 9,640 Final Dividend paid 185 1,377 - - Appropriation: Insurance Reserve (Net) 3 19 1 11 General Reserve 1,949 14,524 1,642 12,185 Balance Carried to Next Year - - - - (H in crore)  Profit After Tax    Profit Before Tax    Revenue from operations 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 24184 21836 1313 31733 29716 -3694 728460 514890 566354 Share Value Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 US$ K US$ K Cash Earnings Per Share 0.51 38.33 0.46 34.46 Earnings Per Share 0.35 26.34 0.32 23.78 Book Value Per Share 1.89 143.00 1.65 120.36 Note: Exchange Rate used For 2021-22: Average Rate 1 US$ = H 74.51 and Closing Rate 1 US$ = H 75.80 as on March 31, 2022 For 2020-21: Average Rate 1 US$ = H 74.22 and Closing Rate 1 US$ = H 73.12 as on March 31, 2021 The macro-economic, geo-political, financial, industry-specific  information and markets in which the Company operates are  provided in the Management Discussion and Analysis section,  which forms a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Issue of Securities / Changes In Share Capital There was no change in the equity share capital of the Company  during the year.
However, in July 2022, your Company issued  bonus equity shares in the ratio of 1:2, i.e., one bonus equity  share for every two equity shares held.
Further, the Company also issued Unsecured, Rated, Listed,  Taxable, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs)  aggregating to H 1,500 crore on private placement basis, during  the year, which were listed on the Debt Segment of the NSE  and BSE.
The funds were utilised for the purpose for which  they were raised and there were no deviations or variations in  the utilisation.
Dividend The Board of the Company has formulated a Dividend Distribution  Policy and the dividends declared / recommended during the  year were in accordance with the said policy.
The policy is hosted  on the website of the Company at: https://www.iocl.com/ download/Dividend-Disribution-Policy.pdf A panoramic view of IndianOil’s Panipat Refinery Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 84 85 During the year, the Company paid a first interim dividend of  H 5.00 per share and a second interim dividend of H 4.00 per  share on the pre-bonus equity capital.
In addition, the Board  of the Company has recommended a final dividend of H 3.60  per share (pre-bonus equity capital) for the year, thereby  taking the total dividend for the year to H 12.60 per share (pre- bonus equity capital) with a total pay-out of H 11,568.10 crore  equivalent to 47.83% of the PAT.
This is the 55 th  consecutive year of dividend declaration by the  Company with cumulative pay-out of H 86,505 crore (including  the proposed final dividend for the year 2021-22).
Contribution to Exchequer Over the years, the Company has been the largest contributor  to the Government exchequer in the form of duties, taxes,  and dividend.
During the year H  2,64,436 crore was paid to the  exchequer as against H  2,38,786 crore paid in the previous year,  Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 (US$ Million) (J crore) (US$ Million) (J crore) Revenue from Operations (Inclusive of Excise Duty & Sale of Services) 98,877 7,36,731 70,094 5,20,237 Profit Before Tax 4,602 34,289 4,143 30,751 Profit After Tax 3,453 25,727 2,932 21,762 Less: Share of Minority 84 625 17 124 Profit for the Group 3,369 25,102 2,915 21,638 Consolidated Financial Performance In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, and the Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India, the Company has prepared the Consolidated Financial Statement for the group, including subsidiaries, joint  venture entities and associates.
The highlights of the Consolidated Financial Results are as under: Note: Exchange Rate used For 2021-22: Average Rate 1 US$ = H 74.51 For 2020-21: Average Rate 1 US$ = H 74.22 Operational Performance The operational performance of the Company during the year  was as under: (in MMT) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Refineries Throughput 67.67 62.35 Pipelines Throughput 83.25 76.02 Product Sales (inclusive of Gas, Petrochemicals  & Exports) 86.41 81.03 Refineries  The demand destruction during Covid-19 was a global  phenomenon and India was not an exception to it.
Post- removal of Covid-19 restrictions, the demand for all petroleum  products started peaking, which resulted in refineries operating  at 107.6% of the installed capacity in February 2022 and 111.6%  in March 2022, with overall capacity utilisation of 96.6% during  the year.
MBN of 73.9 and Energy Intensity Index (EII) of 104.1.
The  refineries achieved 96.8% Operational Availability.
Mathura  Refinery achieved best ever MBN of 62.2 for 2021-22.
Contribution to Exchequer (J in thousand crore)  Central    State  2019-20 96 86 2020-21 154 85 2021-22 157 107 an increase of 11% over the previous year.
An amount of H  1,57,181  crore was paid to the Central Exchequer and H  1,07,255 crore to  the States Exchequer compared to H  1,53,827 crore and H  84,959  crore paid in the previous year, respectively.
Capacity Utilisation (%) 2019-20 100.3 89.5 2020-21 96.6 2021-22 The refineries achieved a total throughput of 67.67 MMT  during the year as against 62.35 MMT in 2020-21.
In addition,  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, a subsidiary of  IndianOil, achieved a throughput of 9.04 MMT during the year,  thereby taking crude throughput of IndianOil group refineries  to 76.71 MMT during 2021-22.
Throughput (in MMT) 62.35 2020-212019-20 69.42 67.67 2021-22 The Distillate Yield of refineries during the year was 79.2% as  compared to 79.4% during the previous year.
The Fuel & Loss  improved to 9.5% during the year from 9.8% during 2020-21.
On the Energy Conservation front, the refineries recorded  Distilled Yield (%) 2019-20 80.2 79.4 2020-21 79.2 2021-22 Fuel and Loss (%) 2019-20 8.84 9.8 2020-21 9.5 2021-22 Energy Intensity Index 2019-20 99.6 106.2 2020-21 104.1 2021-22 Specific Energy Consumption (%) 2019-20 71.9 75.9 2020-21 73.9 2021-22 The Petrochemical units posted encouraging numbers, with  Naphtha throughput touching 3.0 MMT as compared to 2.67  MMT during the previous year.
The overall polymer production  (Polyethylene + Polypropylene) clocked 1.76 MMT, while  overcoming high stocks (due to low dispatches) and low feed  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 86 87 Naptha Throughput (in MMT) 2019-20 2.8 2.67 2020-21 3 2021-22 availability from reduced refinery operations.
Your Company  achieved the highest ever Polypropylene production of 1.138  MMT during the year against previous best of 0.93 MMT.
Amidst the uncertainties, the refineries exhibited stellar  resilience.
The consistent thrive for excellence in quality  management got another boost with the commissioning of  fuel quality upgradation projects like Naphtha Hydrotreater  Unit at Bongaigaon Refinery, Gasoline Hydro Desulfurization  Unit at Gujarat Refinery and Naphtha Hydro Treater - ISOM  unit at Guwahati Refinery during the year.
For reduction of  Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) emissions from diesel vehicles, Diesel  Exhaust Fluid (DEF) plants were commissioned in Gujarat,  Barauni, Panipat & Guwahati.
Bongaigaon Refinery became the 1 st Refinery in North East  region to supply Ethanol Blended Motor Spirit (EBMS) in August  2021 followed by Gujarat and Guwahati Refineries.
EBMS is also  being produced at Mathura, Panipat and Barauni Refineries  since 2019-20.
Panipat Refinery successfully developed BS-VI  compliant Diesel with High Pour Point (DHPP), which does not  lose its fluidity, for military usage in extreme cold conditions of  Leh and Ladakh.
Seven new crude oil grades were included in the crude oil  basket of the Company increasing its size to 210 crudes.
Apart  from increasing the share of North and South American crude  oil grades to ~9 % in 2021-22, the percentage of total imported  heavy High Sulphur crude also increased from 15.7% to 21.5%  during the year, thereby increasing the flexibility in operations.
Your Company also commenced Grid power import under  open access at Bongaigaon Refinery from June 2021.
Parallel  operation of Captive Power Plant with the 220kV grid has also  been commenced at Gujarat Refinery for enhanced reliability  and development of infrastructure for bulk power import at  Barauni, Mathura, Panipat, Paradip is in progress.
In line with the National Vision of Energy Security and the Paris  Agreement, your Company has completed the Feasibility study  for one of its refineries for emission mitigation for combating  climate change and involving the injection of carbon dioxide  into oil reservoirs for enhanced oil recovery (EOR).
It is also  putting up Carbon Capture, Utilisation and Storage (CCUS) for  production of food grade CO2 for Food and Beverage Industry  from the vent streams at two of its refineries.
Pipelines As an integrator of the business ecosystem of the Company,  the Pipelines Division continued its pursuit of excellence during  the year.
As on March 31, 2022, the length of the pipeline  network was 15,113 km with a capacity of 96.06 MMTPA (crude  & product pipelines) and 27.82 MMSCMD (gas pipelines).
During the year, the liquid as well as gas pipelines demonstrated  better performance compared to the previous year.
The  crude oil pipelines, operating at 100% capacity, achieved a  throughput of 48.53 MMT; the product pipelines, operating at  73% capacity, achieved a throughput of 34.72 MMT and gas  pipelines, operating at 37% capacity, achieved the highest ever  throughput of 2985 MMSCM.
By adopting technologically  driven initiatives, the specific energy consumption in pipeline  operations reduced from 13.31 to 12.74 KCAL/(MT*KM).
Product Pipeline Throughput (MMT) 2019-20 37.92 31.89 2020-21 34.72 2021-22 Gas Pipeline Throughput (in MMSCM) 2019-20 2400 2691 2020-21 2985 2021-22 Crude Pipeline Throughput (in MMT) 2019-20 47.43 44.13 2020-21 48.53 2021-22 Significant initiatives like transportation of Ethanol Blended  Motor Spirit (E10) in cross-country Pipelines, handling dual  grade LPG in cross-country pipeline, etc.
were implemented  during the year which not only resulted in improvement of  pipeline performance but also savings in logistic cost.
'Make- in-India' initiative received a fillip with indigenously developed  Drag Reducing Additive (DRA), namely “XTRAFLO”, in the  pipelines to improve the movement of products as well as to  reduce the energy consumption.
During the year, 106 km long Dahej - Koyali refinery R-LNG pipeline  was commissioned and the Chennai - Trichy - Madurai product  pipeline was augmented from existing 2.3 MMTPA to 3.9 MMTPA.
Marketing Your Company steered past all the challenges arising due to the  onslaught of Covid-19 pandemic and maintained its leadership  position in the industry with an overall market share of 40.8%.
Sales volume of Petroleum Products was 73.74 MMT during the  year as against 69.35 MMT in the previous year.
Retail Outlet + Kisan Seva Kendra Commisionings 2019-20 1400 3000 2020-21 2521 2021-22 During the year, your Company commissioned 2521 retail  outlets, 435 CNG stations and eight CBG stations, consistently  building a formidable network infrastructure totalling to  34559 retail outlets, 1488 CNG stations and 26 CBG stations,  spreading its reach further for the benefit of customers and  business at large.
The growing infrastructure and services are  consistently ensuring unhindered supply of not only essential  products but also value-added and branded ones for a  complete transactional experience.
IndianOil’s cross-country pipelines are globally recognised  as the safest, cost-effective, energy-efficient and  environment-friendly mode for transportation of crude oil  and petroleum products.
Sale of Petroleum Products (MMT) 2019-20 78.54 69.35 2020-21 73.74 2021-22 IndianOil Retail Network  Retail Outlets    Kisan Seva Kendras  11,026,  32% 34,559 23,533,  68% Brand Indane holds the world record of selling domestic  LPG at the highest place in the world in Komic - a small  village in Spiti, Himachal Pradesh, besides operating the  world’s highest bottling plant at Leh.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 88 89 The grassroot POL Terminals at Motihari in Bihar and Asanur in  Tamil Nadu were mechanically completed, thus augmenting  the Company’s infrastructure.
The terminal at Motihari has   state-of-the-art fully automated facilities with a storage  capacity of 70,000 KL and dispatch support of 12 bay TLF  Shed.
The terminal at Asanur has storage capacity of 80,870  KL and despatch support of eight bay TLF Shed.
Besides,  grassroot rail-fed depots at Guntakal and Moinarband were also  commissioned.
Guntakal Depot with an area of 83 acres has a  tankage of 51,000 KL, while Moinarband Depot spread over 55  acres has a tankage of 29,990 KL.
In keeping with the nation’s thrust on eco-friendly fuels, 9.18%  of Ethanol blending with Motor Spirit was done during the  Ethanol Sugar Year (November 2020 – October 2021).
This  was against 6.87% in the previous year.
Your Company also developed 129 SWAGAT brand of niche and  unique retail outlets for its highway customers for a complete  service experience of quality fuel, food, rest, and other basic  specific requirements, offering a perfect opportunity to rest,  recharge and refresh.
The LPG business, continued its commitment towards  distribution of ‘fuel of the masses’, surpassing the previous  year performance with an outstanding highest ever sale of  13.66 MMT during the year and registered a growth of 2%.
As a  preparation to meet the growing LPG demand, your company  commissioned greenfield LPG plants at Agartala, Korba,  Jabalpur and Gwalior during the year taking the tally of total  LPG locations to 101.
To further strengthen the customer reach, 106 LPG  distributorships were commissioned during the year, taking  the total number to 12813.
Your Company’s unique and path  breaking initiative of new age composite cylinders launched  last year, was bolstered by supply of more than 30,000  composite cylinders in 152 markets.
Your Company’s focus towards customer-care got accentuated  by way of 10 new customer centric initiatives during the year  including release of new connections through missed call as  well as over the counter.
The initiative of “new connection  through Missed call” was a step forward in the digital world  as it removes the need to visit a distributor and prospective  customers can get a new LPG connection by just a missed  call.
Doorstep Double Bottle Connection (DBC) was started  wherein a customer can take a double bottle connection  with the choice of either 5 kg or 14.2 kg cylinder delivered  by their delivery personnel.
Your Company also commenced  Indane Tatkal Seva – a two-hour refill delivery with a nominal   tatkal charge.
Indane XTRATEJ, the differentiated LPG with nano-additives  for enhanced performance, achieved a sale of 112.6 TMT  during the year.
The sale of 5-kg cylinder “Chhotu” registered a  phenomenal growth of over 30% during the year.
The Company  continued to play its pivotal role in the implementation of  Ujjwala 2.0 Scheme by releasing 50 lakh connections during  the year, well ahead of timelines set by MoP&NG.
In the aviation business, the Company strongly maintained its  sky-high leadership position during the year with a formidable  market share of 62.5%.
To further strengthen its reach and  leadership position, your Company commissioned nine new  aviation fuel stations (AFSs) during the year, at Tezu, Ratnagiri,  Sindhudurg, Jabalpur, Hosur, Keshod, Gwalior, Rajahmundry  and Campbell Bay, building its network to 126 AFSs across the  vast geographical spread of our country.
The Company continued to drive its business initiatives  by signing long term tie-up with major customers both in  Government and private sectors like Indian Railways, Defence  Forces, Tata Group, Aditya Birla Group and many more.
IndianOil TOTAL Pvt.
Ltd., a JV of IndianOil, commenced  marketing of value-added bituminous products from its plants  at Jodhpur, Chennai and Kolkata, giving your Company sizable  competitive advantage with the expansion of its product basket.
Your Company launched some very innovative products like  SERVO Greenmile (premium petrol engine oil) and SERVO  Raftaar (premium diesel engine oil), which have the potential  to reduce carbon footprint by 10%; SERVO Defrost, first Indian  product to offer defrosting solution for vehicle operating in  temperatures up to 14 O C; XTRAGUARD , a nano-technology  based surface disinfectant spray; during the year.
SERVO brand  also expanded into the wind lubricant business with supply of  SERVOmesh Windmill Turbine Oil.
During the year, approval for 41 SERVO grades was obtained  from Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) like TATA  Motors, Ashok Leyland, Cummins, Skoda Volkswagen, MG  Motors, Mahindra & Mahindra, Hyundai, Fiat, Munjal Showa,  Hero MotoCorp, etc.
SERVO expanded its footprint to Thailand,  Burundi-East Africa and Philippines; and is now available in 35  countries worldwide.
The cryogenics group of the Company maintained its  leadership position and sold over 31,000 units of cryo-cans  and 51 Cryogenic vessels during the year.
Aiming to become a  Your Company with its unstinted commitment towards  enhancing customer experience at its retails outlets, implemented  some innovative Integrated Transaction Processing Server (ITPS)  solutions during the year.
Integration of cashless transactions  with actual delivery of product; acceptance of payment through  FASTag; integration of urban loyalty program XTRAREWARDS  with PayTM, PhonePE and Google Pay; cashless mode ‘Queue  Buster’ for 2-wheeler customers; etc.
Looking ahead, IndianOil tied-up with various companies viz.
NTPC, PGCIL, REIL, Fortum, Tata Power, Ola, Hyundai, Tech  Mahindra, BHEL, Sun Mobility and set up charging facilities at  2145 retail outlets & battery swapping facilities at 34 ROs, as  on 31.03.2022, thus, taking the foundation steps to build your  Company’s strength in this future landscape of alternate fuels.
SERVO, India’s most preferred and trusted lubricant brand,  marked its 50 th  year in January 2022.
Despite the fallout of  Covid-19 pandemic, SERVO registered its highest ever sales  volume of 637 TMT during the year with phenomenal growth  IndianOil, a national brand trusted by over a billion Indians IndianOil is one of the largest manufacturers of cryogenic  containers in the country LPG New Initiatives Indane Family  Connect Composite  Cylinder New  Connection  Through  Missed Call Intra  Company  Refill  Portability High Thermal  Efficiency Stoves Indane  Tatkal  Seva Doorstep  DBC e-KYC Lubes Initiative ServoXpress  App launch Servo  Raftaar Servo  Green mile Servo now  available in  35 countries  worldwide SERVO mesh  WEG 320-Wind  Mill Turbine oil Servo  Defrost Servo Super Synth  Army approved  5W-50 (Indian for  Tank T-90) Green  Combo  Lubricants Retail Initiatives Xtra Green  Launch Solarisation  of Fuel  Stations 405 Mobile  Dispensers Integrated  Transaction  Processing  Server (ITPS) E-100 Pilot  Project XP 95  Launch Electronic  Facility  Management  System (eFMS) 1871 EV  Charging  Stations of 23.7% over previous year.
SERVO was conferred the SUPER  BRAND status once again by Super Brand Council of India in  2021 edition.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 90 91 During the year, R&D crossed another milestone of 1500  patent filings.
With a portfolio of 1519 patents filing and 1410  effective patents as of March 31, 2022, the R&D Centre has  doubled its granted patent portfolio in last 5 years.
Despite  challenges on account of Covid, the R&D Centre could file 225  patents, the highest in its history, and 155 patents were granted  during the year.
Moving towards self-reliance in fuel upgradation technologies,  Performance Guarantee Test Run (PGTR) of 1.2 MMTPA grass- root indeDiesel® unit at Haldia Refinery for BS-VI Diesel &  35 kTA grass-root INDAdeptG unit at Guwahati Refinery for  BS VI production were successfully completed meeting all  the specified guaranteed parameters.
The 3 rd INDMAX unit  was successfully commissioned at Bongaigaon Refinery and  the INDMAX technology was also licensed to Numaligarh  Refinery Limited, which has established IndianOil’s position  as a technology provider.
A 235 kTA grass-root indDSN® unit  using in-house developed hydrotreating catalyst INDICATFlexi  was successfully commissioned at Bongaigaon refinery.
377 MT of in-house developed INDICATPrime DHDT catalyst  was manufactured and supplied for DHDT unit of Gujarat  Refinery.
R&D Centre has also crossed the milestone of 10000  MT of catalyst sale based on in-house developed recipes.
As a transient solution towards hydrogen economy, a HCNG  demonstration project was undertaken by IndianOil R&D  in Delhi jointly with Indraprastha Gas Limited on 50 BS IV  compliant CNG buses using HCNG fuel produced from four  TPD compact reformer plant based on in-house developed  technology.
The results of the trial, which are found to be  quite promising and in-line with claims, have been submitted  to MoP&NG.
The R&D Centre also spearheads IndianOil’s Start-Up scheme  which has seen incubation of 24 start-ups in two rounds  of funding.
IndianOil is closely involved in mentoring the  startups through handholding by internal Process Owners  till achievement of Proof-of-Concept.
To continue the  momentum of encouraging Start-ups, the 3 rd round was also  launched during the year.
A milestone of 50 IPs (Patents,  Trademarks, Copyrights) was achieved during 2021-22 for  StartUp Scheme.
Business Development Over the last few years IndianOil has assiduously created new  business verticals like petrochemicals, natural gas marketing,  alternative energy, exploration & production etc.
with an  objective to achieve integration with the core verticals as well  as to take on the challenges emerging due to the ongoing  energy transition.
The performance of various business  verticals during the year was as under:- Petrochemicals Your Company is the second largest petrochemicals player in the  country offering polymers, Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB), Purified  Terephthalic Acid (PTA), Glycols and Butadiene.
The brand,  PROPEL, is a leading brand in the Indian petrochemicals market.
The Company’s petrochemicals capacity as on 31.03.2022 was  approx.
3200 KTA with Petrochemical Intensity Index of 4.6%.
With  implementation of ongoing projects, the capacity will be doubled  in the next three years with intensity index of 7.1% by 2025.
Natural Gas During the year, the Natural Gas sale (including internal  consumption) was 5.68 MMT as compared to 5.38 MMT  during 2020-21.
The second wave of Covid-19 in April-May  2021, subsequent lockdowns and unprecedented high spot  LNG prices had a ripple effect on RLNG sales; however,  the Company maintained 20% market share in the RLNG  segment and 10% share in the overall Natural Gas market.
Your  Company is the market leader in small scale LNG business in  Your Company acquired a 4.93% equity stake in the Indian  Gas Exchange Limited (IGX) during the year and became its  Proprietary Member.
The acquisition of equity stake in IGX is  a strategic opportunity to become part of India’s Natural Gas  market and to achieve leadership position in the market.
City Gas Distribution (CGD) Your Company is aggressively building its portfolio in the CGD  business.
During the year, the Company received authorisation  of nine additional Geographical Areas (GAs).
After the 11 th  Round of CGD Bidding, IndianOil along with its two  JV Companies is now present in 49 GAs and 105 Districts spread  across 21 States and UTs, making it one of the most significant  CGD players in the country.
On standalone basis, IndianOil will  now have presence in 26 GAs and 68 Districts spread across  11 states & UT covering nearly 20% of the total CGD market  potential in GAs announced recently in 3 bidding rounds.
major player in LNG business, the group also initiated setting  up 14 Nos of LNG retail outlets on the highways.
The group also  manufactured 41 aviation refuellers, 22 aviation containerised  tanks with module and 2 Hydrant Dispensers.
Research and Development IndianOil’s R&D Centre plays a key role in the efforts towards  'Atmanirbhar Bharat' by developing cost effective, environment  friendly & socially responsible technology solutions.
Cutting  edge research is carried out in core areas like fuels & lubricants,  refining technologies & catalysts, petrochemical & polymers.
The R&D efforts in sunrise areas like Nano, Solar, Bioenergy,  Hydrogen and Fuel Cell provide the much-needed future  direction.
Patent filing    Patents granted 2019-20 128 123 2020-21 169 180 2021-22 225 155  2021-22    Total Effective patents Patent filing 0 500 155 225 1000 1500 2000 Petrochemical Sales (MMT) 2019-20 2.22 2.74 2020-21 2.92 2021-22 Natural Gas Sale (MMT) 2019-20 5.42 2020-21 5.38 2021-22 5.68 23 26 CGD GAs (in nos.)
Joint Venture    Standalone    4 19 49  IOAGPL    GGL Smart Fuel Hydrogen Technology Station installed at  IndianOil R&D Centre at Faridabad, Haryana Product Application & Development Centre (PADC) setup by  IndianOil at Paradip is equipped with 50 latest sophisticated  polymer testing and processing equipment to cater to the  needs of customers and new investors India and for the first time since inception of LNG at Doorstep,  overall monthly LNG sale by Road Tankers crossed 12,000 MT  in September 2021.
Further, LNG sales through road tankers  achieved highest ever sales of 105.71 TMT during 2021-22.
With the expected commencement of facilities at Dhamra and  Jaffrabad shortly, completion of gas pipeline connectivity to the  eastern refineries (Barauni, Haldia & Paradip) and development  of gas pipeline infrastructure ex-Ennore & through GIGL (JVC)  connecting major customers, the gas sales are expected to  grow to ~8 MMTPA in coming two-three years.
Further, the  Company has firmed up its plan to double the capacity of its  Ennore Terminal to 10 MMTPA, which would further enhance  its market presence.
The petrochemicals business continued to be on a trajectory  of significant growth achieving the highest ever annual  Petrochemical sales of 2.92 MMT as against previous high of  2.74 MMT during 2020-21, with growth of 6.6%.
While sales  increased across almost all product lines, the fulcrum of the  growth came from Polypropylene sales crossing 1 MMT and  total polymer sales hitting a record 1.75 MMT in 2021-22.
The Company has Product Application & Development Centres  (PADCs) at Panipat and Paradip which developed new polymer  grades in line with specific customer requirements to maintain  Company’s stronghold over the market.
Four new PROPEL  grades were developed during the year, which helped in import  substitution.
As a testament to the Company’s strong customer  outreach, during the year, 22 OEM approvals were received and  a first ever International OEM approval was received from Dabur  Nepal for their Sanifresh toilet cleaner bottle.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 92 93 In total, the Company’s portfolio now consists of 49 GAs of  which 26 are standalone and 23 are through Joint Venture  Companies, i.e, 19 through IndianOil Adani Gas Private  Limited and four through Green Gas Limited.
All the 23 GAs  are operational and work continues for expansion of CGD  network.
Out of the Company’s 26 standalone GAs, eight GAs  have been commissioned and commissioning of balance GAs  is progressively planned.
Exploration & Production (E&P) The Company continues to explore opportunities in the E&P  sphere through Participating Interests (PI), joint ventures and  wholly owned subsidiaries.
The upstream portfolio consists  of nine domestic & 11 overseas assets, of which eight assets  are producing (one domestic, seven overseas).
Apart from the  producing assets, four assets are under development, four  assets have discovery, one asset is under appraisal and three  assets are under exploration.
During the year, the production from the producing assets  rose to 4.26 Million Metric Tonne of Oil Equivalent (MMToe),  registering a 9.8% growth over the previous year.
The  Company plans to scale up its production in the coming years  with a target of achieving 11 MMTPA production by the end of  the decade.
The Company also plans to expand its upstream  footprint to target approximately 10% upstream integration  ratio by 2030.
As part of domestic acquisition efforts, during the year, the  Company initiated farming-in five exploration blocks awarded  to OIL in OALP-III & OALP-V Bid Rounds.
In Company’s first overseas operatorship asset, Block-1, Abu  Dhabi, appraisal well testing established an encouraging  hydrocarbon flow of close to 4 thousand barrels per day.
Moreover, the Company is also drilling one well to establish  recoverability of the prospective unconventional resources   in Block-1.
Alternative Energy Your Company is steadily progressing towards harnessing  renewable energy to minimise carbon emissions for a green  economy.
The Company’s installed capacity of Renewable  Energy stood at 237.42 MW as on 31.03.2022, which included  167.6 MW of wind capacity and 69.82 MW of solar photo  voltaic (PV) capacity.
During the year, solar PV capacity of 4.47  MW was added.
The total generation through the Company’s  renewable portfolio during the year was 358.20 GWh, which  resulted in emission mitigation of 282.98 thousand metric  tonnes of carbon-dioxide equivalent.
The total renewable  energy generated forms about 5% of the total electricity  consumption of the Company.
As on 31.03.2022, the Company has solarised 19,502 Retail  Outlets with a cumulative solar power installed capacity of  ~111.5 MW, of which 9.1 MW was added during 2021-22.
Your Company is leading the implementation of SATAT  (Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation)  Scheme of GoI and has issued Letters of Intent (LOIs) to 2188  plants for production and supply of Compressed Biogas (CBG)  of about 5.1 MMTPA.
Sale of CBG has started from 26 Retail  Outlets located across the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil  Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka  & Uttar Pradesh; and two Industrial Consumers in Tamil Nadu  under the brand name of ‘IndiGreen’.
During the financial year,  the Company sold 3891 tonnes of CBG, while the cumulative  sales of CBG since its inception in September 2019 till March  2022 was 5262 tonnes.
As the Company strengthens the future CBG growth plans, a  tri-partite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed  with Poonawalla Clean Energy Pvt.
Ltd. and Noble Exchange  Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. for exploring production of CBG and rolling- out of ‘city waste to city transport’ model in 100 cities.
Further,  it also signed MoUs with BIO-WMS Private Limited and CNM  Energy Pvt.
Ltd. for setting up of 100 CBG Plants each.
The Company has cumulatively issued 31 LOIs to set up  UCO-Biodiesel plants for a cumulative quantity of ~23 crore  litres.
During the year, the Company received 71 KL of UCO  (Used Cooking Oil) based Biodiesel (UCO-Biodiesel) at its  Tikrikalan Terminal in Delhi, while supplies of UCO-Biodiesel  commenced from two Plants.
In line with government directives of 20% ethanol blending by  2025, apart from the conventional 1G route, the Company is  enabling 2G and 3G sources, with appropriate use of modern  technology to set up state-of-the-art 2G and 3G plants.
One  such 2G Ethanol Plant of 100 KLP/D capacity is coming up in  Panipat and is expected to be commissioned in the current year.
In electric mobility, the Company has collaborated with Israeli  company, Phinergy Limited and formed ‘IOC Phinergy Private  Limited’ (IOP), for commercialisation of aluminium-air battery  technology in India.
The Company has set a target of installing  10,000 EV charging stations in the next three years and already  has 2145 EV charging stations under its fold.
Sustainable Development  Your Company began its sustainability journey more than  a decade ago, however, even prior to this, caring for people  Production from Assets (MMToe) 2019-20 4.26 2020-21 3.84 2021-22 4.26 and planet had been integral to its way of doing business.
In  today’s times, sustainability or ESG performance has become  fundamental to managing stakeholders’ expectations.
The Company’s carbon footprint during the year was close  to 21.54 MMTCO2e, while the water footprint was 98.68  billion litres.
The Company has committed to achieve  net zero emissions while continuing the efforts towards  environment management and conservation.
The Company  also undertook a massive tree plantation effort during the year,  besides undertaking emission mitigation efforts like energy  efficiency, fuel replacement and alternate energy projects.
As  on 31.03.2022, your Company installed rainwater harvesting  projects with catchment area of over 2,800 Hectare which are  estimated to have harvested about 7.5 billion litres of rainwater  during 2021-22.
The Company is also pursuing efforts in waste  management and towards establishment of circular economy,  especially in plastic waste and organic waste.
The Company has commissioned a 5 TPD cattle dung-based  Biogas plant at Gorakhnath Temple, Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh  under CSR.
The gas produced from the Biogas plant is being  used as cooking fuel for temple devotees and Biogas is also  used to operate a gas generator at the temple premises.
The  plant is in addition to the earlier commissioned two 5 TPD  cattle dung-based Biogas plants at Betul & Hoshangabad,  Madhya Pradesh.
Overseas Business Your Company firmly believes that diversification and  globalisation are key to the future.
In pursuit to be a ‘Globally  Admired Company’, IndianOil has been keeping a close watch  69.82 RE Portfolio (in MW)     Wind    Solar Solarised ROs (cumulative) 2019-20 16678 2020-21 18336 2021-22 19502 237.42 Aakash-XIV Rig carrying out well completion operation at  well no.
BK-51 well in the Coal Bed Methane (CBM) Block  BK-CBM-2001/1 located in Bokaro, Jharkhand IndianOil, through its Joint Venture Company, IndianOil  LNG Pvt.
Ltd., has developed a 5-million metric tonnes  per annum (MMTPA) capacity Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)  Terminal at Kamarajar Port, Ennore in Tamil Naidu IndianOil’s CBG Plant in Pune Binding Term Sheets being signed by IndianOil, L&T and  ReNew Power to develop assets for Green Hydrogen and  Renewables 167.6 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 94 95 on the developments in the geographies of its interest to  explore business opportunities and enhance global footprints.
During the year, the Company along with its partners  established Bharat Energy Office, a Limited Liability Company  (LLC) in Russia, with 20% participation, through its wholly  owned subsidiary, IOCL Singapore Pte.
Ltd (ISPL).
The Company has been exploring new avenues for exports, in  pursuance of its Vision of being a Globally Admired Company,  by leveraging its core competencies to harness business  opportunities across the globe.
The Company has been the sole  supplier of major Petroleum products to Nepal through the state- owned company Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC) under a General  Supply Agreement (GSA) since 1974.
Under last GSA 2017-2022,  while the Company supplied around 11.8 MMT product from  2017 to 2022, the export to Nepal is estimated to grow at a rate  of more than 10% during next 15 years.
The agreements for a  further period of five years have been executed and during the  validity of the current agreement from 2022-27, export of 15  MMT of products is projected.
The Company as a part of GoI’s  bilateral initiatives conducted a joint study for identification of  petroleum infrastructure projects in Nepal and would be entering  into a separate agreement with NOC for the same.
A Joint Venture Company named ‘Beximco IOC Petroleum  & Energy Ltd.’ (BIPEL) between IOC Middle East FZE, Dubai (a  wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) and RR Holdings Ltd.,  Ras-Al-Khaimah with equity holding of 50% each, was formed in  Bangladesh.
BIPEL would acquire the existing LPG infrastructure  of Beximco LPG, a subsidiary of RR Holdings Ltd. in Bangladesh.
In addition, supply of LPG to Northeast India and diversification  into other downstream business activities like LNG, Lubricants,  and Petrochemicals etc.
is also planned under the ambit of BIPEL.
A major milestone was achieved in India-Sri Lanka economic  & energy partnership with signing of long pending lease deed  between Govt.
of Sri Lanka, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation  (CPC) and Lanka IOC PLC (a Subsidiary of IndianOil in Sri Lanka)  on January 6, 2022 for Trincomalee Tank Farm along-with the  Modalities & JV agreements.
The execution of documents for  a period of 50 years and leasing of tanks in favour of the newly  formed Joint Venture viz.
Trinco Petroleum Terminal (Pvt) Ltd.  (wherein Lanka IOC has shareholding of 49% & CPC has 51%)  shall provide umpteen opportunities for both India & Sri Lanka.
Explosives The Explosives group achieved an all-time high production &  sale of 287 TMT Bulk Explosives during 2021-22, clocking a  growth of 8% over previous year’s volume.
In the last seven  years, the production and sales of Bulk Explosives has grown  almost three folds from 100 TMT in 2014-15 to 287 TMT   in 2021-22.
To cash in on the growth opportunities in the segment, in  addition to brownfield projects, greenfield projects are being  planned at Umrer (Maharashtra), Basundhara (Odisha), Neyveli  (Tamil Nadu) and Mandamari (Telangana).
Diversification Your Company had ventured into setting up fertiliser plants  at Barauni (Bihar), Gorakhpur (U.P.)
and Sindri (Jharkhand)  through a joint venture company, Hindustan Urvarak and  Rasayan Ltd., in partnership with National Thermal Power  Corporation Ltd., Coal India Ltd., Fertilizer Corporation of India  Ltd. and Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Ltd.
While the plant  at Gorakhpur has been commissioned in May 2022, the other  plants are under advanced stages of construction and slated to  be commissioned by the second quarter of 2022-23. International Trade Your company imported 57.94 MMT of Crude Oil during the  year, as against 53.60 MMT in the previous year to meet the  crude requirement for processing at its refineries.
The selection of Crude Oil is done from a diversified mix of  supply sources to optimise the cost as well as to improve  flexibility.
The import of petroleum products during the year  was 9.324 MMT as against 8.58 MMT in the previous year.
Projects Your Company recognises the importance of infrastructure  development and has been consistently investing in several  projects across the country and achieved its Capex target for  the sixth consecutive year.
Your Company has consistently  contributed more than a quarter of the combined Capex  spend of all PSUs under MOP&NG since 2018-19.
The projects  are financed through an optimum mix of internal accruals and  borrowings from domestic as well as international markets  whenever required.
The project teams across the divisions  ensured that the projects are implemented seamlessly.
During the year, the total capex spent by the Company was   H 30,391 crore (H 26,635 crore on capital projects and H 3,756  crore towards equity investment in joint ventures / subsidiaries).
Bulk Explosives Sale (in TMT) 2019-20 205 266 287 2020-21 2021-22 Imports (in MMT)  Crude      Petroleum Products  2019-20 59.75 8.57 2020-21 53.6 8.58 2021-22 57.94 9.32 CAPEX ( J in crore)  2019-20    2020-21    2021-22 Capital Projects 29400 2663524151 Equity Investment 1900 4633 3756 Total 31300 28684 30391IndianOil Petroleum Product handling through tankers in South Oil Jetty at Paradip Port IndianOil’s Pipeline infrastructure has expanded with the completion of the 1200 Km-long Paradip-Hyderabad  product Pipeline The strength of the Company springs from its experience  of operating the largest number of refineries in India and  adapting to a variety of refining processes along the way.
The Company has commissioned several grassroot refineries  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 96 97 and modern process units at its refineries and is constantly  investing in refining technologies to stay ahead of the curve.
Your Company has ambitious growth plan for capacity  augmentation, de-bottlenecking, bottom upgradation and  quality upgradation.
Projects worth more than H 1 lakh crore  are under various stages of implementation at the refinery  locations, notably expansion projects at Barauni from current  6 MMTPA to 9 MMTPA, Gujarat from current 13.7 MMTPA to 18  MMTPA through the Petrochemical & Lube Integration Project,  Panipat from current 15 MMTPA to 25 MMTPA.
and Guwahati  from current 1 MMTPA to 1.2 MMTPA; PX-PTA & Ethylene  Glycol project at Paradip; Oxo Alcohol project at Gujarat,  Naphtha Cracker revamp project at Panipat; Linear Alkyl  Benzene revamp project at Gujarat; Poly Butadiene Rubber  (PBR) Project at Panipat; 2 nd Generation and 3 rd Generation  Ethanol Projects at Panipat; Bitumen project at Gujarat &  Barauni etc.
The existing refining capacity of the IndianOil refineries will  expand from 70.05 MMTPA to 87.9 MMTPA by 2025.
The group  refining capacity i.e.
including CPCL shall stand at 107.05  MMTPA by 2025.
To compliment the various greenfield and brownfield projects  of the refineries, marketing and business development, various  pipeline projects are being implemented across the country  to ensure the most economical mode of transportation.
The  projects presently under implementation would increase the  pipeline network length to around 21900 km and enhance  capacity to 165.9 MMTPA and 51.7 MMSCMD respectively for  liquid and gas pipelines, upon completion.
Major ongoing  pipeline projects include Haldia - Barauni crude oil pipeline,  Paradip - Hyderabad product pipeline, augmentation of the  Paradip - Haldia - Durgapur LPG pipeline and its extension up  to Patna and Motihari, Koyali - Ahmednagar - Solapur product  pipeline, Paradip - Somnathpur - Haldia product pipeline,  augmentation of the Salaya - Mathura crude oil pipeline system,  Laying of new Mundra - Panipat crude oil pipeline and Ennore -  Thiruvallur - Bengaluru - Puducherry - Nagapattinam - Madurai  - Tuticorin natural gas pipeline.
In addition, your Company is  undertaking massive LPG and natural gas pipeline projects  through joint ventures, spanning approximately 8,600 Km.
These include the longest LPG pipeline in the world, Kandla -  Gorakhpur LPG pipeline, Kochi - Salem LPG Pipeline, the North- East Natural Gas Grid, Mehsana - Bhatinda, Bhatinda - Jammu  - Srinagar & Mallavaram - Bhopal - Bhilwara - Vijapur pipelines.
To ensure uninterrupted supply of energy solutions various  infrastructure projects comprising of fuel stations, Indane  LPG distributorships, SERVO lubricants & greases outlets,  Consumer pumps, bulk storage terminals and installations,  inland depots, aviation fuel stations, LPG bottling plants, lube  blending plants, import terminals are also being undertaken.
The construction of the R&D campus at Faridabad, Haryana  at a capex of H  3200 crore, is underway and is expected to be  completed by 2023.
The new campus will have state-of-the-art  facilities to boost the research horizon of the R&D Centre on  areas like alternative and renewable energy, nanotechnology, etc.
Health, Safety & Environment (HS&E) The Company is committed to conduct its business with  a strong environment conscience, ensuring sustainable  development, safe workplaces and enrichment of the  quality of life of its employees, customers and community.
All IndianOil refineries are certified to ISO:14064 standards  for sustainable development as well as for the Occupational  Health and Safety Management System (ISO:45001), besides  having fully equipped occupational health centres.
Further,  the petrochemical plants, most of the pipeline installations  and few of the marketing installations are ISO-14001 certified  for environmental management.
API RP 1173 based Pipeline  Safety Management System has been introduced across the  entire pipeline network.
Compliance with safety systems and  procedures and environmental laws is monitored at the Unit,  Division, and Corporate level.
The HS&E activities of the Company are reviewed periodically in  the Board meetings.
During the year, various capability building,  and training programmes were conducted on safety-related  topics covering the entire spectrum of activities of the Company.
During the year, occupation health related activities like  “Paramarsh” - to take care of the mental and psychological  health of IndianOil workforce, Annual Corporate Occupational  Health Meet with the theme ‘Promoting Healthy, Safe & Resilient  workplace’, ‘Emotional Wellness Interactive workshops, etc.
were organised.
In addition, various capability building, and training  programmes were conducted on safety-related issues, such  as all India campaigns for safe decantation of Tank Trucks (TT),  safe TT driving campaigns, simulator-based training, HAZOP  and risk analysis, issuance of various guidelines & SOPs, etc.
ePIC (e-Platform for IndianOil Customers) has proven to  be a game changer by integrating all the end customers  on the unified digital business platform across different  lines of business.
This has facilitated the Company to make  its operations more efficient, automated, agile leading to  maximum value creation for all stakeholders through various  measures such as e-KYC, multi-channel LPG refill booking and  digital payments, e-invoicing, and loyalty programmes.
The  platform has also provided an interface for rolling out citizen  centric welfare schemes of GoI such as Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala  Yojana 2.0 and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.
The Company has launched Project i-DRIVE (IndianOil’s  Digital Readiness and IT Vision Enablement), a flagship digital  transformation program under which several high-impact  advanced analytics use cases, emerging technology platforms  and custom tools are being deployed across businesses  through setup of Digital Centre of Excellences (DCoE) focused  on embedding digital ways of working.
While embracing and implementing the state-of-the-art digital  technologies, your Company has reinforced 360 degrees IT  security measures thus instilling trust and confidence in all the  customers and stakeholders.
Human Resources The dedicated and resilient workforce of IOCians continued  to perform their duties to fuel the country despite frequent  challenges posed by Covid-19.
The total strength of employees  as on March 31, 2022 was 31254, including 17929 executives and  13325 non-executives of which 2718 were women employees.
During the year, the Company recruited 880 executives.
To  further the cause of apprenticeship training in the country, the  Company engaged 3721 apprentices under various categories  like Trade/Technician/ Fresher/ skill-certificate holder which  constitutes 11.76% of the total workforce.
The apprentices  were imparted practical inputs with a structured monitoring  and assessment methodology.
The Company scrupulously follows the Presidential Directives  and guidelines issued by the Government of India regarding  the reservation in services for SC / ST / OBC / PwBD (Persons  with Benchmark Disabilities) / Ex-servicemen / Economically  Weaker Sections (EWSs) to promote inclusive growth.
Rosters are maintained as per the directives and are regularly  inspected by the Liaison Officer(s) of the Company as well  as the Liaison Officer of the Government of India to ensure  proper compliance.
Grievance / Complaint Registers are also  maintained at Division / Region / Unit levels for registering  grievances from OBC / SC / ST employees and efforts are  made to promptly dispose of the representations/grievances  received.
In accordance with the Presidential Directive, the  details of representation of SC / ST / OBC in the prescribed  format are attached as Annexure – I to this Report.
The provisions of 4% reservation for persons with disabilities  in line with the Government of India’s guidelines/ instructions  were implemented by the Company.
Necessary concessions/  relaxations in accordance with the rules in this regard were  extended to physically challenged persons in recruitment.
The  number of differently abled employees as on March 31, 2022  was 710, constituting 2.27% of the total employee strength.
During the year, cordial industrial relations were maintained  across the Company.
The Company provides comprehensive  welfare facilities to its employees to take care of their health,  efficiency, economic betterment, etc., and to enable them  to give their best at the workplace.
The Company supports  participative culture in the management of the enterprise  and has adopted a consultative approach with collectives,  establishing a harmonious relationship for industrial peace,  thereby leading to higher productivity.
The greatest assets of IndianOil – IndianOilPeople IndianOil is the first Indian PSU to win the Global Healthy  Workplace Award 2021 in the 'Large Scale Industry’ category Digital Initiatives Information technology and digitalisation continued to play a  pivotal role in growth of IndianOil’s business during 2021-22  with implementation of various initiatives aimed at harnessing  the best use of the technologies which were carefully infused  with our core values of Care, Innovation, Passion, and Trust.
17,929 2,718 28,536 13,325 Employee Strength (in nos.)
Executives    Non-executives 31,254  Male    Female 31,254 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 98 99 In August 2021, the Skill Development Institute (SDI),  Bhubaneswar was dedicated to the nation and foundation  stone of the permanent campus, ICT-IOC Bhubaneswar was  laid.
The details of Skill Development initiatives at SDI are  provided in CSR report.
The frontiers of learning continued to expand during the year.
The e-learning initiative of IndianOil, ‘Swadhyaya’ registered a  significant milestone of one-million course completion.
New  initiatives like “Saarthi” - a one-on-one Leadership Coaching  initiative and “Madhyama” - a mid-career training programme  were launched during the year.
To further enhance the learning  of employees, IndianOil procured “Harvard ManageMentor” -  an off-the-shelf online resource that provides expert content  on leadership competencies.
National Commitment during Covid-19 Pandemic Standing tall with its motto of “Pehle Indian, Phir Oil”, your  Company remained resilient, strong, agile and took several  initiatives amidst all the challenges posed by the Covid-19  pandemic to meet our customers’ needs.
In the face of a  massive surge in demand for Medical Grade Oxygen during  the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, your company  with its strong end to end logistics capabilities, ensured supply  of Liquid Oxygen to various States.
Under the aegis of GOI,  the company supplied 200 MT Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO)  to Vietnam and Indonesia.
To help the country to overcome  the deficit of Liquid oxygen Tankers, the Cryogenic group  of the company designed and manufactured 20 nos.
of LOx  tankers (20 MT) to combat Covid's second wave in record  time.
In addition to ramping-up indigenous production of  Liquid Oxygen at refineries, the company also imported  420 MT of LMO from Linde Singapore and Middle East and  arranged logistics for LMO and ISO containers received as  gratis from other countries.
True to its national commitment  your company took various other initiatives under CSR  (Corporate Social Responsibility) to help the society in facing  the challenges posed by the pandemic.
As a socially responsible organisation, we carried out a  massive vaccination program with renewed vigour by taking  initiatives like 'Mission Vaccination' wherein free vaccination  was provided to more than 5 lakh beneficiaries including  employees, ex-employees, channel partners, stakeholders,  contract workers and their family members.
The pandemic has  also left an indelible mark on the company as the life of some  of the previous employees were also lost.
As a mark of support  to the bereaved families of such employees who expired  during these difficult times of pandemic, a lumpsum amount as  “Samvedna Rashi” was provided.
In addition, the children who  are orphaned after the death of the employee in cases where  the employee was a single parent or the spouse expired before  exercising any rehabilitation option, to ensure continuity of  education of such child(ren), “Shiksha Mitra” scheme has been  introduced which shall provide financial assistance for their  education.
To address the concerns related to employee well- being, especially in the post-Covid scenario, an Employee  Assistance Programme was launched on September 1 on  the 62 nd IndianOil Day, to provide support and guidance to  employees in dealing with issues and complications that could  adversely affect their wellbeing.
Particulars of Employees The provisions of Section 134(3)(e) of the Act are not  applicable to a Government Company.
Consequently, details  on Company’s policy on Directors’ appointment and other  matters as required under Section 178 (3) of the Act, are not  provided.
Similarly, Section 197 of the Act is also exempt for a Government  Company.
Consequently, there is no requirement of disclosure  of the ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median  employee’s remuneration and other such details, including the  statement showing the names and other particulars of every  employee of the Company, who if employed throughout / part  of the financial year, was in receipt of remuneration in excess  of the limits set out in the Rules are not provided in terms  of Section 197 (12) of the Act read with Rule 5 (1) / (2) of the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Hindi Implementation The Company is committed to implementing Hindi in the day- to-day functioning at its various offices/ locations/units.
The  provisions of the Official Language Act, 1963, and Rules notified  thereunder were complied with.
The communications received  in Hindi including any application, appeal or representation  written or signed by an employee in Hindi are replied to in  Hindi.
Official Language Implementation Committees (OLIC)  have been formed in all offices/units to review the progress of  implementation of official language policies.
Corporate Social Responsibility During the year, the Company undertook various CSR initiatives  to overcome the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic  like Installation of Medical grade Oxygen Generation Units;  supply of medical grade liquid oxygen to various hospitals  in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab; procurement of oxygen  concentrators & cylinders; contributions to the PM CARES  Fund, etc., in addition to various other CSR activities.
During  the year, as against the CSR budget of H 204.77 crore (2% of the  average profit of the previous three years H 323.14 crore minus  excess spent in previous year H 118.37 crore), the Company  spent a higher sum of H 298.29 crore to ensure continuity in  the planned CSR activities including many flagship projects  resulting in carry over of H 93.52 crore for setting off in  succeeding years.
A report on the Company’s CSR activities  as per the provisions of the Companies Act, along with CSR  highlights for the year is attached as Annexure - II to the  Report.
The CSR policy of the Company can be accessed  on the Company website: https://www.iocl.com/download/ IOC_S&CSR_Policy.pdf .
the Company on all matters pertaining to the subject.
The  vigilance department takes preventive, punitive and participative  measures, with emphasis on the preventive and participative  aspects, and helps in establishing effective internal control  systems and procedures for minimising systemic failures.
During the year, 102 vigilance awareness/vigilance related  programmes were conducted, which were attended by about  4,404 employees.
Disciplinary action under applicable Conduct,  Discipline and Appeal Rules, 1980, and Certified Standing  Orders were taken by the Company for irregularities / lapses.
During the year, 57 disciplinary matters related to vigilance  cases were disposed of and 27 such cases were pending  at the end of year.
The cases pertain to irregularities such as  indiscipline, dishonesty, negligence in performance of duty or  neglect of work, etc.
The Company continuously endeavours  to ensure fair and transparent transactions through technology  interventions and system / process review in consultation with  the Central Vigilance Commission and internal vigilance set-up.
Public Deposit Scheme The Public Deposit Scheme of the Company was closed with  effect from August 31, 2009.
The Company has not invited  any deposits from the public during the year and no deposits  are outstanding as on March 31, 2022, except the old cases  amounting to H 55,000, which remain unpaid due to unsettled  legal/court cases.
Corporate Governance Your Company always endeavours to adhere to the highest  standards of corporate governance, which are within the  control of the Company.
A comprehensive Report on  Corporate Governance inter-alia highlighting the endeavours  of the Company in ensuring transparency, integrity and  accountability in its functioning has been incorporated as a  separate section, forming a part of the Annual Report.
The  certificate issued by the Statutory Auditors on Compliance  with Corporate Governance guidelines is annexed to the  Report on Corporate Governance.
Management’s Discussion & Analysis Report The Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MDA) Report, as  required under Corporate Governance guidelines, has also  been incorporated as a separate section forming a part of the  Annual Report.
Right to Information Act (RTI) The Company has put in place an elaborate mechanism to  deal with matters relating the Right to Information Act, 2005.
Detailed information is hosted and regularly updated on the  official website of the Company, www.iocl.com, which inter- alia includes details of Central Public Information Officers  (CPIOs) / Assistant Public Information Officers (APIOs), third- party audited reports on mandatory disclosures, etc.
The Company has designated a Nodal Officer at its Corporate  Office, New Delhi.
In addition, 30 First Appellate Authorities,  40 CPIOs and 40 APIOs have been designated across various  locations.
The Company has aligned with the Online RTI Portal  of DoPT, Government of India, and all applications / appeals  received through the portal are handled through the portal  itself.
The quarterly / annual reports are submitted, within the  prescribed timeline, on the website of Central Information  Commission, https://cic.gov.in/.
During the year, 6,811 requests and 725 first appeals were  received and disposed-off within the prescribed timelines.
In  addition, 127 second appeals were filed before the Central  Information Commission, New Delhi, and all were disposed off  without any observation or penalty / disciplinary action.
Compliance with the Sexual Harassment of Women  at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal)  Act, 2013 The provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at  Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act,  2013, have been implemented across the Company with  clear objective of providing protection to women against  sexual harassment at the workplace and for the prevention  and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment.
Internal  Committees have been set up at every Unit/Region/Head  Office level, headed by senior-level women employee to deal  with sexual harassment complaints, if any.
Two complaints of sexual harassment were pending as on April  1, 2021.
During 2021-22, nine complaints were received, and  five complaints were disposed off.
As on March 31, 2022, six  complaints are pending.
Regular workshops are held especially for women employees  to bring awareness about their rights and facilities at workplace  and emphasising the provisions of the Act.
During the year,  64 workshops/awareness programmes were conducted.
Gender sensitisation programmes for the male employees are  also conducted regularly.
Newly recruited employees in the  Company are made aware of the provisions of the Act and the  measures adopted by the Company to prevent such incidents.
Vigilance The objective of the vigilance function is to ensure maintenance  of the highest level of integrity in the Company.
The Company  has a separate Vigilance Department, which is headed by the  Chief Vigilance Officer.
The department acts as a link between  the Company and Chief Vigilance Commissioner and advises  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 100 101 Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report  IndianOil has been publishing its Business Responsibility  Report, providing information on the various initiatives  taken with respect to environmental, social and governance  perspectives, in accordance with the directives of SEBI and is  hosted on the website of the Company.
SEBI vide notification issued in May 2021 has introduced a  new sustainability related report “Business Responsibility  and Sustainability Report” (BRSR), which would replace the  existing “Business Responsibility Report” (BRR).
The BRSR is  a notable departure from the existing BRR and a significant  step towards bringing sustainability reporting at par with the  financial reporting.
Even though, the BRSR is voluntary for the  year 2021-22, your Company has decided to publish the BRSR  which is hosted on the website on the Company on the link  https://www.iocl.com/business-responsibility-report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee of the Board comprised of four members  as on March 31, 2022, of whom three were Independent Directors  (including its Chairman) and one non-executive Director.
The  observations / recommendations made by the Audit Committee  during the year were put up to the Board and the same were  accepted by the Board.
Other details of the Audit Committee,  such as its composition, terms of reference, meetings held, etc.,  are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Other Board Committees The details of other Board Committees, their composition and  meetings, are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Code of Conduct  The Board of the Company has enunciated a Code of Conduct  for the Directors and Senior Management Personnel, which  was circulated to all concerned and was also hosted on the  Company’s website.
The Directors and Senior Management  Personnel have affirmed compliance with the code of conduct  for the financial year 2021-22.
Risk Management The Enterprise Risk Management framework in the Company  encompasses practices relating to risk identification, assessment  and categorisation, analysis, mitigation and monitoring of  the strategic, operational, and legal and compliance risks to  achieving its key business objectives.
Your Company endeavours  to minimise the adverse impact of these risks, thus enabling  the Company to leverage market opportunities effectively and  enhance its long-term competitive advantage.
The focus of risk  management is to assess risks and deploy mitigation measures.
A Risk Management Compliance Board (RMCB) comprising  senior management personnel and headed by Chief Risk  Officer periodically reviews the various risks associated with  the Company’s business.
The Company has constituted a  Risk Management Committee (RMC) which oversee risk  management activities.
All changes in the Risk register as  suggested by RMCB are made after approval of RMC.
A report  is, thereafter, put up to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal Financial Controls The Company put in place adequate internal financial controls  for ensuring efficient conduct of its business in adherence with  laid-down policies; safeguarding of its assets; prevention and  detection of frauds and errors; accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records; and timely preparation of reliable  financial information, which is commensurate with the  operations of the Company.
The Company has a separate Internal Audit department  headed by a Chief General Manager, who reports to the  Chairman.
The Internal Audit department has a mix of officials  from finance and technical functions, who carry out extensive  audit throughout the year.
The statutory auditors are also  required to issue the Independent Auditor’s Report on the  Internal Financial Controls over financial reporting of the  Company under Clause (i) of Sub-Section 3 of Section 143  of the Companies Act 2013.
The report issued thereupon has  been attached along with the Standalone and Consolidated  Financial Statements, respectively.
The Board believes that systems in place provide a reasonable  assurance that the Company’s internal financial controls are  designed effectively and are operating as intended.
Statutory Auditors The Office of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India had  appointed the Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2021- 22.
The Auditors have confirmed that they are not disqualified  from being appointed as Auditors of the Company.
The Notes  on the financial statement referred to in the Auditors’ Report  are self-explanatory.
The Auditors’ Report does not contain  any qualification or adverse remark.
In addition, the Company  has also engaged them for Limited Review and Tax Audit for  the financial year 2021-22.
The Auditors’ remuneration for the year was fixed at H 2.60  crore, H 1.40 crore and H 0.50 crore for Statutory Audit, Limited  review, and Tax Audit respectively along with applicable taxes  and reasonable out of pocket expenses.
In addition, fee was  paid to Statutory Auditors for other certification jobs.
The total  amount paid / payable to the Statutory Auditors for all services  rendered to the Company during 2021-22 was H 5.11 crore.
Comptroller and Auditor General of India   (C&AG) Audit Supplementary Audit of Financial Statements:  The  Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statement for the  Financial Year ended March 31, 2022, were submitted to the  C&AG for supplementary audit.
The C&AG have conducted  supplementary audit and issued NIL comments.
The NIL  comment certificate is attached in this Annual Report after  the Financial Statements.
This is the 16 th consecutive year  that your company has received such NIL comment on its   Financial Statement.
C&AG paras from other audits: In addition to the supplementary  audit of the financial statements mentioned above, the C&AG  conducts audits of various nature including Inspection audit,  Thematic audit, Proprietary audit, etc.
As on March 31, 2022,  there are sixteen pending audit paras on various subjects  including Short realisation from Disposal of a land, Abandoned  Exploration & Production (E&P) Project, Maintenance of grade  wise costing of Petrochemicals, Extra cost due to delay in  finalisation of tender, Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY) to  unentitled persons, Avoidable entry tax, Updation of daily price  change at Retail Outlets, Recovery of turnover tax, Expenditure  turning infructuous due to non-adherence pollution clearance  requirement and employee benefits like EPF contribution on  leave encashment, Encashment of Earned leave and sick leave,  Stagnation Relief, Performance Related Pay, Shift allowance,  Project Allowances, Long Service Award.
The replies to these  paras have been submitted and the status reports are also  being furnished from time to time.
Cost Audit  The Company maintains cost records as required under  the provisions of the Companies Act.
The Company had  appointed Cost Auditors for conducting the audit of the cost  records maintained by its refineries, lube blending plants and  other units for 2021-22.
A remuneration of H 20.20 lakh and  applicable taxes was fixed by the Board for payment to the cost  auditors for 2021-22, which was ratified by the shareholders in  the last AGM.
The cost audit reports are filed by the Central  Cost Auditor with the Central Government in the prescribed  form within the stipulated time.
Secretarial Audit The Board had appointed Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries,  to conduct the Secretarial Audit for 2021-22.
The Secretarial  Auditor in their report have stated that during the period under  review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act,  Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc., except as under: - the requirement of having not less than 50% of the Board  of Directors as Non-Executive Directors for the period  01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021.
- the requirement of having at least half of the Board  of Directors as Independent Director for the period  01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021 and 07.02.2022 to 31.03.2022.
- the requirement of having atleast two- third of the  members of the Audit Committee as Independent  Directors for the period 11.07.2021 to 23.11.2021.
- the requirement of having atleast fifty percent of the  members of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee  as Independent Directors for the period 11.07.2021 to  23.11.2021.
- performance evaluation of Independent Directors by the  entire Board of Directors and review of performance of  Non-Independent Directors, the Board of Directors as  a whole and the Chairperson of the Company by the  Independent Directors.
In this regard, it is clarified that the Company being a Government  Company under the administrative control of the Ministry of  Petroleum & Natural Gas, the selection, appointment of Directors,  (including Independent Directors and Women Directors) terms  and conditions and remuneration of functional directors, vests  with the Government of India as per Government guidelines.
Further, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, vide notification  dated June 5, 2015, has provided exemption to Government  Companies, regarding the provisions related to evaluation of  performance of Directors under the Companies Act, 2013, as the  evaluation is carried out by the administrative ministry.
The Secretarial Audit report for the year ended March 31, 2022,  issued by Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, is attached as  Annexure - III to this report.
Reporting of Frauds by Auditors  The Auditors in their report for the year have not reported any  instance of fraud committed by the officers/employees of   the Company.
Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order 2012  In line with the Public Procurement Policy of the Government of India, as amended, the Company is required to procure minimum  25% of the total procurement of Goods and Services from MSEs, out of which 4% is earmarked for procurement from MSEs owned  by SC/ ST entrepreneurs and 3% from MSEs owned by women.
The procurement from MSEs (excluding crude oil, petroleum  products and natural gas, API line pipes and certain proprietary items) during 2021-22 was as under: PARAMETERS TARGETS ACTUAL Total Procurement from MSEs  (General, Reserved SC/ST & Women) 25% 37.43% Procurement from Reserved SC/ST MSEs 4% (Sub-target out of 25%) 1.08% Procurement from Women-owned MSEs 3% (Sub-target out of 25%) 0.31% Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Directors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 102 103 Board of Directors & Key Managerial Personnel The following changes occurred in the Board / Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company: 1.
Shri G. K. Satish, Director (Planning & Business Development)  ceased to be a Director w.e.f.
September 1, 2021 consequent  upon his superannuation.
2.
Smt Indrani Kaushal, Government Nominee Director  ceased to be a Director w.e.f.
September 25, 2021  consequent upon withdrawal of her nomination by the  MoP&NG.
3.
Shri V. Satish Kumar was appointed as Director (Marketing)  w.e.f.
October 28, 2021 4.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung, Dr Ashutosh Pant, Dr Dattatreya  Rao Sirpurker, Shri Prasenjit Biswas, Shri Sudipta Kumar  Ray and Shri Krishnan Sadagopan were appointed as  Independent Directors w.e.f.
November 24, 2021.
5.
Shri D. S. Nanaware was appointed as Director (Pipelines)  w.e.f.
December 28, 2021.
6.
Ms Sukla Mistry was appointed as Director (Refineries)  w.e.f.
February 7, 2022.
7.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury was appointed as Director (Planning  & Business Development) w.e.f.
February 23, 2022.
8.
Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh was appointed as Independent  Director w.e.f.
April 8, 2022.
In line with the amended SEBI (LODR), approval of members  was obtained through postal ballot for all appointments made  on the Board within a period of 3 months from the date of  appointment.
Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta, Director (Finance) and Dr S.S.V.
Ramakumar, Director (Research & Development) are liable  to retire by rotation and being eligible are proposed to be re- appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM).
Their brief profile is provided in the notice of the AGM.
Independent Directors  The Company has received the Certificate of Independence  from the Independent Directors confirming that they meet  the criteria prescribed for Independent Directors under the  provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, and SEBI (LODR).
The  Independent Directors have confirmed that they are registered  with the Database maintained by the Indian Institute of  Corporate Affairs (IICA) under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
The Company being a Government Company, the power to  appoint Directors (including Independent Directors) vests  with the Government of India.
The Directors are appointed by  following a process as per laid down guidelines.
In the opinion  of the Board, the Independent Directors have the requisite  expertise and experience.
A separate meeting of Independent Directors was held during  the year as per provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, and  SEBI (LODR).
Board Meetings During the year, 9 meetings of the Board of Directors were  held.
The details of the meetings attended by each Director  are provided in the Corporate Governance Report and, hence,  not repeated to avoid duplication.
Board Evaluation  The provisions of Section 134(3)(p) of the Companies Act,  2013, require a listed entity to include a statement indicating  the manner of formal evaluation of performance of the Board,  its Committees and of individual Directors.
However, the said  provisions are exempt for Government Companies as the  performance evaluation of the Directors is carried out by the  administrative ministry, i.e., Ministry of Petroleum and Natural  Gas (MoP&NG), as per laid-down evaluation methodology.
Significant and Material Orders Passed by the  Regulators or Courts No significant and material orders were passed by the  regulators or courts or tribunals, during the year that impact  the going concern status of the Company and its operations  in the future.
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle-Blower Policy  The Company promotes ethical behaviour in all its business  activities and has put in place a mechanism for reporting illegal  or unethical behaviour.
The Company has established a robust  Vigil Mechanism and a whistle-blower policy in accordance  with provisions of the Act and Listing Regulations.
Under  the whistle-blower policy, employees are free to report any  improper activity resulting in violation of laws, rules, regulations,  or code of conduct by any of the employees to the Competent  Authority or Chairman of the Audit Committee, as the case  may be.
Any complaint received is reviewed by the Competent  Authority or Chairman of the Audit Committee as the case  may be.
No employee has been denied access to the Audit  Committee.
The policy on Vigil Mechanism/Whistle-Blower  can be accessed on the Company’s website at: https://www.
iocl.com/InvestorCenter/pdf/Whistle_Blower_policy.pdf.
Details of Loans / Investments / Guarantees  The Company has provided loans / guarantees to its  subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and has made  investments during the year in compliance with the provisions  of the Companies Act, 2013, and rules notified thereunder.
The details of such investments made, and loans / guarantees  provided as on March 31, 2022 are provided in Note No.4, 36,  37 and 42 of the Standalone Financial Statement.
Related Party Transactions (RPTs) During the year, your Company entered into RPTs, which  were on arm’s length basis and were in the ordinary course of  business.
As required under the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013, and SEBI (LODR), all RPTs were approved by the  Audit Committee.
During the year, the Company had not entered into any  transaction with related parties, which could be considered  material in accordance with the policy of the Company on  materiality of related party transactions.
In view thereof, there is no transaction which needs to be  reported in Form No.
AOC-2, in terms of Section 134(3)(h) read  with Section 188 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies  (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
Pursuant to SEBI notification dated 09.11 2021, the Company  amended the “Policy on Materiality of Related Party  Transactions”.
The Policy is hosted on the Company’s website  and can be accessed at: https://www.iocl.com/download/ Policies/RPT_Policy.pdf.
Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign  Exchange Earnings and Outgo Energy conservation is accorded utmost importance across  the various operations in the Company.
The performance  of all units is monitored on a continuous basis and efforts are  made for continuous improvement by incorporating the latest  technologies and global best practices.
The various energy  conservation measures implemented across the refineries during  the year, resulted in energy saving as well as monetary saving.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  and rules notified thereunder, the details relating to Energy  Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange  Earnings and Outgo are annexed as Annexure - IV to   the Report.
IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited, an IndianOil subsidiary, has presence in aviation, bunkering, fuel retailing, lubricants, among others Further, Indian Catalyst Private Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary,  was dissolved and name of the company was struck off from  the Register of Companies w.e.f 25.10.2021.
As required under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  a statement on the performance and financial position of each  of the subsidiaries, joint venture companies and associates  is annexed to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The  financial statements of the subsidiaries have also been hosted  on the Company website www.iocl.com under the ‘Financial  Performance’ section.
In accordance with the provisions of SEBI guidelines, your Company  has framed a policy for determining material subsidiaries, which  can be accessed on the Company’s website at https:///www.iocl.
com/download/Material_Subsidiary_Policy.pdf The deficit of 2.92% and 2.69% under the sub-targets was due  to non-availability of vendors in the sub-category; however,  the overall target was achieved by procurement from other  micro and small enterprises in line with the policy.
Several initiatives were undertaken by the Company to identify  the entrepreneurs for procurement of goods and services  from MSEs owned by SC/ST enterprises, including 86 vendor  development programmes.
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates During 2021-22, the Company acquired 49% equity stake  in Paradeep Plastic Park Ltd., a company established for  development and implementation of Paradeep Plastic Park  project.
Odisha Industrial Development Corporation holds the  balance 51% equity in the company.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Annexure-I 105 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited104 Annual Return As required under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the  Annual Return is hosted on the Company’s website and can be  accessed from the link: https://www.iocl.com/annual-return.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards The Company complies with the applicable Secretarial  Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of  India (ICSI).
Credit Rating of Securities The credit rating assigned by rating agencies for the various  debt instruments of the Company is provided in the Corporate  Governance Report.
Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF) The details of unpaid / unclaimed dividend and shares  transferred to the IEPF in compliance with the provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013, has been provided in the Corporate  Governance Report.
Material Changes Affecting the Company There have been no material changes and commitments,  affecting the financial position of the company between the  end of the financial year and date of this report.
There has  been no change in the nature of the business of the Company.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013  pertaining to the Directors’ Responsibility Statement, it is  hereby confirmed that: (a) in the preparation of the Annual Accounts, the applicable  accounting standards had been followed alongwith  proper explanation relating to material departures; (b) the Directors had selected such accounting policies and  applied them consistently and made judgements and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a  true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at  the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of  the Company for that period; (c) the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care for  the maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; (d) the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a  going concern basis; and  (e) the Directors had laid down internal financial controls to be  followed by the Company and that such internal financial  controls are adequate and were operating effectively.
(f) the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws  and that such systems were adequate and operating  effectively.
Acknowledgements The Board of Directors would like to express its appreciation for  the sincere, dedicated and untiring efforts of the employees of  the Company, the contract labour, and employees of business  channel partners to ensure the supply of petroleum products  across the country during the lockdown and restrictions caused  by the Covid-19 pandemic, and for achieving an excellent  performance despite challenges during the year.
The Board  would also like to thank the Government of India, particularly  the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, as well as the various  State Governments, regulatory and statutory authorities,  for their support as well as guidance from time to time.
The  Board is also thankful to all its stakeholders, including bankers,  investors, members, customers, consultants, technology  licensors, contractors, vendors, etc., for their continued  support and confidence reposed in the Company.
The Board  would like to place on record its appreciation for the valuable  guidance and significant contribution made by Shri G. K. Satish  and Smt Indrani Kaushal, during their tenure on the Board of  the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board Sd/- (Shrikant Madhav Vaidya) Place: New Delhi  Chairman Date: July 28, 2022 DIN: 06995642 Annexure-I SC / ST / OBC Report - I Annual Statement showing the representation of SCs, STs and OBCs as on January 1  , 2022 and number of appointments made  during the preceding calendar year Name of the Public Enterprises : Indian Oil Corporation Limited Groups Representation of SCs / STs / OBCs  (As on 01.01.2022) Number of appointments made during the calendar year 2021 By Direct Recruitment By Promotion By Deputation /  Absorption Total No.
of Employees SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs Total SCs STs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Executives   A 18084 3065 1354 4425 1020 173 81 338 3571 377 177 2 - - Non-executives   B 4908 791 509 538 - - - - 732 81 53 2 1 - C 8077 1461 625 2552 407 61 35 181 2019 328 123 1 - - D (Excluding  Sweeper) 352 55 21 103 24 3 3 7 - - - - - - D (Sweeper) 6 3 - - - - - - - - - - - - Total (Executives plus  Non-Executives) 31427 5375 2509 7618 1451 237 119 526 6322 786 353 5 1 - SC / ST / OBC Report - II Annual Statement showing the representation of SCs, STs and OBCs in various group A services as on January 1, 2022 and  number of appointments made in the service in various grades in the preceding calendar year Pay Scale (in J) Representation of SCs / STs / OBCs  (As on 01.01.2022) Number of appointments made during the calendar year 2021 By Direct Recruitment By Promotion By Deputation /  Absorption Total No.
of Employees SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs Total SCs STs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 40000 - 140000 26 4 - 7 26 4 - 9 - - - - - - 50000 -160000 1702 316 120 513 982 169 80 326 63 13 4 - - - 60000 - 180000 2347 363 175 687 8 - 1 2 - - - - - - 70000 - 200000 4768 747 362 1481 1 - - 1 1252 137 74 - - - 80000 - 220000 3539 600 236 875 No recruitment is made in  this Group.
740 59 26 - - - 90000 - 240000 2094 389 184 420 2 - - - 619 100 38 - - - 100000 - 260000 1358 264 126 262 1 - - - 299 26 18 - - - 120000 - 280000 1213 240 99 150 No recruitment is made in  this Group.
274 15 5 - - - 120000 - 280000 692 105 41 25 No recruitment is made in  this Group.
189 16 6 - - - 120000 - 280000 261 32 10 4 No recruitment is made in  this Group.
98 10 5 2 - - 150000 - 300000 84 5 1 1 No recruitment is made in  this Group.
37 1 1 - - - Grand Total 18084 3065 1354 4425 1020 173 81 338 3571 377 177 2 - - Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Statutory Reports Annexure-IIHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 106 107 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Annexure - II Highlights of CSR Activities IndianOil’s CSR objective is enshrined in its Vision / Mission  statement - "…to help enrich the quality of life of the  community and preserve ecological balance and heritage  through a strong environment conscience...”.
IndianOil’s  CSR thrust areas include ‘Safe drinking water and protection  of water resources’, ‘Healthcare and sanitation’, ‘Education  and employment-enhancing vocational skills’, 'Rural  development', 'Environment sustainability', ‘Empowerment of  women and socially / economically backward groups’, etc.
The CSR activities are undertaken primarily to improve the  quality of life in various communities, including marginalised  & underprivileged sections of the society viz., scheduled caste,  scheduled tribe, other backward class, physically handicapped,  etc., Being a responsible corporate, IndianOil not only ensured  continuous supply of essential petroleum products and  services across the nation, but also enhanced the CSR  allocation beyond the prescribed CSR budget (i.e.
2% of average  net profit of the immediately preceding 3 financial years) as  required under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Moreover, IndianOil has exemplified its CSR commitment by  utilising 100% CSR budget allocation for the fifth year in a row.
The Company has patronised / sponsored many life-changing  community development projects and has positively impacted  numerous stakeholders with about 500 projects across the  length and breadth of the country.
IndianOil spent H 194.72 crore (which is 65% of total CSR  expenditure) on thematic area i.e.
Health and Nutrition, with  special focus on Covid related measures including setting  up makeshift hospitals and temporary Covid Care facilities  during 2021-22, in compliance with the Department of Public  Enterprises (DPE) guidelines for CSR Expenditure by Central  Public Sector Enterprises (CPSE).
As against the 18 Aspirational  Districts allotted by DPE, the Company spent H 18.43 crore in  36 Aspirational Districts during 2021-22.
KEY CSR INITIATIVES DURING 2021-22 The details of major CSR activities during the year are as  under: To combat Covid-19 Pandemic As a major CSR initiative, IndianOil: • Contributed H 40 crore towards PM CARES Fund; • Supported Installation of 12 Medical grade Oxygen  Generation Units (capacity of 960 liter per minute each)  based on technology developed by DRDO in Hospitals of  3 states viz.
Odisha (five Plants), Uttar Pradesh (four plants)  and Madhya Pradesh (three Plants);  • Contributed towards procurement of 2000 Oxygen  Concentrator and 4000 Oxygen Cylinders to meet the  demand of oxygen during peak of 2nd wave of Covid-19; • Supplied 152 MT of medical grade liquid oxygen to various  hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab; In the backdrop of an acute oxygen availability crisis in  the country during Covid-19 pandemic, IndianOil set  up Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen  generation plants at different locations IndianOil Vidushi IndianOil Vidushi project, started in 2018, truly epitomises the  saying “When you invest in a girl’s education, she feeds herself,  her children, her community and her nation”.
(Ex-Prime  Minister Erna Solberg of Norway).
Under this CSR initiatve,  specialised coaching and mentoring is provided to under- privileged girls after class XII, to help them succeed in JEE  Mains, JEE Advanced & other Central and State Engineering  College Entrance Examinations.
Till 2019-20, a maximum of  30 girls were selected for each of the 4 residential centres at  Noida, Bhubaneswar, Patna and Jaipur through written tests  and personal interviews, on merit–cum-means basis.
The  entire cost for specialised coaching, study material, boarding,  food & other consumables, blankets, hygiene kits, dresses,  health insurance etc.
is borne by IndianOil.
However, due  to  the restriction of Covid-19 pandemic in 2020-21, online  classes were started for 120 girls from two centres.
Out of the  120 girls enrolled in 2020-21, 14 students got selected in IITs, 18  in NITs and 64 students in various other Engineering colleges.
For the 120 girl students enrolled in 2021-22, online classes  are being conducted from 2 centres at Jaipur & Bhubaneswar.
Scholarship is also given to students after getting admission  in IITs / NITs / government engineering colleges, for four year  graduate programs (H 5,000 per month for IITs / NITs; H 4,000  per month for other government engineering colleges).
Students of the IndianOil Vidushi programme, Bhubaneswar  Centre receiving laptops and accessories for online classes MMU treating patients at Village Biswali, District: Jagatsinghpur,  Odisha Skill Development Institute, Bhubaneswar- Students attending  training classes Skill Development Institute, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Skill Development Institute, Bhubaneswar (SDI-B) was set up  on May 9, 2016 in a temporary campus with an aim to provide  livelihood enhancing skill development training to unemployed  & underprivileged youth and to provide skilled human resources  to the industry.
SDI Main Campus was inaugurated by Union  Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas & Steel on February 24, 2019.
The multi skilling institute (green campus), offering international  standards of training, is imparting world class skill development  courses, supported by industry experts.
SDI-B prepares  students with adequate skills for pursuing careers as Industrial  Electricians, Welders, Computer Data Application (only for  girls), Fitter Fabrication, Instrumentation Technicians, Pipe  Fitters (City Gas Distribution), Solar PV Installation and LPG  Mechanics.
About 390 students are enrolled in a single batch  of 13 trade courses.
The course duration ranges between  three and six months.
During 2021-22, 284 youth were skilled  and certified.
Since inception, 1854 youth have been trained  under various trades.
Various Centres of Excellence (CoE)  have been established in collaboration with internationally  reputed institutions / industry partners such as Schneider  Electric, Cisco, Intel, Siemens, Kemppi, etc., to provide relevant  skill development training with high potential for generating  employment.
Once fully functional, about 3,000 to 4,000  youth will be trained every year in 16 regular trades pertaining  to the hydrocarbon sector and local industries.
IndianOil Aarogyam ‘IndianOil Aarogyam’ a flagship CSR project was initiated in  2018-19 with the objective to provide primary healthcare at  people’s doorstep, particularly in rural and under-served areas.
Twelve Mobile Medical Units (MMU), each with a four-member  medical team consisting of one Doctor, one Nurse, one  Nursing attendant and one Driver-Cum-Community mobiliser  have been operating in the catchment areas of three Refinery  Units, i.e., Mathura (Uttar Pradesh), Bongaigaon (Assam) &  Paradip (Odisha).
The MMUs conduct health screening, basic  diagnosis and provide medical treatment.
The MMUs cover  more than 140 villages near the three Refineries.
During 2021- 22, patient footfall in the target geographies was around 2.72  lakh, out of which about 1.38 were female patients.
Statutory Reports Annexure-IIHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 108 109 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai-IndianOil Odisha  Campus (ICTM-IOC), Bhubaneswar  Students at Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi, Assam Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi, Assam India has an average of 1.7 nurses for every 1,000 people, 43%  less than the World Health Organisation norm (3 per 1,000).
India needs 20 lakh nursing personnels to fill this wide gap.
The  Covid-19 pandemic has further increased the requirement for  qualified nursing personnel.
The Assam Oil School of Nursing  (AOSN), Digboi was established with the dual objective of  providing stable career and livelihood opportunities to young  Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai-IndianOil  Odisha Campus (ICTM-IOC), Bhubaneswar, Odisha In a first-of-its-kind initiative, IndianOil collaborated with  Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai to set-up an off- campus of the Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai  at Bhubaneswar.
The institute christened as ‘ICT Mumbai  IndianOil Odisha Campus, Bhubaneswar’ (ICTM-IOC), was  inaugurated by the Hon’ble President of India in 2018.
The  institute has been planned to evolve into an R&D / innovation  hub to carry out high-end research in chemical engineering,  petrochemicals, textiles, pharmaceuticals and energy, to  become a world-class Centre of Excellence in Chemical  Engineering & Technology.
The first academic session started  in 2018 with the enrolment of 60 students for the five-year  integrated M. Tech Programme.
As on 31.03.2022, 231 students  are undergoing five-year integrated M. Tech Programme; 48  students are undergoing 2-year full time M. Tech.
Programme;  12 industrial personnel are pursuing two-year Executive  M. Tech course and 37 students are pursuing their PhD at   the Institute.
underprivileged girls and ensure availability of qualified nurses  in the country.
AOSN offers a three-year diploma in General  Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) to young girls and enrols 30  students every year.
For the four-year B.Sc.
(Nursing) course,  30 students are offered admission every year (since 2014).
Since inception, 497 students have completed the GNM  course and 119 students have completed the B.Sc.
(Nursing)  course with 100% placement record.
Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital, Mathura, Uttar  Pradesh Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital at Mathura (Estd.
1999) is  a 50-bed hospital providing medical treatment to residents  near Mathura Refinery, Uttar Pradesh.
The hospital provides  free treatment to the destitute and offers subsidised treatment  to others.
The hospital also organises various medical camps  including sterilisation camps, general check-up camps, eye  camps etc.
During 2021-22, 41244 patients were treated at the  hospital, out of which operative procedures were conducted  on 297 patients.
During 2 nd wave of Covid-19, within a short  span of 15 days, hospital was converted into the 104 bedded  Covid hospital with oxygen facility.
Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital,Mathura, Uttar Pradesh Assam Oil Division Hospital, Digboi, Assam Assam Oil Division Hospital, Digboi, Assam Assam Oil Division Hospital, Digboi (Estd.1906) is a 200-bed  hospital with modern facilities.
It caters to the population  residing near Digboi Refinery and other nearby areas of the  Northeast.
Every year, about 1 lakh patients are treated at the  hospital, including non-employees.
The hospital has a bed  capacity of 4,000 and can conduct around 2000 operations  and surgeries in a year.
General as well as specialised health  camps are also organised regularly by the hospital to reach out  to poor villagers in the vicinity, who otherwise have no access  to medical consultations or treatment.
During 2021-22, 6,030  non-employee patients were treated at the hospital.
IndianOil Sports Scholarship Scheme In line with the sports policy adopted in 1985, IndianOil has,  over the years, recruited many promising sportspersons,  who excelled at National & International levels and brought  laurels to the Company and the Country.
The Company had  introduced Sports Scholarship Scheme in the year 2006-07  for promising young sports persons representing States in  team games and National rank holders.
The scheme started  with 55 scholarships in seven games / sports.
At present, 250  scholarships in 20 games / sports (Olympic sports categories  & other popular games such as Hockey, Archery, Table  Tennis, Carrom, Chess, etc) are awarded to upcoming junior  players from 13 to 16 years of age in two categories viz., Elite  Scholar and Scholar.
The scholarship amount varies from   H 15,000 to H 19,000 per month for Elite Scholars and H 12,000  to H 16,000 per month for Scholars, for a period of three years  and covers the cost of kits as well.
In addition, IndianOil also  provides assistance for their travel and lodging.
During 2021- 22, 166 sportspersons benefitted from the scheme, out of  which 81 were female and since inception, more than 1,000  sportspersons have benefitted from the scholarship.
Sports Scholars: Left to right (Top row): Ridhi Phor (Archery);  Esha Singh (Shooting); Astha Choudhary (Swimming); Left  to right (Bottom row): Manisha (Wrestling); Simran Chopra  (Hockey); Rishab (Archery) IndianOil Medha Chhattravritti Yojna Education, especially for women, is a tool which provides  knowledge, skill, technique, information and enables them to  know their rights and duties towards their family, society as  well as the nation.
An educated female population increases a  country’s productivity and fuels economic growth.
According  to the report “Children in India 2018” released by the Ministry  of Statistics and Program implementation, over 30% of girl  students drop out of school by the time they get to Class IX  and the number rises to 57% in Class XI.
The program is aimed  to promote education amongst girl child and targets to reduce  school dropout cases.
The project includes distribution of  one time educational scholarships to top 75 girl students of  Class X from 30 Boards across the country.
During 2021-22,  total 1606 number of scholarships were distributed to the  girl students, who have topped in Class X (academic session  2020-2021), from 25 Boards.
Statutory Reports Annexure-IIHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 110 111 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Molecular pathology laboratory at Varanasi, UP Medha Chhattravritti Yojna: Distribution of Certificate of  Excellence and Scholarship to meritorious Class X students  of West Bengal Board Skill Training for Transgenders Transgender persons have a gender identity or gender  expression that differs from their assigned sex.
The lack of  social recognition has secluded them from mainstream, they  face ostracism from their own families, siblings, and general  public throughout their life.
They have very little means  of livelihood as businesses do not hire them.
This results in  transgenders getting into begging and prostitution.
With an aim to provide opportunity to transgenders to  join mainstream and live the life with dignity, IndianOil  in association with Madras Institute of Technology (MIT),  Chennai imparted Drone Operations and maintenance  training to transgenders.
Project included short term English  and personality development program for 24 transgender  persons.
15 persons were taken on board for the prestigious  DGCA approved Remote Pilot Training Program.
Drones are  being utilised for mosquito control in stagnant water, spraying  of insecticides, surveillance & other works as directed by  Municipal Corporation.
Four transgenders have already been  engaged as a Trainee in Centre for Aerospace Research, MIT  for drone operation activities.
Establishment of molecular pathology laboratory at  Varanasi, UP To facilitate timely detection and treatment of cancer, IndianOil  is supporting Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital (HBCH), Varanasi  and Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya Cancer Centre  (MPMMMCC), Varanasi in setting-up a state-of-the-art molecular  pathology laboratory.
Molecular tests play an important role  in cancer detection.
Due to the absence of this facility across  Eastern UP, samples of patients have to be sent to metro cities  such as Mumbai or Delhi, which delays the detection process,  now with the help of molecular pathology lab, hospitals will be  able to detect cancer at Varanasi itself.
The laboratory will also  be key to promote academic and research work.
The twin hospitals, MPMMMCC (350 bedded) and HBCH (180  bedded) are committed towards bringing affordable cancer  care to the doorstep of the people of Purvanchal and adjoining  areas.
The catchment area of the hospital comprises far flung  areas from states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, West  Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand.
Traning programme for transgenders including short term  English and personality development, drone operations  conducted by IndianOil Distribution of M-Cups to women of Ernakulum  District, Kerala A single commercial sanitary napkin can take more than 500  years to decompose.
The used napkins are a big menace for  municipal corporations as they reach landfills, buried in pits or  are simply burnt.
The super-absorbent polymers (SAP) in pads  don’t decompose easily.
They gradually break-down to micro- plastics, which contaminate soil, water, and air.
To reduce the environmental damages caused by sanitary  napkins, IndianOil in collaboration with HLL Lifecare Ltd (HLL)  distributed M-Cups to 20000 working women under BPL  categories and other sectors of Ernakulam District, Kerala.
M-Cup is a non-absorbent reusable medical grade silicone  cup that collects menstrual blood and is considered a safe  alternative to disposable menstrual hygiene products, which  may contain chemicals that cause health issues.
The M-cups  are a much cheaper option as a single cup can be reused for  5 to 10 years.
M-Cup distribution & awareness Kiosks for women at  Edappally Kochi Metro Station The Ecological Park at IndianOil's Bongaigaon Refinery, Assam Beneficiaries working on pottery making at Common Facility  Centre, Perumudivakkam village, Tamil Nadu Integrated Pottery Development in Tiruvallur under  IndianOil CSR IndianOil partnered with IIT Madras and established a Common  Facility Centre (CFC) for Integrated Pottery Development  in Perumudivakkam village of Tiruvallur.
The project  was developed with technology from Rural Technology  Action Group (RuTAG) of IIT Madras and was formulated in  association with District Administration of Tiruvallur to provide  better livelihoods to the potters of this region by integrating  their traditional skills with modern technologies.
Under  the project, 82 participants from nearby villages have been  extensively trained on adaption of innovative technology in  red clay pottery.
The CFC has been equipped with modern  infrastructure like ball mill, pug mill, blunger, electric furnace,  automatic potter’s wheel etc.
16 villagers who got trained in  the facility have set up their own enterprise or joined local  pottery clusters to further their business.
The technique of  microwaveable pottery was also imparted to the trainees at  the CFC.
Statutory Reports Annexure-IIHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 112 113 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR 2021-22 1.
A brief outline of the Company's CSR policy  IndianOil’s CSR initiatives are guided by its corporate vision of caring for environment and community.
IndianOil believes  that CSR is its continuing commitment to conduct business in a responsible and sustainable manner and contribute to the  economic well-being of the country.
It also helps to improve the quality of life of local communities residing in the vicinity of  its establishments and the society at large.
IndianOil’s Sustainability & Corporate Social Responsibility (S&CSR) vision is to operate its activities in providing energy  solutions to its customers in a manner that is efficient, safe & ethical, which optimises the impact on environment and  enhances quality of life of the community, while ensuring sustainable growth of business and the nation.
2.
Composition of the CSR & Sustainable Development Committee SI.
No.
Name of Director / Designation Committee Position Number of meetings  of CSR Committee  held during the year Number of  meetings of CSR  Committee attended  during the year 1 Ms Lata Usendi Independent Director  Chairperson (w.e.f.
15.07.2021) 7 7 2 Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director  (Member w.e.f.
24.11.2021) Member (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 3 3 3 Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra,  Director (Human Resources) Member 10 9 4 Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance) Member 10 10 5 Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar Director (Research & Development)  & Holding additional charge of Director  (Planning & Business Development) Member (w.e.f.
01.09.2021  and upto  22.02.2022) 4 2 6 Shri V. Satish Kumar  Director (Marketing)  Member (w.e.f.
28.10.2021) 4 3 7 Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning & Business Development)  Member (w.e.f.
23.02.2022) 1 1 8 Shri Rajendra Arlekar Independent Director  Chairperson (upto 10.07.2021) 3 3 9 Shri G. K. Satish Director (Planning & Business Development)  Member (upto 31.08.2021) 4 4 3.
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are  disclosed on the website of the company Composition of CSR Committee: https://iocl.com/InvestorCenter/PDF/Board-Committees.pdf CSR Policy: https://iocl.com/download/IndianOils_Sustainability_and_CSR_Policy.pdf CSR projects approved by the Board: https://iocl.com/pages/board-approved-csr-projects 4.
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies  (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report)   In pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, Impact Assessment  of following projects was conducted through third party: Sl.
No.
Brief about project 1 Establishment of fodder bank at NTR College of Veterinary Science, Gannavaram, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh 2 Provision of CBNAAT machine for TB diagnosis at Hospitals under Thane Municipal Corporation, Thane, Maharashtra Sl.
No.
Financial Year Amount available for set-off from  preceding financial years (in J) Amount required to be setoff for the  financial year, if any (in J) 1.
2021-22 118.37 crore 118.37 crore  Impact Assessment Reports are hosted on the website of company at URL: https://iocl.com/pages/Impact-Assessment- Reports 5.
Details of the amount available for set-off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social  Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set-off for the financial year, if any 6.
Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): J 16157.05 crore.
(a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) J 323.14 crore (b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: Nil (c) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: J 118.37 crore (d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): J 204.77 crore 7.
Total Amount  Spent for the  Financial Year Amount Spent Total Amount transferred to Unspent  CSR Account as per section 135(6) Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule  VII as per second proviso to section 135(5) Amount Date of transfer Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer H 298.29 crore Nil NA Nil Nil NA 8.
(a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:   (b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: Annexure - A  (c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: Annexure - B  (d) Amount spent on Administrative Overheads: J14.20 crore  (e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: J0.06 crore  (f)  Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): J298.29 crore  (g) Excess amount for set-off, if any Sl.
No.
Particular Amount (i) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) J 323.14 crore (ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year (including set-off from previous financial year) J 416.66 crore (iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)] J 93.52 crore (iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous  financial years, if any Nil (v) Amount available for set-off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] J 93.52 crore Statutory Reports Annexure-IIHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 114 115 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Sd/- (Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra) Director (Human Resources) & Member, CSR&SD Committee Sd/- (Lata Usendi) Independent Director & Chairperson, CSR&SD Committee 9.
(a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Sl.
No.
Preceding Financial  Year Amount  transferred to  Unspent CSR  Account under  Section 135 (6) Amount  spent in the  reporting  Financial  Year Amount transferred to any fund  specified under Schedule VII as per  section 135(6), if any.
Amount  remaining to  be spent in  succeeding  financial years Name of the  Fund Amount Date of  transfer 1 2017-18 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 2 2018-19 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 3 2019-20 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil  (b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s): Annexure - C 10.
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR  spent in the financial year (asset-wise details).
(a) Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s).
(b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset.
(c) Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address  etc.
(d) Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset).
No capital Asset was created / acquired in the books of account of the Company during 2021-22 through CSR Spent.
11.
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
Not applicable Annexure A Details of CSR amount spent against “Ongoing Projects” for the financial year 2021-22 (J crore) SI.
No.
Name of the project Item from  the list of  activities in  Schedule VII  to the Act Local Area  (Yes/ No) Location of Project Project  Duration (in  years) Amount  allocated for  the project Amount  spent in  current  financial  year Amount  transferred  to Unspent  CSR  Account  for the  project as  per Section  135(6) Mode of  Implementation-  Direct (Yes/ No) Mode of Implementation -Through  Implementing Agency State/ UT District Name CSR Registration  No.
1 Contribution towards  Tata Medical Centre for  construction of phase-II of  Tata Medical Centre Hospital,  Kolkata  (i) Local West Bengal Kolkata 10.0 32.00 32.00 Nil No Tata Medical  Centre Trust  (TMCT), Kolkata CSR00002920 2 Establishment of Centre  of Excellence in Oil, Gas  & Energy (CEOGE) at IIT- Bombay (ii) Other Maharashtra Mumbai 4.0 15.61 15.61 Nil No IIT Bombay CSR00007536 3 Procurement of 2000  Oxygen Concentrators (i), (xii) Local All India All India 0.9 10.95 10.95 Nil Yes IOCL NA 4 Providing cancer equipment  at Cancer Care Hospital,  Barpeta (i) Local Assam Barpeta 1.2 7.24 7.24 Nil No M/s Tata  Education and  Development  Trusts CSR00003775 5 Construction of 100 TPD  cattle dung-based biogas  plant, Jaipur (iv) Local Rajasthan Jaipur 3.0 7.20 7.20 Nil Yes IOCL NA 6 Operation & Management  of Swarn Jayanti Samudayik  Hospital, Mathura (U.P.)
(i) Local Uttar Pradesh Mathura 4.0 4.45 4.45 Nil Yes IOCL NA 7 Running expenses for  Bongaigaon Higher  Secondary School (ii) Local Assam Chirang 4.0 4.18 4.18 Nil No Shrimanta Shankar  Academy CSR00026391 8 Construction of a  Multipurpose Hostel cum  Indoor Hall at Baripada  Stadium, Mayurbhanj, Odisha (vii) Other Odisha Mayurbhanj 2.0 3.77 3.77 Nil Yes IOCL NA Statutory Reports Annexure-IIHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 116 117 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 SI.
No.
Name of the project Item from  the list of  activities in  Schedule VII  to the Act Local Area  (Yes/ No) Location of Project Project  Duration (in  years) Amount  allocated for  the project Amount  spent in  current  financial  year Amount  transferred  to Unspent  CSR  Account  for the  project as  per Section  135(6) Mode of  Implementation-  Direct (Yes/ No) Mode of Implementation -Through  Implementing Agency State/ UT District Name CSR Registration  No.
9 IndianOil ACERS:  Providing scholarships to  sportspersons (vii) Local All India All India 3.3 3.46 3.46 Nil Yes IOCL NA 10 Running expenses for non- employee patients at AOD  Hospital, Digboi (i) Local Assam Tinsukia 4.0 3.36 3.36 Nil Yes IOCL NA 11 Running expenses for Assam  Oil School of Nursing (AOSN)  and Assam Oil College of  Nursing (AOCN) (iii) Local Assam Tinsukia 4.0 3.20 3.20 Nil Yes IOCL NA 12 Construction of 50  community toilet in Tripura (i) Other Tripura West Tripura 2.8 2.27 2.27 Nil Yes IOCL NA 13 Providing facilities for Yoga &  Naturopathy Centre at New  Delhi (i) Local Delhi New Delhi 3.0 2.12 2.12 Nil Yes IOCL NA 14 Construction of Skill  Development Academy at  Bhopal through Vanvasi  Kalyan Parishad (ii) Local Madhya  Pradesh Bhopal 1.8 2.07 2.07 Nil Yes IOCL NA 15 CSR Projects approved by  competent Authority having  expenditure less than H 2 crore  Various  Schedule VII  activities Local &  Other Areas  both All India All India From less  than 1 to 8  years 45.35 45.35 Nil Direct as well  as through  implementing  agencies IOCL /  Implementing  Agencies NA Total 147.23 147.23 Details of CSR amount spent against “Ongoing Projects” for the financial year 2021-22 (J crore) (Contd..) Note: The above list includes CSR projects which were under implementation before the enactment of Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021  Annexure B Details of CSR amount spent against Other than “Ongoing Projects” for the financial year 2021-22 (J crore) SI.
No.
Name of the project Item from the list  of activities in  Schedule VII to  the Act Local Area  (Yes/ No) Location of Project Amount spent  for the project Mode of  Implementation-  Direct (Yes/ No) Mode of Implementation -Through  Implementing Agency State District Name CSR Registration No.
1 Contribution to PM-CARES Fund (viii) Local All India All India 40.00 Yes IOCL NA 2 Providing ventilators, monitors and syringe pumps for  establishing 100 bedded ICU for treatment of Covid-19  patients at Vikash Multi-Speciality Hospital, Bargarh (i), (xii) Local Odisha Bargarh 11.29 No DVR & GRCR Memorial  Trust, Bargarh CSR00003505 3 Contribution towards Institute of Chemical Technology-  IOC campus, Bhubaneswar (ii) Local Odisha Bhubaneswar 10.00 No Institute of Chemical  Technology CSR00006632 4 Contribution towards PME/ IEC Expenses under PMUY  Scheme (i), (iv) Local All India All India 7.00 Yes IOCL NA 5 Procurement of 4000 Oxygen Cylinders with accessories (i), (xii) Local All India All India 5.43 Yes IOCL NA 6 Procurement, Supply Installation, Testing and  commissioning of 5 Medical grade oxygen generation unit  for hospitals in Odisha (i), (xii) Other Odisha Puri, Bargargh,  Angul, Sambalpur 4.81 Yes IOCL NA 7 Procurement, Supply Installation, Testing and  commissioning of 4 Medical grade oxygen generation unit  for hospitals in Uttar Pradesh (i), (xii) Other Uttar  Pradesh Varanasi,  Lucknow,  Gorakhpur 3.85 Yes IOCL NA 8 Procurement, Supply Installation, Testing and  commissioning of 3 Medical grade oxygen generation unit  for hospitals in Madhya Pradesh (i), (xii) Other Madhya  Pradesh Shajapur, Rajgarh,  Dhar 2.89 Yes IOCL NA 9 CSR Projects approved by competent Authority having  expenditure less than H 2 crore  Various Schedule  VII activities Local & Other  Areas both All India All India 51.54 Direct as well  as through  implementing  agencies IOCL / Implementing  Agencies NA Total 136.80 Statutory Reports Annexure-III 119 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited118 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Annexure C Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s) (J crore) SI.
No.
Project ID Name of the Project Financial Year in  which the project  was commenced Project duration  scheduled  (Years) Total amount  allocated for  the project Amount spent  on the project  in the Reporting  Financial year Cumulative amount  spent at the end of  reporting Financial Year Status of  the project -  Completed/  Ongoing 1 Project  conceptualised  in 2011-12; No  expenditure made in  2020-21; Hence no  ID generated Contribution towards Tata Medical Centre for construction of phase-II  of Tata Medical Centre Hospital, Kolkata 2011-12 10.00 66.00 32.00 66.00 Completed 2 Project  conceptualised  in 2019-20; No  expenditure made in  2020-21; Hence no  ID generated Centre of Excellence in Oil, Gas & Energy (CEOGE) 2019-20 4.00 27.08 15.61 15.61 Ongoing 3 FY31.03.2021_306 Construction of 100 TPD cattle dung-based biogas plant, Jaipur 2019-20 3.00 31.78 7.20 24.46 Ongoing 4 FY31.03.2021_97 IndianOil ACERS: Providing scholarships to sportspersons 2019-20 3.25 22.85 3.46 12.30 Completed 5 FY31.03.2021_42 Construction of 50 community toilet in Tripura 2019-20 2.83 7.38 2.27 3.60 Ongoing 6 FY31.03.2021_98 Providing facilities for Yoga & Naturopathy Centre at New Delhi 2019-20 3.00 6.23 2.12 5.32 Ongoing 7 FY31.03.2021_117 Construction of Skill Development Academy at Bhopal through Vanvasi  Kalyan Parishad 2020-21 1.83 3.67 2.07 3.46 Ongoing 8 Multiple Projects CSR Projects approved by competent Authority having expenditure  less than H 2 crore  2014-15 to 2020- 21 From less than 1  to 8 years 410.48 28.77 254.95 Completed/  Ongoing Total 575.47 93.51 385.69 Note: The above list includes CSR projects which were under implementation before the enactment of Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021  Annexure – III FORM MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 {Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014} To, The Members, INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED Indian Oil Bhavan,  G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg,  Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400051   We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED  (CIN: L23201MH1959GOI011388) (hereinafter called "the  Company").
The secretarial audit was conducted in a manner  that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate  conduct / statutory compliance and expressing our opinion  thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company's books, papers,  minutes books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the Company and also the information  provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised  representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we  hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during  the audit period covering the year ended on March 31, 2022,  complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and  also that the Company has proper Board processes and  compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner  and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and  returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for  the audit period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022, according to  the provisions of: (i) The Companies Act, 2013 ('the Act') and the rules made  thereunder; (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ('SCRA')  and the rules made thereunder; (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and  Bye-laws framed thereunder; (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules  and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and  External Commercial Borrowings; (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 ('SEBI Act'):-  (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011;  (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2018 (Not applicable to the Company during the  period under review);  (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)  Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable to the Company  during the period under review);  (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and  Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;  (f)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars  to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993  regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;  (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting  of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 (Not applicable  to the Company during the period under review);  (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback  of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to  the Company during the period under review); (vi) Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central  Public Sector Enterprises (Guidelines), as issued by the  Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) of Ministry of  Finance, Government of India.
(vii) The following Acts and Rules made thereunder pertaining  to oil and gas business, as applicable to the Company:-  a)  The Petroleum Act, 1934;   b)  The Oil Fields (Regulation and Development) Act,  1948;   c)  The Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974;   d)  Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)  Act, 1957   e)  The Energy Conservation Act, 2001;   f)  The Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act,  2006;   g)  Petroleum & Mineral Pipelines (Acquisition of Rights  of User in Land) Act, 1962;  h)  Petroleum & Natural Gas Rules, 1959; Statutory Reports  Annexure-IV 121 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited120 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 We have also examined compliance with the applicable  provisions & clauses of the following: (i) Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India; (ii) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; During the period under review, the Company has complied  with the provisions of Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines etc.
except mentioned below: a) Regulation 17(1)(a) of SEBI (LODR), regarding the  requirement of having not less than 50% of the Board  of Directors as Non-Executive Directors for the period  01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021. b) Regulation 17(1)(b) of SEBI (LODR), regarding the  requirement of having at least half of the Board of  Directors as Independent Director for the period  01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021 and 07.02.2022 to 31.03.2022. c) Regulation 18(1)(b) of SEBI (LODR), regarding the  requirement of having atleast two- third of the members  of the Audit Committee as Independent Directors for the  period 11.07.2021 to 23.11.2021. d) Regulation 19(1)(c) of SEBI (LODR), regarding the  requirement of having atleast fifty percent of the  members of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee  as Independent Directors for the period 11.07.2021 to  23.11.2021. e) In view of exemption provided to Government  Companies, vide notification dated June 5, 2015 issued  by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, from complying with the  provision of section 134(3)(p) of the Companies Act 2013,  the Company has not complied with regulation 17(10)  of the SEBI (LODR), Regulations 2015 which requires  performance evaluation of Independent Directors by  the entire Board of Directors and regulation 25(4) of the  SEBI (LODR), Regulations 2015 which requires review of  performance of Non-Independent Directors, the Board  of Directors as a whole and the Chairperson of the  Company by the Independent Directors.
We further report that: - The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors  that took place during the period under review were  carried out in compliance with the provisions of the  Act.
However, the Company has not been able to  appoint requisite number of Independent Directors and   Non-Executive Directors as required under the provisions  of Section 149 of Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 17  of SEBI (LODR), during the period as mentioned above.
- Adequate notices are given to all Directors to schedule  the Board / Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed  notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in advance.
Meetings held at shorter notice are in compliance with  the provisions of the Act and a system exists for seeking  and obtaining further information and clarifications on  the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful  participation at the meeting.
- As per the minutes of the Board duly recorded and signed  by Chairman, the decisions of the Board were unanimous,  and no dissenting views have been recorded.
- The agenda items are deliberated before passing the same  and the views / observations made by the Directors are  recorded in the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and  processes in the Company commensurate with the size and  operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance  with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the year 2021-22.
1) The Company has issued Unsecured, Rated, Listed,  Taxable, Redeemable and Non-Convertible Debentures  of H 1,500 crore on Private Placement basis.
2) The Company at its Annual General Meeting held on  August 27, 2021 declared final dividend of 15% i.e.
H 1.50  per equity share for the year 2020-2021.
3) The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held  on October 30, 2021 declared first interim dividend at 50%  i.e.
H 5 per equity share of face value of H 10/- each and on  January 31, 2022 declared second interim dividend at 40%  i.e.
H 4 per equity share of face value of H 10/- each for the  year 2021-2022.
For Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500) Dipti Mehta  FCS No: 3667 Place: Mumbai CP No: 23905 Date:June 28, 2022  UDIN:F003667D000512197  Annexure- IV Report on Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earning as per the  provisions of the Companies Act 2013 and rules notified thereunder (A) Conservation of Energy:  a.
The steps taken or impact on Conservation of Energy:    During 2021-22, 52 Energy Conservation Schemes (In-house, PCRA-identified and EIL-identified) were implemented  across the refineries with achieved energy savings of 66,886 SRFT/year, equivalent to a monetary savings of H 246.43 crore.
Out of the total savings, H 106.27 crore was achieved during 2021-22 and balance will be achieved in 2022-23.
Through  implementation of these Energy Conservation schemes, reduction in approximately 0.217 MMT equivalent CO 2 emission  per year has been achieved.
Some of the major schemes implemented during 2021-22 are as under:  Sl.
No.
Energy saving schemes ESTIMATED  COST (J in lakh) ESTIMATED FUEL SAVINGS  (Standard Refinery Fuel  Equivalent) MT/Year 1 Import of 15 MW power from 132 KV Grid at Guwahati  Refinery 3658 2400 2 Heat utilisation of Atomising Air Cooler of GT 1 & 2 at Barauni  Refinery 15 1200 3 Overhauling of GT 1 to improve the operating Heat Rate at  Barauni Refinery 839 2524 4 RFCCU CO-Boiler internal modification, to avoid bypass  opening at Barauni Refinery 11000 8500 5 Provision of MUH in HRSG-5 at Gujarat Refinery 678 3163 6 Implementation of Electrical Heat Tracing in Bitumen lines at  Gujarat Refinery 769 5000 7 Crude Preheat Temperature Improvement by Pinch Analysis  and modifications in Preheat train in Crude Distillation Unit  (CDU II) at Haldia Refinery 539 6100 8 Replacement of 16400 conventional lights with LED at Haldia  Refinery 370 1872 9 Identified passing valves connected with flare @346 kg/hr  and rectified at Haldia Refinery 3 3213 10 Repair/Replacement of faulty Steam Traps & Valves at  Mathura Refinery 18 2700 11 Overhauling of STG-1 & Vacuum improvement in STG-1 by  arresting Air ingress in condenser leakage and Condenser  tube cleaning at Mathura Refinery - 1500 12 APH Basket replacement/cleaning of VHP-3 at Panipat  Refinery 45 1107 13 Optimisation of motive steam in the vacuum column  overhead ejector system in AVU-1 at Panipat Refinery 1926 3250 14 Routing of PP off gas to WGC at Paradip Refinery 59 7787 15 Preheat train fouling monitoring model (TACIT) at Paradip  Refinery - 1650  b.
In addition, following initiatives/projects are planned for the refineries of the Company:-    Guwahati Refinery:    •  Replacing Naphtha in Hydrogen Generation Unit with Natural Gas    •  Upgradation of Boiler-STG based CPP configuration to GT-HRSG based CPP configuration Statutory Reports  Annexure-IVHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 122 123 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    Barauni refinery:    •  Replacement of Naphtha feed in Hydrogen  Generation Unit-I and II with Natural Gas    •  Routing of Sour gas from SWS unit to SRU- 706     •  Maximising the Feed Preheat temperature by  considering hot feed in NHT    • Thermal efficiency improvement of NSU / NHT  heaters by heat recovery from hot flue gases  through common outboard APH system.
•  Increasing number of coils in MUH to reduce dry  flue gas loss in HRSG-1 & 2    •  Flash steam recovery from MSQ, RFCCU & SRU    •  Thermal efficiency improvement of DCU / DHDT  by redesigning the APH system based on 100%  gas firing    •  Replacement / Up-gradation of existing AVU-1,  AVU-2 and AVU-3 with a brand new state of the  art & efficient AVU    Gujarat Refinery:    •  Thermal Efficiency Improvement of the HCU  heaters (06-FF-03/04) by stack temperature  optimisation through augmentation of APH    •  Maximisation of Stripper Feed Temperature in  NHT (CCR) by recovering heat from reactor  effluent    •  CRU- operation of RGC in extraction cum  condensing mode    •  Recovery of hydrogen from Refinery off gases    •  Low level heat recovery from product run down  streams for DM Water preheating and in VAM  application     Haldia Refinery:    •  Replacement of Naphtha feed in Hydrogen  Generation Unit-I and II with Natural Gas    •  Flash steam & Heat recovery system for HRSGs  blow down    •  Hot VR from VDU-1 to DCU    •  Hot RCO (375 TPH) line from CDU-I to VDU-2    •  Hot RCO line from CDU-II to VDU-1 feed temp  increase from 110 to 120°C    •  Pre heat improvement of NSU column by 6°C  by heating of NSU feed by Heart cut naphtha  generated from NSU column (U-85)    •  Heating of DM water (used in GT for steam  generation) by GO-CR in VDU-2.
Mathura Refinery:    •  Installation of the TDLS analyser for the accurate  oxygen measurement in CRU furnace and  optimised air control    •  Application of Electrical tracing in offsite piping  and tank farm in place of existing stream tracing     •  Installation of the PHE in AVU circuit    •  Reduction in refinery steam load by replacement  of existing turbine driven WGC to motor driven  WGC at FCCU    •  Conversion of the HPC compressor in NPRU  from turbine to motor driven    •  Heat Recovery from Flue Gas in HRSG 1 and 2    Digboi Refinery:    •  CRU NHT Pressure reduction from 13 KG/cm2g  to 10 Kg/cm2g     •  Bypassing of CRU NSU Column     •  Direct feeding of DOW from SDU product tank  to WHFU feed booster pump suction bypassing  WHFU feed tank     •  WHFU KOD condensate routing to MSQ Feed.
•  Refinery Rationalisation of Air compressors     •  Steam Generation from MP condensate in MS  block, SDU & WHFU through a flash vessel.
•  Increasing Rich Amine feed temperature to ARU  by installing additional H/Ex     •  Optimisation of Wet Gas Compressor operation  by Installing VFD    •  Thermal efficiency improvement of CDU/VDU  heaters (01-FF-001/02-FF- 001) by hardware  improvement including redesigning the APH  system based on 100% gas firing    Panipat Refinery:    •  Maximising Feed preheat temperature in NHT  unit    •  APH upgradation in AVU-1    •  Turbine to motor change over in ID and FD fans  of HGU 76/77    •  Thermal efficiency Improvement of AVU-I Heater  (03-F-1) by Augmentation of APH Based on Pre- dominant Gas Firing    •  Hydrogen network optimisation    •  Excess air optimisation of the heater 05-F-02  by replacement of 02 Analyser / burners' fine  tuning / replacement of burner components  Feed Nozzle replacement in RFCCU with new  generation nozzle    •  Preheat Improvement in AVU-II: Crude Preheat  temperature improvement by Pinch Analysis and  modification in Preheat Train    •  LRVP for AVU-2    •  Optimisation of Motive Steam in the Vacuum  Column Overhead Ejector System in AVU-1    •  Preheat Improvement in AVU-I: Crude Preheat  temperature improvement by Pinch Analysis and  modification in Preheat Train    •  Application of electrical tracing in Offsite Piping  and Tank Farm in Place of Steam Tracing    Bongaigaon Refinery:    •  MUH operation for low end heat recovery from  exhaust gas of HRSG    •  Thermal efficiency improvement in CRU Heater    Paradip Refinery:    •  H2 recovery from sweet off gas of DHDT & VGO  HDT through CCR PSA    •  Reduce dead weight in off gas by replacing air  with steam for flue gas stripping and fluffing    •  Bypass crude column over flash around VDU  furnace for heat duty saving    •  Coker De-ethanizer/ Stripper inlet feed preheater  for reduced MP Steam consumption in DCU    •  VDU Furnace heat duty saving by Changing  Preflash Vapours routing in CDU Column    PNC:    •  Recovery of waste heat in vented steam from IBD  in NCU    •  Routing of BOG to PR fuel gas header for  recovery.
c.  Steps taken by the Company for Utilising Alternate  Sources of Energy    •  The renewable energy portfolio of the Company  includes grid connected power and off-grid solar  power.
The Company is replacing fluorescent tube  lights & incandescent lamps with LED lighting.
•  Till Financial Year 2021-22, about 5,77,911  numbers of Conventional lighting have been  replaced with LED in all the Refineries of IndianOil.
About 96,597 nos.
of LED were installed during  2021-22 as an ENCON initiative.
•  The Company has 25.57 MWp of solar panels  across various refineries with a total annual  generation capacity of 33.18 million units.
(B) Efforts made towards Technology Absorption,  Adaptation and Innovation  As a continuous effort towards improvement of product  pattern, product quality, improvement of energy efficiency  as well as to meet the dynamic environmental emission  norms and to improve profit margin, your Company has  adopted most modern technologies in line with the latest  worldwide developments in the field of petroleum refining  and petrochemicals production.
Major technologies adopted by the Company are as  follows:-  a.  Indigenous Technology    i)   indeDiesel ®  (Diesel Hydrotreatment) Technology      indeDiesel ®  technology developed for BS- VI quality diesel production by R&D Centre  along with Engineers India Limited has been  successfully implemented in Bongaigaon,  Gujarat (DHDS revamp and DHDT revamp) and  Haldia refineries.
The subject technology is also  under implementation at Barauni refinery.
ii)  indeHex ®  (Hexane Hydrogenation) Technology       R&D Centre and EIL have developed/ commercialised hydrogenation based indeHex ®   process technology for Food grade Hexane/ Polymer grade Hexane production.
2 units are  currently operational (Gujarat refinery and HMEL,  Bathinda refinery).
iii) INDAdeptG Technology       INDAdeptG is reactive adsorption-based process  technology, developed by R&D Centre and EIL,  for production of low sulfur gasoline component  meeting BS-VI sulphur specification.
INDAdeptG  unit with a capacity of 35 kTA was successfully  commissioned for on-spec gasoline production  w.r.t.
Sulphur in Guwahati Refinery.
iv) indDSK ®  Technology       indDSK ®  is low severity hydrotreating technology  jointly licensed by R&D Centre and EIL for  production of ultra-low sulfur PCK.
The technology  is under implementation at Paradip refinery  for grass-root 300 kTA unit under Fuel Quality  upgradation projects.
Statutory Reports  Annexure-IVHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 124 125 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    v)  indJet ®  Technology       indJet®  technology is jointly licensed by R&D  Centre and EIL for ATF production by selective  removal of mercaptan sulfur.
The technology is  under implementation for a grass-root 400 kTA  unit at Barauni refinery.
vi) indDSN ®  (Naphtha Hydrotreatment) Technology       indDSN ®  is a process technology, jointly  licensed by R&D Centre and EIL, for treating  Naphtha range hydrocarbon streams to achieve  product stream containing ultra-low sulphur  (≤ 0.5 ppmw).
A 235 kTA grass-root unit has  been licensed at Bongaigaon refinery for Feed  treatment of Isomerisation unit.
vii) indSelectG Technology       indSelect G  is another in-house developed  selective hydrotreating based technology for  cracked gasoline desulfurization with minimum  octane loss.
80 kTA grass-root unit is under  implementation at Guwahati refinery and  expected to be commissioned in July 2022.    viii) INDMAX Technology      INDMAX technology developed in-house by R&D  Centre and Lummus Technology for converting  heavy distillate and residue into LPG/light distillate  products has been implemented successfully  at Guwahati Refinery, Paradip Refinery and  Bongaigaon Refineries and is proposed to be  implemented at Barauni, Gujarat, Panipat and  CPCL refinery.
ix) Octamax Technology      Octamax technology, developed by R&D Centre,  has been successfully implemented at Mathura  refinery for production of High-octane Gasoline  blending stream from refinery LPG streams.
A 110  KTPA capacity plant based on this technology is  under implementation at Gujarat refinery under  LuPech Project.
The technology has also been  licensed to Chennai Petroleum Corporation  Limited under CBR project.
x)  AmyleMax Technology      AmyleMax technology, developed by R&D Centre,  for improvement of octane number of light  cracked naphtha through increase in oxygenates  has been successfully demonstrated at Gujarat  Refinery in 2019.
A grassroot unit is being  considered to implement at Gujarat refinery.
xi) Hexane Hydrogenation Technology      Hexane Hydrogenation process for production  of Food grade Hexane (WHO grade quality),  developed by R&D Centre with indigenous  catalyst has been successfully implemented at  Gujarat Refinery.
xii) Delayed Coker Technology      Delayed Coker Technology, developed by  R&D Centre and EIL has been successfully  demonstrated for Coker-A revamp at Barauni  Refinery.
The technology is also under  implementation for Coker-B unit revamp at  Barauni Refinery under BR-9 Project.
xiii) CBG Technology      Biogas Technology, developed by R&D Centre for  production of CBG from Cow dung/ rice husk is  under implementation at Gorakhpur and Jaipur.
xiv) 2G Ethanol Unit      Technology from Praj Industries Ltd. for  production of Ethanol from rice straw (2G  Ethanol unit) is being implemented at Panipat.
Commissioning of the envisaged 2G Ethanol Plant  is scheduled in August 2022.
2G Ethanol project  is one of its kind project, targeting production of  100 KLPD of bio-ethanol using waste biomass  like paddy straw to enhance country’s energy  security, providing extra income to farmers and  solving environment problems for burning of rice  straw in fields.
xv) NEECOMAX Technology      NEECOMAX Technology is developed by R&D  Centre, for production of Needle grade petroleum  coke from Clarified Oil.
Calcined Needle Coke  is a value-added niche product produced from  low value feed stock.
Needle Coker unit based  on NEECOMAX Technology is proposed to be  implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xvi) SR LPG treatment Technology:      LPG hydrotreater Technology for treatment  of SR LPG, developed by R&D Centre is under  implementation at Panipat refinery expansion  project (P-25).
b.
Imported Technology    i)  3G Ethanol Unit      Technology from M/s Lanzatech, USA for  production of Ethanol from PSA off gas is under  implementation at Panipat Refinery.
ii)  Alkylation Technology      For production of MS, Alkylation technology from  M/s Exxon Mobil, USA has been implemented at  Paradip Refinery.
iii) ATF Treatment Technology      ATF Merox Treatment Technology from M/s UOP,  USA has been implemented at Gujarat and Panipat  Refineries.
Technology from M/s Merichem, USA  has been implemented at Paradip Refinery.
iv) Biturox Technology      To produce various grades of Bitumen as well  as to meet the quality requirements, Biturox  technology from M/s Porner, Austria has been  employed at Gujarat, Mathura and Barauni  Refineries.
v)  Butane Isomerisation Technology      For production of Alkylate, “Butamer” Technology  from M/s UOP, USA has been implemented at  Paradip Refinery.
vi) Butene-1 Technology      For production of Butene-1, Technology from  M/s Axens, France has been implemented at  Gujarat Refinery and at Panipat complex.
vii) Catalytic Iso-dewaxing Technology       For improving lube oil quality in line with  international standards and augmenting  production capability of API Gr II LOBS,  Iso-dewaxing technology from M/s MOBIL,  USA has been implemented at Haldia refinery.
Catalytic Dewaxing Technology from M/s  Chevron Lummus Global (CLG) for production  of API Gr II and Gr III LOBS has been considered  for expansion project at Panipat Refinery and  LuPech project at Gujarat refinery.
viii) Catalytic Reforming Technology      For improvement in Octane number of  Motor Spirit, Continuous Catalytic Reforming  technology (CCRU) from M/s Axens, France  has been implemented at Mathura & Panipat  refineries.
Continuous Catalytic Reforming  Technology from M/s UOP, USA has been  implemented at Gujarat, Paradip and Barauni  Refineries.
Catalytic reforming technology  (CRU) with Russian collaboration has been  implemented at Gujarat refinery and from M/s  Axens has been implemented at Haldia, Barauni,  Digboi and Bongaigaon refineries.
Continuous  Catalytic Reforming Technology (CCRU) from  M/s UOP has been considered in expansion  project at Panipat Refinery.
ix) Coker Gas Oil Hydrotreatment Technology      Coker Gas Oil Hydrotreatment Technology  from M/s Axens, France has been implemented  at Haldia Refinery under Distillate Yield  Improvement Project (DYIP).
x)  Coke Calcination Technology      Coke Calcination Technology from METSO, USA  for production of Calcined Needle Coke is being  proposed to be implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xi) Delayed Coker Technology      For bottom of the barrel upgradation, Delayed  Coker technology from M/s Lummus Technology,  USA has been implemented at Panipat Refinery  as part of Panipat Refinery Expansion Project.
Delayed Coker Technology from M/s Foster  Wheeler, USA has been implemented at Gujarat  Refinery under Resid upgradation Project, at  Paradip Refinery and also at Haldia Refinery under  Distillate Yield Improvement Project (DYIP).
xii) Diesel Hydro Desulphurisation Technology      Diesel Hydro Desulphurisation (DHDS) Units have  been installed at Mathura & Panipat refineries with  technology from M/s Axens, France and at Gujarat  & Haldia refineries with technology from M/s UOP,  USA to meet the Diesel quality requirement w.r.t  Sulphur.
Technology from M/s Haldor Topsoe,  Denmark has been implemented for revamp of  DHDS at Mathura Refinery.
xiii) Diesel Hydrotreatment Technology      Diesel Hydrotreatment (DHDT) Units have been  installed at Guwahati, Barauni, Digboi, Panipat  & Gujarat refineries with the technology from   M/s UOP, USA.
Technology from M/s Axens, France  is implemented at Mathura, Panipat, Gujarat and  Paradip refineries.
Technology from M/s Shell  Global Solutions, Netherlands is implemented at  Paradip Refinery & has been considered in P-25  expansion project at Panipat Refinery.
xiv) Divided Wall Column (DWC) Technology      Divided Wall Column (DWC) technology is a  new separation technology which separates  a multi-component feed into three or more  purified streams within a single tower, thereby  eliminating the need for a second column to  obtain high purity products.
This design saves  capital and energy costs by eliminating operation  of second separation column.
DWC of M/s KBR,  USA has been implemented at Mathura Refinery  at CCRU-NSU.
xv) Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Technology      Fluidized Catalytic Cracking (FCC) technology  from M/s UOP, USA has been implemented in  Gujarat and Mathura refineries for conversion  of Vacuum Gas Oil to LPG, MS and Diesel.
Technology from M/s Lummus Technology, USA  has been implemented for revamp of FCCU at  Mathura Refinery.
Statutory Reports  Annexure-IVHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 126 127 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    xvi) Hydrocracker Technology      Full Conversion Hydro cracking Unit (HCU)  technology from M/s Chevron USA and  M/s UOP USA have been implemented at Gujarat  Refinery and Panipat Refinery respectively  for conversion of Vacuum Gas Oil to Jet fuel,  Kerosene and Diesel.
Revamp of HCU unit based  on technology from Chevron Lummus Global is  under implementation at Gujarat Refinery under  LuPech project to produce feedstock for LOBS /  CDW unit    xvii) Hydro-finishing Technology for treatment of  Paraffin      Wax / Microcrystalline Wax Process technology  from M/s.
Axens, France for hydro finishing of  paraffin wax has been implemented at Digboi  refinery.
xviii) Hydrogen Generation Technology      Hydrogen generation technology from  M/s Linde, Germany was adopted for Hydrogen  production and supply to Hydrocraker unit at  Gujarat Refinery and has been implemented at  Barauni Refinery under MS Quality Improvement  Project.
Hydrogen generation technology  obtained from M/s.
Haldor Topsoe, Denmark is  in operation at Gujarat, Mathura, Haldia, Panipat  and Barauni refineries and has been implemented  at Gujarat Refinery under Resid Upgradation  Project.
Similar technology from M/s Technip  Energies, the Netherlands has been implemented  for Hydrogen generation at Guwahati, Digboi,  Mathura, Haldia and Bongaigaon Refineries.
xix) ISOSIV Technology at Guwahati Refinery      For production of Isomerate for blending in  MS at Guwahati Refinery, ISOSIV technology  from M/s UOP, USA has been implemented.
xx) Kerosene Hydro Desulphurisation Technology      Kerosene Hydro Desulphurisation Unit has been  installed at Haldia refinery with technology from  M/s Axens, France.
xxi) LPG Treatment Technology      Coker LPG Merox Treatment technology from  M/s UOP, USA has been implemented at Panipat  Refinery and at Haldia Refinery under DYIP  project.
FCC LPG Treatment technology from  M/s Merichem, USA has been implemented at  Haldia and Paradip Refineries.
Straight Run LPG  Treatment technology from M/s UOP, USA has  been implemented at Paradip Refinery.
LPG  Treatment technology from M/s UOP is under  implementation in B-9 expansion project at  Barauni Refinery.
xxii) MS Quality Upgradation Technology      For MS quality upgradation, Isomerisation  technology of M/s UOP, USA have been  implemented at Mathura, Panipat and Gujarat  Refineries.
Isomerisation Technology from  M/s Axens, France has been implemented  at Haldia, Guwahati, Digboi and Barauni  refineries.
FCC Gasoline desulphurization  technology (Prime-G) from M/s Axens, France  has been implemented at Haldia, Mathura,  Panipat, Barauni and Bongaigaon Refineries.
Isomerisation technology of M/s UOP, USA is  under implementation in expansion projects at  Barauni, Panipat and Gujarat refinery.
xxiii) MTBE Technology      Technology from M/s CD Tech, USA has been  implemented for production of MTBE at Gujarat  Refinery.
xxiv) Naphtha Cracker and Downstream Petrochemical  Technology      Naphtha Cracker Technology from M/s ABB  Lummus, USA has been implemented at Panipat  Refinery.
Technologies from M/s Basell, Italy,   M/s Basell, Germany, M/s Nova Chemicals,  Canada & M/s Scientific Design, USA have  been implemented for downstream polymer  plants viz.
Poly-Propylene Unit (PP), HDPE  unit, Swing Unit (HDPE/LLDPE) and MEG Unit  respectively.
Technology from M/s ABB Lummus  has been implemented for production of  Butadiene.
Technology from M/s Basell, Italy  is under implementation at Paradip Refinery  for production of Poly-Propylene.
Technology   from M/s Scientific Design, USA is under  implementation at Paradip Refinery for  production of MEG.
Poly-Propylene unit (PP) with  technology developed by M/s McDermott has  been considered in expansion projects at Barauni  and Gujarat refinery.
PP with technology from  M/s Basell is under implementation in expansion  project at Panipat refinery.
xxv) Naphtha Treatment Technology      FCC Naphtha Treatment Technology from   M/s Merichem, USA for removal of Mercaptans  and H2S has been implemented at Paradip  Refinery.
Technology for Naphtha Hydrotreating  & Fractionating from M/s UOP, USA has been  implemented at Paradip refinery & has been  considered in expansion project at Barauni, Panipat  and Gujarat refinery.
Naphtha hydrotreating from  M/s UOP, USA has been implemented at Barauni  refinery under Fuel quality upgradation project.
xxvi) Once Through Hydrocracking Technology      Once Through Hydrocracking Units (OHCU)  have been installed at Panipat, Mathura and  Haldia refineries with the technologies from  M/s UOP, USA, M/s Chevron, USA and M/s Axens,  France respectively for improvement of distillate  yield.
OHCU technology by M/s Chevron  Lummus Global (CLG) has been considered in  B-9 expansion project at Barauni Refinery.
xxvii) Regenerative type Flue Gas De-Sulphurisation   Technology      In order to recover Sulphur Di-Oxide from Boiler  flue gases, a Regenerative type Flue gas De- Sulphurisation technology from M/s Cansolv  Technology Incorporate (CTI), Canada, has been  implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xxviii) Resid Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Technology      The Resid Fluidized Catalytic Cracking (RFCC)  technology from M/s Stone & Webster, USA  (now part of Technip) has been implemented at  Panipat, Haldia and Barauni Refineries.
xxix) Resid Hydrocracker Technology      H-Oil Technology (Resid-Hydrocracker) from  Axens, France for enhancement of distillate yield  from the bottoms (Vacuum residue) is being  implemented at Panipat refinery under P-25  Project    xxx) Solvent Dewaxing / De-oiling Technology at  Digboi      In order to upgrade the process for production  of Paraffin Wax at Digboi Refinery, Solvent  dewaxing/de-oiling technology from M/s UOP,  USA has been implemented.
xxxi) Spent Acid Regeneration Technology      In order to regenerate fresh sulphuric acid from  spent sulphuric acid recovered from Alkylation  Unit, a Spent Acid Regeneration Technology from  M/s MECS (Monsanto Enviro-Chem Systems),  USA has been implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xxxii) Sulphur Pelletization Technology      For production of Sulphur in Pellet form,  Technology from M/s Sandvik, Germany has  been implemented at Gujarat, Mathura and  Panipat Refineries.
xxxiii) Sulphur Recovery Technologies for reduction  of SO2 emissions      Refineries at Gujarat, Haldia, Mathura and Barauni  are provided with Sulphur Recovery Technology  from M/s Worley, Netherlands.
The Sulphur  recovery technology from M/s.
Delta Hudson,  Canada has been employed at Panipat refinery.
Further, Sulphur recovery technologies from  M/s Black & Veatch Pritchard, USA have been  implemented at Panipat, Gujarat and Paradip  Refineries.
Technology from M/s Technip Energies,  Spain has been implemented at Haldia Refinery  under Once through Hydrocracker Project.
Technology from M/s Worley, Netherlands has  been implemented under additional Sulphur  Recovery Unit at Mathura Refinery.
Technology  from M/s Lurgi, Germany has been implemented  under DYIP project at Haldia Refinery.
Technology  from M/s Axens, France is under implementation  at Panipat Refinery and Bongaigaon Refinery.
Sulphur Recovery Technology from M/s Kinetic  Technology is under implementation in expansion  project at Barauni refinery and technology from  M/s Worley is under implementation in expansion  at Panipat refinery.
xxxiv) Technology for Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB)      Technology from M/s UOP, USA has been  implemented for production of Linear Alkyl  Benzene at Gujarat Refinery.
xxxv) Technology for Para-Xylene      For production of Para-Xylene at Panipat,  technologies from M/s UOP, USA have been  implemented.
Technology from M/s UOP, USA  has been considered at Paradip Refinery.
xxxvi) Technology for Purified Terephthalic Acid  (PTA)      For production of PTA at Panipat Refinery,  technology from M/s Invista, USA has been  implemented.
Technology from BP Amoco has  been considered at Paradip refinery.
xxxvii) VGO Hydrotreatment Technology      Technology from M/s UOP has been implemented  at Gujarat Refinery under Resid Upgradation  Project.
Technology from M/s Axens, France has  been implemented at the VGO-Treater installed  at Paradip Refinery.
xxxviii) Sulphuric acid Plant Technology      Technology from M/s Haldor Topsoe for  Production of Sulfuric Acid by oxidation of H2S  is under implementation at Haldia refinery under  Fuel quality upgradation project.
xxxix) TAME Technology      Tertiary Amyl Methyl Ether (TAME) Technology  from M/s Axens is under implementation at  Panipat Refinery.
Statutory Reports  Annexure-IVHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 128 129 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    xl) Poly Butadiene Rubber (PBR) Technology      Poly Butadiene Rubber (PBR) Technology from  M/s Goodyear Tire and Rubber Corporation, USA  is under implementation at Panipat Refinery and  Petrochemical Complex.
The product PBR is a  major raw material for Automotive Tyres.
c.  The benefits derived like product improvement,  cost reduction, product development or import  substitution:    Benefits derived include:    •  Upgradation of heavy oil to higher value products  of improved quality such as LPG, gas oil, motor  spirit, kerosene, ATF, etc.
•  Reduction of Sulphur content impurity in petroleum  products (like LPG, Naphtha, MS, Kerosene, ATF,  HSD etc.)
•  Feed Quality Improvement for subsequent  processing resulting in improved product pattern.
•  Production of higher-grade lubricant base stocks  which help in reducing import dependence.
•  Production of better grades of Bitumen     •  Reduction of Sulphur dioxide emissions     •  Value addition to surplus Naphtha by       o  Naphtha Cracking and subsequent high  value products like Glycols, Polymers,  Butadiene, Benzene etc.
o  Naphtha conversion to high value Paraxylene  (PX) and benzene and subsequent PX  conversion to higher value PTA product     •  Production of high value speciality products like  MTBE, LAB, Food Grade Hexane etc     •  Production of products (like Styrene Butadiene  Rubber and Butene-1) which are import  substitution products.
•  Production of sulphur in pellets form which is  more environment friendly and easier to handle    •  Auto Fuel Quality improvement for HSD and MS  so that these fuels can conform to BS-VI fuel  standards and latest pollution control norms.
•  Use of a number of indigenous technologies  resulting in import substitution.
d.  Details of imported technology (imported during  the last three years reckoned from the beginning of  the financial year):    i.
Fuel Quality upgradation Projects at Panipat  refinery:      The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for desulphurisation of gas oils,  from M/s UOP, USA      •  Technology for production of sulphur from  M/s Axens, France      •  Technology for Hydrogen Generation from  M/s Technip France      •  Technology for TAME for FCC gasoline, from  M/s Axens, France      The year of import: 2017-18/2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project has been completed in 2021-22 with  commissioning of TAME unit in March 2022.    ii.
Fuel Quality upgradation Projects at Gujarat  refinery:      The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for desulphurisation of FCC  Gasoline at Gujarat refinery, from M/s Axens,  France      •  Technology for desulphurisation of gas oils,  from M/s UOP, USA      •  Technology for Hydrogen Generation from  HTAS, Denmark      The year of import: 2016-17/2017-18      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project implementation has been completed  in 2021-22 with commissioning of FCC Gasoline  unit in August 2021.    iii.
Fuel Quality upgradation Projects at Haldia  refinery:      The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for Sulphuric Acid plant at Haldia  refinery from M/s HTAS, Denmark      The year of import: 2017-18      Whether the technology was fully absorbed:  The project has been commissioned in  June 2022.    iv.
Fuel Quality upgradation Projects at Bongaigaon  refinery:      The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for production of sulphur from  M/s Axens, France      The year of import: 2017-18      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The SRU has been commissioned in June, 2022.    v.  Mathura Refinery Expansion Residue  Upgradation project       The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for Residue upgradation through  Ebullated bed Hydrocracker unit, from  M/s Chevron, USA      •  Technology for production of sulphur from  M/s Axens, France      •  Technology for production of reformate  through Catalytic reforming unit from M/s  Axens, France.
The year of import: 2017-18      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  Environmental Clearance for the project  obtained on 22.11.2021.
Further clearance from  Hon’ble Supreme Court to be obtained.
vi.
Fuel Quality Upgradation Project at Paradip  Refinery:      The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for Hydrogen Generation &  ROG PSA from M/s Linde, Germany      The year of import: 2018-19.
Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage.
Expected  commissioning of HGU plant by December 2022.    vii.
Off-gas to Ethanol at Panipat Refinery from PSA  Off gas of HGU      •  Technology for Ethanol production, from  M/s Lanzatech, USA      The year of import: 2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage.
Expected  commissioning by Q2 of 2022-23.    viii.
Barauni Refinery Expansion project       The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for processing Vacuum gasoil in  Hydrocracking unit from M/s Chevron, USA      •  Technology for production of Isomerate  through Isomerisation unit from M/s UOP,  USA.
•  Technology for production of sulphur from  M/s KT, Italy.
•  Technology for Poly Propylene production  M/s CB&I Novolen Technology      •  Technology for LPG Treatment from  M/s UOP, USA      The year of import: 2017-18/2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by April 2023.    ix.
Catalytic reforming unit project in Guwahati  Refinery       The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for production of Reformate  from M/s UOP, USA.
The year of import: 2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by October 2023.    x.
Ethylene Glycol (MEG) Project at Paradip      •  Technology for Ethylene Recovery Unit,  from M/s CB&I Lummus, USA      •  Technology for Ethylene Glycol from  M/s Scientific Design, USA      The year of import: 2016-17/2017-18      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by Q2 of 2022-23.    xi.
Gujarat Refinery Expansion Project      The details of technology imported:      •  Technology for production of Reformate &  Isomerate from M/s UOP, USA.
•  Technology for Poly Propylene production  from M/s Lummus Novolen, Germany.
Statutory Reports  Annexure-IVHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 130 131 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22      •  Technology for production of Lube oil base  stock through HCU revamp and catalytic  Dewaxing unit from M/s.
Chevron Lummus  Global, USA      The year of import: 2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by 2024-25.    xii.
Panipat Refinery Expansion Project      •  Technology for desulphurisation of gas oils,  from M/s Shell,       •  Technology for desulphurisation of Vacuum  Gas oils from M/s UOP, USA      •  Technology for production of Reformate  and Isomerate from M/s UOP, USA      •  Technology for upgradation of bottom of  barrel to distillates by Resid hydrocracking  from M/s Axens, France      •  Technology for production of API Gr II & Gr  III LOBS from M/s CLG, USA      •  Technology for production of Polypropylene  Unit from M/s Basell Polyolifine, Italy      •  Technology for Sulphur recovery unit from  M/s.
Worley      The year of import: 2018-19 & 2019-20      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by September 2024.    xiii.
PX-PTA Project at Paradip      •  Technology for PX Unit, from M/s UOP, USA      •  Technology for PTA from M/s BP Amoco,  USA      The year of import: 2017-18/2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by January 2024.    xiv.
Catalytic Dewaxing Unit at Haldia      •  Technology for CDW Unit, from M/s CLG,  USA      The year of import: 2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by December 2022    xv.
Acrylics/Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad, Gujarat      •  Technology for Butyl Acrylate Unit, from  M/s Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Japan      •  Technology for Acrylic Acid Unit, from  M/s Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Japan      •  Technology for Normal Butanol Unit, from  M/s JM Davy, U.K      The year of import: 2018-19      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by May 2023.    xvi.
Poly Butadiene Rubber Project, Panipat      •  Technology for Goodyear Tire and Rubber  Corporation, USA      The year of import: 2021-22      Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by March 2025.
(C) Foreign Exchange Earning and Outgo  The total Foreign Exchange earned and outgo during the  year is as under :-  •  Foreign Exchange earned : H 22,100.07 crore  •  Foreign Exchange outgo : H 3,46,729.00 crore D) The areas in which R&D activities were carried  out during the year are as under:-  •  Development & demonstration of Refinery process  technologies.
INDMAX technology successfully  licensed to Numaligarh Refinery Ltd against  competitive bidding.
•  Licensing & commercialisation of R&D developed  technologies.
Drag Reducing Additive technology  was successfully commercialised during the year.
•  Modeling and simulation – Refinery Processes   •  Technical services to refineries, petrochemicals and  Pipelines Division   •  Lubricant, Greases and Specialties - Fuel Efficient  Products, Combo offers.
135 lube formulations  released.
•  Metal Working Tribology and Boundary Lubrication   •  Fuel additives development and commercialisation.
•  Fuel Quality and Emission related Studies.
HCNG trail  completed.
Support provided for development and  launch of Xtragreen HSD and XP100 Gasoline.
•  Development of Carbon Dioxide to Valuable Products   •  Carbon Capture & utilisation   •  Alternative fuels - HCNG, 2 nd & 3 rd Generation bio- fuels   •  Process and catalyst development for Petrochemicals  & Polymers application   •  Development of Intelligent and Caliper pigs for  monitoring health of pipelines   •  Nano technological interventions for enhanced  performance of fuels and lubricants   •  Alternate Energy – Gasification, Hydrogen, Fuel Cell  and Solar   •  Troubleshooting, revamp and optimisation for refinery  processes   •  Catalysts development for refining and petrochemical  processes  •  Bituminous products – PMB & CRMB+  •  Corrosion, Remaining life assessment and Material  failure Analyses,   •  Biotechnology interventions for refinery ETP.
2 G  Enzymatic Ethanol technology developed.
R&D  has also developed, and lab tested “Crop Residue  decomposer”  •  Nano Technology area on different product platforms.
The disinfectant product developed and launched as  “IndianOil XtraGuard”.
•  During year 2021-22, R&D bagged following major  awards:      Innovator of the Year at FIPI Awards 2021      CII Industrial IP Awards 2021      Energy Conservation Awards 2020 by HAREDA      National Water Award by Ministry of Jal Shakti  Expenditure on R&D  (a) Capital  - H 259.68 crore  (b) Recurring - H 316.87 crore  (c) Total   - H 576.55 crore    In addition to the above, the increase in advance towards  capital expenditure is H 225.59 crore as compared to  previous year.
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 132 133 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 REPORT ON CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE 1.
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE  IndianOil strongly believes that good Corporate  Governance practices ensure ethical and efficient conduct  of the affairs of the Company in a transparent manner and  also help in maximising value for all the stakeholders like  members, customers, employees, contractors, vendors  and the society at large.
Good Corporate Governance  practices help in building an environment of trust and  confidence among all the constituents.
The Company  endeavours to uphold the principles and practices of  Corporate Governance to ensure transparency, integrity  and accountability in its functioning, which are vital  to achieve its Vision of being the Energy of India and a  Globally-Admired Company.
The Company has set high standards of ethical and  responsible conduct of business to create value for all  its stakeholders.
For effective implementation of the  Corporate Governance practices, the Company has a  well-defined policy framework inter-alia, consisting of the  following:  •  Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior  Management Personnel  •  Code for Prevention of Insider Trading in the  Securities of IndianOil and Practices and Procedure  for Fair Disclosure  •  Enterprise Risk Management Policy  •  Integrity Pact to enhance transparency in business  •  Whistle Blower Policy  •  Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for officers  •  Sustainability & Corporate Social Responsibility Policy  •  Materiality of Related Party Transactions and dealing  with Related Party Transactions  •  Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries  •  Policy for determination of Material / Price Sensitive  Information and Disclosure Obligations  •  Policy for Preservation of Documents  •  Dividend Distribution Policy  •  Human Resources Initiatives 2.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (a) Composition of Board of Directors  The Board of the Company comprises Executive (Whole- Time) Directors, Non-Executive (Part-Time) Government  Nominee Directors and Non-Executive (Part-Time)  Independent Directors.
The Independent Directors are  eminent people with proven record in diverse areas like  business, law, economics, administration, etc.
The tenure of the Directors appointed on the Board is as  under:  •  Whole-time Directors are appointed for a period of  five years or their date of superannuation, whichever  is earlier;  •  Government Nominee Directors are appointed on an  ex-officio basis during their tenure in the Ministry of  Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoP&NG);  •  Independent Directors are appointed for a period of  three years.
Sl.
No.
Name Category Designation Date of  Appointment Tenure as on 31.03.2022 (in years)  1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Whole-time Director Chairman 14.10.2019 (Note 1) 2.46 2.
Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar Whole-time Director Director (Research &  Development) 01.02.2017 5.16 (Note-2) 3.
Shri Ranjan Kumar  Mohapatra Whole-time Director Director (Human  Resources) 19.02.2018 4.11 4.
Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Whole-time Director Director (Finance) 03.08.2019 2.66 5.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Whole-time Director Director (Marketing) 28.10.2021 0.42 6.
Shri Dayanand Sadashiv  Nanaware Whole-time Director Director (Pipelines) 28.12.2021 0.25 7.
Ms Sukla Mistry Whole-time Director Director (Refineries) 07.02.2022 0.14 8.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Whole-time Director Director (Planning &  Business Development)  23.02.2022 0.10 9.
Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari Non-Executive Director Government Nominee  Director 25.03.2020 2.02 10.
Ms Lata Usendi Non-Executive Director Independent Director 06.11.2019 2.40 11.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Non-Executive Director Independent Director 24.11.2021 0.35 12.
Dr Ashutosh Pant Non-Executive Director Independent Director 24.11.2021 0.35 13.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Non-Executive Director Independent Director 24.11.2021 0.35 14.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Non-Executive Director Independent Director 24.11.2021 0.35 15.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Non-Executive Director Independent Director 24.11.2021 0.35 16.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan Non-Executive Director Independent Director 24.11.2021 0.35  Note 1: Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya was appointed as Director (Refineries) on 14.10.2019 and thereafter, as Chairman w.e.f.
01.07.2020.
Note 2: Dr S.S.V.
Ramakumar was appointed as Director (R&D) for a period of 5 years w.e.f.
01.02.2017 i.e.
till 31.01.2022.
MoP&NG vide letter dated  15.11.2021 extended the tenure of Director (R&D) till the date of superannuation i.e.
31.07.2023.
The Independent Directors have submitted a declaration  that they meet the criteria of independence as laid down  under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 (Act)  and Regulation 16(1) (b) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations &  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 (SEBI (LODR)).
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors  fulfil the conditions of independence specified in the Act  and SEBI (LODR) and are independent of the management.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Independent  Directors are hosted on the website of the Company  www.iocl.com.
As required under the SEBI (LODR), M/s Mehta & Mehta,  Practicing Company Secretary, has certified that none  of the directors on the Board of the Company have  been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or  continuing as director of the Company by the Ministry of  Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
(b) Skills / Expertise / Competencies of Board of Directors  Being a Government Company, all the Directors on the  Board viz.
Functional Directors, Government Nominee  Directors and Independent Directors are selected and  appointed by the Government as per a well laid down  process for each category of Directors.
The core skills,  expertise and competence required for the Board to  function effectively, in the context of the Company’s  business, forms an integral part of the Government’s  process for selection of Directors.
In view thereof, the  Board of the Company has not identified any such core  skills or expertise or competence for a Director as required  under SEBI (LODR).
(c) Board Meetings  The Board of Directors oversees the overall functioning of  the Company and has set strategic objectives to achieve  its Vision.
The Board lays down the Company’s policy and  oversees its implementation in attaining its objectives.
It has constituted various committees to facilitate the  smooth and efficient flow of the decision-making process.
During 2021-22, nine Board Meetings were held.
The  dates of the Board Meetings are fixed well in advance  and intimated to the Board members to enable them to  plan their schedule accordingly.
The Directors are also  provided the option to participate in the meeting through  video conferencing and the facility is provided as and   As on 31.03.2022, the Board of the Company had 16 Directors, comprising of eight Executive Directors (Whole-time Directors  including the Chairman), one Government Nominee Director and seven Independent Directors as given below: IndianOil Board Members on the occasion of IndianOil’s 700th Board Meeting Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 134 135 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Name No.
of Board  Meetings  attended out  of meetings  held during  the tenure of  Director  Attendance  at the AGM  held on 27.08.2021 (Yes/No/NA) No.
of  Directorship  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Directorship  in other listed  entities as on  31.03.2022 &  category of  Directorship Membership  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Chairmanship  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Whole-time Directors Shri Shrikant Madhav  Vaidya  (DIN - 06995642) Chairman  9(9) Yes 5 1) Chennai  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited   (Non- Executive  Chairman) 2) Petronet LNG  Limited  (Non- Executive  Director) - - Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar (DIN - 07626484) Director (Research &  Development) 9(9) Yes 1 - - - Shri Ranjan Kumar  Mohapatra  (DIN – 08006199)  Director (Human  Resources) 9(9) Yes 2 - - - when requested.
The agenda papers are circulated to  the Directors in advance before the meeting.
However,  certain exigent proposals are tabled at the Meeting  with the approval of the Chairman and consent of the  Directors.
For paperless Board meetings, the agenda  items are uploaded on a digital platform (Board Portal)  which can be accessed by the Directors electronically on  their electronic device in a secured manner.
The agenda  items are comprehensive and informative in nature to  facilitate deliberations and appropriate decision making at  the Board meeting.
Presentations are made to the Board on various functional  and operational areas of the Company like Refineries,  Pipelines, Marketing, Petrochemicals, Gas and other  Business Development activities as well as on major  projects, financial highlights etc.
The agenda placed before the Board inter-alia includes  all statutory, other significant & material information,  including the information mentioned in Regulation 17(7),  read with Part A of Schedule II of SEBI (LODR) and Annexure  IV of the Guidelines on Corporate Governance issued by  the Department of Public Enterprises for Government  Companies.
The Board Minutes are prepared promptly after the  Board meeting and circulated to all Directors for their  comments, if any, and thereafter approval of the Chairman  is obtained.
The approved minutes are then circulated to  the concerned department / group for implementation.
The Action Taken Report on the decision of the Board is  obtained and submitted to the Board periodically.
Details of the Board Meetings held during 2021-22 are as  under: Sl.
No.
Date Board  Strength No.
of Directors  present  1.
19.05.2021 9 9 2.
30.06.2021 9 9 3.
30.07.2021 8 8 4.
26.08.2021 8 7 5.
30.09.2021 6 6 6.
30.10.2021 7 7 7.
20.12.2021 13 13 8.
31.01.2022 14 14 9.
16.03.2022 16 16 (d) Attendance of each Director at Board Meetings held during 2021-22, last Annual General Meeting (AGM) and number of  other Directorships and Chairmanship / Membership of Committees of each Director in various companies are as under:  Name No.
of Board  Meetings  attended out  of meetings  held during  the tenure of  Director  Attendance  at the AGM  held on 27.08.2021 (Yes/No/NA) No.
of  Directorship  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Directorship  in other listed  entities as on  31.03.2022 &  category of  Directorship Membership  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Chairmanship  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Shri Sandeep Kumar  Gupta  (DIN - 07570165) Director (Finance) 9(9) Yes 4 - - - Shri Satish Kumar  Vaduguri (DIN - 09322002) Director (Marketing) w.e.f 28.10.2021 4(4) NA - - - - Shri Dayanand  Sadashiv Nanaware (DIN - 07354849) Director (Pipelines) w.e.f.
28.12.2021 2(2) NA 2 - - - Ms Sukla Mistry (DIN - 09309378) Director (Refineries) w.e.f.
07.02.2022 1(1) NA 3 1) Chennai  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited   (Non- Executive  Director) - - Shri Sujoy Choudhury (DIN - 09503285) Director (Planning  & Business  Development) w.e.f.
23.02.2022 1(1) NA 4 - - - Shri G. K. Satish  (DIN - 06932170) upto 31.08.2021 4(4) Yes 6 - - - Non-Executive Directors (Government Nominee) Dr Navneet Mohan  Kothari  (DIN - 02651712) 8(9) No 2 1) GAIL (India)  Limited   (Govt-  Nominee  Director) - - Smt Indrani Kaushal  (DIN- 02091078) upto 24.09.2021 4(4) No 1 - - - Non-Executive Directors (Independent Director) Ms Lata Usendi (DIN - 07384547) 9(9) Yes - - - - Shri Dilip Gogoi  Lalung (DIN - 09398549) w.e.f.
24.11.2021 3(3) NA - - - - Dr Ashutosh Pant (DIN - 03057160) w.e.f.
24.11.2021 3(3) NA - - - - Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 136 137 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Name No.
of Board  Meetings  attended out  of meetings  held during  the tenure of  Director  Attendance  at the AGM  held on 27.08.2021 (Yes/No/NA) No.
of  Directorship  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Directorship  in other listed  entities as on  31.03.2022 &  category of  Directorship Membership  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Chairmanship  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2022 Dr Dattatreya Rao  Sirpurker  (DIN - 09400251) w.e.f.
24.11.2021 3(3) NA - - - - Shri Prasenjit Biswas (DIN - 09398565) w.e.f.
24.11.2021 3(3) NA - - - - Shri Sudipta Kumar  Ray (DIN - 02534632) w.e.f.
24.11.2021 3(3) NA - - - - Shri Krishnan  Sadagopan  (DIN - 09397902) w.e.f.
24.11.2021 3(3) NA - - - - Shri Rajendra Arlekar (DIN - 08518169) upto 10.07.2021 2(2) NA - - - -  Note :  1)  The Directorships held by Directors as mentioned above include public limited, private limited and foreign companies but do not include the  companies registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013.
2)  The Membership / Chairmanship of Committee is considered only for the Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
3)  In case of cessation of Directorship, the details of directorship on Board of other companies and committee position are as on the date of cessation  from the Board of the Company.
All the Directors have intimated about their Directorship  and Membership in the various Boards / Committees of  other companies, as and when required.
None of the  Directors on the Board is a Member of more than 10  Committees or a Chairman of more than five Committees  across all the companies in which they hold Directorships.
Further, none of the Non-Executive Directors serve as  Independent Director in more than seven listed companies  and none of the Executive or Whole-time Directors serve  as Independent Directors on any listed Company.
A brief resume of the Directors, who are being re- appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, is  provided in the notice of the AGM.
(e) Code of Conduct  The Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior  Management Personnel of the Company approved  by the Board is circulated to all concerned and is also  hosted on the website of the Company.
The Directors  and Senior Management Personnel of the Company have  affirmed compliance with the provisions of the Code of  Conduct for the financial year ended 31.03.2022 under  Regulation 26(3) of SEBI (LODR) and no material financial  or commercial transactions, which may have a potential  conflict with the interest of the Company, were reported  by them.
(f) Succession Planning  The Company has put in place a structured succession  planning framework to ensure a systematic development  plan to fill key positions, other than Board Members, in line  with the vision and business strategies of the Company.
Being a Government Company under the administrative  control of the MoP&NG, the power to appoint Directors  (including Independent Directors) vests with the  Government of India.
3.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD (a) Audit Committee  The Audit Committee has been constituted in line with the provisions of the SEBI (LODR) and the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013 and the rules notified thereunder.
The Audit Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2022: Name Designation Committee Position Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director Ms Lata Usendi Independent Director Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari Government Nominee Director Member  The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee covers the  matters specified under the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013 as well as Regulation 18 (3) read with Part C of  Schedule II of the SEBI (LODR), which inter-alia include  the following:  •  Overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process  and disclosure of financial information to ensure that  the financial statements are correct, sufficient and  credible.
•  Reviewing with management the quarterly and annual  financial statements, auditors’ report along with  related party transactions, if any, before submission  to the Board.
•  Reviewing, with the management, the statement of  uses / application of funds raised through an issue  (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.
), the  statement of funds utilised for purposes other than  those stated in the offer document / prospectus / notice  and the report submitted by the agency monitoring the  utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and  making appropriate recommendations to the board to  take up steps in this matter.
•  Approval of or any subsequent modification of  transactions of the Company with related parties.
•  Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.
•  Valuation of undertaking or assets of the listed entity,  wherever it is necessary.
•  Reviewing the matters to be included in Directors  Responsibility Statement that forms part of the Board  Report.
•  Reviewing with the management and statutory and  internal auditors, the adequacy of internal control  systems.
•  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function,  if any, including the structure of the internal audit  department, staffing and seniority of the official  heading the department, reporting structure coverage  and frequency of internal audit.
•  Discussions with internal auditors on the Annual  Internal Audit Program, Significant Audit Findings and  follow up on such issues.
•  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations  by the internal auditors into matters where there is  suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal  control systems of a material nature and reporting the  matter to the board.
•  Discussions with statutory auditors before the audit  commences on the nature and scope of audit, as well  as having post-audit discussion to ascertain any area  of concern.
•  Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults in  the payment to the depositors, debenture holders,  shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared  dividends) and creditors.
•  Approving the appointment of chief financial officer  after assessing the qualifications, experience and  background etc.
of the candidate.
•  Reviewing the utilisation of loans and/ or advances  from/investment by the holding company in the  subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of the  asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including  existing loans / advances / investments existing as on  the date of coming into force of this provision.
•  Considering and commenting on rationale, cost- benefits and impact of schemes involving merger,  demerger, amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and  its shareholders Chairman Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 138 139 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  •  Reviewing the Company’s financial and risk  management policies.
•  Evaluating the internal financial controls and risk  management systems.
•  Reviewing with the management, the observations /  comments of the Comptroller & Auditor General of  India (CAG) and management’s assurance thereon.
•  Reviewing with the management, the follow-up action  taken on the recommendations of the Parliamentary  Committee on Public Undertaking (CoPU), if any.
•  Noting the appointment of Statutory Auditors of  the Company and recommending audit fee for the  statutory audit as well as to approve fee for other  services by the auditors.
The Audit Committee meetings are attended by Director  (Finance) and the Head of Internal Audit as invitees.
The  representatives of the Statutory Auditors are also invited  to attend the meetings while considering the quarterly  results / annual financial statements and to discuss the  nature and scope of the Annual Audit.
The Cost Auditors  are also invited, when the Cost Audit Report is considered  by the Audit Committee.
The Minutes of the meetings of the Audit Committee are  circulated to the members of the Audit Committee.
The  approved minutes are then circulated to all concerned  departments of the Company for necessary action and are  also submitted to the Board for information.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Audit  Committee.
The attendance at the seven meetings of the Audit Committee held during 2021-22 is given below:   •  Approving the payment to statutory auditors for any  other services rendered by the statutory auditors.
•  Recommending the appointment of cost auditors of  the Company and review of Cost Audit Report.
•  Examining, deciding and dealing with all issues  relating to Ethics in the Company.
•  Reviewing the functioning of the Whistle-Blower  Policy.
•  Reviewing the compliance with SEBI (LODR) & SEBI  (PIT) Regulations.
(b) Nomination and Remuneration Committee  The Company being a Government Company, the  appointment and the terms and conditions of appointment  (including remuneration), of the Whole-time Directors  are decided by the Government of India.
However, the  Board has constituted a Nomination and Remuneration  Committee to:  •  approve certain perquisites for Whole-time Directors  and below Board level executives as well as to  approve performance-related pay to the executives  of the Company as per the DPE guidelines;  •  create and sanction posts as well as to consider and  approve promotions to Grade ‘I’ (Executive Director)  i.e.
Senior Management Personnel.
Name Meeting held on 18.05.2021 29.06.2021 29.07.2021 26.08.2021 31.01.2022 25.02.2022 15.03.2022 Shri Rajendra Arlekar (upto 10.07.2021) Smt Indrani Kaushal (upto 24.09.2021) Ms Lata Usendi X Dr Navneet Mohan  Kothari (w.e.f 15.07.2021) X X Shri Prasenjit Biswas (w.e.f 24.11.2021) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray (w.e.f 24.11.2021)  The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2022:  Name Designation Committee Position Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director Ms Lata Usendi Independent Director Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari Government Nominee Director Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil  The attendance at one meeting of Nomination &  Remuneration Committee held during 2021-22 is given  below:  Name Meeting held on  31.01.2022 Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker  Ms Lata Usendi Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya  The performance evaluation of the Directors (including  Independent Directors) has not been carried out by the  Nomination & Remuneration Committee, as the Company  being a Government Company, the powers relating to  appointment, evaluation and the terms of Directors vests  with the Government of India.
Such evaluation is exempted  for Government Companies under the provisions of the  Companies Act, 2013.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the  Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION:   The remuneration paid to Whole-time Directors during 2021- 22 is as under: (H) Name Designation Salaries &  Allowances Performance  Linked  Incentive Other  Benefits & Perquisites Total  Remuneration Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman 41,09,800 16,86,142 11,81,538 69,77,480 Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar Director (Research  & Development) 52,56,067 17,83,999 9,03,028 79,43,094 Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra Director (Human  Resources) 45,54,191 17,04,281 25,82,834 88,41,306 Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance) 52,06,200 16,81,753 3,17,547 72,05,500 Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) (w.e.f.
28.10.2021) 19,98,923 - 2,09,453 22,08,376 Shri Dayanand Sadashiv Nanaware Director (Pipelines) (w.e.f.
28.12.2021) 14,81,569 - 59,386 15,40,955 Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) (w.e.f.
07.02.2022) 7,20,509 - 1,92,463 9,12,972 Member Chairman Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 140 141 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  The Government Nominee Directors are not paid any remuneration, sitting fees, etc.
The Independent Directors are not paid any remuneration except sitting fees of H 40,000/- per meeting for attending meetings  of the Board or Committees thereof.
The sitting fees paid during 2021-22 is as under:  Name Sitting Fees (J) Ms Lata Usendi 10,00,000 Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 2,40,000 Dr Ashutosh Pant (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 2,40,000 Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 3,20,000 Shri Prasenjit Biswas (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 2,80,000 Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 3,20,000 Shri Krishnan Sadagopan (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 2,80,000 Shri Rajendra Arlekar (up to 10.07.2021) 2,80,000 TOTAL 29,60,000  Note: There were no other materially significant pecuniary relationships or transactions of the Independent Directors vis-à-vis the Company.
Shareholding of Directors  The details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on 31.03.2022 are given below:  Sl.
No.
Name Designation No.
of equity  shares 1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman 16,572 2.
Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar Director (Research &Development) 9,300 3.
Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra Director (Human Resources) 9,600 4.
Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance) 10,872 5.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) 600 6.
Shri Dayanand Sadashiv Nanaware Director (Pipelines) 2172 7.
Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) 16572 8.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning & Business Development) 13200 9.
Dr Navneet Mohan Kothari Government Nominee Director -  * Includes retirement benefits on superannuation  Note:  1.
Performance Linked Incentives are payable to the Whole-time Directors as employees of the Company as per the policy applicable to all executives  of the Company.
2.
During the year no Stock Options were issued by the Company to Whole-time Directors.
3.
The terms of appointment of the Whole-time Directors, as issued by the Government of India, provides for three months’ notice period or salary  in lieu thereof for severance of service.
4.
The remuneration does not include the impact of provision made on actuarial valuation for retirement benefits / long-term schemes and provision  made during the period towards Post Retirement Benefits as the same are not separately ascertainable for individual Directors.
(H) Name Designation Salaries &  Allowances Performance  Linked  Incentive Other  Benefits & Perquisites Total  Remuneration Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning  & Business  Development) (w.e.f.
23.02.2022) 4,78,429 - 79,059 5,57,488 Shri G. K. Satish Director (Planning  & Business  Development) (upto 31.08.2021) 86,81,910 8,49,067 25,29,458 120,60,435* TOTAL 324,87,598 77,05,242 80,54,766 482,47,606  The Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2022:  Name Designation Committee Position Dr Ashutosh Pant Independent Director Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra Director (Human Resources) Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance) Chairman Member  The attendance at the meeting of the Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee held during 2021-22 is given  below:  Name Meeting held on  24.02.2022 Dr Ashutosh Pant Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Shri Ranjan Kumar  Mohapatra Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta  The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the  Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and is also the  Compliance Officer.
Details of Complaints Received and Redressed during  2021-22:  During the year, 7403 complaints were received, and all  have been resolved.
As on 31.03.2022, no complaints were  pending.
Further, during the year, 656 requests for court/  consumer forum cases, change of address, recording of  nomination, issue of duplicate share certificates / dividend  warrant, etc.
were received, out of which 18 requests were  pending as on 31.03.2022 and the same were subsequently  addressed.
The Company has created a designated email-id  investors@indianoil.in exclusively for investors to enable  them to raise their grievances, if any.
(d) Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable  Development Committee  The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is  guided by its corporate vision of caring for the environment  and the community.
The Company believes that CSR is  its continuing commitment to conduct business in an  ethical and sustainable manner and to contribute to the  economic well-being of the country, while improving  the quality of life of the local community residing in the  vicinity of its establishments and the society at large.
In line with the above vision, the Board has constituted  a Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable  Development (CSR & SD) Committee to recommend,  monitor and administer activities under the Sustainability  and CSR Policy and to also oversee its performance /  implementation.
Sl.
No.
Name Designation No.
of equity  shares 10.
Ms Lata Usendi Independent Director - 11.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director - 12.
Dr Ashutosh Pant Independent Director - 13.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director - 14.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director - 15.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director - 16.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan Independent Director - (c) Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee  The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee examines the grievances of stakeholders / investors and the system of redressal  of the same.
It also approves issuance of share certificates.
The Company endeavours to resolve complaints / grievances /  queries of stakeholders / investors within a reasonable period of time.
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 142 143 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  The Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2022:  Name Designation Committee Position Ms Lata Usendi Independent Director Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra Director (Human Resources) Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance) Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning & Business  Development) Chairperson Member  The attendance at the 10 meetings of the CSR & SD Committee held during 2021-22 is given below: Name Meeting held on 06.05.21 18.05.21 28.06.21 30.07.21 03.09.21 30.09.21 30.10.21 17.12.21 28.01.22 31.03.22 Shri Rajendra  Arlekar (upto  10.07.2021) Shri G. K.  Satish (upto  31.08.2021) Shri Ranjan  Kumar  Mohapatra X Shri Sandeep  Kumar Gupta Ms Lata Usendi (w.e.f.
15.07.2021) Dr S. S. V.  Ramakumar* X X Shri Satish  Kumar Vaduguri (w.e.f.
28.10.2021) X Dr Dattatreya  Rao Sirpurker (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) Shri Sujoy  Choudhury (w.e.f.
23.02.2022)  * Dr S.S.V.
Ramakumar, Director (R&D) was holding additional charge of Director (P&BD) and attended the meetings in the capacity of Director (P&BD).
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the CSR & SD Committee.
The CSR Policy is hosted on the website of the Company on the link https://www.iocl.com/policies.The CSR Report, as  required under the Companies Act, 2013 for the year ended 31.03.2022 is annexed to the Director’s Report.
(e) Risk Management Committee  The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee to review the risk management process involving risk  assessment and minimisation procedure as well as to approve the derivative transactions above US$100 million on a ‘mark to  market’ basis.
The Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2022:  Name Designation Committee Position Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil Dr Ashutosh Pant Independent Director Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Director (Finance) Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning & Business  Development) Shri Debasish Roy Executive Director (F), Refineries &  Chief Risk Officer Chairman Member  The attendance at the two meetings of the Risk Management Committee held during 2021-22 is given below:  Name Meeting held on 27.10.2021 Meeting held on 24.03.2022 Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar* Ms Lata Usendi Dr Ashutosh Pant (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri (w.e.f.
28.10.2021) Ms Sukla Mistry (w.e.f.
07.02.2022) Shri Sujoy Choudhury (w.e.f.
23.02.2022) Shri Debasish Roy  * Dr S.S. V. Ramakumar, Director (R&D) was holding additional charge of Director (P&BD) and attended the meeting in the capacity of Director (P&BD).
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 144 145 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (f) Other Board Committees:   In addition to the above committees, the Board has delegated certain powers to various committees with distinct roles and  responsibilities.
The composition of such committees as on 31.03.2022 is as under:   The Company Secretary is the Secretary to all the Board Committees.
The composition of various committees of the Board of Directors is also hosted on the website of the Company.
There were no instances wherein recommendations made by any Board Committee were not accepted by the Board of the  Company during 2021-22.
Sl.
No.
Name of Committee Role and Responsibilities Members 1.
Project Evaluation  Committee To appraise projects costing H 250  crore and above before the projects  are submitted to the Board for  approval.
- One Government Nominee Director - One Independent Director - Director(Human Resources) - Director(Finance) The Committee is headed by the Government  Nominee Director.
2.
Marketing Strategies &  Information Technology  Oversight Committee To evolve the strategies, policies,  guidelines and take decisions on  all matters relating to marketing  activities of the Company  including revival of dealerships /  distributorships and to oversee the  implementation of IT strategies of  the Company.
- One Government Nominee Director - One Independent Director - Director (Refineries) - Director (Planning & Business Development) - Director (Finance) - Director (Marketing) The Committee is headed by the Government  Nominee Director.
3.
Deleasing of Immoveable  Properties Committee To consider de-leasing of Company  leased flats/ accommodation /  immoveable properties.
- Chairman - Director (Finance) - Director (Human Resources) - Director (Marketing) - One Government Nominee Director The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
4.
Contracts Committee To approve contracts beyond  certain limits as provided in the  Delegation of Authority of the  Company.
All Whole-time Directors.
The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
5.
Planning & Projects  Committee To consider and approve all project  proposals above H 100 crore and up  to H 250 crore.
All Whole-time Directors.
The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
6.
LNG Sourcing Committee To review the terms and condition  of LNG sales and Purchase  Agreement and recommend the  same to Board for approval for  purchase of LNG on long-term  basis.
- Chairman - Director (Finance) - Director (Planning & Business Development) - Director (Refineries) The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
7.
Dispute Settlement  Committee To examine and give  recommendation on the settlement  proposals having financial  implication of more than H 25 crore  for approval of the Board as per  Conciliation Policy of the Company.
- Independent Directors - Director (Finance) - Concerned Functional Director - Co-opt additional Director, if any.
The Committee is headed by an Independent  Director.
4.
GENERAL MEETINGS  The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company is held at Mumbai where the Registered Office is situated.
The details of  the AGM held for the past three years are as under: 5.
POSTAL BALLOT I.
Approval of the members was sought through Postal Ballot  through remote e-voting for appointment of Directors  and approval of material related party transactions.
The postal ballot notice through e-mail was circulated to all  the members on 21.03.2022.
The remote e-voting period  commenced on 22.03.2022 and ended on 20.04.2022.
The resolutions were approved by the members with  requisite majority and the result was announced on  22.04.2022.
The Company had engaged the services of  National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) to provide  the remote e-voting facility and Shri Nrupang Dholakia  of Dholakia & Associates LLP, a practicing Company  Secretary, as Scrutiniser for conducting the Postal Ballot,  through the e-voting process.
Six special resolutions  were passed with requisite majority by the members for  appointment of Independent Directors.
In accordance with the MCA circulars, The Postal Ballot  Notice was sent only by electronic mode to those members,  whose email address was registered with the Company/ Depositories and accordingly no postal ballot form and  prepaid business envelopes were sent to the members.
II.
Approval of the members sought through postal ballot for  appointment of an Independent Director and capitalization  of reserves of the Company for issue of bonus shares.
The postal ballot notice through e-mail was circulated  to all the members on 23.05.2022.
The remote e-voting  period commenced on 24.05.2022 and ended on  22.06.2022.
The Company had engaged the services of  National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) to provide  the remote e-voting facility and Shri Nrupang Dholakia of  Dholakia & Associates LLP, and in his absence Shri Vishvesh  G. Bhagat of Dholakia & Associates LLP, a practicing  Company Secretary, as Scrutiniser for conducting the  Postal Ballot, through the e-voting process, in a fair and  transparent manner.
The result of the postal ballot was  announced on 23.06.2022 and the resolutions were  passed with requisite majority.
No Extraordinary General Meeting of the members was held during 2021-22.
2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 Date and  Time 28.08.2019 10:00 AM 21.09.2020 02:30 PM 27.08.2021 10.30 AM Venue Nehru Centre Auditorium, Discovery of India  Building, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018.
In view of the Covid pandemic,  the AGM was conducted Online  through Video Conferencing (VC) /  Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) In view of the Covid pandemic,  the AGM was conducted Online  through Video Conferencing (VC) /  Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) Special  Resolutions  Passed (nos.)
2 1 0 6.
DISCLOSURES a.
Independent Directors’ Meeting  During the year, the Independent Directors met on  16.03.2022 without the presence of Non-Independent  Directors and members of the management.
b.
Related Party Transactions  The Company has a policy on ‘Materiality of Related Party  Transactions and dealing with Related Party Transactions’  which is hosted on the website of the Company and can  be accessed at the following link: https://www.iocl.com/ download/Policies/RPT_Policy.pdf  As per the policy, all related party transactions are  approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee  had granted omnibus approval for related party  transactions during 2021-22 in line with the provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (LODR) and the policy on  RPTs.
A report on such transactions was submitted to the  Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Company has not entered into any materially  significant related party transactions during the year.
As required under the SEBI (LODR), the disclosure of  Related Party Transactions on a consolidated basis in the  prescribed format was filed with the Stock Exchanges and  has also been hosted on the website of the Company.
c. Material Subsidiary Companies  The Company has a ‘Policy for Determining Material  Subsidiaries’ and the same is hosted on the website of  the Company and can be accessed at the following  link: https://www.iocl.com/download/Policies/Material_ Subsidiary_Policy.pdf   There were no material unlisted subsidiaries during  2021-22.
The minutes of the Board Meetings of unlisted  subsidiaries are submitted to the Board of the Company  on a periodic basis.
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 146 147 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 d. Non-compliances / Strictures / Penalties during the last  three years  There was neither any case of non-compliance, nor any  penalties / strictures were imposed on the Company  by the Stock Exchanges / SEBI or any other statutory  authority on any matter related to capital markets during  the last three years.
However, during the year, the Company received notices  from the National Stock Exchange of India Limited  (NSE) as well as the BSE Limited (BSE) regarding non- compliance with the provision of Reg.
17(1), 18(1) & 19(1) of  SEBI (LODR) for the quarter ended June 2021, September  2021, December 2021 & March 2022 and imposition  of monetary fine for not having requisite number of  Independent Directors on the Board.
In response to the  notice, the Company wrote to the Exchange(s) clarifying  that the shortfall in Independent Directors was not due  to any negligence / default by the Company as the  appointment of Directors is done by the Government of  India.
In view thereof, the Company has requested the  Exchanges to waive-off the fines.
e. Proceeds from Public Issues, Right Issues, Preferential  Issues etc.
During the year under review, the Company did not  raise any proceeds from public issues, rights issues or  preferential issues.
However, the Company had issued  Unsecured, Rated, Listed, Taxable, Redeemable, Non- Convertible Debentures of H 10,00,000/- each (NCDs)  amounting to H 1,500 crore on a private placement basis.
The funds were utilised for the purpose for which these  were raised and there has been no deviation or variation  in utilisation of funds.
f. Vigil Mechanism and Whistle-Blower Policy   The Company promotes ethical behaviour in all its  business activities and has put in place a mechanism for  reporting illegal or unethical behaviour.
The Company has  laid down procedures and internal controls like Delegation  of Authority, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s),  Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for employees, etc.
The Vigilance Department, which forms an important  part of the vigil mechanism, undertakes participative,  preventive and punitive action for establishing effective  internal control systems and procedures for minimising  systemic failures, with greater emphasis on participative  and preventive aspects.
The Government Auditors,  Statutory Auditors and Internal Auditors are also important  constituents of the vigil mechanism to review the activities  of the Company and report observations on any deficiency  or irregularities.
The Company has framed a Whistle-Blower Policy  wherein the employees are free to report any improper  activity resulting in violations of laws, rules, regulations  or code of conduct by any of the employees, including  leakage / misuse of unpublished price sensitive  information in violation of IndianOil’s Insider Trading  Code, to the Competent Authority or Chairman of the  Audit Committee, as the case may be.
Any complaint  received would be reviewed by the Competent Authority  or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The policy provides  that the confidentiality of those reporting violations shall  be maintained and they shall not be subjected to any  discriminatory practice.
No employee has been denied  access to the Audit Committee.
The Whistle-Blower policy is hosted on the website of the  Company.
g. Code for Prevention of Insider Trading in securities of  IndianOil and Practices and Procedure for Fair Disclosure  In terms of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,  2015, as amended, the Company has adopted a Code  of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by  designated persons in listed or proposed to be listed  securities of the Company (“the Code”).
The Code aims  at preserving and preventing misuse of unpublished  price sensitive information.
The code of practices and  procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive  Information is hosted on the website of the Company.
h. CEO / CFO Certification  The Chairman and Director (Finance) of the Company  have given the “CEO / CFO Certification” to the Board.
i.
Integrity Pact  The Company has signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) with Transparency International  India (TII) in 2008 for implementing the Integrity Pact (IP)  Program focused on enhancing transparency, probity,  equity and competitiveness in its procurement process.
Presently, three Independent External Monitors (IEMs) have  been nominated by the Central Vigilance Commission  (CVC) to monitor the implementation of IP in all tenders,  of the threshold value of H 10 crore and above, across all  Divisions of the Company.
During the year, 12 meetings with the IEMs were held.
Based on the above threshold value, 579 tenders came  under the purview of the IP during 2021-22 against which  28 complaints were received which were referred to the  IEMs and deliberated within the year.
j.
Relationship Between Directors  None of the Directors is inter-se related to other Directors  of the Company.
(b) Exposure of the Company to Material Commodities:      # Estimated Impact for each 10% variation in exposure has been given for the particular commodity Commodity  Name Exposure in  INR towards the particular  commodity# Exposure in  Quantity terms  towards the  particular  commodity % of such exposure hedged through commodity  derivatives Domestic  Market International market Total J in crore In MMT OTC Exchange OTC Exchange Refinery Margin 3,500 63.061 NIL NIL 0.80% NIL 0.80% Inventory  as on  31.03.2022 - Crude Oil 3,900 6.943 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL - Finished  Goods  (including Stock  in Trade) 4,800 6.455 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL    (c) Commodity Risks faced by the Company during the year and how they have been managed:      The primary commodity risk faced by the Company is the risk around price movement in crude oil, refined products  and LNG.
Any adverse movement in commodity prices may affect the margin.
Similarly, any favourable movement  in prices can also allow margins to rise.
Hedging activities are targeted at fixing a price for reducing uncertainties/ volatilities in future cash flows.
n. Disclosures in relation to Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013  Two complaints of sexual harassment were pending as on 01.04.2021.
During the year, nine complaints were received, and  five complaints were disposed-off.
As on 31.03.2022, Six complaints were pending.
k. Details of Familiarisation Programmes for Independent Directors  The details of familiarisation programmes imparted to Independent Directors are hosted on the website of the Company and  can be accessed at the link https://iocl.com/download/IDFP.pdf  l. Outstanding Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) / American Depository Receipts (ADRs) / Warrants or any Convertible  instruments:  The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments and therefore there is no outstanding  GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments as on 31.03.2022. m. Disclosure Regarding Commodity Price Risk and Hedging Activities  (i)  Entity’s Risk Management Policy w.r.t.
Commodities and its Hedging:    The Company is exposed to a number of commodity price risks such as variation in refining margins, i.e.
the difference  between refined product price and crude price, risk of value erosion in inventory due to prices, risk of higher crude prices  on crude consumed in refining system, risk of variation in prices of LNG on refinery consumption, risk of price variations  on imports of petroleum products and LNG for marketing, etc.
The Company assesses these risks and based on potential of these risks being realised, appropriate hedging positions are  undertaken using hedging tools allowed to be traded under laws in India to monitor & manage significant risks.
The Company has a Board-approved policy for the risk management covering the exposure towards commodities,  commodity risk and hedged exposure.
(ii) Exposure to Commodity and Commodity Risks Faced Throughout the Year:    (a) Total Estimated Exposure of the Company to Commodities in INR:       The value of the total inventory held by the company for raw material, stock in process, finished goods and stock in  trade as on 31.03.2022 was H 98,243.68 crore.
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 148 149 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 o.
Fees Paid to Statutory Auditors  An amount of H 5.11 crore is paid / payable to the Statutory  Auditors of the Company for the year 2021-22 towards  various services rendered by them.
p. Compliance Report on Corporate Governance  The Company has submitted the quarterly / half yearly /  annual compliance report on Corporate Governance in  the prescribed format to the stock exchange(s) within the  prescribed time period.
The same is also hosted on the  website of the Company.
q.
Compliance with the Mandatory Requirements of SEBI  (LODR)   The Company adheres to the provisions of the laws and  guidelines of regulatory authorities including SEBI and  covenants in the agreements with the Stock Exchanges  and Depositories.
The Company has complied with all the  mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 to  27 and Regulation 46(2)(b) to 46(2)(i) of the SEBI (LODR),  except as given below:  •  Composition of the Board of Directors with regard to  not less than fifty per cent of the Board as Non-Executive  Directors for the period 01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021.
•  Composition of the Board of Directors with regard  to at least 50% Independent Directors for the period  01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021 & 07.02.2022 to 31.03.2022.
•  Composition of Audit Committee with regard to  atleast 2/3rd of Independent Directors for the period  11.07.2021 to 23.11.2021.
•  Composition of Nomination and Remuneration  Committee with regard to 50% Independent Directors  for the period 11.07.2021 to 23.11.2021.
•  Performance evaluation of Directors by the Board of  Directors.
The Company, being a Government Company under  the administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum &  Natural Gas (MoP&NG), the power to appoint Directors  (including Independent Directors) and their performance  evaluation vests with the Government of India.
The Company is following up with the MoP&NG on a  regular basis to appoint the requisite number of Directors  to ensure compliance with SEBI (LODR).
r. Adoption of the Non-mandatory Requirements of SEBI  (LODR)   The Company has not adopted any discretionary  requirements provided under Part E of Schedule II of SEBI  (LODR).
The Statutory Auditors have expressed un-modified  opinion on the Financial Statements for the year 2021-22. s. Guidelines on Corporate Governance by Department of  Public Enterprise (DPE)  The Company is complying with all the requirements of  the DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance except  with regard to composition of the Board as stated in para  (q) above.
The Company also scrupulously follows the Presidential  Directives and guidelines issued by the Government  of India regarding reservation in services for SC / ST /  OBC / PwBD (Persons with Benchmark Disabilities) / Ex- servicemen / Economically Weaker Sections (EWSs) to  promote inclusive growth.
No items of expenditure have been debited in books of  account, which are not for the purpose of business.
No  expenses, which are of personal nature, have been incurred  for the Board of Directors and the top management.
The regular administrative and office expenses were 1.09%  of total expenses during 2021-22 as against 1.31% during  the previous year.
7.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION a.
Financial Results  The quarterly audited/unaudited financial results are  announced within the time prescribed under the SEBI  (LODR).
The results are published in leading newspapers  like The Economic Times, Business Standard, The Hindu  Business Line, The Financial Express, Mint and Maharashtra  Times (Marathi Newspaper).
The financial results are also  hosted on the Company’s website www.iocl.com.
The  Company issues news releases on significant corporate  decisions / activities and posts them on its website as  well as notifies the stock exchanges as and when deemed  necessary.
b.
Conference call with Investors  The Company participates in conference calls to discuss  the quarterly / annual financial performance of the  Company and prior intimation thereof is given to the  stock exchanges and is also hosted on the website of the  company.
c. News Releases  Official press releases, detailed presentations made to  media, analysts, institutional investors, etc.
are displayed  on the Company’s website.
d. Website  The Company’s website www.iocl.com provides a separate  section for investors where relevant member information  is available.
The Annual Report of the Company is also  hosted on the Company’s website.
e. Annual Report  The Annual Report is circulated to members and others  entitled thereto.
The Management Discussion and Analysis  (MDA) Report and Corporate Governance Report forms  part of the Annual Report.
f. Chairman’s Speech at AGM  The Chairman read out his speech at the AGM which  was held through VC / OAVM on 27.08.2021.
The same  was also placed on the website of the Company for  information of the members.
g. Webcast of AGM Proceedings  The AGM for the year 2020-21 was held through VC  / OAVM.
The Company provided live webcast of the  proceedings of the AGM held on 27.08.2021 and the  members were also provided option to ask queries and  interact with the management of the Company.
h. Investor Service Cell  The Investor Service Cell exists at Registered Office of the  Company in Mumbai and the Corporate Office in New  Delhi as well as at KFin Technologies Limited, Registrar &  Transfer Agent (RTA) office in Hyderabad to address the  grievances / queries of members / debenture holders.
To facilitate the investors to raise queries / grievances  through electronic mode, separate e-mail ID viz.
investors@indianoil.in & einward.ris@kfintech.com has  been provided.
i.
SCORES (SEBI Complaints Redressal System)   SEBI has provided a centralised web-based complaints- redressal system named, SCORES, through which an investor  can lodge complaint(s) against a Company for his grievance.
j.
Green Initiative – Service of Documents in Electronic Form  The provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made  thereunder permit paperless communication by allowing  service of all documents in electronic mode.
Further, the  Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) as well as the SEBI, in  view of the ongoing Covid-19 Pandemic, has permitted  that all communication to members may be served  electronically.
In compliance thereof, the Company has  adopted the practice of sending communications, including  Annual Report, through email to those members whose  email id is available as per registered records and physical  copy to those who has requested for physical copy.
8.
GENERAL MEMBER INFORMATION (a) Annual General Meeting: Date, Time and  Mode of the Annual  General Meeting Thursday, 25.08.2022 at 10:00  AM Through Video Conferencing  (VC)/ Other Audio Visual Means  (OAVM)  (b) Financial Year:  The Financial Year of the Company is from April 1, to March  31.
The financial calendar to approve quarterly / annual  financial results for the year 2022-23 is given below: Quarter ending   June 30, 2022 On or before   August 14, 2022 Quarter ending   September 30, 2022 On or before   November 14, 2022 Quarter ending   December 31, 2022 On or before   February 14, 2023 Quarter and year ending  March 31, 2023 On or before  May 30, 2023  The trading window closure period for dealing in securities  of the Company is informed to the stock exchanges  and also hosted on the website of the Company.
The  Trading Window generally remains closed for ‘Insiders’ of  the Company from the end of each quarter till 48 hours  after the financial results for the quarter are filed with  stock exchanges and become generally available, unless  otherwise informed by Company Secretary.
(c) Dividend:   During the year, the Company declared Interim Dividend(s)  of H 5 & H 4 per share in the month of October 2021 & January  2022 respectively which were paid to the eligible members  within the stipulated period of 30 days, as provided under  the Companies Act, 2013.
In addition, a final dividend of H 3.60 per equity share (36%)  (pre-bonus), which translates into final dividend of H  2.40  per equity share (post bonus) having face value of H  10/-  each, as recommended by the Board of Directors, subject  to approval of the members of the company, shall be paid to  the eligible members within the stipulated period of 30 days,  as provided under the Companies Act, 2013, after the AGM.
The Company has fixed Friday, 12.08.2022 as the Record  Date to ascertain the eligibility of members to receive the  final dividend, if declared at the AGM.
(d) Bonus:   The Board has recommended issue of Bonus Shares in the  ratio of 1:2 i.e.
One new bonus equity share of H 10/- each  for every Two existing equity shares of H 10/- each fully  paid up.
The Board has fixed 01.07.2022 as record date  to determine the eligibility of members to receive bonus  shares, subject to the approval of members through postal  ballot.
(e) Listing of Securities on Stock Exchanges:  •  The equity shares of the Company are listed on the  BSE and the NSE.
The address of the BSE & NSE is  provided in the Annual Report.
•  The debt securities issued by the Company are listed  on the Debt Segment of the BSE and the NSE.
The  Company has appointed SBICAP Trustee Company  Limited as the Debenture Trustee for the debt securities.
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 150 151 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  •  The Company has paid listing fees in respect of its listed securities to both the stock exchanges for the year 2021-22.
In  addition, the Commercial Papers issued by the Company are also listed on the BSE & the NSE.
(f) Corporate Identity Number (CIN):  The Company is registered with the Registrar of Companies (RoC) in the State of Maharashtra, India.
The CIN allotted to the  Company by the MCA is L23201MH1959GOI011388.
(g) ISIN Number of Equity Shares  : INE 242A01010 (h) Stock Code at BSE   : 530965 (i) Stock Code at NSE   : IOC (j) Details of Debentures outstanding as on 31.03.2022 : (k) Stock Market Data:  The market price and volume of the Company’s equity shares (face value H 10 each) traded on the BSE & NSE during 2021-22  are given below:  (l) Stock Price Performance in Comparison to Broad-based Indices:   During 2021-22, the equity share price of the Company opened at H 92.00 (on 01.04.2021) and closed at H 118.95 (on  31.03.2022) on the BSE, thereby increasing by 29.29%.
During the same period, the BSE SENSEX opened at 49,869 and closed  at 58,569, thereby increasing by 17.44%.
The NSE NIFTY opened at 14,798 and closed at 17,465, thereby increasing by 18.02%.
Series ISIN Issue Date Maturity Tenure Rate of  Interest Issue Size   (J crore) XIV INE242A08437 22.10.2019 22.10.2029 10 Years 7.41% 3000.00 XV INE242A08445 14.01.2020 14.04.2023 3 Years 3  Month 6.44% 2000.00 XVI INE242A08452 06.03.2020 06.03.2025 5 Years 6.39% 2995.00 XVII INE242A08460 27.05.2020 25.11.2022 2 Years 6  Month 5.05% 3000.00 XVIII INE242A08478 03.08.2020 11.04.2025 4 Years 8  Month 8  Days 5.40% 1625.00 XIX INE242A08486 20.10.2020 20.10.2025 5 Years 5.50% 2000.00 XX INE242A08494 25.01.2021 23.01.2026 4 Years 11  Month 29  Days 5.60% 1290.20 XXI INE242A08502 18.02.2022 18.02.2027 5 Years 6.14% 1500.00 Month BSE NSE High (J) Low (J) Volume High (J) Low (J) Volume April, 2021 93.75 86.70 17656719 93.70 86.75 246403650 May, 2021 113.65 89.60 46592949 113.70 89.55 727901721 June, 2021 117.85 107.60 20481335 117.85 107.60 314647182 July, 2021 109.70 102.85 12532751 109.75 102.90 195976146 August, 2021 111.25 101.90 23746365 111.30 101.90 237904128 September, 2021 128.55 109.05 22901265 128.50 109.00 260218121 October, 2021 139.00 125.00 21098417 140.00 125.00 239772141 November, 2021 141.75 117.00 17813033 141.50 117.85 218876185 December, 2021 123.30 108.25 18221261 123.35 108.15 227250326 January, 2022 128.00 111.35 13139927 128.00 111.35 185962312 February, 2022 127.00 109.45 16860830 126.00 109.30 230320901 March, 2022 125.00 111.30 19438368  124.85 111.20 413481532  The relative comparison (on base of 100) of the monthly closing price of the Company’s equity share vis-a-vis BSE SENSEX  and NSE NIFTY during 2021-22 are given below:  (m) Registrar & Transfer Agents (RTA) :  KFin Technologies Limited  Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,   Financial District, Nanakramguda,   Hyderabad – 500 032  Tel.
No.
: (040) 67162222  Toll Free No.
: 1800 309 4001  E-mail Address  : einward.ris@kfintech.com  Website     : www.kfintech.com (n) Share Transfer System:  The equity shares of the Company are traded in dematerialised form.
In compliance with SEBI guidelines, no physical transfer  of shares is allowed.
SEBI vide its circular dated 25.01.2022 has mandated that all listed entities shall issue the securities in dematerialised form only  while processing the requests for issue of duplicate share certificates, transmission, transposition etc.
(o) Distribution of Shareholding as on 31.03.2022: (p) Shareholding Pattern as on 31.03.2022:  Sl.
No.
Nominal Value of Equity Shares (J) No.
of Members (Folios) % of Members Amount (J) % of Amount 1.
1 - 5000 12,30,338 89.92 94,27,69,790 1.00 2.
5001 - 10000 60,009 4.39 47,05,81,750 0.50 3.
10001 - 20000 32,235 2.36 48,19,60,750 0.51 4.
20001 - 30000 13,818 1.01 34,43,48,930 0.37 5.
30001 - 40000 6,495 0.47 23,27,77,260 0.25 6.
40001 - 50000 4,773 0.35 22,23,91,090 0.24 7.
50001 - 100000 9,693 0.71 70,90,34,540 0.75 8.
100001 & Above 10,906 0.80 90,73,77,25,110 96.39 Total 13,68,267  100.00 94,14,15,89,220 100.00 Sl.
No.
Category Members (Folios) Equity Shares No.
% No.
% PROMOTER SHAREHOLDING 1.
President of India 1 0.00 484,81,33,178 51.50 200 Relative Movement of IndiaOil Share closing price  VIS-A-VIS NSE Nifty During 2021-22 IOC Share Price NSE Nifty Base 100= April 2021 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 - Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 200 Relative Movement of IndiaOil Share closing price  VIS-A-VIS BSE Sensex During 2021-22 IOC Share Price BSE Sensex Base 100= April 2021 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 - Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 152 153 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (q) Top 10 members as on 31.03.2022: Sl.
No.
Category Members (Folios) Equity Shares No.
% No.
% PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING 2.
Governor of Gujarat 1 0.00 1,08,00,000 0.11 3.
Government Company (Oil & Natural Gas  Corporation Limited) 1 0.00 133,72,15,256 14.20 4.
Government Company (Oil India Limited) 1 0.00 48,55,90,496 5.16 5.
Corporate Bodies 2,069 0.15 4,24,98,308 0.45 6.
FIIs/NRIs / FPIs 11,447 0.84 80,09,73,562 8.51 7.
Banks / Indian Financial Institutions 25 0.00 12,80,216 0.01 8.
Mutual Funds 90 0.01 21,58,51,960 2.29 9.
Insurance Companies 7 0.00 5,76,33,496 0.61 10.
Public 13,54,214 98.97 52,02,44,933 5.53 11.
Trusts 101 0.01 23,42,82,211 2.49 12.
Investor Education & Protection Fund 1 0.00 37,19,339 0.04 13 Others 309 0.02 85,59,35,967 9.10 Total 13,68,267 100.00 941,41,58,922 100.00 Sl.
No.
Name No.
of Equity  Shares % To Equity  Shares 1.
President of India 4,84,81,33,178 51.50 2.
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 1,33,72,15,256 14.20 3.
Life Insurance Corporation of India 74,92,64,496 7.96 4.
Oil India Limited 48,55,90,496 5.16 5.
IOC Shares Trust 23,31,18,456 2.48 6.
SBI Mutual Fund 11,52,36,555 1.22 7.
ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund 4,42,45,177 0.47 8.
SBI-SG Global Securities Services Pvt.
Ltd. 4,37,19,103 0.46 9.
Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund 3,89,18,057 0.41 10.
Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund 3,52,88,102 0.37 (r) Dematerialisation of Equity Shares and Liquidity:  The equity shares of the Company are traded in dematerialised form.
To facilitate the members to dematerialise the equity  shares, the Company has entered into an agreement with NSDL and CDSL.
The summarised position of members in Physical  and Demat segment as on 31.03.2022 is as under:  Type of Shareholding Members (Folios) Shareholding No.
% No.
% Physical 3,513 0.26 1,34,63,378 0.14 NSDL 4,18,019 30.55 783,51,60,010 83.23 CDSL 9,46,735 69.19 156,55,35,534 16.63 TOTAL  13,68,267 100.00 941,41,58,922 100.00 (s) Corporate Action:  i) Dividend History :  The Company has been consistently declaring dividend.
The dividend paid during the last 10 financial years is given below:  ii) Bonus Issue Since Listing of the Equity Shares: Year Ratio 1999-00 1:1 2003-04 1:2 2009-10 1:1 2016-17 1:1 2017-18 1:1 (t) Unclaimed Dividend and Equity Shares Transferred to  Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority:  Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides that  any dividend that has remained unpaid / unclaimed for  a period of seven years from the date of transfer to an  unpaid dividend account shall be transferred to the  Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), established  by the Central Government.
The Company annually sends reminder letters to the  members, advising them to lodge their claim for such  unpaid dividend.
Thereafter the unclaimed / unpaid  dividend is transferred to the IEPF authority on the due date.
Accordingly, the unclaimed dividend of H 1,37,58,406/- for  the Financial Year 2013-14 was transferred to the IEPF  authority on 13.10.2021.
The details of dividend which remains unpaid / unclaimed  as on 31.03.2022 are given below:  Year Amount (J) 2014-15 (Final) 1,40,36,569.80 2015-16 (Interim) 1,34,90,031.50 2015-16 (Final) 2,10,07,053.50 2016-17 (1st Interim) 5,82,30,860.86 2016-17 (2nd Interim) 2,06,87,216.00 2016-17 (Final) 53,96,067.00 2017-18 (Interim) 7,05,16,011.00 Year Rate (%) Remarks 2011-12 50 % - 2012-13 62 % - 2013-14 87 % - 2014-15 66 % - 2015-16 140 % Includes Interim Dividend of 55% 2016-17 190 % Includes interim dividend of 180% 2017-18 210% Includes Interim Dividend of 190% 2018-19 92.50% Includes Interim Dividend of 82.50% 2019-20 42.50% Interim Dividend of 42.50%.
No final dividend was declared.
2020-21 120% Includes Interim Dividend of 105% Year Amount (J) 2017-18 (Final) 1,84,75,418.00 2018-19 (1st Interim) 4,71,48,358.50 2018-19 (2nd Interim) 1,18,28,462.00 2018-19 (Final) 77,89,021.00 2019-20 (Interim) 3,55,03,641.50 2020-21 (1st Interim) 4,82,68,826.50 2020-21 (2nd Interim) 2,22,52,748.00 2020-21 (Final) 1,09,90,904.00 2021-22 (1st Interim) 3,08,55,775.00 2021-22 (2nd Interim) 3,01,08,225.00 Total 46,65,85,189.16  The IEPF rules notified by the MCA further provides that  details of all unclaimed / unpaid dividend as on the closure  of year, shall be filed with the MCA and also hosted on  the website of the Company within 60 days from the  date of the AGM.
Accordingly, the Company has filed the  information as on March 31, 2021 with the MCA and also  hosted it on the Company’s website within the prescribed  period.
Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with  rules made thereunder, provides that all shares in respect  of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven  consecutive years or more shall be transferred by the  Company in the name of the IEPF.
Section 125 further  provides that a member whose dividend amount / shares  have been transferred to the IEPF shall be entitled to claim  a refund therefrom.
In line with the IEPF Rules, the Company sends reminder  letters to all such members, whose dividend has remained  unpaid / unclaimed for a consecutive period of seven years  with a request to claim the dividends, failing which the  equity shares would be transferred to the IEPF Authority  on the due date.
Statutory Reports Report on Corporate GovernanceHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 154 155 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  Accordingly, all such equity shares in respect of  which dividend had remained unpaid/unclaimed for a  consecutive period of seven years, were transferred to the  demat account of the IEPF authority on 23.10.2021.
The  details of such equity shares are hosted on the website of  the Company.
The summary of equity shares lying in the demat account  of IEPF authority is given below:  Particulars No.
of Shares Equity Shares in the demat  account of IEPF Authority as on  01.04.2021 34,74,480 Add: Equity Shares transferred to  demat account of IEPF authority  on19.11.2020 29.11.18 2,95,483 Less: Equity Shares refunded by  the IEPF authority to the investor 50,624 Equity Shares in the demat  account of IEPF Authority as on  31.03.2022 37,19,339  The procedure for claiming the unpaid dividend amount  and equity shares transferred to the IEPF Authority is  provided on the link: http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.
html (u) Credit Rating  The credit rating assigned to the Company for various  debt instruments by rating agencies is as under:  Instrument Rating  Agency Rating Outlook Senior unsecured  Debt - Foreign  Currency  Moody’s Baa3 Stable* Senior unsecured  Debt - Foreign  Currency Fitch BBB- Negative Instrument Rating  Agency Rating Outlook Non-Convertible  Debenture CRISIL CRISIL  AAA Stable Non-Convertible  Debenture India  Ratings IND AAA Stable Non-Convertible  Debenture ICRA [ICRA]  AAA Stable Bank Facilities - Long  Term CRISIL CRISIL  AAA Stable Bank Facilities - Short  Term CRISIL CRISIL  A1+ - Commercial Paper ICRA [ICRA]  A1+ - Commercial Paper India  Ratings IND A1+ -  * Moody’s Investors Service has changed the Outlook of IOCL “long- term issuer rating” from “Negative” to “Stable” in October 2021.
(v) Plant Locations:  The addresses of the plant locations are given elsewhere  in the Annual Report.
(w) Address for Correspondence:  Company Secretary  Indian Oil Corporation Limited  IndianOil Bhavan  G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg  Bandra (East)  Mumbai - 400051  Tel.
No.
: (022) 26447327 / 26447150  E-mail ID : investors@indianoil.in G. S. MATHUR & CO. Chartered Accountants A-160, Ground Floor Defence Colony, New Delhi – 110024 K C MEHTA & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Meghdhanush, Race course Circle, Vadodara - 390007 SINGHI & CO. Chartered Accountants 161, Sarat Bose Road,  West Bengal,  Kolkata - 700026 S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants A 3/7, Gillander House  8, N.S.
Road, Kolkata - 700001 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE  ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  TO THE MEMBERS OF INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED 1.
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (“the Company”)  for the year ended March 31, 2022, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and part C and D  of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations,  2015 as amended (“SEBI LODR“) and the guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises, as  enunciated by the Department of Public Enterprises (“DPE”).
Management’s Responsibility 2.
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of the Company including  the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents.
This responsibility also includes the  design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate  Governance Report.
3.
The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with the  conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI LODR, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India as  well as guidelines issued by the DPE.
Auditor’s Responsibility  4.
We have conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the Guidance Note on ‘Reports  or Certificates for Special Purposes’ and the Guidance Note on ‘Certification of Corporate Governance’, both issued by the  Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
The Guidance Note on ‘Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes’  requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by ICAI.
5.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control  for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services  Engagements.
6.
The procedure selected depends on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks associated in compliance  of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria.
7.
The procedures include but is not limited to verification of secretarial records and financial information of the Company.
We  have obtained necessary representations and declarations from directors including independent directors of the Company.
8.
The procedures also include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the Corporate Governance Report on a test  basis.
Further, our scope of work under this report did not involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of expressing an  opinion on the fairness or accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the Company taken as a  whole.
High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 156 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Opinion 9.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company  has, in all material respects, complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27,  clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46 (2) and part C and D of Schedule V to the SEBI LODR for the year ended March 31, 2022 as  well as guidelines issued by the DPE except for the following:  a.
Regulation 17(1)(a) of SEBI LODR, regarding the requirement of having not less than 50% of the Board of Directors as  Non-Executive Directors for the period 01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021.  b.
Regulation 17(1)(b) of SEBI LODR, regarding the requirement of having at least half of the Board of Directors as Independent  Director for the period 01.04.2021 to 23.11.2021 and 07.02.2022 to 31.03.2022.  c.  Regulation 18(1)(b) of SEBI LODR, regarding the requirement of having at-least two-third of the members of the Audit  Committee as Independent Directors for the period 11.07.2021 to 23.11.2021.  d.  Regulation 19(1)(c) of SEBI LODR, regarding the requirement of having at-least fifty percent of the members of the  Nomination & Remuneration Committee as Independent Directors for the period 11.07.2021 to 23.11.2021.
10.
In view of exemption provided to Government Companies, vide notification dated June 5, 2015 issued by Ministry of  Corporate Affairs, from complying with the provision of section 134(3)(p) of the Companies Act 2013, the Company has not  complied with regulation 17(10) of the SEBI (LODR), Regulations 2015 which requires performance evaluation of Independent  Directors by the entire Board of Directors and regulation 25(4) of the SEBI LODR which requires review of performance of  Non-Independent Directors, the Board of Directors as a whole and the Chairperson of the Company by the Independent  Directors.
Other Matters and Restrictions on use 11.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency  or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
12.
The certificate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of complying with the  requirement of the SEBI LODR, and it should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose.
Accordingly, we do  not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is  shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K C MEHTA & CO LLP For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W/W100829 Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Neela R. Shah) (Shrenik Mehta) (Bisworanjan Sutar) Partner Partner Partner Partner M. No.
091007 M. No.
045027 M. No.
063769 M. No.
066708 UDIN: 22091007ALYVAT9145 UDIN: 22045027ALYXXM5755 UDIN: 22063769ALYVCU7197 UDIN: 22066708ALZGHX6 New Delhi Vadodara Kolkata Bhubaneswar Date: 30-06-2022 Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & Analysis 157 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION   & ANALYSIS A Year of Steadfast Resilience The year 2021-2022 offered clear reminders that our world  is more connected than ever and how events occurring  elsewhere in the world could significantly affect other  countries and people.
It was a year full of monumental  events with global repercussions, including extreme  weather events, the ongoing pandemic and geopolitical  upheavals.
Navigating the year required fortitude, resilience,  and unwavering dedication; all of which, thankfully, were  amply displayed by humanity.
The Economic Backdrop Global Economy During the year 2021, the global economy recovered,  posting 6.1% Y-o-Y growth, after having contracted by  3.2% in 2020.Large-scale vaccination and a more nuanced  approach toward restrictions, mitigated the trade-off  between economic growth and Covid-19 prevention,  despite the onslaught of the Delta wave in the early part  of 2021 and the highly contagious Omicron wave in the  later part.
There has been a perceptible fall in Covid-19  stringency indices across most parts of the world, including  lifting of the mask mandate, with most governments having  adopted an approach of ‘learning to live with the virus.’ On  the other hand, since March 2022, China has been facing  its worst Covid-19 surge since the pandemic began, and  its Zero Covid Policy has dented economic activity in the  country.
With the Russia-Ukraine conflict in late February,  the narrative is shifting from ‘Covid to Conflict’ and global  growth projections have since then been downgraded in  view of the economic damage caused by the war, with  concerns of a prolonged slowdown in China adding to the  downside risks.
Shifting Global Economic Outlook  IMF Projections of GDP Growth for the year 2022 at Different Points of Time World 4.9 4.4 3.6 US 5.2 4.0 3.7 Euro Area 4.3 3.9 2.8 China 5.6 4.8 4.4 India 8.5 9.0 8.2 (%Y-o-Y) Source: International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s World Econonomic Outlook Reports,  Note:2022 for India refers to the year 2022-23  Oct’21  Jan’22  Apr’22 10 8 6 4 2 0 Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 158 159 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 The fundamentals of the Indian economy  continue to be strong, and it is expected  to gain from the Government of India’s  renewed focus on infrastructure creation and  enhancement of manufacturing activities  through various measures.
The economy is  gradually gaining momentum, as shown  by high-frequency indicators such as GST  collections, E-Way bills, railway freight, air  traffic, power consumption and so on.
railways, ports, aviation, and vehicular sales, barring two- wheeler sales.
Moreover, towards the end of the year,  mobility indicators shot past the pre-pandemic base line  and continued the trajectory as educational institutions and  offices opened.
Consumer confidence continued to be on a  recovery path, since the first quarter of 2021-22, however, it  continues to remain below the pre-pandemic levels.
Credit  growth picked up towards the end of the year, with non-food  credit growing by 8.7% in 2021-22 (up from 5.5% in 2020-21),  which was the highest in the last five years.
Further, during the  year, investment climate also improved; as new investment  projects worth H 15.6 lakh crore were announced, an almost  100% jump from announcements made in 2020-21.
On the macroeconomic front, inflation, on account of structural  and domestic supply-side constraints, besides the global  spillages, emerged as a major area of concern.
After some  softening towards the middle of 2022, retail inflation crossed  the RBI’s tolerance band and remained on an increasing trend.
While the RBI kept the interest rates unchanged during the year,  an out-of-cycle rate hike in May 2022 marked the beginning  of its battle with inflation while talking about exchange rates,  average Rupee/Dollar exchange rate depreciated moderately in  2021-22 to H 74.51/US$ from H 74.20/US$.
However, the Rupee  faced headwinds towards the end of the year with the Russia- Ukraine conflict exacerbating commodity prices and capital  outflows from India and also putting pressure on the fiscal and  balance-of-payment accounts.
The fundamentals of the Indian economy continue to be strong,  and it is expected to gain from the Government of India’s  renewed focus on infrastructure creation and enhancement of  manufacturing activity through various measures.
The economy  is gradually gaining momentum, as shown by high-frequency  indicators such as GST collections, E-Way bills, railway freight,  air traffic, power consumption and so on.
However, headwinds in the form of high inflation owing to  surging commodity and energy prices and weaking of the  Rupee may pose downside risks.
Energy Sector Developments  Global Energy Sector For the energy sector, the major theme during the year was  Net Zero transition.
Government representatives from nearly  200 countries reached a deal at the 26th United Nations Climate  Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) called the Glasgow  Climate Pact, under which, for the first time, nations were called  upon to phase down unabated coal usage for power generation,  besides inefficient subsidies for fossil fuels.
Today, more than 130  countries have taken up Net Zero commitments, with India being  a major new addition.
On the other hand, while the world made  commitments for greening its energy mix over the long term, it also  came face to face with acute shortages of conventional energy.
In the latter half of 2021, prices of gas, coal and electricity soared  to unprecedented levels, which saw Europe scrambling for gas  supplies and power shortages in many provinces in China.
The  Russia-Ukraine conflict, that began towards the end of February  2022, came as a major shock to the energy sector.
Global oil  prices (Dated Brent) crossed US$137/bbl in March 2022 (on  March 8, 2022), a level unseen during last eight years.
Overall,  crude oil prices (Brent) increased from average US$44.8/bbl in  2020-21 to US$ 80.0/bbl in 2021-22.
The World Bank Natural  Gas Price Index increased from 45.5 in 2020 to 130.7 in 2021.In  early March, gas prices shot up significantly with LNG West India  Marker spiking to US$ 84.4/MMbtu on March 7, 2022. International Oil Prices Brent (US$/bbl) Jan-20 Feb-20 Mar-20 Apr-20 May-20 Jun-20 Jul-20 Aug-20 Sep-20 Oct-20 Nov-20 Dec-20 Jan-21 Feb-21 Mar-21 Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22 Source: World Bank 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 64 55 33 23 31 34 43 44 41 40 43 50 55 62 65 65 68 73 74 70 75 84 81 74 86 96 116 140 Inflation has emerged as the biggest macroeconomic worry  for policy-makers across the globe, having risen to multi- decade highs, especially in advanced countries.
Central banks  have, therefore, started tightening their monetary policies and  raising interest rates.
The global economy witnessed severe  supply chain bottlenecks and shortages (of semi-conductors,  natural gas, coal etc.)
as pent-up demand overlapped with  disrupted production with shutting down of ports, and delays  in orders for new shipping vessels.
Between April 2021 and March 2022, energy prices on an  average doubled and non-energy prices rose by close to 30%.
While the increase in prices was more or less steady through  the year, it got exacerbated by the Russia-Ukraine conflict, as  Russia and Ukraine are large exporters, particularly of energy,  fertilisers, metals and grains such as wheat.
Rising Commodity Prices  World Bank’s Energy & Non-Energy Price Index US$, 2010=100 Apr’21 May’21 Jun’21 Jul’21 Aug’21 Sep’21 Oct’21 Nov’21 Dec’21 Jan’22 Feb’22 Mar’22 (US $) Source: World Bank  Energy  Non-Energy 160 180 140 120 100 109 116 114 114 113 112 117 117 118 124 129 81 86 94 98 96 107 123 112 112 121 131 163 139 80 60 40 Indian Economy At home, the Indian economy recovered, with 8.7% growth in  2021-22, which mitigated the GDP loss experienced in 2020- 21.
Real GDP in 2021-22 (2011-12 prices) stood at H 147.3 lakh  crore surpassing 2019-20’s real GDP (2011-12 prices) of H 145  lakh crore.
While growth in 2021-22 came on a low base,  the economy was able to tide over the impact of the two  pandemic waves during the year.
The Delta wave in the first  quarter of 2021-22 severely affected the services sector, after  which the sector rebounded with sequential opening up of  high contact sectors.
The services sector has been a key driver  of India’s turnaround, while the industrial sector witnessed a  broad-based recovery.
However, towards the end of the year,  growth in industrial sector slowed down and became uneven,  with demand for consumer goods particularly being sluggish.
On the agriculture front, the growth momentum was  maintained, thereby providing support to overall economic  activity.
Transport activity recovered across the board in  Mixed Performance of Indian Auto Sector  Domestic Auto Sales (% Y-o-Y)  2018-19  2019-20  2020-21  2021-22 Passenger Cars 2-Wheelers Commercial Vehicles Tractors Source: Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy  0 10 -30 20 -20 30 -10 -17.9 -17.8 -13.2 -10.9 -28.8 -20.8 -10.3 -6.4 -2.2 2.7 13.2 4.9 17.6 26.0 10.5 27.6 40 -40 Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 160 161 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 geographies, including India and with the Russia-Ukraine war,  the EU is preparing itself to burn more coal this decade as it  tries to reduce its dependence on Russian gas.
The past year  was also significant in terms of marking the comeback of  nuclear energy.
After a decade of being in oblivion, nuclear  energy is gathering interest as both innovative and currently  available technologies nuclear can support NetZero transition.
Prices of crucial energy transition metals such as aluminium,  copper, nickel, lithium and cobalt rose to unprecedented  levels in 2021 and continued to rise in 2022.
Rising demand,  disrupted supply chains and concerns around tightening  supply due to the current geopolitical condition accounted for  the price rise.
While the prices of copper, nickel and aluminium  increased by around 25% to 40%, prices of lithium and cobalt  more than doubled in 2021, marking these materials as crucial  components of the future world order.
With India’s high dependence on energy imports, especially of  oil and gas, these developments in the international markets  continued to affect the Indian energy sector and resultantly,  IndianOil’s business.
Besides these, on the policy front, major  headways were made in the context of the global net zero  transition.
The ever-increasing pace of technological innovations  leading to energy and material efficiency gains are expected  to decrease the pace of global energy demand growth over  the long term.
With the ongoing energy transition and net  zero commitments, the share of renewables in the energy  mix is projected to rise over the long term, propelled by policy  focus and falling costs.
Role of fossil fuels is accordingly  expected to come down, with shift away from coal being  the most prominent.
Global oil demand is projected by  many agencies to peak by 2030, while some expect peaking  by 2040 and some see no peaking even upto 2050.
Rising  vehicular efficiency, increasing adoption of electric vehicles  and shift towards low carbon alternatives such as biofuels  and Hydrogen are expected to affect growth prospects of  oil demand going forward.
While oil demand in the long  term (2050) is expected to be lower than current levels, it is  still expected to remain at a sizeable level as it helps meet  energy access requirements of developing economies and  serves energy requirements of hard to decarbonize sectors  such as road freight, shipping, aviation, and industrial heat  applications.
Natural gas is expected to see growth in next  decade and a half-driven by strong policy push in countries  like China and India.
A slowdown in growth of natural gas  demand at the global level could be seen beyond that in the  context of Net Zero commitments, increasing ESG pressure  and increased use of Green Hydrogen.
Overall, global energy  mix is expected to be more diverse with roles etched out for  Hydrogen, bioenergy, and electric mobility.
India is set to drive long term growth in global energy  demand underpinned by strong economic growth outlook,  urbanization, and young population.
India’s energy demand is  projected to grow at rates way above the global average.
In  India too, share of renewables is set to rise, as is the share of  modern bioenergy, in line with global trends and on account of  policy support as the Government works towards its Net Zero  2070 target.
As regards oil, demand is set to grow in the next  10-15 years in India, driven by rising per capita income demand  for personal vehicles, air travel and energy access.
Oil demand  could plateau thereafter on account of rising EV adoption, CNG  & Biofuel penetration and rising vehicular efficiency.
In India,  Natural Gas demand is expected to grow robustly as policy  impetus and rising domestic production coupled with LNG  imports help the market expand from its current low levels.
Long Term Energy Outlook As economic activity picked up, so did energy demand.
Electricity demand after falling 1.2% in 2020-21, rose by 8.2% in  2021-22.
India added over 15 GW of Renewable Energy capacity  in 2021-22 (of which 13.9 GW was solar) taking the total to 109.9  GW (excluding large hydro) at the end of the year.
Including  large hydro, India’s Renewable Energy capacity stood at 160 GW  at the end of 2021-22.
During 2021-22, petroleum products (POL) consumption rose by  5.1% y-o-y.
However, POL consumption in 2021-22 was lower than  the pre-pandemic levels, falling short by 4.6% or 10 MMT compared  to 2019-20 levels.
In view of the stagnant domestic crude oil  production, crude oil imports rose by 8% y-o-y to meet the growing  demand but were lower than the 2019-20 volumes.
The surge in  international oil prices during the year meant that India’s crude oil  import bill almost doubled to US$120 billion from US$62 billion in  2020-21 and was significantly higher than the oil import bill of US$  101 billion of 2019-20.
Refinery capacity utilisation rates improved  from the lows of 2020-21, with refinery throughput growing by 9%   in 2021-22.
Indian Energy Sector Significantly, at COP26 in November 2021, India announced its  target of achieving Net Zero emissions by 2070.
Prior to this,  earlier in the year, India had targeted the goal of being energy  Independent by 2047.
In relation to this, significantly, during the  year, the Government of India launched its National Hydrogen  Mission, advanced its ethanol blending target and launched mega  production-linked incentive schemes for Solar PV, Advanced  Batteries and the automotive sectors.
This was followed by the  announcement of Green Hydrogen/ Green Ammonia Policy  that aim to boost production of ‘Green Hydrogen’ to 5 million  tonnes by 2030 and make India an export hub for the clean fuel.
Additionally, in pursuit of the NetZero goal, the Government of  India is aiming at transforming the transportation sector, which  is a major source of emission.
The Government of India’s Gati  Shakti framework that envisages a mega push to multimodal  logistics parks and intermodal connectivity, can bring in major  efficiency gains in India’s logistics sector, besides making it less  carbon intensive.
While, the Russia-Ukraine conflict has compounded the issue  of price increase, the tension in the global energy markets has  pre-dated this crisis.
In April 2020, the OPEC+ had undertaken  a historic production cut to the tune of 10 mbpd to bring in  a balance in the markets in the face of shrinking demand,  with many economies entering lockdowns.
However,  with the subsequent opening of economies, coupled with  vaccinations, oil demand started recovering.
In August 2021,  the OPEC+ members, in view of the tightness in the oil market  at that point, started injecting in more oil into the recovering  global economy through monthly production increases  of 400,000 b/d.
However, this increase has struggled with  poor compliances and the group resisted calls for increasing  production coming in from western countries in the context  of the Ukraine crisis.
In 2021, the global oil demand recovered to 97.5 mbpd from  91.9 mbpd in 2020, but still fell short of the pre-pandemic  levels of 100 mbpd.
Similarly, supply at 95.3 mbpd had  increased from 93.8 mbpd in 2020, but it was still below the  demand number.
This was further compounded by the Russia- Ukraine conflict.
Russia is the third largest producer and the  second largest exporter of oil in the world and the European  Union (EU) is highly dependent on Russian oil as it sources 45%  of its crude oil and product imports from Russia.
The US and  European allies have imposed various sanctions on Russia, but  as of now these sanctions do not restrict the purchase of oil by  Asian countries like China and India.
Australia, Britain, Canada and the United States have imposed  outright bans on Russian oil purchases, while the Group of  Seven (G7) nations, including Japan, have committed to ban  or phase out imports of Russian oil.
The European Union on  May 30, 2021 agreed to ban seaborne imports of Russian oil  with a phase-in period of six months for crude oil and eight  months for refined products.
The ban excludes oil supplied  via pipeline, thus allowing refineries in eastern Europe and  Germany to continue imports.
Poland and Germany, however,  said they would phase out all purchases via the pipeline by the  end of 2022.
That would in total cover about 90% of Russian oil  imports to the EU.
The Russia-Ukraine conflict has, therefore,  become a major factor affecting international oil prices and is  also affecting the supply and trade movements of crude oil.
Tightness in Global Oil Market  Global Oil Supply & Demand 2018 2019 2020 2021 Q1 2022 million barrels per day million barrels per day Source: International Energy Agency  Total Demand  Total Supply  Total Stock change (Right scale) 86 -3 88 -2 90 -192 094 196 2 98 100 102 3 99.5 0.8 0.1 1.9 -2.3 -0.4 100.5 91.9 97.5 98.8 100.3 100.6 93.8 95.3 98.4 renewables output in some geographies, which further  increased the need for natural gas as a substitute in electricity  generation.
While natural gas production also increased in  2021, it fell short of demand and since the first quarter of  2021, inventories of natural gas in Europe continued to be  below their five-year average.
Europe’s high dependence on  natural gas imports from Russia has become a major factor  affecting the gas markets.
Moves and decisions by Russia, such  as cutting off gas supplies to nations like Poland, Bulgaria,  Finland, Denmark, and Netherlands, besides the European  Union’s efforts to reduce dependence on Russian gas, are  affecting gas prices and established gas trade patterns.
Even though coal came under direct fire at COP26, coal  consumption increased in 2021 and production fell short  of demand, resulting in shortages and soaring coal prices  reaching record levels.
In view of the domestic energy security  concerns, coal production targets were increased in some  The markets for refined products have been witnessing  tightness in the face of growing demand for road, air and sea  transportation as economies opened up on the one hand, and  low inventories and refinery capacity bottlenecks magnified  the issue on the other.
As Russia is one of the biggest refiners  in the world and a major exporter of Diesel, the Russia-Ukraine  war jolted the products market.
Product cracks improved  significantly in 2021-22 from their depressed levels of 2020- 21.
Jet-Kero (ATF) after being in the negative zone in 2020- 21 recovered to more than US$ 7/bbl in 2021-22 and the  turnaround in petrol and diesel cracks were impressive too.
However, LPG cracks continued to be in the negative zone.
During the year, diesel and petrol cracks continue to be high  and above historical levels.
Global natural gas demand rose in 2021 on account of  increased economic activity, adverse weather events, which  increased the demand for natural gas for heating, and reduced  Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 162 163 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 To fortify its research capabilities in new niche technologies  and to become a least cost supplier of Green Energy / advanced  bio-fuels, a new R&D centre with world class infrastructure  for research in renewable technologies is being developed.
In addition, the Company is working towards leveraging  digitalisation technologies like Big Data, the Internet of Things,  Analytics, Artificial Intelligence (AI), AR/VR etc., to make its  operations more efficient and agile.
The Company’s HR strategies are also getting aligned to the  imperatives of the ongoing Energy Transition.
IndianOil’s  Joint Ventures with niche players in new energy areas are  helping its workforce develop skills for the emerging non- core energy areas.
IndianOil is collaborating with nationally  and internationally renowned global institutes for building  specialized skill sets and for nurturing managers with a new  age perspective.
As the Company forges ahead aligning its growth path with the  imperatives of energy transition, it will bank on its traditional  core competencies while also building strengths in the  emerging new areas and technologies.
IndianOil – Towards a Greener Horizon As a responsible corporate, and in line with its spirit of “Pehle  Indian Phir Oil”, the Company has always stood up in service of  the nation.
When the country faced unprecedented Covid-19  Another source of constant strength and competitive advantage  for the Company has been its research & development (R&D)  set-up, which works hand-in-hand with its business verticals  to create research-backed products and technologies.
The Company is working towards leveraging  digitalisation technologies like Big Data, the  Internet of Things, Analytics, Artificial  Intelligence (AI), AR/VR etc., to make its  operations more efficient and agile.
Building on Competitive Strength through... Impeccable Service Delivery Innovative Products challenges, true to this spirit, IndianOil rose to the occasion to  align itself with the national priorities and helped India face the  Covid-19 situation with fortitude and a spirit of self-reliance.
As  the leading energy supplier, the Company and its employees,  delivery agents, drivers and various other stakeholders ensured  that even during the worst of the pandemic, kitchen fires  kept burning and fuel and energy solutions were available  throughout the country.
With the Covid-19 situation having eased and with the  economy opening up, the country needed energy to meet  the rising energy demand and to bring the economy back on  track.
The Company rose to the occasion to meet the energy  challenges and to uncover the opportunities therein.
While  •  Indane Tatkal Seva •  Fully Automated Retail Outlets •  Fuel@Doorstep •  LNG at Doorstep •   New connection Registration  facility through Missed call Cutting Edge Technology •   Rich IP Portfolio over 1500  patents as of March 31, 2022 •   Commercialised Refining  Technologies:Indmax, IndeDiesel  etc.
•  i-Drive Initiatives •   Green Hydrogen Plants @  Mathura & Panipat Refinery •  CCUS Projects •  Aluminum Air Batteries •   Hydrogen Transport through  Pipelines Partial Recovery in Oil Demand in India Crude Oil Production Crude Oil Imports Refinery Throughput POL Consumption Source: Petroleum Planning & Analysis Cell (PPAC), Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas  2019-20  2020-21  2021-22 0 50 100 150 200 250 300MMT Looking closely at categories of refined products, the recovery  in demand was seen across most fuel types, barring SKO.
Petrol  consumption increased by 10.3% y-o-y and diesel increased by  5.5% y-o-y.
ATF consumption staged a strong comeback with  over 35% y-o-y growth.
However, overall consumption is yet  to reach the pre-pandemic levels, mainly on account of diesel  and ATF, which were 7.1% and 37% below their pre-pandemic  levels, respectively.
On the other hand, recovery in petrol was  encouraging, with consumption rising by 3% above the 2019- 20 levels as passenger road mobility surpassed pre-pandemic  levels.
LPG, which grew even during the lockdown, continued  with its consistent growth in 2021-22 as well.
During 2021-22, natural gas consumption in India increased by  6.9% after having declined by 5.2% in 2020-21.
Domestic gas  production rose by 19.2% during the year as new projects came  on stream, leading to a reduction in LNG imports, which went  down by 3.4%.
High spot LNG prices were another deterrent  for LNG imports.
The LNG West India Marker in March 2022  was over US$ 30/MMBtu, which was more than five times of  March 2021 levels.
The current geo-political conditions continue to be a source  of worry and Net Zero transition will entail its own challenges  as the beginning of the interest rate hike cycle globally could  add to the capital costs.
However, developments like the  ongoing recovery in the Indian economy, the Government’s  push towards infrastructure and core sectors, among others,  augur well for the company’s business.
IndianOil– Standing Tall Over the years, IndianOil has successfully combined its  business offerings with its corporate social responsibility  agenda, meeting the energy needs of millions of people every  day, across every corner of the country.
IndianOil has proven  its stronghold over India’s oil refining and marketing business  time and again.
Most recently, during the pandemic-induced  lockdowns, the Company not only maintained its supply lines  and served its customers amidst a raging pandemic, but also  spearheaded initiatives like the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana  2.0 (PMUY 2.0).
On the other hand, keeping an eye on future  business opportunities, the Company has been assiduously  building its new businesses such as petrochemicals, natural  gas marketing, alternate energy, cryogenics and explosives.
The Company’s leading presence in India’s downstream supply  and distribution infrastructure is a key advantage in the context  of India’s longterm energy growth prospects.
The Company  has been backward integrating and increasing its upstream  integration ratio.
The synergy between its downstream and  upstream businesses is making the petroleum supply chain  more resilient and cost-effective.
IndianOil’s petrochemicals  business has over the years emerged as a significant contributor  to its bottom-line and is a major source of its competitive  advantage over other oil marketing companies (OMCs) in the  country.
IndianOil has been working to transform itself from being a  national oil major to a holistic energy solutions provider, with  a growing portfolio of futuristic Green Energy solutions such  as, on-grid and off-grid renewable energy assets, natural gas,  biofuels and hydrogen, while developing technologies for  hydrogen storage, fuel cells, electric batteries, advanced bio- fuels and Carbon Capture, Utilisation & Storage (CCUS).
Recovery of Natural Gas Consumption in India  2019-20  2020-21  2021-22 Source: Petroleum Planning & Analysis Cell (PPAC), Ministry of Petroleum  & Natural Gas Net Production LNG Import Total Consumption (Net Production +   LNG Import) Billion Cubic Meters 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70  Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 164 165 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 LPG – Bridge to a Cleaner Future Despite its fossil fuel origins, LPG stands out as a fuel that is  a crucial bridge to the sustainable future, keeping in mind its  alignment with the climate goals.
LPG’s clean combustion  profile makes it a preferred choice for tackling indoor air  pollution, caused by burning of biomass and kerosene.
Moreover, an increasing body of evidence is showing LPG’s  role as a GHG emission mitigation fuel.
Black carbon, a  short-lived climate pollutant is primarily associated with the  burning of biomass, and according to the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), reductions in emissions of  black carbon by 35% or more by 2050, relative to 2010, will  be required to help limit the rise in global temperature to 1.5°  from pre-industrial times.
LPG’s clean combustion profile means that it emits virtually no  black carbon on combustion, comparable to the other clean  fuels such as natural gas, biogas and ethanol.
Additionally,  while LPG does emit carbon-dioxide upon combustion,  studies show that LPG emits 60% fewer GHGs than electric  coil cooktops, 50% fewer emissions than some biomass stoves,  and 19% fewer GHGs than kerosene stoves.
LPG, used as an  alternative to firewood, protects forests from being depleted  for charcoal and firewood and hence contributes to preserving  the environment and capturing CO2  emissions.
LPG continues to be a focus area for the Company, with  sizeable ongoing investments for LPG pipeline transportation  and LPG import infrastructure.
In addition, to make LPG more  accessible, the Company launched ‘Munna’, a 2 Kg Free  Trade LPG (FTL) cylinder variant, at the backdrop of success  of ‘Chhotu’ 5 kg FTL.
‘Chhotu’ and ‘Munna’ offer easy LPG  access to sections of the society that are not covered by the  LPG distributor network such as migrant labourers, students  who do not have an address proof and also people with lower  LPG consumption, commercial establishments with less space  such as food hawkers and daily wagers who are unable to  make upfront payments.
On Track with India’s Vision of Becoming a Gas-based  Economy The Company is expanding its natural gas business and  promoting gas usage in India inline with the Government of  India’s plans to increase the share of natural gas in India’s  primary energy from about 7% to 15% by 2030.
IndianOil is  accordingly enhancing its gas infrastructure by putting up  new LNG terminals, cross-country pipelines and City Gas  Distribution (CGD) networks.
The Company has plans to set up CNG facilities at around 2500  outlets within the next 10 years and is also setting up 20 LNG  stations out of the 50 targeted by the Government of India.
In the R-LNG space, the Company targets raising its share in  the RLNG market from 19% at present to 40% by the end of  this decade.
In pursuit of this, it has booked capacities in the  upcoming LNG terminals viz.
Dhamra (3 MMTPA) and Jafrabad  (1 MMTPA) and also intends doubling the capacity of its  Ennore Terminal (from 5 MMTPA to 10 MMTPA).
The Company  is investing heavily in building the national gas pipeline grid,  presently standalone projects with length of around 1800 km  are under implementation in addition to JV pipelines such as  North East Gas Grid and three other cross-country pipelines.
The Company has been aggressively expanding its CGD  network both through its JV companies and on a standalone  basis.
Since the 9 th  PNGRB Bidding Round for CGD, the  Company has significantly scaled up the geographical areas  (GAs) under its fold with focus on standalone bidding.
At  present, the Company is developing CGD networks in 26 GAs  on a standalone basis, which exhibits IndianOil’s confidence  in this growth sector as well as its growing technological  expertise in the natural gas sector.
Bio-fuels – The Need of the Hour The Company is the lead implementation agency of Sustainable  Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation (SATAT), which  targets production of 15 MMT of CBG by 2023, from 5000  plants across the country.
The Company has plans in place  to meet the Government of India’s mandate for increasing  ethanol blending in petrol from around 10% at present to 20%  by 2025.
The Company is setting up a 100 kl/day 2G ethanol  production plant at Panipat (Haryana), utilising paddy straw as  feedstock based on technology of Praj Industries Ltd.
This can  be instrumental in solving the crop stubble burning issue in  Punjab and Haryana.
The Company is also setting up a third  generation (3G) ethanol plant of 128 KL/day based on the gas  fermentation technology of LanzaTech (LT), USA at Panipat,  which would be the world’s first refinery off-gas-to-ethanol  production facility.
With the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction  Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) entering its  mandatory phase from 2027, biomass and waste-based  Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) adoption is gathering interest  globally.
In view of this, the Company is working on creating  its capabilities in SAF production through collaboration with  technology providers.
EVs and Battery-Swapping EV adoption is gathering pace in India with the policy focus  at both the Centre and the State levels, besides with the entry  of global and domestic auto players, sales are picking up,  especially in the two-wheeler segment.
The Company has plans  to provide electric mobility solutions through its vast network of  retail outlets.
The Company currently has over 2,000 charging  stations and plans to scale this up to 10,000 within three years  to capture the opportunities in the EV space.
The Company is  also exploring the much talked about Battery or Energy as a  Service business model, with it already having established a few  of battery-swapping stations.
The Company is the lead implementation  agency of Sustainable Alternative Towards  Affordable Transportation (SATAT), which  targets production of 15 MMT of CBG by  2023, from 5,000 plants across the country.
2020-21 was a year for standing with the nation in its fight  with Covid-19, the year 2021-22 was one of planning the way  forward for a ‘Greener Future.’ The Company is fast transforming itself from being India’s  national oil company to a holistic energy solutions provider, in  line with its vision to be ‘the Energy of India’.
In alignment with  the nation’s COP26 commitment, the Company is making  significant strides in ‘crafting a green future’ by expanding  its business portfolio for ‘sustainable and affordable energy  solutions for tomorrow’.
The Company is aligning itself and is moving towards the  Net Zero future by re-inventing its products and services,  re-engineering its processes for a greener tomorrow and  promoting research in the field of cleaner technologies.
Re-Inventing Products & Services The Company is working towards making its products greener,  promoting environment friendly fuels like LPG and investing  in low carbon/ carbon neutral energy sources like natural gas,  bio-fuels, electric mobility, and renewable energy.
New Offerings The Company has always had a customer-centric view and  has been developing new products and services keeping  in mind enhanced customer satisfaction.
In its pursuit of  becoming ‘The Energy of India’, it had previously launched  several innovative energy solutions for catering to specific  customer needs, such as XP100, (100 octane premium petrol),  developed for customers who own high performance cars;   XP-95,(a high-octane fuel) for vehicles designed to meet  stringent BS-VI emission and efficiency norms through the  latest engine technologies; XTRATEJ LPG, (which provides  savings in LPG up to 7.5% consumption and saving in cooking  time) and Chhotu, (a 5-kg free trade LPG cylinder), catering to  the needs of a specific customer segment, who find it difficult  to provide permanent address proofs, with low consumption  levels and space constraints.
With the aim of ‘Crafting a Green Future’, the Company has  now gone a step ahead and has been trying to make its  conventional product offerings eco-friendly so as to reduce  their carbon footprints.
Continuing with the roll-out of  innovative and environment friendly products, this year too,  it added several new product offerings to its product basket  like:   •  XTRAGREEN Diesel– The environment-friendly fuel  mitigates air pollution and improves fuel economy by  about 5-7%.
It is among the cleanest diesel fuels globally  available and at present, XtraGreen diesel is available at  700 retail outlets across the country.
•  Green Combo Lubricants – The Company launched  two environmentally-safe lubricants -SERVO Greenmile  and SERVO Raftar, which help in reducing emission levels  thereby promoting IndianOil’s vision of a sustainable future.
•  Methanol-blended Petrol (M-15) - In its effort to reduce  the consumption of fossil fuels and in its pursuit of a green  future, IndianOil has launched methanol-blended petrol  M-15 (15% methanol-blending).
A pilot project has been  launched at IndianOil’s Digboi Terminal recently and is  likely to be commercialised soon.
The roll-out of the fuel  will strengthen India’s ‘Energy Aatmanirbharta’ on the one  hand while also reducing the environmental pollution, on  the other.
•  E-100 Fuel – Pure ethanol as a standalone fuel (E-100) was  launched during the year at a Retail Outlet in Pune City.
This demonstrates the Company’s commitment towards  continuance of the ethanol-blending programme as well  as a step towards import reduction and reduction of GHG  emissions, apart from other benefits such as increasing  farmers’ income and generation of rural employment.
With the flex fuel engines being developed, E-100 can be  a game-changer for reducing crude imports and ensuring  India’s energy security.
Re-inventing P roducts & S erv ices P rocesses f or a G reener Tomorrow P romoting R esearch Crafting a  Green Future  Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 166 167 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Making Energy Networks Future Ready Over the years, there has been a conscious effort to focus  more on low-carbon transportation modes, such as coastal  shipping and pipelines.
In addition to this, as energy systems  work towards greening, it is pertinent to make energy  networks ready for this.
The Company has introduced ethanol  transportation in its product pipelines, CBG in the gas pipeline  network and is working to introduce hydrogen into its gas  pipeline network.
Promoting Research to meet Green Aspirations Innovation has a vital role in the road to decarbonisation.
For  instance, IEA’s landmark Net Zero Report that came out last  year pointed out that in its Net Zero Trajectory, the required  emissions reduction during the period 2030-2050 would  depend on technologies which are not commercialised as  yet.
CCUS and hydrogen are two focus areas of the Company,  which are critical to Net Zero and closely connected to the  hydrocarbon sector.
Building a Hydrogen Economy During 2021 Independence Day speech, the Hon’ble Prime  Minister of India announced the launch of the National  Hydrogen Mission.
The plan is to make India a global hub of  Green Hydrogen production and import, which will make India  an energy independent nation and transform it from an energy  importer to an energy exporter.
The Company has recently launched a project of H 200 crore  to assess multiple hydrogen production pathways, based on  indigenously available resources focusing on technologies like  solar electrolysis, biomass gasification and bio-methanation  with a total Green Hydrogen production capacity of around  1 tonne per day.
The technology will be demonstrated in 15  fuel cell buses for establishing the efficacy, efficiency and  sustainability of the production processes and the fuel cell  technology.
R&D in Alternate Energy & CCUS The Company is undertaking research in CCUS through  chemical, bio-chemical and electro bio-catalytic routes.
It  has developed a patented enzyme and solvent combination  for enhancing CO 2  capture.
This synergetic combination of  solvent and enzyme/bio-mimetic complex can capture CO 2   at a faster rate than that of other conventional amine-based  methods.
The captured CO 2  can be further utilised for an  enhanced oil recovery process, conversion to chemicals and  fuel molecules etc.
The Digboi refinery has been identified for  technology implementation, where the captured CO 2  will be  used for EOR application in oil fields of Oil India Limited (OIL).
The Company has been researching in the areas of alternate  energy, such as 2G & 3G bio-fuels, waste-to-energy, electric  batteries and solar, among others.
The new upcoming R&D  campus will have a Centre for Alternative & Renewable Energy  Optimising Processes for a Greener Tomorrow Green   Hydrogen &  Renewable  Energy Digital Centre   of Excellence Development  of Smart  Terminals  and Bottling  Plants Natural Gas  Integration OptimisationEfficiencyi-Drive  Initiatives for  Improving  Productivity Drones for  Surveillance Accurate  and Faster  Response to  Cyber Treats Artificial  Intelligence PLAN IOT PMUY Website  Development  on behalf of  Industry The Company renewable energy plants currently  produce electricity equivalent to 5% of its electricity  consumption.
In the domain of battery technology, the Company has a  joint venture- ‘IOC Phinergy Private Limited’ (IOP) – which  is working on Aluminium-Air Batteries, an upcoming battery  technology with the potential to revolutionise the space,  especially in Indian conditions, with plans to commercialise  the technology in India.
Exploring Opportunities in Renewable Power IndianOil is looking forward to significantly expand its footprint  in the renewable power space from the present level of about  240 MW capacity.
Plans are also underway to collaborate for  developing large scale renewable energy capacities to cater to  market demand and green hydrogen requirements.
Processes for a Greener Tomorrow The refinery sector is an emissions-intensive sector, accounting  for 3% of global carbon emissions.
The Company, as a refining  major, is working on making its processes more efficient and  greening the fuel intake to reduce process emissions.
Some of  its ongoing and upcoming initiatives are: Using Clean Energy Sources Natural gas integration projects at the refineries are already  in various stages of implementation.
Three of the northern  refineries are connected to the gas pipeline grid.
Further, with  expected commencement of LNG import facilities on the  eastern coast (Dhamra), along with gas pipeline connectivity,  the eastern refineries (Barauni, Haldia &Paradip) are also likely  to get connected shortly.
This is to be followed by connectivity  through the North-east Gas Grid to the north-eastern refineries.
The Company’s renewable energy plants currently produce  electricity equivalent to 5% of its electricity consumption.
It plans to increase the use of green power in its refineries, for  which the plans are already underway to establish nearly 5 GW  scale RE capacities by 2025 in collaboration mode to cater to  the incremental energy demand of refinery expansion projects.
Greening Refineries’ Hydrogen Production At present, the refineries are the major consumption centres  for hydrogen, used for desulfurisation.
The current dominant  hydrogen production process is highly carbon-intensive being  based on the Steam Methane Reforming process.
On the other  hand, Green Hydrogen i.e.
hydrogen produced from electrolysis  of water, using renewable energy, has a zero-carbon profile,  making it the preferred form of hydrogen in the context of a  carbon neutral future.
The Company is venturing into Green  Hydrogen production and is targeting 5% of hydrogen produced  by it as Green Hydrogen by 2027-28 and 10% by 2029-30.
It is  gearing up for 5KTA and 2KTA Green Hydrogen plants at the  Panipat and Mathura Refineries, respectively.
Further, recently, the Company has joined hands with Larsen &  Toubro (L&T) and ReNew Power (‘ReNew’) for the formation of  a joint venture company to develop the Green Hydrogen sector  in India.
L&T and IndianOil plan to manufacture electrolysers  used in the production of Green Hydrogen.
In addition to this, the Company has started working towards  integrating hydrogen production facilities with carbon capture  and utilisation technology to produce Blue Hydrogen.
It is  setting up a carbon capture plant at its Gujarat Refinery for  enhanced oil recovery (EOR) of crude at the Oil & Natural  Gas Corporation Ltd. (ONGC) oilfields in Gujarat, leading to  permanent sequestration of CO 2 .
Similarly, IndianOil and  Oil India Ltd. (OIL) are also exploring the possibility of EOR  application in the oil fields of OIL in the Assam region with  CO2  captured from IndianOil’s Digboi Refinery.
In addition,  IndianOil is also setting up food and beverage grade CO 2   production facilities at its Panipat and Paradip refineries from  atmospheric vent stream of MEG plants.
Adopting Digital Initiatives Digitalising operations can boost refinery yields and  throughputs.
In transportation, digitisation can streamline the  movement of crude and products to and from refineries by  determining the timing and optimising the mode of transport  (from pipeline to truck, rail, or ship).
Refineries of the future  will be a digitally connected facility with much improved  process optimisation and operational reliability, minimising  energy consumption and emissions, eliminating waste  products and better water management.
On the digitisation  front, the project i-Drive at IndianOil is gaining momentum,  with significant progress in the implementation of Integrated  Production Planning Tool, a state-of-the-art technology for  adapting quickly to changing market demand patterns.
The Refinery Production Scheduler is under installation, which  will facilitate software-based refining scheduling in place of  the existing excel-based scheduling and many other initiatives  like online real time monitoring of critical equipment by OEM  specialists.
Various other digital initiatives are being taken  across the organisation to optimise the processes, reduce  costs and bring synergy between the divisions of IndianOil.
Optimising Resource Utilisation The Company is pursuing opportunities in improving the  efficiency of its core businesses by enhancing the ability of  its refineries to process a wider array of opportunity crudes,  reducing fresh-water intake into refineries, sharing of  intermediate streams between refineries and reverse pumping  flexibility among others.
Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 168 169 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 for petrochemicals is set to grow at robust rate over the  long-term.
Petrochemical integration, therefore, can enable  capturing of both volume and value growth and also allow  better refinery utilisation when the fuel demand reduces.
India’s Polymer demand growth vs GDP growth (%)  GDP Growth  Polymer consumption growth 1990-1995 5 12.90 1995-2000 6.50 14.60 2000-2004 5.90 5.80 2005-2012 8.70 10.90 2012-2017 7.20 10.60 2017-2022 8 10.40 Per capita Polymer consumption (kg)  India  China  West Europe  US 2010 6 31 2015 65 71 2021 9 45 70 81 12 82 83 93 Factors to increase per capita consumption Rising disposable  income Population  demographic New technology  and business  innovation Urbanization  Quality of life Govt.
Policies GDP growth is an indication of polymer   demand growth  The Company is thus developing a resilient petrochemical  supply chain and has already sensitised the plastic processors  on the Plastic Waste Management (PWM) Rules 2016, while also  indicating that IndianOil’s petrochemical products shall not be  directly or indirectly used in production of banned single-use  plastic items.
Further, through its ‘Plastics Neutrality’ initiative,  the Company plans to enhance the recyclates quality in  participative mode with the MSME sector, to target recycling/ up-cycling of 5 MMTPA of plastic waste.
The Company’s future refinery expansion plans are inextricably  linked with petrochemicals expansion and integration.
IndianOil has a petrochemicals capacity of nearly 3200  KTA, which translates to a Petrochemical Intensity Index of  about 5%.
As a long-term strategy IndianOil is targeting a  15% Petrochemicals Intensity Index.
Currently, IndianOil is in  the process of implementing petrochemical projects worth   H 35,000 crore for enhancing its production capacity by 3200  KTA, which would take its Petrochemicals Intensity Index to  about 7.1%, by 2025.
Plastic Waste Management In the recent UN Environment Assembly in Nairobi, it was  proposed to create the first-ever global plastic pollution treaty.
This is being seen as the most important multilateral climate  deal in the making since the landmark 2015 Paris Accord.
The  Government of India has also put in place a ban on single use  plastics from July 1, 2022 and laid down stringent Extended  Producer Responsibility targets for the producers, importers  and brand owners.
These developments pose inherent  challenges to IndianOil’s petrochemical business, while also  throwing up several opportunities.
(i-CARE) as one of the four centres of excellence.
The research  infrastructure of i-CARE would include laboratories in the areas  of fuel cell, hydrogen, gasification and solar energy research,  sophisticated research facilities in nanotechnology, batteries,  biotechnology, materials and other related areas.
Supporting Start-ups Globally, the start-up ecosystem has become a powerhouse of  innovation.
In the energy sector, start-ups are playing a crucial  role in advancing climate and consumer friendly technologies  and business models.
IndianOil’s start-up scheme has on- boarded 24 projects which already have 42 joint patents  to their credit.
In the recently-concluded 3 rd round of the  revolving start-up fund of IndianOil, the Company has received  interesting proposals, such as high power density fuel cell  stacks for drones; reduction of CO 2  emissions from stack by  micro-algae based industrial CO2  capture and recycling; early  detection of leakage and pilferage from the pipeline; use of  robotics for internal tank cleaning and inspection; intensified  reactors for efficient, safer, smaller and cost-effective  chemical processes, development of Nano-porous silicon- based anode for Li-Ion battery; minimising the use of fossil  fuel by introduction of hydrogen in running of generators,  among others.
its existing crude refining capacity to 87.5 MMT in the next 10  years, for increasing production of petroleum products, in line  with the demand.
The mega projects of capacity expansion,  which are likely to come in the next couple of years, include  the expansion of the Panipat refinery from 15 to 25MMTPA,  expansion of the Barauni refinery from 6 to 9 MMTPA, the  expansion of the Gujarat refinery from 13.7 to 18MMTPA and  that of the Guwahati refinery from 1 to 1.2 MMTPA.
With the development of road infrastructure in the country  getting a major boost through the PM Gatishakti – National  Master Plan for Multi-modal Connectivity, the demand for  bitumen is expected to receive a major fillip.
The current  production rate of bitumen would result in a deficit in the face  of the growing demand, leading to increase in imports.
This  presents a unique growth opportunity to the Company, as  its refineries have the capability to convert a part of its HSD  production capacity to bitumen.
This could be a win-win  strategy, which on the one hand would help it capture the  growing bitumen demand, while also addressing the slowing  growth in HSD demand.
India’s aviation market has a high growth potential, given the  current low penetration of air travel in the country.
India ranks  relatively low (133 rd) in terms of airport density (the number of  airports per million of population) and 108 th  for the number  of departures per 1000 population.
Considering the rising  standard of living in the country and supportive Government  policies, ATF demand is projected to grow at a good pace.
The Company’s refineries have swing capabilities and are fully  equipped to reduce HSD production by 10% from the normal  level and maximise ATF production.
Additionally, the naphtha cracker capacity revamp is on the  cards which can absorb surplus naphtha.
Bio-fuel integration in refineries is a trend that is picking  up globally.
Bio-fuels, which have low carbon footprint,  are an indigenous resource and their production can be  dovetailed with refineries and can be integrated with refinery  production.
Policy support for bio-fuels in India, provides a  special opportunity for IndianOil to make its refineries centres  for generation of advanced 2G/3G bio-fuels.
At present,  the Company’s refineries are acting not only as centres  of production of Advanced Bio-fuels but also, as hubs for  ethanol-blending in MS and transportation to distribution  centres through pipelines and railway wagons.
This not only  reduces the operational cost of ethanol blending, but also  helps its refineries meet the Quality Control norms for octane  number with greater ease.
In future, this strategy will provide  advantages to the Company for positioning ethanol-blended  MS at its retail outlets at a lower cost, as the blending increases  from present 10% to 20% by 2025.
Petrochemicals The Petrochemical business is synergetic with the core  refining business and has been a major bottom-line driver.
The  role of downward integration into petrochemicals assumes  even more importance in the context of the ongoing energy  transition.
While a slowdown in road transportation fuel  demand growth over the long-term is expected, the demand  The new upcoming R&D campus will have  a Centre for Alternative & Renewable  Energy (i-CARE) as one of the four centres  of excellence.
The research infrastructure of  i-CARE would include laboratories in the areas  of fuel cell, hydrogen, gasification and solar  energy research, sophisticated research facilities  in nanotechnology, batteries, biotechnology,  materials and other related areas.
Opportunities and Challenges  The Core Despite India’s long-term Net Zero commitment, the role  of petroleum products continues to be significant in India’s  growth and development story.
Through the path-breaking  Ujjwala Scheme, LPG has been deployed as the key agent for  meeting a major developmental goal of access to clean cooking  energy in India.
Moreover, as India urbanises, its per capita  income rises, standards of living of common man improves,  and its villages thrive, the demand for road transportation fuels  - petrol and diesel - is also set to grow, albeit at slower rates, as  vehicular efficiency improves, and alternatives get a foothold.
Notwithstanding this, there is consensus that demand for oil  in the Indian economy will be on the rise in this decade and  beyond and grow at rates way above the global average.
In  fact, over the long term India is seen as the key driver of global  oil demand.
Refining The projected growth in petroleum products demand  forms the basis for the need to go for refinery infrastructure  expansions in India.
IndianOil has planned for expansion of  The Company envisions the plastics- neutrality initiative as a common objective  programme of the stakeholders viz.
waste- aggregation/segregation, recycling/up-cycling,  by acting as the pivot of the eco-system, and  by providing the market access of recyclates  to plastics processors/brand-owners  through its extensive supply chain.
Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 170 171 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Exploration & Production The Company has achieved the upstream integration ratio of  ~5% and aspires to achieve an integration ratio of 10% by 2030,  by raising its production of oil and gas equivalents to 7 MMTPA  by 2023-24 and 11 MMTPA by 2029-30.
Integration into the upstream business serves as a powerful  tool for maintaining profitability in the highly volatile  international oil prices scenario.
Further, in the current geo- political situation, securing oil and gas supplies has become  evidently significant in addressing national energy security  concerns.
The current crisis is a reminder that reliable energy  supply is critical to the system and price stability.
Moreover, with growing Net Zero pressure, upstream  investments are facing challenges from financers, shareholders  and investors.
In fact, structural under-investment in  hydrocarbons started since the middle of the last decade  (which reached its nadir with investment cuts of 2020) as  energy prices fell, bringing the project returns down, in tandem  with a rising investor focus on ESG.
However, it is estimated that to maintain the global oil  production at the current levels by offsetting natural field  declines, the global oil and gas industry will still need to make  an annual investment of over US$ 400 billion.
This underscores  the importance of investment in upstream hydrocarbons, even  in a world geared for long term Net Zero.
The recent spiralling  of energy prices corroborates this.
The Company has achieved the upstream  integration ratio of ~5% and aspires to  achieve an integration ratio of 10% by 2030, by  raising its production of oil and gas equivalents  to 7 MMTPA by 2023-24 and 11 MMTPA by  2029-30.  traction through investor attention and adoption of newer  and more efficient technologies, energy security and energy  independence are the two areas of concern.
India lacks  domestic resources, raw materials (like strategic metals, silicon  wafers etc.)
and technological know-how for developing new  technologies such as manufacturing of electrolysers, solar  panels and batteries, etc.
For India to achieve its Net Zero target, technology transfer  and collaboration in areas such as CCUS, hydrogen will be  fundamental.
For instance, CCUS is clearly an area which can  bring in sizeable emission reductions from heavy energy- intensive units such as refineries.
However, while such a big  role is etched out for CCUS, there are only 20 or so commercial  CCUS plants globally.
IndianOil is already carrying out R&D  in CCUS.
Funding support to make the cost economics work  and collaboration seem to be the most important elements for  scaling it.
The Company has been steadily investing in these upcoming  technologies by collaborating with Indian as well as global  technology partners through the JV mode and is also  promoting start-ups, which have emerged as powerhouses of  innovation in recent years in many areas, including energy.
The  Government of India is also scouting for opportunities under  the Quad alliance to procure key metals and technologies  from its partner countries to reduce dependence on raw  materials from China.
Recently, the Government of India  has also imposed an import duty on the import of China- made solar panels to promote manufacturing in India.
With  the Government of India’s support and investments in these  upcoming technologies, IndianOil is confident to become a  major Green Energy supplier in India.
The cost of Lithium has surged and is continuously increasing  because of the exponential rise in the number of EVs requiring  lithium-ion batteries globally.
To provide a viable low-cost  alternative for EV battery, the Company has invested in a joint  venture with Phinergy of Israel to create Al-Air batteries.
These  would be developed on cheaper and abundantly available  aluminium.
It is expected that these Al-Air batteries can disrupt  the EV battery market and can present a feasible low-cost  solution compared to lithium-ion batteries used in EVs.
While IndianOil is geared up to meeting the Government’s  mandate of 20% Ethanol Blending Program (EBP) by 2025,  there are a couple of challenges in this pursuit.
First, meeting  the target entails heavy capital expenditure for making the  infrastructure ready for supply and storage of higher blended  levels of MS.
There are also apprehensions regarding readiness  of the auto sector for making available E20-compliant engines  by 2025.
The auto industry has, in addition, been pressing for  supply of E10 and E20 separately to ensure fuel compatibility  with both older as well as new engine types.
This again could  have a huge cost implication for the OMCs as they will need  to create two separate supply chains for catering to this  differentiated supply.
In the Union Budget for 2022-23, a  proposal for imposing an additional excise duty of H 2/litre on  unblended MS was made.
It could have cost implications for  the OMCs as they would be required to supply EBP even in the  remotest and logistically-challenging terrains.
New Businesses Green business Net Zero targets have an inherent technological challenge.
Across pathways and agencies, what is amply clear is that radical  technological transformation will be fundamental to meet the  Net Zero targets.
In addition to established technologies like  energy efficiency and renewable, many new technologies such  as advanced batteries, CCUS, hydrogen, Carbon Dioxide Removal  (CDR), geo-engineering, which have not been commercialised  yet, will be critical in achieving the Net Zero targets.
Net Zero is a double-edged sword as any country contemplating  it should understand the economic structure at a sectoral level  to make informed choices about technology, costs and time  horizons for the transition.
In India’s perspective, although  the Green Energy technologies have been constantly gaining  The Company envisions the plastics-neutrality initiative as a  common objective programme of the stakeholders viz.
waste- aggregation/segregation, recycling/up-cycling, by acting  as the pivot of the eco-system, and by providing the market  access of recyclates to plastics processors/brand-owners  through its extensive supply chain.
Pipelines Pipeline projects worth around H 30,000 crore are under  various stages of implementation.
In addition to this, the  Company is participating in implementation of projects  costing over H 40,000 crore through JV mode in the segments  of CGD, natural gas pipelines and LPG pipelines, along with  the development of gas grid through Indradhanush Gas Grid  Limited (IGGL), a joint venture company for implementation of  the prestigious North-East Gas Grid (NEGG) project.
Investments in natural gas pipelines stand out as a priority as  the country pursues its target of doubling the share of natural  gas in the energy mix.
However, as the country inches close  to its Net Zero goals, an expected challenge of transition  from gas-based economy to a hydrogen-based economy  is likely towards the middle of the century.
The Company’s  R&D Centre has taken up this challenge and has developed a  transient solution that leads to a hydrogen economy.
Blending  of natural gas with hydrogen is an option that offers the benefit  of reduced carbon emissions while using the existing natural  gas pipeline infrastructure.
The Company’s hydrogen-spiked  (18%) CNG (H-CNG) demonstration project trial came out  with quite promising results.
The Company is also exploring  the possibility of hydrogen transportation through its pipelines  so as to be future ready for a smooth transition from gas to  hydrogen in the Net Zero world.
Marketing  The Company has the largest network of Retail Outlets (ROs)  in the country to meet the energy needs.
Earlier, the primary  focus of the OMCs in India, including IndianOil, was on the sale  of conventional and branded fuels through these ROs.
But,  now as India moves towards a greener future, bio-fuels and  EVs shall be playing a vital role in the energy transition process.
The Company has aligned itself with the Net Zero aspirations  of the country, and is ensuring the addition of one ‘alternate  fuel’, apart from the traditional fuels being sold for all the  new ROs being commissioned.
The company is also adding  EV charging stations as well as battery-swapping stations, to  convert the ROs as Energy Centres and provide holistic energy  solutions for a greener future.
The customer needs are continuously evolving.
To cater to  these ever-evolving customer needs and to provide them  with elevated customer experience beyond re-fuelling  and convenience, the Company today is not only offering  differentiated products to the customers but also digitising its  RO operations for flawless service delivery.
For ensuring safe  RO operations, even in the remotest parts of the country, e-  RO inspections are being carried out and actions taken are  being digitally recorded.
To boost the penetration of cashless payment methods at  ROs, the Company has tied up with e-wallet and UPI service  providers.
With the help of data analytics, spending and usage  patterns of the customers are being used to develop customised  services/offerings.
To further enhance its capabilities in the field  of analytics and improving customer acquisition and customer  satisfaction, a state-of-the-art Control and Command Centre  is being setup at Mumbai, which will be run by a dedicated  team of analysts and IndianOil officers.
In its quest for embracing new technologies in the fuel retailing  business, IndianOil is in the process of installing Robotic  Dispensing Units (DUs) in Hi-Tech City, Hyderabad.
These  specially-designed machines will help reduce manpower  costs, eliminate chances of close contact with fuel and  unhealthy vapour and will make the fuelling experience more  convenient and faster for the customer.
The Company is also solarising its ROs to reduce their energy  demand, reduce carbon footprints and improve dealer  profitability as well as focusing on generation of non-fuel  revenue through strategic tie-ups with business partners  under both ‘Store’ and ‘Non-Store’ categories, so as to remain  profitable even when the growth in sale of traditional fuels  slows down during the energy transition.
The Company is the market leader in ATF, with a market share  of 62.5% during 2021-22.
To maintain its pole position, the  Company is expanding its operations in new locations in view of  the Government of India’s plans of starting flights in new airports  under the UDAAN scheme and added nine Aviation Fuelling  Stations during 2021-22.
It is now fuelling ATF at 126 locations  across India (as of March 31, 2022).
In line with the Net Zero  commitment of the Government of India and in compliance  of the global Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for  International Aviation (CORSIA) mandate, the company has  signed a MoU with Praj Industries to mutually explore cleaner  and greener sources of energy, including Sustainable Aviation  Fuels.
It intends to put up a demo plant near Mumbai or Pune,  which shall be commercialised later.
The Company is also in  discussion with LanzaJet to come up with a SAF production  plant using ethanol as feedstock at Panipat.
Catering to the evolving customer needs, while also meeting  the energy transition challenges to produce innovative  products constantly, may require huge R&D and marketing  infrastructure expenditure.
Thus, to gain the competitive  edge, latest technological interventions such as CRM, AI/VR  in marketing etc., will be the required tools as the Company  transforms from selling commodities such as MS and HSD to  customer-centric energy offerings and solutions.
Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 172 173 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Risks & Concerns The Covid-19 pandemic impacted the demand, supply and  distribution and challenged businesses in every possible way.
This, coupled with the current flux in the global macroeconomic  and geopolitical environment, has made the risk landscape in  current times particularly challenging for organisations across  the board.
The major risks identified by the businesses and functions are  systematically addressed through mitigating action plans on a  continuing basis.
Risks are assessed and managed at various  levels with a top-down and bottom-up approach, covering  the enterprise, the business units, the functions, the market  share and projects.
The Company is committed to effectively  managing the risk matrix it faces with ever-growing resilience  and proactiveness.
The risks identified inter-alia include: •  Competition risks arising from competitors within the  existing businesses and from new businesses such as  alternative energy sources, electric mobility •  Financial risks such as foreign exchange rate fluctuations,  exposure to borrowings; •  Economic risks arising from international crude oil and  products market fluctuations; •  Operational risks such as pilferages, labour unrest,  unplanned shutdown of refineries; •  Security and fraud risks, including cyber-security, data  leakage and physical security risks; • Reputational risks such as brand value risk; •  Environmental risk arising from impact on environment  from our business activities and increase in compliance  cost in view emerging regulations • Compliance risks such as tax disputes and litigation; and •  Change in Government policies impacting profitability  and ability to do business In addition to these, with ESG scrutiny on the rise, globally  and in India, the Company has broadened its coverage of  identified risks to include environmental Impact in terms of  GHG emissions impact (SCOPE 1 & 2) and water footprint.
Financial Review During 2021-22, IndianOil posted the highest ever revenue by  any Indian corporate at H 7.28 lakh crore.
The Company has  also recorded the highest ever profit of H 24184.10 crore since  its inception.
During the year, the Company recorded its best  ever annual Gross Refinery Margin of US$ 11.25 per barrel.
The  physical performance of the Company reached near the pre- pandemic levels.
The demand for various transportation and  domestic fuels edged up to the pre-pandemic levels, except  for aviation fuel.
The Standalone financial performance of the Company and  the various Segments is as under: H in crore Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Variation Revenue from Operations 7,28,460 5,14,890 2,13,570 EBITDA 47,568 42,614 4,954 PBT 31,733 29,716 2,017 Net Profit 24,184 21,836 2,348 Cash Profit 35,190 31,640 3,550 Borrowings 1,10,799 94,413 16,386 Revenue from Operations (Segment Wise) Petroleum 6,79,426 4,84,610 1,94,816 Petrochemicals 28,091 19,150 8,941 Other Businesses* 20,943 11,130 9,813 EBIT (Segment Wise)   Petroleum 26,934 23,854 3,080 Petrochemicals 4,685 5,218 (533) Other Businesses* 1,329 (123) 1,452 Other un-allocable (expenditure)/Income-net 3,614 3,861 (247) *Other Business comprises Sale of Natural Gas, Explosives, Cryogenics, Wind& Solar Power and Oil & Gas E&P activities.
The Company has also recorded the highest  ever profit of J 24184.10 crore since its  inception.
During the year, the Company  recorded its best ever annual Gross Refinery  Margin of US$ 11.25 per barrel.
The physical  performance of the Company has reached  near the pre-pandemic levels.
The demand for  various transportation and domestic fuels  edged up to the pre-pandemic levels, except  for aviation fuel.
Gas Business Increasing the share of gas in the energy mix is crucial to  decarbonisation of the Indian economy.
A supportive policy  environment and bold reforms have invigorated investment  in this sector and the Company has taken a leading position  in pursuit of the same.
Un-bundling of the transportation and  marketing of gas is required to ensure open and transparent  access to the gas pipelines and levelling the playing field  amongst all gas marketing companies.
In fact, third-party access (TPA) to the infrastructure has been  seen globally as a vital enabler of market liberalisation and thriving  gas markets.
The Government of India is contemplating setting  up of a central Transmission System Operator (TSO) which takes  care of the adequate availability of capacity-related data and  will thereby facilitate and enhance a fair and transparent access  to the gas pipeline infrastructure in the country, thus enabling  seamless movement towards competitive gas markets.
Other Areas Cryogenics  IndianOil is leveraging its competence in the cryogenics  business and in developing cryogenic containers.
The  cryogenic business is synergetic with the green business  initiatives in areas of LNG and hydrogen.
This also presents  an opportunity to the Company for export of Cryocans and  Cryovessels to Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and to various  European and African countries.
Explosives Due to continued growth in the mining and construction  sectors, the demand for explosives in the country is surging.
The  Company is the only OMC which has presence in this growing  business segment and is undertaking capacity expansion  projects at different locations to cater to this growing demand  segment.
It is also working towards obtaining long term supply  agreements with anchor customers for business stability.
Opportunities in International Markets In line with the Company’s Vision to be ‘A Globally Admired  Company,’ IndianOil has been exploring business opportunities  outside India by leveraging its core competencies to export  its product and services.
To enhance the geo-strategic reach,  the Company plans to develop Regional Hubs to coordinate  and monitor Global Business Development Activities.
The  Company plans to focus on the market in African countries  such as South Africa, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Uganda,  Angola, Egypt and Ghana, besides the currently catered sub- continent and Indian Ocean markets.
IndianOil: Future Ready Focus on growth markets  & products •  Bitumen, ATF, LPG •   Infra push, Energy Access,  Economic Growth • Export markets Partnering in Gas Economy •   CGD, LNG Terminal, Cross  country pipelines, LNG as   a fuel PC Integration for capturing volume & value growth •   Opportunities in hygiene,  green energy, tyres, textiles,  infrastructure-piping, super  absorbent polymers  • Plastic Neutrality Digitalization •   Customer experience: holistic  experience, leverage CRM  details for making customised  offerings •  Digital Offerings: IOT, Cloud, AI Reducing Carbon Emissions in  Operations & Products •   Natural Gas as refinery fuel &;  Solar at installations •  RE from grid •  Energy efficient Fuels and  Lubricants: Advanced  chemistries &; nano technology •   Green Products: EBP, CBG,  CNG, SAF, EV Charging •   Energy efficientc operations:  Digitization Integration of New Fuels in  Operations •   Refineries Biofuel integration:  1G/2G/2G •   Ethanol & Hydrogen in pipelines •  Waste to energy Research & innovation •   Green & Blue Hydrogen, Fuel  Cells • CCUS • Advanced Biofuels • Battery Technology Skill Development • Re-skilling & upskilling •  Collaborations Statutory Reports Management’s Discussion & AnalysisHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 174 175 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Corporation Limited, reported a profit of H 1,352.03 crore and  total Comprehensive Income of H 1,375.53 crore, and Lanka  IOC PLC, reported a profit of Sri Lankan H 481.85 crore and  a total Comprehensive Income of Sri Lankan H 481.49 crore,  which translated to a loss of H (104.86) crore with a total  Comprehensive Income of H (169.19) crore, after adjustments,  as per IndAS.
Under Joint Ventures, Indian Oiltanking Limited  reported a profit of H 115.83 crore and a total Comprehensive  Income of H 115.75 crore and IndianOil Petronas Private Limited  reported a profit of H 189.77 crore and a total Comprehensive  Income of H 189.81 crore.
Internal Control Systems The Company has put in place an internal control system  comprising rules, policies and procedures that provide  direction and increase efficiency but also strengthen the  adherence to policies, while ensuring smooth and efficient  business processes.
The Company has laid down various  policies as well as detailed manuals, which cover almost all the  aspects of the business.
The internal processes and policies are reviewed from time to  time to align them with the changing business requirements.
Organisation-level controls, operational-level controls, anti- fraud controls and general IT controls have been put in place  to ensure that business operations are carried out efficiently  and effectively and chances of errors/frauds are minimised.
The internal control systems are commensurate with the size  and operations of the Company.Ithas an independent internal  audit department, headed by a Chief General Manager,  who reports to the Chairman.
The department has officers  from finance as well as other various technical functions.
The audit assignments are carried out as per the annual  audit programme, approved by the Chairman and the Audit  Committee.
The internal audit carries out extensive audits  throughout the year covering every business process.
The  statutory auditors are also required to issue the independent  auditor’s report on the internal financial controls over financial  reporting for the Company under clause (i) of Sub-Section 3  of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The report issued  thereupon is attached to the standalone and consolidated  financial statements respectively.
The Audit Committee  carries out a detailed review of the financial statements and  deliberations with the internal auditors and statutory auditors  before the same is recommended to the Board for approval.
Human Resources IndianOil believes in holistic and meaningful employee  engagements and the development of its human resources.
The Company engages with the employees to tap their highest  potential for the growth of its business.
The Company assigns  great importance to develop its human resources with a focus  on its core values of Care, Innovation, Passion and Trust in  building a cohesive workforce.
It believes that the challenges  surrounding the business environment can be mitigated by a  workforce that is motivated, adaptive to change, innovative  and fast in learning.
Integrated HR practices through focused  recruitment, career path and learning and development have  contributed to the future readiness of the workforce.
The  Company has a structured and robust succession planning  framework for the identification and development of talent for  the leadership pipeline.
IndianOil has not only groomed several  visionary leaders who led and transformed the Company over  the years but also groomed leaders for both the public and the  private sectors.
During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the  Company took several initiatives to ensure the safety and well- being of its employees as well as its frontline workers engaged  with its business partners.
IR Climate – Collaborative Value The industrial relations (IR) climate in the Company has  traditionally been harmonious.
A collaborative IR climate  has been maintained in the Company over the years to  always be ready for the challenges.
This has been reflected  by the tireless efforts of the employees as well as its business  partners during the Covid-19 pandemic, to ensure the supply  of petroleum products across the country even during the  lockdowns.
The Company constantly shares the changes in  its business environment, the consequent changes required  in strategy and business models, the resultant impact on the  current business and the people, along with future plans with  the collectives and takes their views and suggestions into  consideration.
Regular structured meetings are held between  the management and the collectives to discuss and deliberate  on issues like productivity, welfare and the need to build a  responsive and responsible organisation.
The collectives have  always steadfastly supported the management in overcoming  challenges faced by the Company.
As of March 31, 2022, the employee strength of the Company  was at 31,254, which comprised 17,929 executives and 13,325  non-executives, including 2,718 women employees.
Other Information The details regarding the Company’s CSR programmes,  environment protection and conservation initiatives,  technology absorption and adoption efforts, forays into  renewable energy and foreign exchange conservation, etc.,  are provided in the Directors’ Report and the Annexure.
Cautionary Statement The information and statements in the Management’s  Discussion & Analysis regarding the objectives, expectations or  anticipations may be forward-looking within the meaning of  applicable securities, laws and regulations.
The actual results  may differ materially from the expectations.
The various critical  factors that could influence the operations of the Company  include global and domestic demand and supply conditions  affecting the selling price of products, input availability and  prices, changes in Government of India regulations/tax laws,  economic developments within the country and factors such  as litigation and industrial relations.
Standalone Financial Performance The Revenue from Operations increased by about 41% during  the year (from H 5,14,890 crore during 2020-21 to H 7,28,460  crore during 2021-22).
Nearly 80% of this growth was mainly  on account of the increase in product price and the remaining  was primarily due to the increase in sales volumes.
Average  crude price of the Indian Basket for 2021-22 registered an  increase of 76% from US$ 44.84/bbl in the previous year to  US$ 79.00/bbl in the current year.
The Company’s EBITDA, Operating Profit and Net Profit  margin for the current year were at 6.53%, 4.43% and 3.32%  respectively, compared to 8.28%, 5.49% and 4.24% in the  previous year.
However, in gross terms the Company’s EBIDTA  and Net Profit have gone up from H 42,614 crore to H 47,568  crore and from H 21,836 crore to H 24,184 crore respectively  in the current year compared to 2020-21.
The increase in  EBITDA, operating profit and net profit is mainly on account  of inventory gains and better refinery margins in the current  year.
Riding on these factors, the Company’s return on  average capital employed and efficiency to deploy its assets to  produce the revenue has improved from 15.20% to 15.44% and  from 1.61 times to 2.03 times respectively in the current year  compared to the previous year 2020-21.
At the beginning of the year, crude prices (Indian Crude  Basket) were about US$ 62/bbl, which went up to US$ 128/bbl  in March 2022 and closed at US$ 108/bbl.
The average HSD  crack spread increased from about US$ 3/bbl in the previous  year to US$ 10/bbl during the year with high volatility and even  touched a high of US$ 49/bbl in March 2022.
Similarly, MS  crack spread, which was about US$ 3/bbl in the previous year,  improved to US$ 11/bbl during the year and even touched a  high of US$ 22/bbl in March 2022.
As can be seen from the graph above, the Singapore benchmark  for the Refining Margin improved during the year on account  of the higher spread between international prices of petroleum  products and crude.
IndianOil’s current price refining margin  (i.e.
normalised) during the year has moved in tandem with  the international margins.
The inventory holding by IndianOil  is high on account of inland refineries, due to which, inventory  gain/loss becomes significant during the fluctuating prices  scenario and greater volatility is seen in reported margins.
Normalised GRM of IndianOil increased from US$ 2.31/bbl in  2020-21 to US$ 7.61/bbl in 2021-22 compared to the increase  in the Singapore GRM from US$ 0.54/bbl to US$ 4.99/bbl.
The ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities and the  Debt:Equity ratio continues to remain at the same levels as that  of previous year.
Interest coverage ratio has deteriorated to the  levels of 8.25 times compared to 11.24 times in the previous  year, mainly on account of the exchange variation.
The  inventory-holding period is about 46 days and the Company’s  average collection period is 8 days.
The details of significant  changes in key financial ratios alongwith explanations thereof  is provided in note no.
48 of the Financial Statements.
The Company has paid a total dividend of H 9,640 crore  during 2021-22.
The EPS of the Company for 2021-22 is   H 26.34 and interim dividend paid during the year translates  to H 9.00 per share.
In addition, a final dividend of H 2.40  per share (post bonus) and issue of bonus equity shares  in the ratio of one equity share for every two equity shares  has been recommended by the Board.
Detailed financial  indicators and ratios for the last five years are provided in the  section - ‘Performance at a Glance’- forming a part of the   Annual Report.
Group Financial Performance  The Group’s Revenue from Operations was at H 7,36,731 crore  during the year, highest for any Indian company, compared  to H 5,20,237 crore in the previous year and the Net Profit was   H 25,102 crore compared to H 21,638 crore in the previous year.
The detailed profit walk-through from Standalone to Group is  provided in Note 46 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The details of major subsidiaries and joint ventures are  provided in Note 33A and 33B to Consolidated Financial  Statements.
During the year subsidiaries Chennai Petroleum  Q4 (2020-21) Q1 (2021-22) Q2 (2021-22) Q3 (2021-22) Q4 (2021-22) Quarter-wise movement in refining margins 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 18.0 20.0 US $/bbl  IndianOil  IndianOil (Normalised)  Singapore High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 176 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ Report 177 G. S. MATHUR & CO. K. C. MEHTA & CO. SINGHI & CO. S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants A-160, Ground Floor Meghdhanush, 161, Sarat Bose Road,  A 3/7, Gillander House  Defence Colony, Race Course Circle, West Bengal,  8, N.S.
Road,  New Delhi – 110024 Vadodara – 390007 Kolkata - 700026 Kolkata - 700001 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  To  The Members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements Opinion  We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (“the Company”), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2022, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the  Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended and notes to the standalone financial  statements including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information in which are incorporated  the financial statements for the year ended on that date audited by the Branch Auditor of the Company’s one Branch, namely  Research & Development (R&D) division situated at Faridabad, Haryana, India.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and  fair view in conformity with Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian  Accounting Standards) Rules 2015, as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs  of the Company as at March 31, 2022, and total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other comprehensive income),  changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under  section 143(10) of the Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the  Audit of the standalone financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code  of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”), together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to  our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our  other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence  we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters  Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial  statements of the current period.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as  a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have determined the  matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report: Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets There are areas where management judgement impacts the  carrying value of property, plant and equipment, intangible  assets and their respective depreciation/amortisation rates.
These include the decision to capitalise or expense costs; the  annual asset life review; the timeliness of the capitalisation of  assets and the use of management assumptions and estimates  for the determination or the measurement and recognition  criteria for assets retired from active use.
Due to the materiality  in the context of the Balance Sheet of the Company and the  level of judgement and estimates required, we consider this to  be as area of significance.
We assessed the controls in place over the fixed asset cycle,  evaluated the appropriateness of capitalisation process,  performed tests of details on costs capitalised, the timeliness of  the capitalisation of the assets and the de-recognition criteria  for assets retired from active use.
In performing these procedures, we reviewed the judgements  made by management including the nature of underlying costs  capitalised; determination of realizable value of the assets  retired from active use; the appropriateness of assets lives  applied in the calculation of depreciation; the useful Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 178 179 Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters The following audit procedures were adopted: • identification and understanding of the significant controls  implemented by the Company over the impairment testing  process; analysis of the reasonableness of the principal  assumptions made to estimate their cash flows, and  obtaining other information from management that we  deemed to be significant; • analysis of actual data of the year and previous years  in comparison with the original plan, in order to assess  the nature of variances and the reliability of the planning  process; • assessment of the reasonableness of the discount rate and  growth rate; • Verification of the mathematical accuracy of the model  used to determine the value in use of the investments.
We also examined the adequacy of the information provided  by the Company about the impairment test and its consistency  with the requirements of Ind AS 36.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information.
The other information comprises the  information included in the Financial Performance highlights, Board’s Report including Annexure to Board’s Report, Management  Discussions and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Report on Corporate Governance, Shareholders  Information and other information in the Integrated Annual Report but does not include the standalone financial statements and our  auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of  assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and  identified above when it becomes available, and in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent  with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of auditors’ report, we  conclude that there is a material misstatement of this information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report  in this regard.
When we read the other information, which we will obtain after the date of auditors’ report and if we conclude that there is  material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation  of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total  comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally  accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility  also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the  assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and  maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and  fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters lives of assets prescribed in Schedule II to the Act and the  useful lives of certain assets as per the technical assessment  of the management.
We observed that the management has  regularly reviewed the aforesaid judgements and there are no  material changes.
Provision for Direct Taxes The Company has uncertain direct tax positions including  matters under dispute which involves significant judgement  relating to the possible outcome of these disputes in estimation  of the provision for income tax.
Because of the judgement  required, the area is a key audit matter for our audit.
Our audit procedures involved assessment of the  management’s underlying assumptions in estimating the tax  provision (as confirmed by the Company’s tax consultants) and  the possible outcome of the disputes taking into account the  legal precedence, jurisprudence and other rulings in evaluating  management’s position on these uncertain direct tax positions.
We have also assessed the disclosures made by the company  in this regard.
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities The Company is involved in various taxes and other disputes  for which final outcome cannot be easily predicted and  which could potentially result in significant liabilities.
The  assessment of the risks associated with the litigations is based  on complex assumptions, which require the use of judgement  and such judgement relates, primarily, to the assessment of  the uncertainties connected to the prediction of the outcome  of the proceedings and to the adequacy of the disclosures in  the standalone financial statements.
Because of the judgement  required, the materiality of such litigations and the complexity  of the assessment process, the area is a key matter for our audit.
Our audit procedures in response to this Key Audit Matter  included, among others, • Assessment of the process and relevant controls  implemented to identify legal and tax litigations and pending  administrative proceedings.
• Assessment of assumptions used in the evaluation of  potential legal and tax risks performed by the legal and  tax department of the Company considering the legal  precedence and other rulings in similar cases.
• Inquiry with the legal and tax departments regarding the  status of the most significant disputes and inspection of the  key relevant documentation.
• Analysis of opinion received from the experts wherever  available.
• Review of the adequacy of the disclosures in the notes to  the standalone financial statements.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates which  are valued at cost have been adjusted for impairment losses  in line with “Ind AS 36 Impairment of assets”.
In case there is  an indication of possible impairment, the Company carries  out an impairment test by comparing the recoverable amount  of the investments determined according to the value in use  method and their carrying amount.
The valuation process  adopted by management is complex and is based on a series of  assumptions, such as the forecast cash flows, the appropriate  discounting rate and the growth rate.
These assumptions are,  by nature, influenced by future expectations regarding the  evolution of external market.
Since judgement of the management is required to determine  whether there is indication of possible impairment and  considering the subjectivity of the estimates relating to the  determination of the cash flows and the key assumptions of the  impairment test, the area is considered a key audit matter for  our audit.
With reference to this key audit matter, we considered the  following: • Book value of the investments in subsidiaries, joint venture  and associates as compared to the carrying amount.
• Market capitalization in case of listed entities in which  investments have been made.
• Some of the entities are still in the construction stage and  have not begun commercial operations.
Based on the information and explanations obtained as above,  we concluded that the Management’s judgement regarding  indication of impairment in certain investments during the year  is appropriate.
Where there is indication of impairment, we  examined the approach taken by management to determine the  value of the investments, analysed the methods and assumptions  applied by management to carry out the impairment test and  the reports obtained from the experts in valuation.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 180 181 ended on that date, as considered in the standalone financial statements.
The financial statements of this Branch have been  audited by the Branch Auditor whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion in so far as it relates to the amounts and  disclosures included in respect of this Branch, is based solely on the report of such Branch Auditor.
The standalone financial statements include the Company’s proportionate share (relating to Jointly controlled operations of E&P  activities) in assets J 716.94 crore and liabilities J 122.31 crore as at March 31, 2022 and total revenue of J 126.39 crore and profit  before tax of J 49.59 crore for the year ended on that date and in items of the statement of cash flow and related disclosures  contained in the enclosed standalone financial statements.
Our observations thereon are based on unaudited statements from  the operators to the extent available with the Company in respect of 21 Blocks (out of which 11 Blocks are relinquished) and have  been certified by the management.
Our opinion in respect thereof is solely based on the management certified information.
We have also placed reliance on technical/ commercial evaluations by the management in respect of categorization of wells  as exploratory, development and dry well, allocation of cost incurred on them, liability under New Exploration Licensing Policy  (NELP) and nominated blocks for under-performance against agreed Minimum Work Programme.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in  terms of sub- section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in the  paragraphs 3 and 4 of the said Order, to the extent applicable.
2.
We are enclosing our report in terms of Section 143 (5) of the Act, on the basis of such checks of the books and records of  the Company as we considered appropriate and according to the information and explanations given to us, in the “Annexure  B” on the directions issued by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
3.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:   a.
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b.
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from  our examination of those books and proper returns adequate for the purpose of our audit have been received from the  Branch not visited by us.
c.  The report on the accounts of the Branch office of the Company audited under section 143(8) of the Act, by Branch  Auditor has been furnished to us and has been properly dealt with by us in preparing this report.
d.  The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), Statement of changes in  Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account and with  the returns received from the Branch not visited by us.
e.  In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified  under Section 133 of the Act.
f.  We have been informed that the provisions of Section 164(2) of the Act in respect of disqualification of directors are not  applicable to the Company, being a Government Company in terms of notification no.
G.S.R.463 (E) dated 5th June, 2015  issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India.
g.  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of the  Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure C”.
h.  We are informed that the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, relating to managerial remuneration  are not applicable to the Company, being a Government Company, in terms of Ministry of Corporate Affairs Notification  no.
G.S.R.
463 (E) dated 5th June, 2015.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to  continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of  accounting unless the management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative  but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable  assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect  a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or  in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these  standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout  the audit.
We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,  design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate  to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for  one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of  internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate  in the circumstances.
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether  the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone Financial Statements in place and the  operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related  disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit  evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the  ability of the Company to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to  draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures  are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our  auditors’ report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and  whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair  presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the  audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements  regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to  bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance  in the audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these  matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare  circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of  doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters We did not audit the financial statements of one Branch included in the standalone financial statements of the Company whose  financial statements reflect total assets of J 1,471.59 crore as at March 31, 2022 and total revenues of J 42.38 crore for the year  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 182 183 Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report Annexure referred to in Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Indian Oil Corporation  Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 (i) (a) (A) The Company has generally maintained proper records showing full particulars including quantitative details and  situation of Property, Plant and Equipment.
(B) The Company has generally maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(b) There is a regular programme of physical verification of all Property, Plant and Equipment, other than LPG cylinders and  pressure regulators with customers, over a period of three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the  size of the Company and the nature of its Property, Plant and Equipment.
In our opinion and as per the information given by  the Management, the discrepancies observed were not material and have been appropriately accounted for in the books.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company,  the title/ lease deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee, and the  lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in the financial statements are held in the name of  the Company.
The details of exceptions are given in “Appendix A” to this report.
(d) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not revalued any of its Property, Plant and  Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets during the year.
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, no proceeding has been initiated or is pending against the  Company for holding any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the  rules made thereunder.
(ii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the inventory (excluding inventory lying with third parties,  inventory under joint operations and material in transit) has been physically verified by the management during the year  and in our opinion, the frequency of verification is reasonable.
As explained to us, no discrepancy of 10% or more in the  aggregate for each class of inventory was noticed on physical verification of inventories as compared to the book records.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in  excess of five crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks and financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets.
Also, the quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with such banks and financial institutions are in agreement  with the books of account of the Company.
(iii) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has granted loans or provided  advances in the nature of loans, or stood guarantee, or provided security during the year to the following entities: Particulars (in J crore) Guarantees Security Loans Advances in  nature of Loans Aggregate amount granted/provided during  the year: - Subsidiary* 372.58 - - - - Associates - - - - - Joint Ventures@ - - 271.49 - - Others - - 427.97 88.67 Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date  in respect of above cases: - Subsidiary* 381.16 - - - - Associates - - - - - Joint Ventures@ - - 273.42 - - Others - - 407.65 36.23    *Guarantees to Subsidiary include CAD 63 million (H 372.58 crore) granted during the year which stands outstanding at CAD 63 million (H 381.16  crore) as on the balance sheet date.
@ Loans to Joint Ventures include USD 21.44 million (H 160.59 crore) granted during the year which stands outstanding at USD 21.44 million   (H 162.52 crore) as on the balance sheet date.
b)  In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the investments made, guarantees  provided, security given and the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans and advances in the nature of loans and  guarantees provided are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
i.
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies  (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations  given to us:    i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial  statements-Refer Note 36B to the standalone financial statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or Indian accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any, on long term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer Note 17 to the standalone  financial statements.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring the amount, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and  Protection Fund by the Company.
iv.
a)  The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material  either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds  or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity,  including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise,  that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in  any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,  security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;      b)  The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material  either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including  foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the  Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner  whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or  the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and      c)  Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,  nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and  (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement.
v.  As stated in Note 31 to the standalone financial statements:      a)  The interim dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year and until the date of this audit report is  in accordance with section 123 of the Companies Act 2013.      b)  The final dividend paid by the Company during the year in respect of the same declared for the previous year is  in accordance with section 123 of the Companies Act 2013 to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of  the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
The dividend declared is in accordance with section 123 of the  Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K. C. MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
091007 M. No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960  UDIN:  UDIN: UDIN: UDIN:  22091007AJCGDJ7522 22101533AJCFWW8790 22063769AJCGVY1618 22053960AJCGGK4519      Place: New Delhi Date: 17th May 2022 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 184 185  (c) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the schedule of repayment of principal and  payment of interest with respect to loans and advances in the nature of loans, has been stipulated and the repayments  or receipts are regular.
(d) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the total amount overdue for more than  90 days is Nil.
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, two cases were found where the loan or advance in the  nature of loan granted which have fallen due during the year, have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to  settle the overdues of existing loans given to the same parties which are as follows:  (f)  In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, no such cases are found where the  Company has granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without specifying  any terms or period of repayment.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is exempted from the provisions  of section 186 of the Act (except section 186(1) of the Act) as it is engaged in the business of providing infrastructure facilities  as provided under Schedule-VI of the Act.
The provisions of section 186(1) of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
The  Company has complied with the provisions of Section 185 of the Act.
(v) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, during the year, the Company has not accepted  deposits from the public in terms of the provisions of sections 73 to 76 of the Act read with the Companies (Acceptance of  Deposits) Rules,2014, as amended and other relevant provisions of the Act or under the directives issued by the Reserve Bank  of India and no deposits are outstanding at the year-end except old cases under dispute aggregating to H 0.01 crore, where  we are informed that the Company has complied with necessary directions.
(vi) We have broadly reviewed the accounts and records maintained by the Company pursuant to the Rules made by the Central  Government for the maintenance of cost records under sub-section (1) of Section 148 of the Act, read with Companies (Cost  Records & Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended and we are of the opinion that prima facie the prescribed accounts and records  have been made and maintained.
We have not, however, made detailed examination of the records with a view to determine  whether they are accurate and complete.
(vii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has been regular in depositing with appropriate  authorities undisputed statutory dues, including provident fund, employee’s state insurance, income-tax, value added  tax, goods and services tax, excise duty, cess and other statutory dues applicable to it.
Further, no undisputed amounts  payable in respect of provident fund, employee’s state insurance, income tax, value added tax, goods and services tax,  cess and any other statutory dues were in arrears, as at March 31, 2022, for a period of more than six months from the  date they become payable.
(b) The disputed statutory dues that have not been deposited on account of matters pending before appropriate authorities  are annexed in “Appendix B” with this report.
(viii) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no transactions which were not recorded in the books  of account and have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax  Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).
(ix) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or  other borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
Name of the parties Aggregate amount of  overdues of existing  loans renewed or  extended or settled by  fresh loans (in J crore) Percentage of the  aggregate to the total  loans or advances in the  nature of loans granted  during the year Petronet VK Limited 110.9 14.07% Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited 160.59 20.38%  (b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not been declared willful defaulter by any  bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has applied the term loans for the purpose for  which loans were obtained.
(d) According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the Balance Sheet of the  Company as at year end i.e.
31st March 2022, we report that funds raised on short-term basis to the extent of H 31,239.97  crore have been used for long-term purposes.
However, during the year funds raised on short-term basis have not been  used for long-term purposes.
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or  person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates, or joint ventures.
(f)  According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised loans during the year on the  pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associate companies.
(x) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised moneys by way of initial public  offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) during the year.
However, the Company has issued non- convertible debentures for capital expenditure requirements through private placement and as per the information and  explanations given to us, the funds were applied for the purpose for which those were raised.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or  private placement of shares or fully or partly or optionally convertible debentures during the year and therefore provisions  of Section 42 and 62 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xi) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us and as represented by the Management and based on our  examination of the books and records of the Company and in accordance with generally accepted auditing practices in  India, no material case of frauds by the Company or on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
(b) No report has been filed by the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors)  Rules, 2014 with the Central Government during the year and upto the date of this report.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us, no whistle blower complaints were received by the Company  during the year.
(xii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company and  therefore, the reporting under Clause 3 (xii)(a), 3(xii)(b) & 3(xii)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by the management, all transactions during the year  with the related parties were approved by the Audit Committee and are in compliance with section 177 and 188 of the Act,  where applicable and the details have been disclosed in the standalone financial statements, as required by the applicable  Indian accounting standards.
(xiv) (a) In our opinion and based on our examination, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size  and nature of its business.
(b) We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date, for the period under audit.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non- cash transactions specified under section 192 of the Act with directors, or persons connected with directors and therefore,  reporting under clause (xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)  According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not required to be registered under section 45-IA of the  Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(a), 3(xvi)(b), 3(xvi)(c) & 3(xvi)(d) is not applicable.
(xvii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not incurred cash losses in  the financial year 2021-22 and in the immediately preceding financial year 2020-21.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 186 187 (xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly clause 3(xviii) is not applicable.
(xix) In our opinion and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial assets and payment  of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial statements, the Board of Directors and management plans  given to us, no material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its  liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date.
(xx) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, in respect to “other than ongoing projects”,  there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to the Funds specified in Schedule VII to the Companies  Act, 2013 within a period of six months of the expiry of the financial year in compliance with second proviso to sub- section (5) of section 135 of the said Act.
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not applicable for  the year.
(b) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, with respect to “ongoing projects”, there  are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a special account, within a period of thirty days from the  end of the financial year in compliance with section 135(6) of the said Act.
(xxi) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective  auditors in the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order 2020 (CARO) reports of the companies included in the consolidated  financial statements.
For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K. C. MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
091007 M. No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960  UDIN:  UDIN: UDIN: UDIN:  22091007AJCGDJ7522 22101533AJCFWW8790 22063769AJCGVY1618 22053960AJCGGK4519      Place: New Delhi Date: 17th May 2022 Reporting as per Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order 2020 Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company Appendix – A Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value (in J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Property  held since  (Year) Reason for not being held in name  of company  1 Freehold Freehold Land Freehold Land* 0.00 Nalluswamy  Ramar No 2005 Purchase process for the private land  portion shall be completed after rate  fixation from the Government.
Freehold Land 0.01 Not available No 1995 The title deed is not available either  with the functional department or  with the law department.
Action has  been taken to retrieve the documents.
Freehold Land 0.02 Ramavathi/ Legal  heirs No 1995 Title Appeal has been filed before  Jharkhand High Court.
Approval for  the same is under process.
Freehold Land* 0.00 Ramavathi/ Legal  heirs No 1995 Title Appeal has been filed before  Jharkhand High Court.
Approval for  the same is under process.
Freehold Land 51.90 Government of  Assam No 2017 Entry of the name of Company in  Jamabandi/Mutation record is pending.
Freehold Land* 0.00 Government of  Assam No 1982 Mutation is pending.
Freehold Land 0.01 Government of  Assam No 1985 Mutation is pending.
Freehold Land* 0.00 Not available No 1959 Title Deed is not available or found.
Re-generation of title deed is in  process for making an application to  Sub registrar.
Freehold Land 0.10 Bharat Petroleum  Corporation  Limited (BPCL) No 1990 The land has been registered  in the name of BPCL.
BPCL has  demarcated 77,540 Sqm of land in  the name of Company.
Freehold Land 0.52 Kerala state  Government  (GCDA) No 2003 Retail sales dept is following up  with Govt.
Secretary and GCDA for  registration.
Freehold Land 5.77 Indian Railways No 1994 The said land had been exchanged  with railways for construction of  railway siding and the same had not  been registered.
However a person  had disputed the title in the court  claiming that they have registered  documents to portion of the land  (400 Sq.Yards).
Pending the decision  of the Railways and the legal case,  IOC is unable to go ahead with the  registration of land.
Land allotted by  Government of  Assam 0.16 Government of  Assam No 1962 Land measuring 60.50 Acre not  registered in the name of Company,  for which follow-up is being made  with the government Freehold Land 0.20 Government of  Bihar No 1959 The matter related to the claim of  District Authorities, for additional cost  of Registration charges, is pending  with the Hon’ble High Court, Patna.
Total 58.69 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 188 189 Appendix – A Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value (in J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Property  held since  (Year) Reason for not being held in name  of company  ROU - Leasehold  Land 25.28 Indian Air Force No 2011 Air Force Stations Umbrella Agreement/ MOU, but no individual Agreements for  various locations are available.
ROU - Leasehold  Land (2 cases) 0.48 Madhya Pradesh  Government No 1994 Title deed is pending for execution  with MP Government, Revenue land  office.
ROU - Leasehold  Land* 0.00 Northern  Coalfields  Limited (NCL) No 1992 Lease deed with NCL for Jayant  Depot land is not available with  Company and NCL.
The Company  is supplying product to other Retail  Outlet from Jayant Depot, the lease  agreement is yet to be executed.
ROU - Leasehold  Land 0.10 Tuticorn Port  Trust No 1998 The lease agreement is not yet  signed due to dispute with Tuticorin  Port Trust on incorporation of MGT  clause ROU - Leasehold  Land 0.48 Indian Air Force No 2019 Air Force Stations Umbrella  Agreement/MOU, but no individual  Agreements for various locations are  available.
Leasehold Land at  Mathura Refinery 10.18 Government of  Uttar Pradesh No 1977 Approval for lease deed & execution  is pending at the level of Department  of Industries, UP Government,  Lucknow.
Leasehold Land of  Calico Mill, Baroda 31.99 Gujarat Industrial  Development  Corporation No 2006 Case is pending in High Court Leasehold land at  Paradip 0.04 Government of  Odisha No 2019 Transfer of land in name of Company  is under process Leasehold Land  at Jobra Barrage  Water Intake  Facility 27.54 Government of  Odisha No 2010 Transfer of land in name of Company  is under process Leasehold land at  Paradip 4.83 Government of  Odisha No 2010 Transfer of land in name of Company  is under process Total 400.12 Leasehold  Building NBCC_Type VI  Flats & Parking_ Kidwai Nagar 20.42 National Buildings  Construction  Corporation  (NBCC) No 2018 Under process to be registered  through Land &Development Office,  Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Appendix – A Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value (in J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Property  held since  (Year) Reason for not being held in name  of company  Freehold Building Freehold Building 5.42 State  Government of  West Bengal No 1989 The executed deed was not  registered after taking over the  building.
Mutation of this plot of  Land & Building is not available.
Freehold Building 0.01 M/s Bonny  Enterprise No 1984 No one from Bonny Enterprise is  traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise  is closed.
Therefore, Title Deed  cannot be executed.
Freehold Building 0.04 M/s Bonny  Enterprise No 1983 Freehold Building  (3 cases) 0.06 M/s Bonny  Enterprise No 1985 Freehold Building 0.06 Mukund  Constructions No 1984 Matter is under Litigation for  execution of sale deed Total 5.58 2 ROU Assets Leasehold Land ROU - Leasehold  Land 0.01 Not available No 1993 The title deed is not available either  with the functional department or  with the law department.
Action has  been taken to retrieve the documents.
ROU - Leasehold  Land (3 cases) 0.08 Tata Iron and  Steel Company  Limited (TISCO) No 1996 The Land has been awarded to TISCO  during British Govt.
Embargo from State  Govt.
over Subleasing to Company.
ROU - Leasehold  Land 0.01 Tata Iron and  Steel Company  Limited (TISCO) No 1996 The Land has been awarded to TISCO  during British Govt.
Embargo from State  Govt.
over Subleasing to Company.
ROU - Leasehold  Land 0.05 Tata Iron and  Steel Company  Limited (TISCO) No 1996 The Land has been awarded to TISCO  during British Govt.
Embargo from State  Govt.
over Subleasing to Company.
ROU - Leasehold  Land (9 cases) 14.85 Indian Air Force No 2011 Air Force Stations Umbrella Agreement/ MOU, but no individual Agreements for  various locations are available.
ROU - Leasehold  Land (3 cases) 19.06 Indian Air Force No 2019 Air Force Stations Umbrella Agreement/ MOU, but no individual Agreements for  various locations are available.
ROU - Leasehold  Land (22 cases) 259.54 Indian Air Force No 2011 Air Force Stations Umbrella Agreement/ MOU, but no individual Agreements for  various locations are available.
ROU - Leasehold  Land 1.83 Indian Air Force No 1995 Air Force Stations Umbrella Agreement/ MOU, but no individual Agreements for  various locations are available.
ROU - Leasehold  Land 1.94 Mumbai Port  Trust (MbPT) No 1998 A letter was submitted to MbPT  Chairman office requesting (a) waiver  of interest on arrears; and (b) renewal  of expired lease.
The concerned  location is following up with MbPT.
ROU - Leasehold  Land 1.84 Indian Railways No 2018 Draft lease deed has been submitted  to Railways.
Awaiting confirmation  from it.
Reporting as per Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order 2020 Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company  (Contd..) Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 190 191 Disputed Statutory Dues Appendix – B Sl.
No.
Name of the  Statute Nature of  Dues Forum where  Dispute is  pending Gross  Amount  (J crore) Amount  Paid under  Protest  (J crore) Amount  (net of  deposits) (J crore) Period to which the  Amount relates 1 CENTRAL EXCISE  ACT, 1944 CENTRAL  EXCISE          Supreme Court 102.04 10.00 92.04 1991 to 2019    High Court 308.13 0.56 307.57 1994 to 2019    Tribunal 2,199.75 37.81 2,161.94 1991 to 2019    Revisionary  Authority 15.65 0.04 15.61 2006 to 2022    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 319.38 7.92 311.46 1999 to 2020    Total 2,944.95 56.33 2,888.62   2 CUSTOMS ACT,  1962 CUSTOMS  DUTY          Supreme Court 17.88 4.05 13.83 1998 to 2022    High Court 1.84 - 1.84 2018 to 2022    Tribunal 50.59 0.29 50.3 2002 to 2021    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 6.88 - 6.88 1990 to 2018    Total 77.19 4.34 72.85  3 SALES TAX/ VAT  LEGISLATIONS SALES  TAX/ VAT/  TURNOVER  TAX         Supreme Court 157.23 18.57 138.66 1995 to 2020    High Court 602.74 125.79 476.95 1998 to 2022    Tribunal 4,028.65 993.55 3,035.10 2006 to 2022    Revisionary  Authority 204.07 3.64 200.43 2002 to 2014    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 1,637.15 69.36 1,567.79 1997 to 2022    Total 6,629.84 1,210.91 5,418.93   4 INCOME TAX ACT,  1961 INCOME  TAX          High Court 0.88 - 0.88 2001 to 2003    Tribunal 783.52 409.95 373.57 2010 to 2014    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 5,687.49 749.55 4,937.94 2004 to 2020    Total 6,471.89 1,159.49 5,312.39  Appendix – A Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value (in J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Property  held since  (Year) Reason for not being held in name  of company  NBCC Commercial  Space 231.02 National  Buildings  Construction  Corporation  (NBCC) No 2021 Under process to be registered  through Land &Development Office,  Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs NBCC_Building_ Type V Flats 17.67 National  Buildings  Construction  Corporation  (NBCC) No 2020 Under process to be registered  through Land &Development Office,  Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Total 269.11 3 Investment  Property - - - - 4 Non-Current  Assets held for  sale - - - - - Grand Total 733.50 *Following values are not reflected above due to rounding off: Particulars Held in name of Gross Carrying value  (in J) Freehold Land Nalluswamy Ramar 30,000 Freehold Land Ramavathi/ Legal heirs 25,540 Freehold Land Govt.
of Assam 45,000 Freehold Land Not Available 24,416 ROU-Leasehold Land Northern Coalfields  Limited 1 Reporting as per Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order 2020 Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company  (Contd..) Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 192 193 Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report (Referred to in Paragraph 2 under “Other legal and regulatory requirements “of our report of  even date) Sl.
No Directions Action Taken Impact on standalone  financial statements 1.
Whether the company has system in the place to  process all the accounting transactions through  IT system?
If yes, the implications of processing  of accounting transaction outside IT system  on the integrity of the accounts along with the  financial implications, if any, may be stated.
The Company has a robust ERP system  (SAP) to process all the accounting  transactions through IT system.
Nil 2.
Whether there is any restructuring of an existing  loan or cases of waiver/write off of debts/loans/ interest etc.
made by a lender to the company  due to the company’s inability to repay the loan?
If yes, financial impact may be stated.
Whether  such cases are properly accounted for?
(In case,  lender is a government company, then this  direction is also applicable for statutory auditor  of lender company).
The Company has been regular in  discharging its principal and interest  obligations on various loans during  2021-22.
Therefore, there are no cases  of restructuring of any loan or cases of  waiver/ write off of debts/ loans/ interest  etc.
made by any lender due to the  company’s inability to repay the loan.
Nil 3.
Whether funds (grants / subsidy etc.)
received/ receivable for specific schemes from central/ state Government or its agencies were properly  accounted for /utilized as per its term and  conditions?
List the cases of deviation.
The Company has properly accounted  for/utilized funds (grants / subsidy etc.)
received/receivable for specific schemes  from central/state Government or its  agencies, as the case may be, as per its  term and conditions Nil  For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K. C. MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
091007 M. No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960  UDIN:  UDIN: UDIN: UDIN:  22091007AJCGDJ7522 22101533AJCFWW8790 22063769AJCGVY1618 22053960AJCGGK4519      Place: New Delhi Date: 17th May 2022 Appendix – B Sl.
No.
Name of the  Statute Nature of  Dues Forum where  Dispute is  pending Gross  Amount  (J crore) Amount  Paid under  Protest  (J crore) Amount  (net of  deposits) (J crore) Period to which the  Amount relates 5 FINANCE ACT,  1994 SERVICE  TAX          High Court 1.69 - 1.69 2003 to 2012    Tribunal 305.22 0.47 304.75 2006 to 2021    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 6.41 0.23 6.18 2012 to 2022    Total 313.32 0.70 312.62  6 STATE  LEGISLATIONS ENTRY TAX          Supreme Court 3.08 - 3.08 2010 to 2022    High Court 5,664.28 102.94 5,561.34 1999 to 2018    Tribunal 53.40 28.27 25.13 1999 to 2019    Revisionary  Authority 6.77 5.53 1.24 1999 to 2022    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 2.26 1.08 1.18 2008 to 2010    Total 5,729.79 137.82 5,591.97  7 The IGST Act, 2017 GST         Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 1.36 0.14 1.22  2019 to 2022    Total 1.36 0.14 1.22  8 OTHER CENTRAL  / STATE  LEGISLATIONS OTHERS  COMMER- CIAL TAX  etc.
Supreme Court 12.03 - 12.03 2004 to 2011  High Court 50.46 - 50.46 2001 to 2022    Appellate  Authority (Below  Tribunal) 14.76 - 14.76 2011 to 2021    Total 77.25 - 77.25     GRAND TOTAL 22,245.58 2,569.73 19,675.85  Note: Dues include penalty and interest, wherever applicable.
Disputed Statutory Dues (Contd..) Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 194 195 Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to standalone financial statements  Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements, including the  possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur  and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial  statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial  statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or  procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion  In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial  statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were operating effectively as  at March 31, 2022 based on the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements established by the  Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial  Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
Other Matter Our aforesaid report under section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial  controls with reference to standalone financial statements in so far as it relates to one Branch audited by the Branch Auditor, is  based on the corresponding report of the Branch Auditor.
For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K. C. MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
091007 M. No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960  UDIN:  UDIN: UDIN: UDIN:  22091007AJCGDJ7522 22101533AJCFWW8790 22063769AJCGVY1618 22053960AJCGGK4519      Place: New Delhi Date: 17th May 2022 Annexure C to the Independent Auditors’ Report Annexure referred to in Independent Auditors’ report of even date to the members of Indian Oil  Corporation Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub- section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)  We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for  the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls  The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control  with reference to standalone financial statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of  internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including  adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy  and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial  statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial  Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and prescribed under  section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of Internal  Financial Controls with reference to standalone Financial Statement and both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants  of India.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial  statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with  reference to standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with  reference to standalone financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference  to standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design  and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’  judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due  to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to standalone financial statements  A company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide  reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial statements for  external purposes in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial controls with  reference to standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records  that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide  reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made  only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance  regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have  a material effect on the standalone financial statements.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Financial Statements   Standalone Balance SheetHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 196 197 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 LIABILITIES Non-Current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 16  50,579.83  48,965.87   ii) Lease Liabilities  6,557.16  6,442.08   iii) Other Financial Liabilities 17  913.79  847.49  b) Provisions 18  907.81  943.93  c) Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 19  13,627.36  12,964.73  d) Other Non-Current Liabilities 20  3,169.00  2,576.10   75,754.95  72,740.20  Current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 21  60,218.67  45,447.13   ii) Lease Liabilities  2,107.16  1,472.41   iii) Trade Payables 22   A.
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises  799.84  547.01    B.
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small  Enterprises  41,669.50  33,043.68   iv) Other Financial Liabilities 17  48,051.50  43,638.45  b) Other Current Liabilities 20  18,445.46  16,485.72  c) Provisions 18  9,394.27  9,381.59  d) Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 7  611.39  797.85   1,81,297.79  1,50,813.84  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  3,88,339.10  3,34,054.08  Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 49 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 ASSETS Non-current Assets a) Property, Plant and Equipment 2  1,44,313.53  1,40,916.14  b) Capital Work-in-Progress 2.1  42,764.60  31,600.61  c) Intangible Assets 3  2,575.31  2,483.80  d) Intangible Assets Under Development 3.1  1,681.47  1,451.52  e) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4   Equity investment in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates  21,868.16  19,191.01    Other Investments  28,153.66  20,561.11   ii) Loans 5  2,263.92  2,389.73   iii) Other Financial Assets 6  989.47  218.82  f) Income Tax Assets (Net) 7  2,748.06  2,428.85  g) Other Non-Current Assets 8  3,659.10  2,828.59   2,51,017.28  2,24,070.18  Current Assets a) Inventories 9  1,03,206.94  78,188.01  b) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4  7,764.82  8,867.29   ii) Trade Receivables 10  18,136.57  13,379.56   iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents 11  709.91  313.74   iv) Bank Balances other than above 12  173.07  1,354.63   v) Loans 5  439.95  616.51   vi) Other Financial Assets 6  3,347.43  3,884.76  c) Other Current Assets 8  3,373.34  3,186.50   1,37,152.03  1,09,791.00  Assets Held for Sale 13  169.79  192.90   1,37,321.82  1,09,983.90  TOTAL ASSETS  3,88,339.10  3,34,054.08  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY a) Equity Share Capital 14  9,181.04  9,181.04  b) Other Equity 15  1,22,105.32  1,01,319.00   1,31,286.36  1,10,500.04  Financial Statements   Standalone Statement Of Profit And LossHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 198 199 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2021-2022 2020-2021 X.
Earnings per Equity Share (J): 32 (1) Basic  26.34  23.78  (2) Diluted  26.34  23.78  Face Value Per Equity Share (H)  10  10  Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 49 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2021-2022 2020-2021 I.
Revenue From Operations 23  7,28,459.94  5,14,890.47  II.
Other Income 24  4,324.26  4,550.72  III.
Total Income (I+II)  7,32,784.20  5,19,441.19  IV.
Expenses: Cost of Materials Consumed 25  2,94,501.48  1,56,647.96  Excise Duty  1,30,296.19  1,36,832.86  Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  2,21,078.10  1,43,305.73  Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-trade and Stock-In  Process 26  (12,197.02)  (5,547.57) Employee Benefits Expense 27  10,991.70  10,712.04  Finance Costs 28  4,829.10  3,093.92  Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on:  a) Property, Plant and Equipment  10,831.54  9,615.75   b) Intangible Assets  174.37  188.55   11,005.91  9,804.30  Impairment Loss (including reversal of impairment loss) on Financial Assets  (136.38)  1,195.45  Net Loss on de-recognition of Financial Assets at Amortised Cost  172.75  7.69  Other Expenses 29  40,509.30  33,673.16  Total Expenses (IV)  7,01,051.13  4,89,725.54  V. Profit / (Loss) before Tax (III-IV)  31,733.07  29,715.65  VI.
Tax Expense :  Current Tax  6,913.00  6,761.03   [includes J 41.07 crore (2021: H 1816.38 crore) relating to prior years]  Deferred Tax  635.97  1,118.58   [includes NIL (2021: H (228.15) crore) relating to prior years] VII.
Profit / (Loss) for the Year (V-VI)  24,184.10  21,836.04  VIII.
Other Comprehensive Income: 30 A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  6,228.96  4,690.93  A (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  128.56  (204.76) B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  (130.60)  119.71  B (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  32.91  (21.99) IX.
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (VII+VIII) (Comprising Profit/  (Loss) and Other Comprehensive Income for the Year)  30,443.93  26,419.93  Financial Statements   Standalone Statement Of Cash FlowsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 200 201 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 C Net Cash Flow From Financing Activities: Proceeds from Long-Term Borrowings  10,613.26  10,050.40  Repayments of Long-Term Borrowings  (587.00)  (2,048.63) Repayments of Lease Liabilities  (1,761.39)  (1,106.60) Proceeds from/(Repayments of) Short-Term Borrowings  6,309.80  (22,313.22) Interest paid  (4,362.99)  (4,146.87) Dividend paid  (10,896.02)  (8,383.19) Net Cash Generated/(Used) from Financing Activities:  (684.34)  (27,948.11) D Net Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)  396.17  (221.82) E1 Cash & Cash Equivalents as at end of the year  709.91  313.74  Less: E2 Cash & Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of year  313.74  535.56  NET CHANGE IN CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS (E1 - E2)  396.17  (221.82) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 (Gain)/ Loss due to changes in exchange rate  921.43  (1,177.78) Notes:     1.
Net Cash Flow From Financing Activities includes following non-cash changes:  2.
Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using Indirect Method as per Indian Accounting Standard-7: Statement of Cash Flows.
3.
Figures for previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary for uniformity in presentation.
For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 A Cash Flow from Operating Activities 1 Profit / (Loss) before Tax  31,733.07  29,715.65  2 Adjustments for : Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on Property, Plant & Equipment and  Intangible Assets  11,005.91  9,804.30  Loss/(Profit) on sale of Assets (net)  (23.15)  85.09  Loss/(Profit) on sale/ write-off of Investments (net)  4.73  (4.12) Amortisation of Capital Grants  (25.96)  (25.29) Provision for Probable Contingencies (net)  (92.14)  (227.65) MTM Loss/(gain) arising on financial assets/liabilities as at fair value through profit  and loss  205.71  (205.56) Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  (127.56)  (371.70) Bad Debts, Advances & Claims written off  184.21  10.61  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims and Obsolescence of Stores (net)  (170.07)  564.98  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets (Net)  (136.38)  1,195.45  MTM Loss/(Gain) on Derivatives  (68.00)  (140.87) Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans through OCI  (769.98)  22.42  Interest Income  (1,868.67)  (1,760.12) Dividend Income  (2,318.68)  (1,241.03) Finance costs  3,816.33  3,921.00  Amortisation and Remeasurement (Net) of PMUY Assets  587.97  1,056.60   10,204.27  12,684.11  3 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes (1+2)  41,937.34  42,399.76  4 Change in Working Capital (excluding Cash & Cash Equivalents): Trade Receivables & Other Assets  (3,491.67)  9,359.57  Inventories  (25,044.09)  (14,513.92) Trade Payables & Other Liabilities  14,997.11  15,465.64  Change in Working Capital  (13,538.65)  10,311.29  5 Cash Generated From Operations (3+4)  28,398.69  52,711.05  6 Less : Taxes paid  7,221.35  3,927.07  7 Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities (5-6)  21,177.34  48,783.98  B  Cash Flow from Investing Activities: Proceeds from sale of Property, Plant and Equipment/ Transfer of Assets 542.63 998.90 Purchase of Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets  (4,076.60)  (4,559.25) Expenditure on Construction Work in Progress  (17,814.07)  (16,602.57) Proceeds from sale of financial instruments (other than working capital)  (4.73)  115.28  Investment in subsidiaries  (1,877.73)  (1.13) Purchase of Other Investments  (1,710.97)  (4,580.49) Receipt of government grants (Capital Grant)  703.85  580.66  Interest Income received  1,822.11  1,749.88  Dividend Income on Investments  2,318.68  1,241.03  Net Cash Generated/ (Used) in Investing Activities:  (20,096.83)  (21,057.69) Financial Statements   Standalone Statement Of Changes In EquityHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 202 203 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 A.
Equity Share Capital B.
Other Equity (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Balance at the beginning of the year  9,181.04  9,181.04  Changes during the year - - Balance at the end of the year  9,181.04  9,181.04   (J in Crore)  Reserves and Surplus Reserves and Surplus Items of Other Comprehensive Income TotalRetained   Earnings Bond  Redemption  Reserve Capital  Redemption  Reserve Capital Reserve Insurance  Reserve Export Profit  Reserve Fair value  of Equity  Instruments Fair value  of Debt  Instruments Cash Flow  Hedge  Reserve Opening Balance as at April 1, 2020  74,905.19  3,152.64  297.65  183.08  261.09  53.72  5,296.79  391.67  46.00  84,587.83  Profit / (Loss) for the Year  21,836.04  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    21,836.04  Other Comprehensive Income  16.78*  -    -    -    -    -    4,469.39  80.91  16.81  4,583.89  Total Comprehensive Income  21,852.82  -    -    -    -    -    4,469.39  80.91  16.81  26,419.93  Transfer from Export Profit Reserve  53.72  -    -    -    -    (53.72)  -    -    -    -    Appropriation towards Interim Dividend  (9,640.47)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (9,640.47) Appropriation towards Insurance Reserve (Net)  (11.05)  -    -    -    11.05  -    -    -    -    -    Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss (recycling)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (2.28)  (46.01)  (48.29) Closing Balance as at March 31, 2021  87,160.21  3,152.64  297.65  183.08  272.14  -    9,766.18  470.30  16.80  1,01,319.00  * Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans Financial Statements   Standalone Statement Of Changes In EquityHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 204 205 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  * Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022  (J in crore)  Reserves and Surplus Reserves and Surplus Items of Other Comprehensive Income TotalRetained   Earnings Bond Redemption  Reserve Capital  Redemption  Reserve Capital Reserve Insurance Reserve Fair value  of Equity  Instruments Fair value  of Debt  Instruments Cash Flow  Hedge Reserve Opening Balance as at April 1, 2021  87,160.21  3,152.64  297.65  183.08  272.14  9,766.18  470.30  16.80  1,01,319.00  Profit / (Loss) for the Year  24,184.10  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  24,184.10  Other Comprehensive Income  (576.19*)  -  -  -  -  6,933.71  (125.02)  27.33  6,259.83  Total Comprehensive Income  23,607.91  -  -  -  -  6,933.71  (125.02)  27.33  30,443.93  Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,370.85  (1,370.85)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Appropriation towards Interim Dividend  (8,263.41)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (8,263.41) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  (1,377.39)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (1,377.39) Appropriation towards Insurance Reserve (Net)  (19.28)  -  -  -  19.28  -  -  -  -  Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss (recycling)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (16.81)  (16.81) Closing Balance as at March 31, 2022  1,02,478.89  1,781.79  297.65  183.08  291.42  16,699.89  345.28  27.32  1,22,105.32  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial Statements 207 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited206 NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) being executed along with the production/operations  simultaneously and where the expenses are not  attributable exclusively are charged to revenue.
2.2.2 Borrowing cost incurred during construction period  on loans specifically borrowed and utilized for  projects is capitalized on quarterly basis up to the date   of capitalization.
2.2.3 Borrowing cost, if any, incurred on General Borrowings  used for projects is capitalized at the weighted average  cost.
The amount of such borrowings is determined  on quarterly basis after setting off the amount of   internal accruals.
B.
Capital Stores 2.2.4 Capital Stores are valued at weighted average cost.
Specific provision is made for likely diminution in value,  wherever required.
2.3 Intangible Assets & Amortisation 2.3.1 Technical know-how / license fee relating to production  process and process design are recognized as Intangible  Assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over the  life of the underlying plant/ facility.
2.3.2 Expenditure incurred in research phase is charged to  revenue and that in development phase, unless it is of  capital nature, is also charged to revenue.
2.3.3  Cost incurred on computer software/licenses purchased/ developed resulting in future economic benefits, other  than specific software that are integral part of the  related hardware, are capitalized as Intangible Asset  and amortised over a period of three years beginning  from the month in which such software/ licenses are  capitalized.
However, where such computer software/  license is under development or is not yet ready for use,  accumulated cost incurred on such items are accounted  as “Intangible Assets Under Development”.
2.3.4 Right of ways with indefinite useful lives are not  amortised but tested for impairment annually at the  cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite  life is reviewed annually to determine whether the  indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the  change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on  a prospective basis.
2.3.5 Intangible Assets acquired separately are measured  on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of Intangible  Assets acquired in a business combination is based  on its fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following  initial recognition, Intangible Assets are carried at cost  less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated  impairment losses.
In case of internally generated  intangibles, development cost is recognized as an asset  when all the recognition criteria are met.
However, all  other internally generated intangibles including research  cost are not capitalized and the related expenditure is  recognized in the statement of profit and loss in the  period in which the expenditure is incurred.
2.3.6 The useful lives of Intangible Assets are assessed as  either finite or indefinite.
Intangible Assets with finite  lives are amortised over the useful life on straight  line basis and assessed for impairment whenever  there is an indication that the Intangible Asset may be  impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation  method for an Intangible Asset with a finite useful  life are reviewed at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected  pattern of consumption of future economic benefits  embodied in the asset are considered to modify the  amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and  are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The  amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite  lives is recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss  unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value   of another asset.
2.3.7 On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to  continue with the carrying value of all of its Intangible  Assets recognized as at April 1, 2015 measured as per  the previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the  deemed cost of the Intangible Assets.
2.3.8 Amortisation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/upto the month of capitalization/ sale,  disposal/ or classified to Asset held for disposal.
2.4 Depreciation  2.4.1 Cost of PPE (net of residual value) excluding freehold  land is depreciated on straight-line method as per the  useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Act except in  case of the following assets:   a.
Useful life based on technical assessment     •  15 years for Plant and Equipment relating to  Retail Outlets (other than storage tanks and  related equipment), LPG cylinders and pressure  regulators     •  25 years for solar power plant     •  Certain assets of R&D Centre (15-25 years)     •  Certain assets of CGD business,(Compressor /  Booster Compressor and Dispenser - 10 years,  Cascade – 20 years)     •  Moulds used for the manufacturing of the  packaging material for Lubricants- 5 years     •  In other cases, like Spare Parts etc.
(2-30 years) STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES I.
Corporate Information The financial statements of “Indian Oil Corporation Limited” (“the  Company” or “IOCL”) are for the year ended March 31, 2022.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
Its shares are listed on Bombay Stock  Exchange and National Stock Exchange in India.
The registered  office of the Company is located at Indian Oil Bhavan, G-9, Ali  Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai.
Indian Oil is India’s flagship Maharatna national oil company  with business interests straddling the entire hydrocarbon value  chain - from refining, pipeline transportation & marketing, to  exploration & production of crude oil & gas, petrochemicals,  gas marketing, alternative energy sources and globalisation of  downstream operations.
The financial statements have been approved for issue in  accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors passed in  its meeting held on May 17, 2022.
II.
Significant Accounting Policies 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND STATEMENT OF  COMPLIANCE 1.1 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance  with the applicable Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Act”) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Rules and other relevant provisions of the Act  and Rules thereunder, as amended from time to time.
1.2 The financial statements have been prepared on a  historical cost basis, except for the following assets and  liabilities which have been measured at fair value:  -  Derivative financial instruments,  -  Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at  fair value (refer serial no.
17 of accounting policies  regarding financial instruments) and   -   Plan assets related to employee benefits (refer serial no.
12 of accounting policies regarding employee benefits) 1.3 The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (H)  which is Company’s presentation and functional currency  and all values are rounded to the nearest crore (up to two  decimals) except when otherwise indicated.
2.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND  INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) 2.1.1 Property, Plant & Equipment (PPE) comprises of tangible  assets and capital work in progress.
PPE are stated  in the Balance Sheet at cost, less any accumulated  depreciation and accumulated impairment losses (if  any), except freehold land which are carried at historical  cost.
The cost of an item of PPE comprises its purchase  price/construction cost including applicable taxes (net  of credits) after deducting any discounts and rebates,  any directly attributable costs of bringing the assets to  its working condition and location for its intended use  and present value of any estimated cost of dismantling  and removing the item and restoring the site on which  it is located.
These costs are capitalized until the asset is  ready for use and includes borrowing cost capitalized in  accordance with the Company’s accounting policy.
2.1.2 The cost of an item of PPE is recognized as an asset if,  and only if:   (a) it is probable that future economic benefits  associated with the item will flow to the entity; and   (b) the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
In accordance with the above criteria, subsequent  costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or  recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate.
2.1.3 Technical know-how / license fee relating to plants/ facilities and specific software that are integral part of  the related hardware are capitalized as part of cost of  the underlying asset.
2.1.4 Spare Parts are capitalized when they meet the definition  of PPE, i.e., when the Company intends to use these for  a period exceeding 12 months.
2.1.5  The acquisition of some items of PPE although not directly  increasing the future economic benefits of any particular  existing item of PPE, may be necessary for the Company  to obtain the future economic benefits from its other  assets.
Such items of PPE are recognized as assets.
2.1.6 Environment responsibility related obligations directly  attributable to projects is recognized as project cost on  the basis of progress of project or on actual incurrence,  whichever is higher.
2.1.7 On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected  to continue with the carrying value of all of its PPE  recognized as at April 1, 2015 measured as per the  previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the  deemed cost of the PPE.
2.2 Capital Work in Progress (CWIP) A.
Construction Period Expenses  2.2.1.
Revenue expenses exclusively attributable to projects  incurred during construction period are capitalized.
However, such expenses in respect of capital facilities  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 208 209 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 3.1.2 Right-of-use Assets   The Company recognizes right-of-use (ROU) assets  at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date  the underlying asset is available for use).
Right-of-use  assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated  depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for  any remeasurement of lease liabilities.
The cost of right- of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities  recognized, initial direct costs incurred, and lease  payments made at or before the commencement date  less any lease incentives received.
Unless the Company  is reasonably certain to obtain ownership of the leased  asset at the end of the lease term, the recognized right- of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis  over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease  term.
Right-of use assets are subject to impairment.
If  ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company  at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the  exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated  using the estimated useful life of the asset as per 2.4  above.
Perpetual Right of use (ROU) assets related to land  are not depreciated but tested for Impairment loss, if any.
3.1.3 Modifications to a lease agreement beyond the  original terms and conditions are generally accounted  for as a re-measurement of the lease liability with a  corresponding adjustment to the ROU asset.
Any gain  or loss on modification is recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
However, the modifications that  increase the scope of the lease by adding the right  to use one or more underlying assets at a price  commensurate with the stand-alone selling price are  accounted for as a separate new lease.
In case of lease  modifications, discounting rates used for measurement  of lease liability and ROU assets is also suitably adjusted.
3.1.4 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets   The Company applies the short-term lease recognition  exemption to its short-term leases of Property, Plant and  Equipment (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 12  months or less from the commencement date and do  not contain a purchase option).
It also applies the lease  of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases  that are considered of low value and is not intended  for sublease.
Lease payments on short-term leases and  leases of low-value assets are recognized as expense  on a straight-line basis over the lease term or another  systematic basis if that basis is more representative of  the pattern of the lessee’s benefit.
3.2 Leases as Lessor (assets given on lease) 3.2.1 When the company acts as lessor, it determines at the  commencement of the lease whether it is a finance  lease or an operating lease.
3.2.2 Rental income from operating lease is recognized  on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant  lease except where another systematic basis is more  representative of the time pattern of the benefit derived  from the asset given on lease.
3.2.3 All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables  at an amount equal to net investment in the lease.
Principal component of the lease receipts is adjusted  against outstanding receivables and interest income is  accounted by applying the interest rate implicit in the  lease to the net investment.
If an arrangement contains  lease and non-lease components, the Company  applies principles enunciated in Ind AS 115 “Revenue  from Contracts with Customers”, to allocate the  consideration in the contract.
3.2.4 When the Company is an intermediate lessor it  accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub- lease separately.
It assesses the lease classification of a  sub-lease with reference to the ROU asset arising from  the head lease, not with reference to the underlying  asset.
If a head lease is a short-term lease to which  the Company applies the short-term lease exemption  described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an  operating lease.
4.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS (also  refer para 14 for impairment of E&P Assets)  The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether  there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any  indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for  an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s  recoverable amount.
An asset’s recoverable amount  is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s  (CGU) fair value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset,  unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are  largely independent of those from other assets or groups  of assets.
Impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount  of an asset exceeds recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows  are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax  discount rate that reflects current market assessments  of the time value of money and the risks specific to the  asset.
In determining fair value less cost of disposal, recent  market transactions are taken into account.
If no such  transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation  model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by  valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly  traded companies or other available fair value indicators.
NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...)   b.
In case of specific agreements e.g.
enabling assets  etc., useful life as per agreement or Schedule II to  the Act, whichever is lower and   c.  In case of immovable assets constructed on  leasehold land, useful life as per Schedule-II to the  Act or lease period of land (including renewable/  likely renewable period), whichever is lower.
Depreciation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/upto the month of capitalization/ sale,  disposal/ or classified to Asset held for disposal.
Residual value is determined considering past  experience and generally the same is between 0 to 5%  of cost of assets except   a.
In case of Steel LPG cylinder and pressure regulator,  residual value is considered maximum at 15% and in  case of fibre composite LPG cylinder, residual value is  considered at 10% based on estimated realisable value   b.  in case of catalyst with noble metal content,  residual value is considered based on the cost of  metal content and   c.  In few cases residual value is considered based on  transfer value agreed in respective agreement.
The Company depreciates components of the main  asset that are significant in value and have different  useful lives as compared to the main asset separately.
The Company depreciates spares over the life of the  spare from the date it is available for use.
2.4.2 PPE, other than LPG Cylinders and Pressure Regulators,  costing upto H 5,000/- per item are depreciated fully in  the year of capitalization.
Further, spares, components  like catalyst excluding noble metal content and major  overhaul/ inspection are also depreciated fully over  their respective useful life.
2.4.3 The residual values, useful lives and methods of  depreciation of PPE are reviewed at each financial year  end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
2.5 Derecognition 2.5.1 PPE and Intangible Assets are derecognized upon  disposal or when no future economic benefits are  expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of  an item of PPE or Intangible Asset is determined as the  difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying  amount of the asset and is recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
3.
LEASES   The Company assesses at contract inception whether a  contract is, or contains, a lease.
That is, if the contract  conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset  for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
3.1 Leases as Lessee (Assets taken on lease)  The Company applies a single recognition and  measurement approach for all leases, except for short- term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The Company  recognizes lease liabilities to make lease payments and  right-of-use assets representing the right to use the  underlying assets.
3.1.1  Lease Liabilities   At the commencement date of the lease, the Company  recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present  value of lease payments to be made over the lease term.
The lease payments include fixed payments (including  in substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives  receivable, variable lease payments that depend on  an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid  under residual value guarantees.
The lease payments  also include the exercise price of a purchase option  reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company  and payments of penalties for terminating a lease, if the  lease term reflects the Company exercising the option  to terminate.
The variable lease payments that do not  depend on an index or a rate are recognized as expense  in the period on which the event or condition that  triggers the payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the  Company uses the incremental borrowing rate at the  lease commencement date if the interest rate implicit  in the lease is not readily determinable.
After the  commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities  is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and  reduced for the lease payments made.
The Company accounts for each lease component  within the contract as a lease separately from non- lease components of the contract and allocates the  consideration in the contract to each lease component  on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the  lease component and the aggregate stand-alone price  of the non-lease components, except for leases where  the company has elected to use practical expedient not  to separate non-lease payments from the calculation  of the lease liability and ROU asset where the entire  consideration is treated as lease component.
NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 210 211 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 lubricants internally produced is determined based on  cost of inputs and processing cost.
7.2.3 Imported products in transit are valued at cost or net  realisable value whichever is lower.
7.3 Stores and Spares 7.3.1  Stores and Spares (including Chemicals, packing  Containers i.e.
empty barrels, tins etc.)
are valued at  weighted average cost.
Specific provision is made  in respect of identified obsolete stores & spares and  chemicals for likely diminution in value.
Further, a  provision @ 5% of cost is also made on the balance  stores and spares (excluding barrels, tins, stores  in transit, chemicals/catalysts, crude oil, and own  products) towards likely diminution in the value.
7.3.2 Stores and Spares in transit are valued at cost.
8.
PROVISIONS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES &  CONTINGENT ASSETS 8.1  Provisions 8.1.1 Provisions are recognized when the Company has a  present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of  a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources  embodying economic benefits will be required to settle  the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of  the amount of the obligation.
8.1.2  When the Company expects some or all of a provision  to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is  recognized as a separate asset but only when it is  virtually certain and amount of the receivable can be  measured reliably.
The expense relating to a provision  is presented in the Statement of Profit and Loss net of  reimbursement, if any.
8.1.3 If the effect of the time value of money is material,  provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate  that reflects current market assessments of the time  value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific  to the liability.
When discounting is used, the increase in  the provision due to the passage of time is recognized  as a finance cost.
8.1.4 Decommissioning Liability   Decommissioning costs are provided at the present  value of expected cost to settle the obligation using  estimated cash flows and are recognized as part of  the cost of the particular asset.
The cash flows are  discounted at a current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks  specific to the decommissioning liability.
The unwinding  of the discount is expensed as incurred and recognized  in the Statement of Profit and Loss as a finance cost.
The  estimated future cost of decommissioning is reviewed  annually and adjusted as appropriate.
Changes in the  estimated future cost or in the discount rate applied are  adjusted in the cost of the asset.
8.2 Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 8.2.1 Show-cause notices issued by various Government  Authorities are generally not considered as obligations.
8.2.2 When the demand notices are raised against such show  cause notices and are disputed by the Company, these  are classified as disputed obligations.
8.2.3 The treatment in respect of disputed obligations are as  under:   a)  a provision is recognized in respect of present  obligations where the outflow of resources is  probable as per 8.1.1 above;   b)  all other cases are disclosed as contingent liabilities  unless the possibility of outflow of resources is  remote.
8.2.4 Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise  from past events and whose existence will only be  confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one  or more future events not wholly within the control of  the Company.
Where it is not probable that an outflow  of economic benefits will be required, or the amount  cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed  as a contingent liability.
Contingent liabilities are  disclosed on the basis of judgment of the management/ independent experts and reviewed at each Balance  Sheet date to reflect the current management estimate.
8.2.5 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be  executed towards capital expenditure are considered  for disclosure.
8.2.6 A contingent asset is disclosed where an inflow of  economic benefits is probable.
9.
REVENUE 9.1 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS 9.1.1   The Company is in the business of oil and gas operations  and it earns revenue primarily from sale of petroleum  products and petrochemical products.
In addition, the  company also earns revenue from other businesses which  comprises Gas, Exploration & Production and Others.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or  services are transferred to the customer at an amount  that reflects the consideration to which the Company  expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...)  The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed  budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared  separately for each of the Company’s CGUs to which  the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and  forecast calculations generally cover a period of 15 years.
For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated  and applied to project future cash flows after the fifteenth  year.
To estimate cash flow projections beyond periods  covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the  Company extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget  using a steady or declining growth rate for subsequent  years, unless an increasing rate can be justified.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made  at each reporting date to determine whether there is an  indication that previously recognized impairment losses  no longer exist or have decreased.
If such indication  exists, the Company estimates the asset’s or CGU’s  recoverable amount.
A previously recognized impairment  loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the  assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable  amount since the last impairment loss was recognized.
The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the  asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed  the carrying amount that would have been determined, net  of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized  for the asset in prior years.
5.
BORROWING COSTS  Borrowing cost consists of interest and other cost  incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Borrowing costs that are attributable to the acquisition  or construction of the qualifying asset are capitalized as  part of the cost of such asset.
A qualifying asset is one  that necessarily takes substantial period of time to get  ready for intended use.
Capitalization of borrowing costs  is suspended when active development activity on the  qualifying assets is interrupted other than on temporary  basis and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss  during such extended periods.
All other borrowing costs  are recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the  period in which the same are incurred.
6.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS 6.1 The Company’s financial statements are presented in  Indian Rupee (H), which is also it’s functional currency.
6.2 Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded at  spot exchange rates prevailing on the date of transactions.
6.3 Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies (such  as cash, receivables, payables etc.)
outstanding at the  end of reporting period, are translated at exchange rates  prevailing on that date.
6.4  Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currency,  (such as PPE, intangible assets, equity investments, capital/  revenue advances other than expected to be settled in  cash etc.)
are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on  the date of the transaction, other than those measured at  fair value.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign  currency are translated using the exchange rates at the  date when the fair value is determined.
The gain or loss  arising on translation of non-monetary items measured  at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the  gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e.,  translation differences on items whose fair value gain or  loss is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  or the Statement of Profit and Loss are also recognized in  OCI or the Statement of Profit and Loss, respectively).
6.5 Any gains or losses arising due to differences in exchange  rates at the time of translation or settlement are accounted  for in the Statement of Profit and Loss either under the head  foreign exchange fluctuation or interest cost to the extent  regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs as the case  may be, except those relating to loans mentioned below.
Exchange differences on long-term foreign currency  loans obtained or re-financed on or before March 31, 2016  relating to acquisition of depreciable assets are adjusted  to the carrying cost of the assets and depreciated over the  balance life of the assets.
7.
INVENTORIES 7.1 Raw Materials & Stock-in-Process 7.1.1  Raw materials including crude oil are valued at cost  determined on weighted average basis or net realisable  value, whichever is lower.
7.1.2  Stock in Process is valued at raw materials cost plus  processing cost as applicable or net realisable value,  whichever is lower.
7.1.3  Crude oil in Transit is valued at cost or net realisable  value, whichever is lower.
7.1.4  Initial cost of inventories includes the transfer of gains  and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges, recognized  in OCI, in respect of the purchases of raw materials.
7.2 Finished Products and Stock-in-Trade 7.2.1   Finished Products and Stock in Trade, other than  lubricants, are valued at cost determined on ‘First in First  Out’ basis or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost  of Finished Products internally produced is determined  based on raw materials cost and processing cost.
7.2.2 Lubricants are valued at cost on weighted average  basis or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost of  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 212 213 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 11.2  Deferred Tax 11.2.1 Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet  method on temporary differences between the tax  bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts  for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable  temporary differences, except when the deferred tax  liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or  an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business  combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects  neither the accounting profit or loss nor taxable profit  or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible  temporary differences, and any unused tax losses.
Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it  is probable that taxable profit will be available in future  against which the deductible temporary differences,  and unused tax losses can be utilized, except when the  deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary  difference arises from the initial recognition of an  asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business  combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects  neither the accounting profit or loss nor taxable profit  or loss.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based  on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or  substantively enacted at the reporting date.
11.2.2 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it  is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will  be available in future to allow all or part of the deferred  tax assets to be utilized.
Unrecognized deferred tax  assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are  recognized to the extent that it has become probable  that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax  assets to be recovered.
11.2.3 Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside profit  or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in  other comprehensive income or in equity).
11.2.4 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset  if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax  assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred  taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same  taxation authority.
12.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 12.1 Short Term Benefits:  Short Term Employee Benefits are accounted for in the  period during which the services have been rendered.
12.2  Post-Employment Benefits and Other Long Term  Employee Benefits:   a)  The Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund  is remitted to separate trusts established for this  purpose based on a fixed percentage of the eligible  employee’s salary and charged to the Statement of  Profit and Loss/CWIP.
Shortfall, if any, in the fund  assets, based on the Government specified minimum  rate of return, is made good by the Company and  charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss/CWIP.
b)  The Company operates defined benefit plans  for Gratuity, Post-Retirement Medical Benefits,  Resettlement, Felicitation Scheme and Ex-gratia.
The  cost of providing such defined benefits is determined  using the projected unit credit method of actuarial  valuation made at the end of the year.
Out of these  plans, Gratuity and Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  are administered through respective Trusts.
c)  Obligations on other long term employee benefits  viz leave encashment and Long Service Awards are  provided using the projected unit credit method of  actuarial valuation made at the end of the year.
Out of  these obligations, leave encashment obligations are  funded through qualifying insurance policies made  with insurance companies.
d)  The Company also operates a defined contribution  scheme for Pension benefits for its employees and  the contribution is remitted to a separate Trust/ Corporate NPS.
12.3 Termination Benefits:  Payments made under Voluntary Retirement Scheme are  charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on incurrence.
12.4 Remeasurements:  Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses,  the effect of the asset ceiling (excluding amounts included in  net interest on the net defined benefit liability) and the return  on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on  the net defined benefit liability), are recognized immediately  in the Balance Sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to  retained earnings through Other Comprehensive Income  (OCI) in the period in which it occurs.
Remeasurements  are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Remeasurements in respect of other long-term benefits are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Past service cost is recognized in profit or loss on the  earlier of:  •  The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and   •  The date that the Company recognizes related  restructuring cost NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) services.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration  specified in a contract with a customer and excludes  amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Company has generally concluded that it is the  principal in its revenue arrangements, except a few  agency services, because it typically controls the goods  or services before transferring them to the customer.
The Company considers whether there are other  promises in the contract that are separate performance  obligations to which a portion of the transaction  price needs to be allocated (e.g., customer loyalty  points).
In determining the transaction price for the  sale of products, the Company considers the effects  of variable consideration, the existence of significant  financing components, non-cash consideration and  consideration payable to the customer (if any).
9.1.2 Revenue from the sale of petroleum products,  petrochemical products, Crude and gas are recognized  at a point in time, generally upon delivery of the products.
The Company recognizes revenue over time using input  method (on the basis of time elapsed) in case of non- refundable deposits from dealers and service contracts.
In case of construction contracts, revenue and cost are  recognized by measuring the contract progress using  input method by comparing the cost incurred and total  contract cost.
Contract modifications are accounted  for as a part of existing contract or separate contract  based on conditions prescribed in Ind AS 115.
9.1.3 The Company has assumed that recovery of excise duty  flows to the Company on its own account.
This is for  the reason that it is a liability of the manufacturer which  forms part of the cost of production, irrespective of  whether the goods are sold or not.
Since the recovery of  excise duty flows to the Company on its own account,  revenue includes excise duty.
However, Sales Tax/ Goods and Services Tax (GST) and  Value Added Tax (VAT) is not received by the company  on its own account.
Rather, it is tax collected on value  added to the product by the seller on behalf of the  government.
Accordingly, it is excluded from revenue.
9.1.4 Variable consideration    If the consideration in a contract includes a variable  amount, the Company estimates the amount of  consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange  for transferring the goods to the customer.
The  variable consideration is estimated at contract  inception and constrained until it is highly probable  that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of  cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the  associated uncertainty with the variable consideration is  subsequently resolved   The Company provides volume rebates to certain  customers once the quantity of products purchased  during the period exceeds a threshold specified in the  contract.
Rebates are offset against amounts payable by  the customer.
The volume rebates/ cash discount give  rise to variable consideration.
To estimate the variable  consideration for the expected future rebates/ cash  discount, the Company applies the most likely amount  method for contracts with a single-volume threshold  and the expected value method for contracts with more  than one volume threshold.
The selected method that  best predicts the amount of variable consideration is  primarily driven by the number of volume thresholds  contained in the contract and accordingly, the  Company recognizes a refund liability for the expected  future rebates.
9.1.5 Loyalty Points   The Company operates various loyalty point schemes.
The transaction price allocated to customer loyalty  points is based on their relative estimated standalone  selling price and the same is reduced from revenue from  sale of goods.
While estimating standalone selling price  of customer loyalty points, the likelihood of exercising  the option is adjusted.
Wherever the Company is  acting as an agent in this arrangement, the Company  recognize the revenue on net basis.
9.2  Other claims are recognized when there is a reasonable  certainty of recovery.
10.
EXCISE DUTY  Excise duty is accounted on the basis of both, payments  made in respect of goods cleared as also provision made  for goods lying in stock.
Value of stock includes excise duty  payable / paid on finished goods, wherever applicable.
11.
TAXES ON INCOME 11.1 Current Income Tax   Provision for current tax is made as per the provisions of  the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at  the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to  the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used  to compute the amount are those that are enacted or  substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
Current income tax relating to items recognized outside  profit or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in  other comprehensive income or in equity).
Management  periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns  with respect to situations in which applicable tax  regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes  provisions where appropriate.
NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 214 215 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  Depletion is calculated using the Unit of Production  method based upon proved and developed reserves.
14.5  Abandonment Phase  In case of development / production phase, abandonment  / decommissioning amount is recognized at the present  value of the estimated future expenditure.
Any change  in the present value of the estimated decommissioning  expenditure other than the unwinding of discount is  adjusted to the decommissioning provision and the  carrying value of the corresponding asset.
The unwinding  of discount on provision is charged in the Statement of  Profit and Loss as finance costs.
14.6  Impairment of E&P Assets  14.6.1 Impairment testing in case of Development and  producing assets   In case of E&P related development and producing  assets, expected future cash flows are estimated using  management’s best estimate of future oil and natural  gas prices, production volumes, proved & probable  reserves volumes and discount rate.
The expected  future cash flows are estimated on the basis of value  in use concept.
The value in use is based on the cash  flows expected to be generated by the projected oil  or gas production profiles up to the expected dates of  cessation of production of each producing field, based  on current estimates of proved and probable reserves  and on reasonable & supportable fiscal assumptions that  represent management’s best estimate of the range of  economic conditions that will exist over the remaining  useful life of the asset.
Management takes a long-term  view of the range of economic conditions over the  remaining useful life of the asset and, are not based  on the relatively short-term changes in the economic  conditions.
However, impairment of exploration and  evaluation assets is to be done in line with para 14.6.2 14.6.2 Impairment in case of Exploration and Evaluation  assets   Exploration and Evaluation assets are tested for  impairment where an indicator for impairment  exists.
In such cases, while calculating recoverable  amount, in addition to the factors mentioned in 14.6.1,  management’s best estimate of total current reserves  and resources are considered (including possible and  contingent reserve) after appropriately adjusting the  associated inherent risks.
Impairment loss is reversed  subsequently, to the extent that conditions for  impairment are no longer present.
14.6.3 Cash generating unit    In case of E&P Assets, the Company generally  considers a project as cash generating unit.
However,  in case where the multiple fields are using common  production/transportation facilities and are sufficiently  economically interdependent the same are considered  to constitute a single cash generating unit (CGU).
15.
CURRENT VERSUS NON-CURRENT  CLASSIFICATION  The Company presents assets and liabilities in the Balance  Sheet based on current/ non-current classification   as below.
15.1  An asset is treated as current when it is:  •  Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or  consumed in normal operating cycle  •  Held primarily for the purpose of trading  •  Expected to be realised within twelve months after  the reporting period, or  •  Cash or Cash Equivalents unless restricted from being  exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least  twelve months after the reporting period  All other assets are classified as non-current.
15.2  A liability is treated as current when:  •  It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle  •  It is held primarily for the purpose of trading  •  It is due to be settled within twelve months after the  reporting period, or  •  There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement  of the liability for at least twelve months after the  reporting period  All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
16.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE  16.1 The Company classifies non-current assets and disposal  groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be  recovered principally through a sale rather than through  continuing use.
Actions required to complete the sale  should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes  to the sale will be made or that the decision to sell will be  withdrawn.
Management must be committed to the sale  expected within one year from the date of classification.
16.2 For these purposes, sale transactions include exchanges  of non-current assets for other non-current assets when  the exchange has commercial substance.
The criteria  for held for sale classification is regarded met only when  the assets or disposal group is available for immediate  sale in its present condition, subject only to terms that  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...)  Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate  to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The Company  recognizes the following changes in the net defined  benefit obligation as an expense in the Statement of Profit  and Loss:  •  Service cost comprising current service cost, past- service cost, gains and losses on curtailments and  non-routine settlements; and  •  Net interest expense or income 13.
GRANTS  13.1 Government grants are recognized where there is  reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and  all attached conditions will be complied with.
13.2 Grant relating to Assets (Capital Grants)  In case of grants relating to depreciable assets, the cost  of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon  is treated as Deferred income which are recognized as  “Other Operating Revenues” usually in the Statement of  Profit and Loss over the period and in the proportion in  which depreciation is charged.
13.3 Grant related to Income (Revenue Grants)  Revenue grants are recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which  the entity recognizes as expenses the related cost for  which the grants are intended to compensate.
Subsidy and budgetary support towards under recoveries  are recognized in “Revenue from Operations” as per  schemes notified by Government from time to time,  subject to final adjustments, wherever applicable.
The Company has treated waiver of duty under EPCG  Scheme as revenue grant as the condition of meeting  the export obligations is a primary condition of availing  the grant as per the EPCG Scheme.
The above grant  is set up by recording the assets at gross value and  corresponding grant amount as deferred income.
Such  grant is recognized in “Other Operating Revenues” in  proportion of export obligations actually fulfilled during  the accounting period.
In case of post export EPCG Duty  Credit Scrip Scheme, revenue grant is recognized in “Other  Operating Revenues” equivalent to the amount of Custom  duty remission in proportion to export obligations actually  fulfilled during the accounting period.
Revenue grants are generally recorded under “Other  Operating Revenues”, except north east excise duty  exemption which is netted off with the related expense.
13.4  When loans or similar assistance are provided by  governments or related institutions, with an interest rate  below the current applicable market rate or NIL interest  rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as  a government grant.
The loan or assistance is initially  recognized and measured at fair value and the government  grant is measured as the difference between the initial  carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received.
The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting  policy applicable to financial liabilities.
Classification of  the grant is made considering the terms and condition of  the grant i.e.
whether grants relates to assets or otherwise.
14.
OIL & GAS EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 14.1 Pre-acquisition Cost:   Expenditure incurred before obtaining the right(s) to  explore, develop and produce oil and gas are expensed as  and when incurred.
14.2 Exploration Stage:   Acquisition cost relating to projects under exploration  are initially accounted as “Intangible Assets under  Development”.
The expenses on oil and gas assets that is  classified as intangible include:  -  acquired rights to explore  -  exploratory drilling cost   Cost of Survey and prospecting activities conducted in the  search of oil and gas are expensed as exploration cost in  the year in which these are incurred   If the project is not viable based upon technical feasibility  and commercial viability study, then all cost relating  to Exploratory Wells are expensed in the year when  determined to be dry.
If the project is proved to be viable, then all cost relating  to drilling of Exploratory Wells shall be continued to be  presented as “Intangible Assets under Development”.
14.3 Development Stage:   Acquisition cost relating to projects under development  stage are presented as “Capital Work-in-Progress”.
When a well is ready to commence commercial  production, the capitalized cost corresponding to proved  developed oil and gas reserves is reclassified as ‘Completed  wells/ Producing wells’ from “Capital Work-in-Progress/  Intangible Assets under Development” to the gross block  of assets.
Examples of Oil and Gas assets that might be  classified as Tangible Assets include development drilling  cost, piping and pumps and producing wells.
14.4 Production Phase  Production cost include pre-well head and post-well head  expenses including depreciation and applicable operating  cost of support equipment and facilities are expensed off.
NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 216 217 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 17.1.3 Equity Instrument    A.
Equity Investments at FVTOCI (Other than  Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates)     All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are  measured at fair value.
The Company has made an  irrevocable election to present subsequent changes  in the fair value in Other Comprehensive Income.
The classification is made on initial recognition/ transition and is irrevocable.
There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to  the Statement of Profit and Loss, even on sale of  investments.
B.
Equity Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures  and Associates     Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Associates are accounted for at cost in the financial  statements and the same are tested for impairment  in case of any indication of impairment.
C.  Dividend income is recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss when the Company’s right to  receive dividend is established.
17.1.4 Debt Instruments and Derivatives at FVTPL   FVTPL is a residual category for Debt Instruments.
Any  debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for  categorization as at amortised cost or as FVTOCI, is  classified as at FVTPL.
This category also includes derivative financial  instruments entered into by the Company that are  not designated as hedging instruments in hedge  relationships as defined by Ind AS 109.
Debt Instruments included within the FVTPL category are  measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest income on such  instruments has been presented under interest income.
17.1.5 Derecognition   A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a  financial asset or part of a group of similar financial  assets) is primarily derecognized (i.e.
removed from the  Balance Sheet) when:   •  The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have  expired, or   •  The Company has transferred its rights to receive  cash flows from the asset or has assumed an  obligation to pay the received cash flows in full  without material delay to a third party under a  ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the  Company has transferred substantially all the risks  and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has  neither transferred nor retained substantially all the  risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred  control of the asset.
When the Company has transferred its rights to receive  cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass- through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent  it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership.
When  it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of  the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control  of the asset, the Company continues to recognize  the transferred asset to the extent of the Company’s  continuing involvement.
In that case, the Company also  recognizes an associated liability.
The transferred asset  and the associated liability are measured on a basis that  reflects the rights and obligations that the Company   has retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a  guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at  the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset  and the maximum amount of consideration that the  Company could be required to repay.
17.1.6 Impairment of Financial Assets   In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies  Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for measurement  and recognition of impairment loss on the following  financial assets and credit risk exposure:   a)  Financial Assets that are Debt Instruments, and  are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt  securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank  balance   b)  Financial guarantee contracts which are not  subsequently measured as at FVTPL   c)  Lease Receivables under Ind AS 116   Simplified Approach   The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for  recognition of impairment loss allowance on Trade  Receivables.
The application of simplified approach does not require  the Company to track changes in credit risk.
Rather,  it recognizes impairment loss allowance based on  lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial  recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision  matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on  portfolio of its trade receivables.
The provision matrix  is based on its historically observed default rates over  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) are usual and customary for sales (or disposal groups),  its sale is highly probable; and it will genuinely be sold,  not abandoned.
The Company treats sale of the asset or  disposal group to be highly probable when:  •  The appropriate level of management is committed  to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group),  •  An active programme to locate a buyer and complete  the plan has been initiated (if applicable),  •  The asset (or disposal group) is being actively  marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in  relation to its current fair value,  •  The sale is expected to qualify for recognition as  a completed sale within one year from the date of  classification, and  •  Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it  is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be  made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
16.3 Non-Current Assets held for sale and disposal groups are  measured at the lower of their carrying amount and the fair  value less cost to sell.
Assets and liabilities classified as held  for sale are presented separately in the Balance Sheet.
PPE and Intangible Assets once classified as held for sale  are not depreciated or amortised.
17.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a  financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity  instrument of another entity.
Financial assets and financial  liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes a  party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
17.1  Financial Assets  Initial recognition and measurement  All Financial Assets are recognized initially at fair value  plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair  value through profit or loss, transaction cost that are  attributable to the acquisition of the Financial Asset.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of  financial assets measured at fair value through profit or  loss are recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit  and Loss.
Subsequent measurement  For the purpose of subsequent measurement, Financial  Assets are classified in four categories:  •  Financial Assets at amortised cost  •  Debt Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)  •  Equity Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)  •  Financial Assets and derivatives at fair value through  profit or loss (FVTPL) 17.1.1 Financial Assets at Amortised Cost   A Financial Asset is measured at the amortised cost if  both the following conditions are met:   a)  The asset is held within a business model whose  objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual  cash flows,and   b)  Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments of  principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount  outstanding.
After initial measurement, such Financial Assets are  subsequently measured at amortised cost using the  effective interest rate (EIR) method.
Amortised cost  is calculated by taking into account any discount  or premium on acquisition and fees or cost that are  an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is  included in finance income in the profit or loss.
The  losses arising from impairment are recognized in the  profit or loss.
Apart from the same, any income or  expense arising from remeasurement of financial assets  measured at amortised cost, in accordance with Ind  AS 109, is recognized in the Statement of Profit and  Loss.
This category generally applies to trade and other  receivables.
17.1.2 Debt Instrument at FVTOCI   A ‘Debt Instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both  of the following criteria are met:   a)  The objective of the business model is achieved  both by collecting contractual cash flows and  selling the financial assets, and   b)  The asset’s contractual cash flows represent solely  payments of principal and interest (SPPI).
Debt Instruments included within the FVTOCI category  are measured initially as well as at each reporting date  at fair value.
Fair Value movements are recognized in  the Other Comprehensive Income (OCI).
However,  the Company recognizes interest income, impairment  losses & reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
On derecognition of  the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognized  in OCI is reclassified from the Equity to the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI  Debt Instrument is reported as interest income using  the EIR method.
NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 218 219 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 payment when due in accordance with the terms of  a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are  recognized initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted  for transaction cost that are directly attributable to  the issuance of the guarantee.
Subsequently, the  liability is measured at the higher of the amount  of loss allowance determined as per impairment  requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount initially  recognized less cumulative income recognized in  accordance with principles of Ind AS 115.
17.2.3 Derecognition   A Financial Liability is derecognized when the obligation  under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another  from the same lender on substantially different terms,  or the terms of an existing liability are substantially  modified, such an exchange or modification is treated  as the derecognition of the original liability and the  recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the  respective carrying amounts is recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
17.3 Embedded Derivatives  If the hybrid contract contains a host that is a Financial  Asset within the scope of Ind AS 109, the Company does  not separate embedded derivatives.
Rather, it applies the  classification requirements contained in Ind AS 109 to the  entire hybrid contract.
Derivatives embedded in all other  host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives  and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics  and risks are not closely related to those of the host  contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading  or designated at fair value though profit or loss.
These  embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss, unless  designated as effective hedging instruments.
Reassessment  only occurs if there is either a change in the terms of the  contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that  would otherwise be required or a reclassification of a  financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss.
17.4 Offsetting of Financial Instruments  Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities are offset and the  net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet if there is a  currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized  amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis,  to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
17.5 Derivative Instrument- Initial recognition / subsequent  measurement  The Company uses derivative financial instruments,  such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps  and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign  currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity price  risks, respectively.
Such derivative financial instruments  are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which  a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently  re-measured at fair value.
The accounting for subsequent  changes in fair value of derivatives depends on the  designation or non- designation of derivative as hedging  instruments.
Derivatives are carried as financial assets  when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities  when the fair value is negative.
17.5.1 Derivative that are designated as Hedge Instrument   The Company undertakes foreign exchange forward  contracts, commodity forward contracts and interest  rates swap contracts for hedging foreign currency  risks, commodity price risks and interest rate risks  respectively.
The Company generally designates the  whole forward contract as hedging instrument.
These  hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
These  hedging instruments are as per the policies approved by  the Board of Directors.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Company  formally designates and documents the hedge  relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge  accounting and the risk management objective and  strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation  includes the Company’s risk management objective and  strategy for undertaking hedge, the hedging/ economic  relationship, the hedged item or transaction, the nature  of the risk being hedged, hedge ratio and how the entity  will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging  instrument’s fair value in offsetting the exposure to  changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows  attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in  achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows  and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine  that the hedge is actually have been highly effective  throughout the financial reporting periods for which it  was designated.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of  derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow  hedges is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income  and accumulated under the heading Cash Flow Hedge  Reserve within Equity.
The gain or loss relating to the  ineffective potion is recognized immediately in the  Statement of Profit and Loss and included in the Other  Income or Other Expenses as Gain on Derivatives or  Loss on Derivatives respectively.
Amounts previously recognized in OCI and  accumulated in equity relating to effective portion  are reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss in the  periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss,  in the same line item as the recognized hedged item  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted  for forward-looking estimates.
At every reporting date,  the historical observed default rates are updated and  changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
On that basis, the Company estimates provision on  trade receivables at the reporting date.
General Approach   For recognition of impairment loss on other financial  assets and risk exposure, the Company determines  that whether there has been a significant increase  in the credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit risk  has not increased significantly, 12-months ECL is used  to provide for impairment loss.
However, if credit risk  has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used.
If, in  a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument  improves such that there is no longer a significant  increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the  entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss allowance  based on 12-months ECL.
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting  from all possible default events over the expected  life of a financial instrument.
The 12-months ECL is a  portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default  events that are possible within 12 months after the   reporting date.
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized  during the period is recognized as expense /income/  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Balance  Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is  described below:   •  Financial Assets measured as at amortised cost: ECL  is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part  of the measurement of those assets in the Balance  Sheet.
The allowance reduces the net carrying  amount.
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the  Company does not reduce impairment allowance  from the gross carrying amount.
•  Financial Guarantee contracts: ECL is presented as  a provision in the Balance Sheet, i.e.
as a liability.
•  Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: Since  financial assets are already reflected at fair value,  impairment allowance is not further reduced  from its value.
Rather, ECL amount is presented as  ‘accumulated impairment amount’ in the OCI.
17.2 Financial Liabilities 17.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement.
Financial Liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as  financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and  financial liabilities at amortised cost, as appropriate.
All Financial Liabilities are recognized initially at fair  value and, in the case of liabilities subsequently  measured at amortised cost, they are measured net of  directly attributable transaction cost.
In case of Financial  Liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss,  transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition  of financial liabilities are recognized immediately in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company’s Financial Liabilities include trade and  other payables, loans and borrowings including financial  guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments.
17.2.2  Subsequent measurement   The measurement of financial liabilities depends on  their classification, as described below:   A.
Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss     Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or  loss include financial liabilities held for trading  and financial liabilities designated upon initial  recognition as at fair value through the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
Financial Liabilities are classified as  held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose  of repurchasing in the near term.
This category also  includes derivative financial instruments entered  into by the Company that are not designated as  hedging instruments in hedge relationships as  defined by Ind AS 109.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B.
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost     Financial Liabilities that are not held-for-trading  and are not designated as at FVTPL are measured at  amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting  periods.
The carrying amounts of financial liabilities  that are subsequently measured at amortised cost  are determined based on the effective interest  method.
Gains and losses are recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss when the liabilities  are derecognized as well as through the EIR  amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  any discount or premium on acquisition and fees  or cost that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR  amortisation is included as finance costs in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
C.  Financial Guarantee Contracts     Financial guarantee contracts issued by the  Company are those contracts that require a payment  to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it  incurs because the specified debtor fails to make the  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 220 221 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the  fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each   reporting period.
In case of Level 3 valuations, external valuers are also  involved in some cases for valuation of assets and liabilities,  such as unquoted financial assets, loans to related   parties etc.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has  determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of  the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability  and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
21.
EARNINGS PER SHARE  The basic Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing  the net profit / (loss) after tax for the year attributable to  the equity shareholders by the weighted average number  of equity shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for  bonus elements in equity shares issued during the year  and excluding treasury shares.
The Company did not have  any potentially dilutive securities in the years presented.
III.
New Standards/ amendments and other changes  effective April 1,2021 or thereafter  Ministry of Corporate Affairs notified amendments to the  existing standards vide notification G.S.R.
419(E) dated  18th July 2021.
The effect of those amendments is not  material.
IV.
Standards issued but not yet effective  Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new standard or  amendments to the existing standards.
During the year,  vide Notification G.S.R.
255(E) dated 23th March 2022,  minor modifications in existing standards has been  notified which will be applicable from April 1, 2022.
NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) or treated as basis adjustment if a hedged forecast  transaction subsequently results in the recognition of  a non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a  forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur,  the cumulative gain or loss accumulated in equity is  transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no longer  qualifies for hedge accounting.
17.5.2  Derivatives that are not designated as hedge  instrument   The Company enters into certain derivative contracts to  hedge risks which are not designated as hedges.
Such  contracts are accounted for at fair value through the  Statement of Profit and Loss and are included in the  Other Income or Other Expenses as Gain on Derivatives  or Loss on Derivatives respectively.
17.6 Commodity Contracts  Commodity contracts that are entered into and continue  to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of  a non-financial item in accordance with the Company’s  expected purchase, sale or usage requirements are held  at cost.
18.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  Cash and Cash Equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise  cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an  original maturity of three months or less, which are subject  to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdraft  (negative balance in Account) is shown under short term  borrowings under Financial Liabilities & Positive balance in  that account is shown in Cash & Cash Equivalents.
19.
TREASURY SHARES  Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation, IOC Shares  Trust has been set up by IOCL for holding treasury shares  in relation to IBP and BRPL mergers.
The shares held by  IOC Shares Trust are treated as treasury shares.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury  shares) are recognized at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of  the Company’s own equity instruments.
20.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT 20.1 The Company measures financial instruments, such as,  derivatives at fair value at each Balance Sheet date.
Fair  value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or  paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between  market participants at the measurement date.
20.2 The fair value measurement is based on the presumption  that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability  takes place either in the principal market for the asset or  liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most  advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal  or the most advantageous market must be accessible by  the Company.
20.3 The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using  the assumptions that market participants would use  when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market  participants act in their economic best interest.
20.4  A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes  into account a market participant’s ability to generate  economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and  best use or by selling it to another market participant that  would use the asset in its highest and best use.
20.5 The Company uses valuation techniques that are  appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient  data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the  use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use  of unobservable inputs.
20.6  All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured  or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised  within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based  on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value  measurement as a whole:  Level 1-  Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active  markets for identical assets or liabilities  Level 2-  Valuation techniques for which the lowest level  input that is significant to the fair value measurement is  directly or indirectly observable  Level 3-  Valuation techniques for which the lowest level  input that is significant to the fair value measurement is  unobservable  For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the  financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company  determines whether transfers have occurred between  levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation  NOTE - 1A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 222 223 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 1B: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS (Contd...) considerations of inputs such as price estimates, volume  estimates, rate estimates etc.
Changes in assumptions  about these factors could affect the reported fair value  of financial instruments.
Also refer note 39 for further  disclosures of estimates and assumptions.
Impairment of Financial Assets  The impairment provisions for trade receivables are made  considering simplified approach based on assumptions  about risk of default and expected loss rates.
The  Company uses judgement in making these assumptions  and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation  based on the company’s past history and other factors at  the end of each reporting period.
In case of other financial  assets, the Company applies general approach for  recognition of impairment losses wherein the Company  uses judgement in considering the probability of default  upon initial recognition and whether there has been a  significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis  throughout each reporting period.
Also refer Note-40 for  impairment analysis and provision.
Income Taxes  The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the  relevant facts, circumstances, present and past experience,  rulings, and new pronouncements while determining the  provision for income tax.
A deferred tax asset is recognised  to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the deductible temporary  differences and tax losses can be utilised.
NOTE - 1B: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires  management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets  and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the  disclosure of contingent liabilities.
These include recognition  and measurement of financial instruments, estimates of useful  lives and residual value of Property, Plant and Equipment and  Intangible Assets, valuation of inventories, measurement of  recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, measurement  of employee benefits, actuarial assumptions, provisions etc.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could  result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to  the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future  periods.
The Company continually evaluates these estimates  and assumptions based on the most recently available  information.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized  prospectively in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period  in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods  affected.
A. JUDGEMENTS  In the process of applying the company’s accounting  policies, management has made the following  judgements, which have the significant effect on the  amounts recognised in the financial statements:   Materiality   Ind AS requires assessment of materiality by the Company  for accounting and disclosure of various transactions  in the financial statements.
Accordingly, the Company  assesses materiality limits for various items for accounting  and disclosures and follows on a consistent basis.
Overall  materiality is also assessed based on various financial  parameters such as Gross Block of assets, Net Block of  Assets, Total Assets, Revenue and Profit Before Tax.
The  materiality limits are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Intangible Asset under Development   Acquisition costs and drilling of exploratory well costs  are capitalized as intangible asset under development  and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm that  exploration drilling is still under way or work has been  determined / under way to determine that the discovery  is economically viable based on a range of technical  & commercial considerations and for establishing  development plans and timing, sufficient / reasonable  progress is being made.
If no future activity is planned on  reasonable grounds / timeframes, Intangible asset under  development and property acquisition costs is written  off.
Upon start of production from field and recognition  of proved reserves, cost carried as intangible asset under  development is transferred to producing properties.
Also  refer Note-34 for related disclosures.
Contingencies  Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course  of business in relation to claims against the Company,  including legal, contractor, land access and other claims.
By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when  one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum,  of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of  significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding  the outcome of future events.
B.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS  The key assumptions concerning the future and other  key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have  a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the  carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next  financial year, are described below.
Existing circumstances and assumptions about future  developments, however, may change due to market  changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the  control of the company.
Such changes are reflected in the  assumptions when they occur.
Defined benefit plans/ Other Long term employee benefits  The cost of the defined benefit plans and other long term  employee benefit plans are determined using actuarial  valuations.
An actuarial valuation involves making various  assumptions that may differ from actual developments  in the future.
These include the determination of the  discount rate, future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its  long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly  sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
All assumptions  are reviewed at each reporting date.
The parameter most subject to change is the discount  rate.
The management considers the interest rates of  government securities based on expected settlement  period of various plans.
Further details about various employee benefit obligations  are given in Note 35.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments  When the fair values of financial assets and financial  liabilities recorded in the Balance Sheet cannot be  measured based on quoted prices in active markets,  their fair value is measured using valuation techniques  including the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model based  on level-2 and level-3 inputs.
The inputs to these models  are taken from observable markets where possible,  but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is  required in establishing fair values.
Judgements include  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 224 225 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2 “PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT” (Contd...) A. i)  Freehold Land includes J 1.61 crore (2021: H 1.61 crore) lying vacant due to title disputes/ litigation.
ii)  Out of the Freehold land measuring 1364.01 acres at Mathura and Agra regions, land measuring 50 acres (approx) has  been acquired by NHAI as a part of the NH2 widening project for which the determination of value of compensation is  pending.
Accordingly, the value of land amounting to H 1.18 crore is continued to be included in Freehold land.
iii)  Freehold Land includes J 41.75 crore of compensation paid in respect of land at Panipat Refinery as per District and  High court orders of earlier dates, which was later quashed by subsequent High Court order dated 18.12.2019.
Since,  the process of recovery, for compensation already paid, has been stayed by Honble Supreme Court vide order dated  21.09.2020, necessary adjustment shall be made in the cost of the land upon actual recovery, if any.
B.  i)  Buildings include J 0.01 crore (2021: H 0.01 crore) towards value of 1605 (2021: 1605) Shares in Co-operative Housing  Societies towards membership of such societies for purchase of flats.
ii)  Includes Roads, Bridges etc.
(i.e.
Assets other than Building) of Gross block amounting to J 5122.57 crore (2021:   H 4219.39 crore) and net block amounting to J 2834.91 crore (2021: H 2390.91 crore).
C. Depreciation and amortisation for the year includes J 19.09 crore (2021: H 25.86 crore) relating to construction period  expenses shown in Note-2.2 D.  Railways have claimed transfer of ownership in respect of certain assets provided by the Company at railway premises which  has not been accepted by the Company and continue to be part of Property, Plant & Equipment of the Company, WDV of  such asset is J 47.97 crore (2021: H 49.28 crore).
This includes WDV of assets worth J 17.59 crore (2021: H 17.91 crore) which  are being used by other oil companies based on award of tender by Railways.
However, considering the right on the assets  company, these assets are continued to be reflected as Property, Plant & Equipment.
E. Land and Buildings (Including ROU Asset) include J 733.5 crore (2021: H 1282.78 crore) in respect of which Title/ Lease Deeds  are pending for execution or renewal.
F. For details regarding hypothecation/ pledge of assets, refer Note-16.
For details regarding ROU Assets, refer Note-36.
G. In accordance with the requirements prescribed under Schedule II to Companies Act, 2013, the Company has adopted useful  lives as prescribed in that schedule except in some cases as per point no.
2.4.1 of significant accounting policies (Note-1).
H.  During the year, Company has provided an impairment loss in the statement of Profit and Loss under the Head ‘Depreciation,  Amortisation and Impairment on Tangible Assets’ on windmills in Rajasthan of J 82.55 crore (2021: NIL) considering  uncertainty over availment of eligible Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) and retaining tariff of H 3.14/Kwh as per RRECL order   dated 05.03.2019.
I.
Hitherto, the depreciation was being charged pro-rata on quarterly basis on assets from/ upto the quarter of capitalisation/  disposal.
As an improvement in present practice, the company has adopted a shorter time period of monthly grouping for  pro-rata depreciation effective from April 01, 2021.
The impact on account of above change is reduction in depreciation by   J 146.78 crore in FY 2021-22.
However, the overall impact over the useful life of asset will be nil.
Details of assets given on operating lease included in the above: (J in crore) Asset Particulars Gross Block Accumulated Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at 31/03/22 W.D.V.
as at 31/03/21 Land - Freehold  13.93  -  -  13.93  10.91  ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold)  78.80  7.61  -  71.19  64.42  Buildings  159.29  24.18  -  135.11  143.67  Plant and Equipment  283.95  30.26  -  253.69  267.94  Office Equipment  12.80  4.79  -  8.01  8.86  Furniture  1.46  0.37  -  1.09  1.12  Drainage,Sewage & Water  Supply  -  -  -  -  1.55  NOTE - 2 “PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT”  Land -  Freehold   Buildings,  Roads  etc.
Plant and  Equipment  Office  Equipments Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures   Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right  of Use  Assets  (ROU) Total (Refer  A&E) (Refer  B&E) (Refer E) GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at   April 01, 2021  3,658.56  16,854.21  1,46,196.24  2,139.52  91.83  783.56  199.02  1,263.81  201.19  11,768.91  1,83,156.85  Additions during the year  61.56  214.78  3,535.89  193.02  5.75  30.35  1.24  11.84  -  2,387.82  6,442.25  Transfers from construction  work-in-progress  7.10  2,258.00  5,753.08  178.40  3.29  84.88  7.40  0.14  1.15  -  8,293.44  Disposals/ Deductions/  Transfers/ Reclassifications  (7.63)  183.56  (271.78)  (92.35)  (1.15)  (14.12)  (4.43)  (0.26)  -  (1,368.84)  (1,577.00) Gross Block as at   March 31, 2022  3,719.59  19,510.55  1,55,213.43  2,418.59  99.72  884.67  203.23  1,275.53  202.34  12,787.89  1,96,315.54  DEPRECIATION &  AMORTISATION Depreciation & Amortisation  as at April 01, 2021  -  3,809.43  34,042.86  1,185.84  38.43  381.25  63.60  255.35  44.05  2,419.90  42,240.71  Depreciation & Amortisation  during the year (Refer C)  -  981.41  7,619.66  351.67  6.99  75.93  13.62  49.78  17.00  1,652.02  10,768.08  Disposals/ Deductions/  Transfers/ Reclassifications  -  (28.48)  (356.67)  (81.76)  (0.42)  (10.68)  (2.17)  -  -  (609.15)  (1,089.33) Depreciation & Amortisation  as at March 31, 2022  -  4,762.36  41,305.85  1,455.75  45.00  446.50  75.05  305.13  61.05  3,462.77  51,919.46  IMPAIRMENT (Refer H) Impairment Loss as at   April 01, 2021  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Impairment Loss during   the year  -  -  82.55  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  82.55  Impairment Loss as at   March 31, 2022  -  -  82.55  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  82.55  Net Block as at   March 31, 2022  3,719.59  14,748.19  1,13,825.03  962.84  54.72  438.17  128.18  970.40  141.29  9,325.12  1,44,313.53  (J in crore)  Land -  Freehold   Buildings,  Roads  etc.
Plant And  Equipment  Office  Equipments Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures   Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right  of Use  Assets  (ROU) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at   April 01, 2020  3,517.66  15,019.28  1,31,496.40  1,829.71  78.86  703.53  183.65  1,276.57  199.98  10,700.15 1,65,005.79  Additions during the year  206.82  135.60  3,085.62  241.07  10.34  30.61  14.60  -  -  1,547.33  5,271.99  Transfers from construction  work-in-progress  4.37  1,838.71  12,485.31  171.41  2.67  62.51  1.33  -  1.21  -  14,567.52  Disposals/ Deductions/  Transfers/ Reclassifications  (70.29)  (139.38)  (871.09)  (102.67)  (0.04)  (13.09)  (0.56)  (12.76)  -  (478.57)  (1,688.45) Gross Block as at March  31, 2021  3,658.56  16,854.21  1,46,196.24  2,139.52  91.83  783.56  199.02  1,263.81  201.19  11,768.91  1,83,156.85  DEPRECIATION &  AMORTISATION Depreciation & Amortisation  as at April 01, 2020  -  3,028.10  27,069.56  938.88  30.81  314.46  48.91  205.90  26.68  1,589.73  33,253.03  Depreciation & Amortisation  during the year (Refer C)  -  795.73  7,154.85  327.54  7.71  73.87  14.71  49.45  17.37  1,200.38  9,641.61  Disposals/ Deductions/  Transfers/ Reclassifications  -  (14.40)  (181.55)  (80.58)  (0.09)  (7.08)  (0.02)  -  -  (370.21)  (653.93) Depreciation & Amortisation  as at March 31, 2021  -  3,809.43  34,042.86  1,185.84  38.43  381.25  63.60  255.35  44.05  2,419.90  42,240.71  Net Block as at   March 31, 2021  3,658.56   13,044.78  1,12,153.38  953.68  53.40  402.31  135.42  1,008.46  157.14  9,349.01  1,40,916.14  Current Year Previous Year (J in crore) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 226 227 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (J in crore) Particulars Construction  Work in  Progress  - Tangible  Assets Capital Stores Capital Goods  in Transit Construction  Period  Expenses  pending  allocation Total Refer A Refer B Balance as at beginning of the year  24,652.63  4,371.71  717.56  2,062.70  31,804.60  Additions during the year  15,999.01  3,269.33  572.59  -  19,840.93  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -  -  -  1,514.00  1,514.00  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment  (Note 2)  (8,293.44)  -  -  -  (8,293.44) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment -  Direct Addition (Note 2)  -  -  (10.41)  -  (10.41) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (5.57)  -  -  -  (5.57) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  1,309.89  (2,198.07)  (734.13)  (283.00)  (1,905.31)  33,662.52  5,442.97  545.61  3,293.70  42,944.80  Provision for Capital Losses  (163.81)  (16.39)  -  -  (180.20) Closing Balance  33,498.71  5,426.58  545.61  3,293.70  42,764.60  (J in crore) Particulars Construction  Work in  Progress  - Tangible  Assets Capital Stores Capital Goods  in Transit Construction  Period  Expenses  pending  allocation Total Refer A Refer B Balance as at beginning of the year  20,616.59  5,617.36  611.95  1,324.84  28,170.74  Additions during the year  16,389.51  2,905.46  825.66  -  20,120.63  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -  -  -  1,345.89  1,345.89  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment  (Note 2)  (14,567.52)  -  -  -  (14,567.52) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment -  Direct Addition (Note 2)  -  -  (26.73)  -  (26.73) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (1.56)  (0.26)  -  -  (1.82) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  2,215.61  (4,150.85)  (693.32)  (608.03)  (3,236.59)  24,652.63  4,371.71  717.56  2,062.70  31,804.60  Provision for Capital Losses  (183.42)  (20.57)  -  -  (203.99) Closing Balance  24,469.21  4,351.14  717.56  2,062.70  31,600.61  Current Year Previous Year A.
Includes J 329.65 crore (2021: H 271.88 crore) towards Capital Expenditure relating to ongoing Oil & Gas Exploration &  Production activities       B.
Includes J 392.84 crore (2021: H 689 crore) towards Stock lying with Contractors Details of Company’s share of Jointly Owned Assets included in the above: Carrying Value of temporarily idle assets/ assets retired from active use and not classified as held for sale/  immovable assets constructed on short-term leases included in the above: (J in crore) Asset Particulars Exchange Fluctuation  Borrowing Cost  31/03/22 31/03/21 31/03/22 31/03/21 Buildings  5.07  (5.30)  23.65  3.11  Plant and Equipment  247.11  (252.84)  67.60  187.90  Office Equipments  0.06  (0.04)  0.04  -  Furniture & Fixtures  -  -  0.05  -  Drainage, Sewage & Water Supply  11.84  (12.64)  0.33  -  Total  264.08  (270.82)  91.67  191.01  (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint  Owner* Gross Block Accumulated Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at 31/03/22 W.D.V.
as at 31/03/21 Land - Freehold HPCL, BPCL  1.59  -  -  1.59  1.59  ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold) BPCL  0.05  -  -  0.05  0.06  Buildings HPCL, BPCL,  Others  51.45  16.55  -  34.90  36.53  Plant and Equipment HPCL, BPCL,  RIL, Others  64.88  22.82  -  42.06  45.10  Office Equipments BPCL  0.51  0.30  -  0.21  0.31  Railway Sidings HPCL, BPCL  17.76  7.16  -  10.60  9.51  Drainage,Sewage & Water Supply HPCL, BPCL,  GSFC  0.45  0.09  -  0.36  0.37  Total 136.69  46.92  -  89.77  93.47  * HPCL:  Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL:  Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., GSFC:  Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Ltd., RIL:  Reliance  Industries Limited NOTE - 2 “PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT” (Contd...) (J in crore) Asset Particulars Temporarily Idle  Retired from Active Use  and not classified as Held  for Sale  Immovable Assets  constructed on short- term leases * 31/03/22 31/03/21 31/03/22 31/03/21 31/03/22 31/03/21 Land - Freehold  0.47  -  0.46  0.01  -  -  Buildings  11.08  4.22  3.35  0.05  342.07  298.62  Plant and Equipment  213.42  213.48  75.28  30.65  0.27  0.27  Office Equipments  0.89  0.03  0.01  0.01  -  -  Furniture & Fixtures  0.28  0.29  0.01  -  -  -  Railway Sidings  -  -  0.76  -  -  -  Total  226.14  218.02  79.87  30.72  342.34  298.89  * Includes leases for which agreement are yet to be entered or due for renewal.
Additions to Gross Block Includes: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 228 229 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars  To be completed in  Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years  - Railhead depot at Silchar (Assam)  123.08  -  -  -   - TOP at Manmad Terminal  149.48  -  -  -   - TOP at Solapur Depot  231.92  -  -  -   - TOP at Ahmednagar Depot  167.44  -  -  -   - Augmentation of Ratlam Terminal Project  252.79  -  -  -   - POL Terminal at Atchutapuram  233.14  -  -  -   - Guntakal Railfed Depot  180.20  -  -  -   - TOP on PHPL at Vijayawada  152.86  -  -  -   - Cochin LPG Import facility  488.02  -  -  -   - Pipeline TOP at Asaur  216.81  -  -  -   - BK-CBM-2001/1  220.73  -  -  -   - NK-CBM-2001/1  -  109.31  -  -   - Others Projects *  1,885.05  9.84  0.02  -   Total  28,437.80  119.15  0.02  -  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - 80 TPH PETCOKE FIRED BOILER Project at Guwahati  Refinery  120.38   - Others Projects *  16.07  0.30  0.47  39.92   Total  16.07  0.30  0.47  160.30  (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years i) Projects in Progress  - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  -  274.74  -  -   - Ethanol production from PSA Off gas at Panipat  Refinery  -  291.74  -  -   - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  -  602.47  -  -   - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  284.23  1,702.88  -  -   - Additional Crude Tanks Project at Paradip Refinery  -  156.82  -  -   - MEG Project at Paradip Refinery  -  2,739.16  -  -   - Infrastructure at Dumad for (Koyali Ahmednagar  Solapur Pipeline) KASPL  -  189.66  -  -   - Paradip - Hyderabad Pipeline  2,693.63  -  -  -   - Augmentation of PHDPL and its extension upto  Patna and Muzaffarpur  1,205.24  -  -  -   - Koyali - Ahmednagar-Sholapur Pipeline  1,286.75  -  -  -   - Ennore-Thiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry- Nagapattinam-Madurai-Tuticorin Gas Pipeline  3,004.12  -  -  -   - Augmentation of Chennai Trichy Madurai Pipeline  112.97  -  -  -   - LPG Import Facility At Paradip  554.19  -  -  -   - Motihari LPG Bottling Plant  127.87  -  -  -   - POL Terminal at Motihari  226.67  -  -  -   - Railhead depot at Silchar (Assam)  210.15  -  -  -  Previous Year Ageing of Capital Work in Progress Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its   Original Plan Current Year NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars Amount of CWIP for a period of TotalLess than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  19,057.89  14,269.00  6,559.10  2,881.43  42,767.42  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  1.78  16.97  7.48  151.15  177.38  Total  19,059.67  14,285.97  6,566.58  3,032.58  42,944.80  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  18,642.32  8,078.62  2,855.81  2,041.01  31,617.76  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  23.06  7.86  72.95  82.97  186.84  Total  18,665.38  8,086.48  2,928.76  2,123.98  31,804.60  (J in crore) Particulars  To be completed in  Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years i) Projects in Progress  - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  3,404.73  -  -  -   - Indjet Unit at Barauni Refinery  128.32  -  -  -   - Infrastructure development to facilitate import of  Grid power  420.22  -  -  -   - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  548.44  -  -  -   - Ethanol production from PSA Off gas at Panipat  Refinery  539.29  -  -  -   - Catalyst Manufacturing Unit at Panipat Refinery  162.87  -  -  -   - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  878.11  -  -  -   - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  383.95  -  -  -   - Infrastructure at Dumad for (Koyali Ahmednagar  Solapur Pipeline) KASPL  292.54  -  -  -   - Additional Tankages Project at Paradip Refinery  201.34  -  -  -   - MEG Project at Paradip Refinery  3,666.69  -  -  -   - CBR-Trichy Product Pipeline  108.26  -  -  -   - Paradip - Hyderabad Pipeline  2,783.26  -  -  -   - Augmentation of PHDPL and its extension upto  Patna and Muzaffarpur  1,488.56  -  -  -   - Koyali - Ahmednagar-Sholapur Pipeline  1,542.71  -  -  -   - Ennore-Thiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry- Nagapattinam-Madurai-Tuticorin Gas Pipeline  3,585.20  -  -  -   - Paradip-Somnathpur-Haldia Pipeline  818.51  -  -  -   - 30" OD Crude Oil Pipeline in H-B section of PHBPL  and Conversion of existing 18” twin pipelines in H-B  section from crude to Product & Gas service  2,224.08  -  -  -   - LPG Import Facility At Paradip  593.93  -  -  -   - Motihari LPG Bottling Plant  168.87  -  -  -   - POL Terminal at Motihari  196.40  -  -  -  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 230 231 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Right of Way Licenses Computer  Software Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2021  1,270.03  1,443.41  371.95  3,085.39  Additions during the year  110.14  13.21  22.22  145.57  Transfers from Intangible Assets under  Development  -  86.68  42.44  129.12  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers /  Reclassifications  -  (9.06)  (12.09)  (21.15) Gross Block as at March 31, 2022  1,380.17  1,534.24  424.52  3,338.93  AMORTISATION Amortisation as at April 01, 2021  19.37  328.00  254.22  601.59  Amortisation during the year  3.80  95.48  75.20  174.48  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers /  Reclassifications  -  (0.55)  (11.90)  (12.45) Amortisation as at March 31, 2022  23.17  422.93  317.52  763.62  Net Block as at March 31, 2022  1,357.00  1,111.31  107.00  2,575.31  (J in crore) Right of Way Licenses Computer  Software Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2020  919.30  1,172.18  250.40  2,341.88  Additions during the year  350.71  1.84  31.00  383.55  Transfers from Intangible Assets under  Development  -  276.21  90.99  367.20  Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications  0.02  (6.82)  (0.44)  (7.24) Gross Block as at March 31, 2021  1,270.03  1,443.41  371.95  3,085.39  AMORTISATION Amortisation as at April 01, 2020  14.37  230.47  168.00  412.84  Amortisation during the year  5.01  97.74  86.10  188.85  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers/  Reclassifications  (0.01)  (0.21)  0.12  (0.10) Amortisation as at March 31, 2021  19.37  328.00  254.22  601.59  Net Block as at March 31, 2021  1,250.66  1,115.41  117.73  2,483.80  NOTE - 3: INTANGIBLE ASSETS Current Year Previous Year (J in crore) Particulars At   March 31, 2022 At   March 31, 2021 Right of Way  1,353.91  1,243.77  (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint  Owner* Gross Block Accumulated Depreciation &  Amortisation W.D.V.
as at March 31, 2022 W.D.V.
as at March 31, 2021 Computer Software HPCL, BPCL  0.95  0.93  0.02  0.07  A. Amortisation for the year includes H 0.11 crore (2021: H  0.30 crore) relating to construction period expenses shown in Note 2.2 B.
Hitherto, the amortisation was being charged pro-rata on quarterly basis on assets from/ upto the quarter of capitalisation/  disposal.
As an improvement in present practice, the company has adopted a shorter time period of monthly grouping for  pro-rata depreciation effective from April 01, 2021.
The impact on account of above change is reduction in amortisation by   H 2.13 crore in FY 2021-22.
However, the overall impact over the useful life of asset will be nil.
C. Net Block of Intangible Assets with indefinite useful life  Right of way for laying pipelines are acquired on a perpetual basis.
D. Details of Company's share of Jointly Owned Assets included in the above:  * HPCL: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
NOTE - 2.2: CONSTRUCTION PERIOD EXPENSES (NET) DURING THE YEAR (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Employee Benefit Expenses  438.84  421.12  Repairs and Maintenance  6.61  5.82  Consumption of Stores and Spares  0.16  0.20  Power & Fuel  7.24  57.88  Rent  13.21  11.47  Rates and Taxes  1.55  2.69  Travelling Expenses  47.53  49.91  Communication Expenses  1.75  1.78  Printing and Stationery  0.87  0.81  Electricity and Water Charges  3.64  6.76  Bank Charges  0.11  0.06  Technical Assistance Fees  3.89  2.40  Finance Costs     A  937.45  697.88  Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on:  Property, Plant and Equipment  19.09  25.86   Intangible Assets  0.11  0.30  Start Up/ Trial Run Expenses (net of revenue)  0.98  5.30  Others  55.03  70.36   Total Expenses  1,538.06  1,360.60   Less : Recoveries  24.06  14.71  Net Expenditure during the year  1,514.00  1,345.89  A.
Rate of Specific borrowing eligible for capitalisation is 1.11% to 7.41% (2021: 1.08% to 8.12%)  (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years  - Augmentation of Ratlam Terminal Project  168.91  -  -  -   - Modernisation of Lube Blending Plant, Trombay  109.89  -  -  -   - Guntakal Railfed Depot  232.00  -  -  -   - Revamping/Augmentation of Baitalpur Depot  143.29  -  -  -   - BK-CBM-2001/1  -  177.51  -  -   - Others Projects *  955.72  411.49  93.57  0.96  Total  11,315.63  6,546.47  93.57  0.96  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - 80 TPH PETCOKE FIRED BOILER Project at Guwahati  Refinery  120.38   - Others Projects *  14.60  10.85  0.06  40.39  Total  14.60  10.85  0.06  160.77  * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Others Projects NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 232 233 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (Contd...) Completion Schedule of Intangible Assets under Development for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded  its Original Plan (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  107.97   - Acrlycs/ OXO Alcohol project at Gujarat Refinery  -  204.70   - Shakthi Gabon  148.77   - Others  263.53  25.25  -  -   Total  371.50  229.95  148.77  -  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  132.21   - Farsi, Iran  126.26   - Others  -  -  0.28  220.19   Total  -  -  0.28  478.66  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  -  107.97   - Shakthi Gabon  148.78   - Others  14.02  132.71  25.25  0.01   Total  14.02  240.68  25.25  148.79  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  132.21   - Farsi, Iran  126.25  - Others 113.80   Total  -  -  -  372.26  NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Current Year Previous Year (J in crore) Particulars Total Balance as at beginning of the year  1,798.01  Net expenditure during the year  97.50  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (129.12) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  -  Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  368.24   2,134.63  Provision for Loss  (453.16) Closing Balance  1,681.47  (J in crore) Particulars Total Balance as at beginning of the year  1,844.48  Net expenditure during the year  199.13  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (367.20) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (46.22) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  167.82   1,798.01  Provision for Loss  (346.49) Closing Balance  1,451.52  Intangible assets under development are mainly in the nature of Exploration & Production Blocks and Licences & Computer  Softwares.
Amount above includes J 205.22 crore (2021: H 204.91 crore) towards Capital Expenditure (Net) relating to ongoing Oil  & Gas Exploration & Production activities Ageing of Intangible Assets under Development (J in crore) Particulars Amount of Intangible Assets under Development for a period of TotalLess than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  89.52  523.69  333.17  709.31  1,655.69  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  0.28  11.35  60.82  406.49  478.94   Total  89.80  535.04  393.99  1,115.80  2,134.63  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  178.93  526.21  294.55  426.06  1,425.75  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  -  -  -  372.26  372.26   Total  178.93  526.21  294.55  798.32  1,798.01  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 234 235 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Particulars Investment Currency Face Value/  Paid up  Value  March 31,2022   March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Paid Up  Value Investment  Value Impairment  Loss/Fair Value  Adjustment Carrying /  Fair Value Number Paid Up  Value Investment  Value Impairment  Loss/Fair Value  Adjustment Carrying /  Fair Value (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (1) (2) (1+2) (1) (2) (1+2) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS : I In Equity Shares A In Subsidiaries (At Cost): QUOTED: Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 10 77265200 10  509.33  -  509.33 77265200 10  509.33  -  509.33  Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lankan Rupees 10 400000005 10  194.13  -  194.13 400000005 10  194.13  -  194.13  (Quoted in Colombo Stock Exchange, Sri Lanka) UNQUOTED: Indian Oil Mauritius Limited Mauritian Rupees 100 4882043 100  75.67  -  75.67 4882043 100  75.67  -  75.67  IOC Middle East FZE Arab Emirates Dirham 10,00,000 2 10,00,000  2.30  -  2.30 2 10,00,000  2.30  -  2.30  IOC Sweden AB Swedish Krona 100 5256111 100  388.47  (290.33)  98.14 5243808 100  387.26  -  387.26  IOCL (USA) Inc. USD 0.01 5763538921 0.01  336.32  (154.54)  181.78 5763538921 0.01  336.32  (154.54)  181.78  Indian Catalyst Private Limited (dissolved) Indian Rupees  -  -  -  -  -  - 9483206 10  4.73  (4.73)  -  (formely known as Indo Cat Private Limited)      IndOil Global B.V. Canadian Dollars 1 1131302435 1  7,840.35  (1,909.51)  5,930.84 1131302435 1  7,840.35  (1,909.51)  5,930.84  IOCL Singapore PTE Limited USD 1 1329991988 1  9,005.34  -  9,005.34 1079991988 1  7,128.82  -  7,128.82  Sub-total: (I)(A) 18,351.91 (2,354.38) 15,997.53 16,478.91 (2,068.78) 14,410.13  B In Associates (At Cost): QUOTED: Petronet LNG Limited Indian Rupees 10 187500000 10  98.75  -  98.75 187500000 10  98.75  -  98.75  UNQUOTED: Avi-Oil India Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 4500000 10  4.50  -  4.50 4500000 10  4.50  -  4.50  Petronet India Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 0.10 18000000 0.10  0.18  -  0.18 18000000 0.10  0.18  -  0.18  Petronet VK Limited Indian Rupees 10 50000000 10  26.02  (26.00)  0.02 50000000 10  26.02  (26.00)  0.02  Sub-total: (I)(B) 129.45 (26.00) 103.45 129.45 (26.00) 103.45  C In Joint Ventures (At Cost): UNQUOTED: Indian Oiltanking Limited Indian Rupees 10 494828289 10  723.98  -  723.98 494828289 10  723.98  -  723.98  Lubrizol India Private Limited Indian Rupees 100 499200 100  61.71  -  61.71 499200 100  61.71  -  61.71  Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 134000000 10  134.00  -  134.00 134000000 10  134.00  -  134.00  Petronet CI Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 10 3744000 10  3.83  (3.83)  - 3744000 10  3.83  (3.83)  -  Green Gas Limited Indian Rupees 10 23047250 10  23.09  -  23.09 23042250 10  23.04  -  23.04  IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 25950000 10  73.28  -  73.28 25950000 10  73.28  -  73.28  Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Naira 1 2500000 1  0.05  -  0.05 2500000 1  0.05  -  0.05  Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 60680000 10  60.68  -  60.68 60680000 10  60.68  -  60.68  Indian Synthetic Rubbers Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 222861375 10  222.86  -  222.86 222861375 10  222.86  -  222.86  NPCIL-IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 10 260000 10  0.26  -  0.26 260000 10  0.26  -  0.26  GSPL India Gasnet Limited Indian Rupees 10 491925030 10  491.93  -  491.93 413925030 10  413.93  -  413.93  GSPL India Transco Limited Indian Rupees 10 157820000 10  157.82  (33.29)  124.53 151320000 10  151.32  -  151.32  NOTE - 4 : INVESTMENTS  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 236 237 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Particulars Investment Currency Face Value/  Paid up  Value  March 31,2022   March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Paid Up  Value Investment  Value Impairment  Loss/Fair Value  Adjustment Carrying /  Fair Value Number Paid Up  Value Investment  Value Impairment  Loss/Fair Value  Adjustment Carrying /  Fair Value (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (1) (2) (1+2) (1) (2) (1+2) Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 631190000 10  631.19  -  631.19 432245000 10  432.25  -  432.25  Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 52918750 10  52.92  -  52.92 48288750 10  48.29  -  48.29  Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 275000000 10  275.00  -  275.00 202500000 10  202.50  -  202.50  IndianOil LNG Private Limited a (Refer Note C.5) Indian Rupees 10 4500 10  -  -  - 5000 10  0.01  -  0.01  Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited Indian Rupees 10 1629415000 10  1,629.42  -  1,629.42 1131765000 10  1,131.77  -  1,131.77  Ratnagiri Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited Indian Rupees 10 100000000 10  100.00  -  100.00 100000000 10  100.00  -  100.00  Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited Indian Rupees 10 85000000 10  85.00  -  85.00 61000000 10  61.00  -  61.00  IHB Limited Indian Rupees 10 1029000000 10  1,029.00  -  1,029.00 829000000 10  829.00  -  829.00  IndianOil Total Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 15000000 10  15.00  -  15.00 7500000 10  7.50  -  7.50  IOC Phinergy Private Ltd Indian Rupees 10 562500 10  0.56  -  0.56  -  -  -  -  -  Paradeep Plastic Park Limited Indian Rupees 10 32720000 10  32.72  -  32.72  -  -  -  -  -  Sub-total: (I)(C) 5,804.30 (37.12) 5,767.18 4,681.26 (3.83) 4,677.43  Total Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates & JVs [(I) (A)+(I)(B)+(I)(C)] 24,285.66 (2,417.50) 21,868.16 21,289.62 (2,098.61) 19,191.01  D In Others Investments designated at fair value through OCI: QUOTED: Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 5 986885142 5  1,780.12  14,394.93  16,175.05 986885142 5  1,780.12  8,300.91  10,081.03  GAIL (India) Limited Indian Rupees 10 108905460 10  122.52  1,572.59  1,695.11 108905460 10  122.52  1,353.15  1,475.67  Oil India Limited Indian Rupees 10 53501100 10  1,123.52  151.94  1,275.46 53501100 10  1,123.52  (466.53)  656.99  UNQUOTED: International Cooperative Petroleum Association, New  York USD 100 350 100  0.02  -  0.02 350 100  0.02  -  0.02  Haldia Petrochemical Limited Indian Rupees 10 150000000 10  150.00  770.25  920.25 150000000 10  150.00  705.40  855.40  Indian Gas Exchange Limited Indian Rupees 10 3693750 10  3.69  2.16  5.85  -  -  -  -  -  Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited b  (Formerly Effluent  Channel Projects Limited) Indian Rupees 10 7151 10  -  -  - 7151 10  -  -  -  Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited (Refer Note  C.2) Indian Rupees  -  -  -  -  -  - 101095 10  0.10  -  0.10  Shama Forge Co. Limited c (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 10 100000 10  -  -  - 100000 10  -  -  -  In Consumer Cooperative Societies: Barauni d Indian Rupees 10 250 10  -  -  - 250 10  -  -  -  Guwahati  e Indian Rupees 10 750 10  -  -  - 750 10  -  -  -  Mathura  f Indian Rupees 10 200 10  -  -  - 200 10  -  -  -  Haldia  g Indian Rupees 10 2190 10  -  -  - 2190 10  -  -  -  In Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores  Limited, Delhi  h Indian Rupees 10 375 10  -  -  - 375 10  -  -  -  Sub-total: (I)(D) 3,179.87 16,891.87 20,071.74 3,176.28 9,892.93 13,069.21  Sub-total: (I) = [(I)(A)+(I)(B)+(I)(C)+(I)(D)] 27,465.53 14,474.37 41,939.90 24,465.90 7,794.32 32,260.22  NOTE - 4 : INVESTMENTS (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 238 239 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Particulars Investment Currency Face Value/  Paid up  Value  March 31,2022   March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Paid Up  Value Investment  Value Impairment  Loss/Fair Value  Adjustment Carrying /  Fair Value Number Paid Up  Value Investment  Value Impairment  Loss/Fair Value  Adjustment Carrying /  Fair Value (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (J in crore) (1) (2) (1+2) (1) (2) (1+2) II In Preference Shares Investments at fair value through profit and loss A In Subsidiary Companies: UNQUOTED: Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 10 500000000 10  500.00  99.33  599.33 500000000 10  500.00  100.00  600.00  6.65% Cum.
Redeemable Non Convertible Preference  Shares Sub-total: (II)(A) 500.00 99.33 599.33 500.00 100.00 600.00  B In Others UNQUOTED: Shama Forge Co. Limited i (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 100 5000 100  -  -  - 5000 100  -  -  -  9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares Sub-total: (II)(B)  -  -  -  -  -  -  III In Government Securities Investments at fair value through OCI Quoted: (Note B and C) Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds Indian Rupees 10,000 2977930 10,000  2,977.93  108.94  3,086.87  -  -  -  -  -  9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10,000 6000 10,000  6.84  (0.10)  6.74 1960000 10,000  2,242.91  20.84  2,263.75  7.35% Govt.Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10,000 695000 10,000  704.04  34.20  738.24 695000 10,000  704.04  48.45  752.49  Sub-total: (III) 3,688.81 143.04 3,831.85 2,946.95 69.29 3,016.24  IV In Debentures or Bonds Investments at fair value through profit and loss Unquoted: IndianOil LNG Private Limited Indian Rupees 10,00,000 36650 10,00,000  3,665.00  (14.26)  3,650.74 36650 10,00,000  3,665.00  210.66  3,875.66  7.45% Fully and Compulsorily Convertible Debentures Sub-total: (IV) 3,665.00 (14.26) 3,650.74 3,665.00 210.66 3,875.66  Total Other Investments [(I)(D)+(II)+(III)+(IV)] 11,033.68 17119.98 28,153.66 10,288.23 10,272.88 20,561.11  Total Non Current Investments (I+II+III+IV)  35,319.34  14,702.48  50,021.82  31,577.85  8,174.27  39,752.12  CURRENT INVESTMENTS: I In Government Securities (at fair value through OCI) Quoted: (Note B and C) Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds Indian Rupees 10,000 5205090 10,000  5,205.09  365.89  5,570.98 8261020 10,000  8,261.02  606.27  8,867.29  9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10,000 1954000 10,000  2,236.07  (42.23)  2,193.84  -  -  -  -  -  Sub-total:  7,441.16  323.66  7,764.82  8,261.02  606.27  8,867.29  Total Current Investments   7,441.16  323.66  7,764.82  8,261.02  606.27  8,867.29  NOTE - 4 : INVESTMENTS (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 240 241 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 4 : INVESTMENTS (Contd...) NOTE - 5: LOANS (At amortised cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Loans    A To Related Parties   Secured, Considered Good  0.05  0.02  0.02  104.67   Unsecured, Considered Good  156.07  15.00  0.46  122.23   Credit Impaired  110.90  -  0.60  0.60   267.02  15.02  1.08  227.50   Less : Allowance for Doubtful Loans  110.90  -  0.60  0.60   156.12  15.02  0.48  226.90  To Others  Secured, Considered Good  844.76  894.59  114.28  110.60   Unsecured, Considered Good  1,405.24  1,736.62  354.99  313.38   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  132.32  215.03  21.34  17.44   Credit Impaired  247.79  348.75  197.32  206.31   2,630.11  3,194.99  687.93  647.73   Less: Allowance for Doubtful Loans  522.31  820.28  248.46  258.12   2,107.80  2,374.71  439.47  389.61  TOTAL  2,263.92  2,389.73  439.95  616.51  A.
Includes:  1.
Loans valued at Fair Value through Profit  or Loss (FVTPL)  141.02  -  -  121.51   2.
Due from Directors  0.10  0.02  0.11  0.01   3.
Due from Other Officers  4.18  3.44  2.25  1.84  Note: C - Other Disclosures 1 During the year, Oil Marketing Companies 6.90% Special Bonds of investment value of H 2,977.93 crore is reclassified from  Current to Non Current investment and 9.15% Govt Stock 2024 of investment value of H 2,236.07 crore is reclassified from  Non Current to Current investment.
2 During the year, the company has reclassified investment in 101095 Equity shares of Woodlands Multispecialty Hospital  Limited with carrying value of J 0.10 crore (2021: H 0.10 crore) as held for sale.
3 Following, Government Securities pledged in favour of Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) for loans through Tri-party  Repo Segment (TREPS) of CCIL have been classified as Non Current.
(J in crore) Nature of Bond No.
of Bonds Face Value Investment Value  Carrying Value   Amount  Amount  Amount  2 Non Current investment:  6.90% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2026 2977930  2,977.93  2,977.93  3,086.87   Total Non Current Investments 2977930  2,977.93  2,977.93  3,086.87  (J in crore) Particulars March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value 9.15% GOVT.STOCK 2024  6.00  6.84  6.74  1,960.00  2,242.91  2,263.75  7.35% GOVT.STOCK 2024  695.00  704.04  738.24  695.00  704.04  752.49  Oil Marketing Companies  GOI Special Bonds  2,977.93  2,977.93  3,086.87  -  -  -  4 Out of Oil Marketing Companies 8.20% GOI Special Bonds 2024 classified as Current Investment, bonds of investment value  H 2,336 crore (Carrying value H 2,488.10 crore) has been used as collateral against availment of overnight borrowings through  CROMS platform of CCIL.
5 During the current year, 500 equity shares of Indian Oil LNG Private Limited having face value and investment value of H 5,000  has been sold to Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation.
NOTE - 4 : INVESTMENTS (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars  March 31,2022  March 31,2021 Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments  31,544.50  24,899.43  Aggregate market value of quoted investments  35,683.37  29,362.46  Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments  26,242.14  23,719.98  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments  2,417.50  2,098.61  (Amount in J) Particulars  March 31,2022  March 31,2021 a IndianOil LNG Private Limited  45,000  50,000  b Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited  10  10  c Shama Forge Co. Limited  100  100  d Barauni Consumer Cooperative Societies  2,500  2,500  e Guwahati Consumer Cooperative Societies  2,500  2,500  f Mathura Consumer Cooperative Societies  2,000  2,000  g Haldia Consumer Cooperative Societies  16,630  16,630  h Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores Limited, Delhi  3,750  3,750  i Shama Forge Co. Limited  100  100  (J in crore) Name of the Entity Number  Amount  UNQUOTED INVESTMENT: Investment in Equity Shares: IOC Sweden AB 12303  1.21  IOCL Singapore PTE Limited 250000000  1,876.52  Green Gas Limited 5000  0.05  GSPL India Gasnet Limited 78000000  78.00  GSPL India Transco Limited 6500000  6.50  Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited 198945000  198.95  Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited 4630000  4.63  Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited 72500000  72.50  Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited 497650000  497.65  Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 24000000  24.00  IHB Limited 200000000  200.00  IndianOil Total Private Limied 7500000  7.50  IOC Phinergy Private Limited 562500  0.56  Paradeep Plastic Park Limited 32720000  32.72  Indian Gas Exchange Limited 3693750  3.69  Followings are not reflected above due to rounding off:- Note: A During the year New investments as well as additional investments were made, as per details below : Note: B Investment in Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds consists of: (J in crore) Nature of Bond No.
of Bonds Face Value Investment Value  Carrying Value   Amount  Amount  Amount  1 Current investment:  7.95% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2025 457250  457.25  457.25  491.18   8.20% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2023 1453510  1,453.51  1,453.51  1,570.86   8.00% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2026 189270  189.27  189.27  201.71   8.20% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2024 3105060  3,105.06  3,105.06  3,307.23   Total Current Investments 5205090  5,205.09  5,205.09  5,570.98  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 242 243 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Advances for Capital Expenditure  To Others   Secured, Considered Good  15.21  21.01    Unsecured, Considered Good  1,337.02  1,114.08    Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  9.33  9.36   1,361.56  1,144.45    Less: Provision for Doubtful Advances  9.33  9.36   1,352.23  1,135.09  Advances Recoverable  From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  1,024.35  721.90  22.61  22.61  From Others  Secured, Considered Good  -  -  -  -   Unsecured, Considered Good  284.60  15.25  2,093.09  2,066.79   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -  -  4.57  292.62   284.60  15.25  2,097.66  2,359.41  Less: Provision for Doubtful Advances  -  -  4.57  292.62   284.60  15.25  2,093.09  2,066.79   1,308.95  737.15  2,115.70  2,089.40  Claims Recoverable: A From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  447.84  236.94   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -  -  34.27  29.98   -  -  482.11  266.92  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -  -  34.27  29.98   -  -  447.84  236.94  Balance/ Deposits with Government  Authorities Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  488.46  502.56  Gold/ Other Precious Metals  -  -  98.41  62.21  Less: Provision for Diminution in value  -  -  5.67  -   -  -  92.74  62.21  (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Income Tax/Current Tax Asset/ (Liability) - Net Advance payments for Current Tax  8,031.90  20,635.18  6,164.97  4,703.28  Less : Provisions  5,283.84  18,206.33  6,776.36  5,501.13  TOTAL  2,748.06  2,428.85  (611.39)  (797.85) Includes amount relating to Fringe Benefit Tax  3.39  3.39  2.04  2.04  NOTE - 7: INCOME TAX/ CURRENT TAX ASSET/ (LIABILITY) - NET NOTE - 8: OTHER ASSETS (NON FINANCIAL)  (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated) NOTE - 6: OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS  (Unsecured, Considered Good at amortised cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Security Deposits  To Others   Secured, Considered Good  0.10  0.09  -  -    Unsecured, Considered Good  190.51  166.35  277.44  296.64    Credit Impaired  -  -  1.42  1.40   190.61  166.44  278.86  298.04    Less: Allowance for Doubtful Deposits  -  -  1.42  1.40   190.61  166.44  277.44  296.64  Advances for Investments A  Joint Ventures  778.00  22.63   778.00  22.63   Amount Recoverable from Central/   State Government  -  -  414.11  680.35   Finance Lease Receivables  0.83  1.93  2.51  2.13   Interest Accrued on Investments/ Bank  Deposits/ Loans  -  -  -  -   Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -  -  76.72  45.13   Advance to Employee Benefits Trusts/Funds  -  -  151.83  870.53   Bank Deposits (with original maturity of  more than 12 months) B  1.44  0.52  0.42  2.04   Receivables on Agency Sales  -  -  1,884.09  1,071.50  Claims Recoverable:  From Related Parties   Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  54.67  55.70    Credit Impaired  -  -  4.26  4.26   -  -  58.93  59.96   From Others   Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  151.53  244.87    Credit Impaired  -  -  194.10  181.72   -  -  345.63  426.59   Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -  -  198.36  185.98   -  -  206.20  300.57  Others:  Unsecured, Considered Good  18.59  27.30  334.11  284.89   Which have significant increase in   Credit Risk  -  -  -  402.54   Credit Impaired  -  -  14.92  3.04   18.59  27.30  349.03  690.47   Less: Allowance for Doubtful Asset  -  -  14.92  74.60   18.59  27.30  334.11  615.87  TOTAL  989.47  218.82  3,347.43  3,884.76  A.
Represents equity share application money pending allotment.
The allotment of equity shares is expected to be made as per  Companies Act, 2013.
B.
Earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities/ provided as Security to participate in Tender.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 244 245 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES  (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 From Related Parties Unsecured, Considered Good  468.43  321.51  Credit Impaired  7.29  7.03   475.72  328.54  From Others Secured, Considered Good  15.43  21.40  Unsecured, Considered Good  17,885.55  11,075.10  Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  -  2,399.55  Credit Impaired  155.67  162.02   18,056.65  13,658.07  Total  18,532.37  13,986.61  Less : Allowance for Doubtful Debts     A  395.80  607.05  TOTAL  18,136.57  13,379.56  A.
Includes provision as per Expected Credit Loss method in line with accounting  policy (Refer Note 40)  232.84  11.45  Ageing of Trade Receivables (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not  Due Outstanding for following periods from due date  of payment TotalLess  than 6   months 6   months-   1 year 1-2  years 2-3  years More  than 3  years Current Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  75.76 10,860.58  5,174.01  1,390.33  280.04  271.31  37.86 18,089.89  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – which  have significant increase in credit risk  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables –   credit impaired  -  -  -  -  0.61  0.13  55.48  56.22  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables – considered  good  4.31  4.78  69.54  40.87  70.29  16.78  72.95  279.52  v) Disputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  vi) Disputed Trade Receivables –   credit impaired  -  -  -  -  0.37  0.19  106.18  106.74   Total  80.07 10,865.36  5,243.55  1,431.20  351.31 288.41  272.47 18,532.37  Previous Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  61.13  7,514.80  2,096.90  575.43  781.46  136.82  30.42  11,196.96  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – which  have significant increase in credit risk  -  541.87  419.45  134.81 1,226.78  38.97  -  2,361.88  iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables –   credit impaired  -  -  -  0.01  0.15  -  58.37  58.53  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables – considered  good  1.18  8.32  39.99  59.42  28.67  14.39  69.08  221.05  v) Disputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk  -  -  -  -  37.67  -  -  37.67  vi) Disputed Trade Receivables –   credit impaired  -  -  -  -  -  -  110.52  110.52   Total  62.31  8,064.99  2,556.34  769.67 2,074.73  190.18 268.39 13,986.61  NOTE - 8: OTHER ASSETS (NON FINANCIAL) (Contd...) (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated) NOTE - 9: INVENTORIES (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 In Hand :  Raw Materials  26,628.70  17,246.18   Stock in Process  9,746.98  5,964.42   Finished Products  36,457.94  29,540.73   Stock in Trade  7,596.60  6,345.74   Stores, Spares etc.
4,771.87  4,330.71   Less : Provision for Losses  214.28  189.12   4,557.59  4,141.59   Barrels and Tins  122.45  106.30   85,110.26  63,344.96  In Transit :  Raw Materials  13,733.22  10,818.14   Finished Products  1,387.46  1,112.22   Stock in Trade  2,692.78  2,721.63   Stores, Spares etc.
283.22  191.06   18,096.68  14,843.05  TOTAL  1,03,206.94  78,188.01  Stock in Hand includes stock lying with others- Raw Materials  3.02  4.07  Finished Products  2,314.13  1,932.12  Stock in Trade  1,389.94  1,117.38  Stores, Spares etc.
18.48  9.78  Barrels and Tins  1.42  0.46  Amount of write down of inventories carried at NRV and recognised as Expense.
1,364.42  422.68 Valuation of inventories are done as per point no.
7 of significant accounting policies (Note-1).
For hypothecation details refer Note-21.
(J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Deferred Expenses  975.68  921.01  115.45  114.06  Prepaid Rentals  22.24  35.34  19.63  62.96  Pre-Spent Corporate Social Responsibility  Expenses (Refer Note - 45)  -  -  93.52  118.37  TOTAL  3,659.10  2,828.59  3,373.34  3,186.50  A.
Includes: 1.
GST/ Customs/ Excise Duty/ DEPB/  Duty Drawback Claims which are in  the process of being claimed with the  Department.
-  -  21.93  7.65  2.
Claims recoverable from Customs  Authorities pending for final assessment/  settlement.
-  -  26.20  31.31  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 246 247 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE (Contd...) A.
The Company has surplus land at various locations such as LPG Plant , Depots and ROs etc.
which is under the process of  disposal.
The management intends to sell the land.
No impairment was recognised on reclassification of land as held for  sale as the Company expects that the fair value (estimated based on the recent market prices of similar properties in similar  locations) less costs to sell is higher than the carrying amount.
B.
A new joint venture is proposed to be formed between IOCL and CPCL with combined equity holding of 50% and balance by  strategic / public investors, for construction of new 9 MMTPA refinery at Cauvery Basin Nagapattinam.
During the year, NITI Aayog  has given approval for formation of joint venture and accordingly, the land and other facilities held by the Company at Narimanam  Marketing Terminal which are intended to be transferred to the new Joint Venture are classified under Disposal group.
C. During the year the company has reclassified investment in 101095 Equity shares of Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital  Limited with carrying value of J 0.10 crore (2021: H 0.10 crore) as held for sale.
During the year the company has reclassified Assets Held for sale amounting to J 72.99 crore (2021: H 0.09 crore) as Property,  Plant and Equipment/ Other Assets based on the plan for disposal of assets.
During the year, the company has recognized impairment loss of J 17.88 crore (2021: H 30.00 crore) on write-down of asset to fair  value less costs to sell and the same has been shown in Provision/loss on Other Assets sold or written off under ‘Other Expenses’  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
NOTE - 14: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Authorized: 15,00,00,00,000 Equity Shares of H 10 each  15,000.00  15,000.00  Issued Subscribed and Paid Up: 9,41,41,58,922 (2021: 9,41,41,58,922)  9,414.16  9,414.16  Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up Less: Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust  233.12  233.12  23,31,18,456 (2021: 23,31,18,456) Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up TOTAL  9,181.04  9,181.04  A. Reconciliation of No.
of Equity Shares  Opening Balance  9,41,41,58,922  9,41,41,58,922   Closing Balance  9,41,41,58,922  9,41,41,58,922  B. Terms/ Rights attached to Equity Shares  The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of H 10 each and is entitled to one vote per share.
In  the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the  Company in proportion to the number of equity shares held.
IOC Shares Trust (Shareholder) has waived its right to receive the dividend w.e.f.
02.03.2020.
NOTE-13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE (J in crore) Particulars Note March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Freehold land A 0.64 1.56 Building 0.07 0.17 Plant and Equipment 98.80 190.90 Office Equipment 0.19 0.23 Transport Equipment 0.00 0.02 Furniture and Fixtures 0.01 0.02 Total 99.71 192.90 Disposal Group: Narimanam Marketing Terminal B Freehold land 4.96 0.00 Building 12.97 0.00 Plant and Equipment 52.00 0.00 Office Equipment 0.05 0.00 Total 69.98 0.00 Investment in Equity Shares C 0.10 Total Asset held for sale 169.79 192.90 NOTE - 11: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS NOTE - 12: BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN ABOVE (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Bank Balances with Scheduled Banks : In Current Account  693.09  299.03  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  0.80  0.77   693.89  299.80  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  4.07  1.93  Cheques, Drafts in hand  11.46  11.54  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.49   0.47  TOTAL  709.91  313.74  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Fixed Deposits A  21.76  12.91  Earmarked Balances B  149.96  1,340.99  Blocked Account C  0.74  0.72  Other Bank Balances D  0.61  0.01  TOTAL  173.07  1,354.63  A) Includes Fixed Deposits earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities  13.09  12.91  B) Pertains to  - Unpaid Dividend  46.66  41.09   - Fractional Share Warrants  0.03  0.03   - Amount received from PM CARES Fund for procurement of Liquid Oxygen  Equipments  103.27   - Interim Dividend Declared but not Disbursed (including TDS)  -  1,299.87  C) There exists restrictions on banking transactions in Libya due to political unrest.
D) There exists restrictions on repatriation/ utilisation of these balances.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 248 249 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 15 : OTHER EQUITY (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Capital Redemption Reserve Account  297.65  297.65  Capital Reserve  183.08  183.08  Insurance Reserve : Opening Balance  272.14  261.09  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  20.00  20.00  Less : Recoupment of uninsured fire loss  0.72  8.95   291.42  272.14  Export Profit Reserve : As per last Account  -  53.72  Less: Transfer to General Reserve  -  53.72   -  -  Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income : Fair value of Equity Instruments Opening Balance  9,766.18  5,296.79  Add: Fair value during the year  6,933.71  4,469.39   16,699.89  9,766.18  Fair value of Debt Instruments Opening Balance  470.30  391.67  Add: Fair value during the year  (125.02)  80.91  Less: Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss  -  2.28   345.28  470.30  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve Opening Balance  16.80  46.00  Add: Gain/(Loss) during the year  27.33  16.81  Less: Transferred during the year  16.81  46.01   27.32  16.80  TOTAL  1,22,105.32  1,01,319.00  Nature and Purpose of Reserves   A.
Retained Earnings  The retained earnings comprises of general reserve and surplus which is used from time to time to transfer profits by  appropriations.
Retained earnings is free reserve of the Company and is used for the purposes like issuing bonus shares, buy  back of shares and other purposes (like declaring Dividend etc.)
as per the approval of Board of Directors.
It includes the re- measurement of defined benefit plan as per actuarial valuations which will not be re-classified to statement of profit and loss  in subsequent periods.
B.
Bond Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, a Bond Redemption Reserve is required to be created for all bonds/ debentures issued by the  company at a specified percentage.
This reserve is created out of appropriation of profits and is transferred back to general  reserve on repayment of bonds for which it is created.
In 2019, this requirement was dispensed with in case of public issue/  private placement of debentures by listed companies to NBFCs, Housing Finance Companies and other listed companies.
C. Capital Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of  free reserves or securities premium.
A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to capital  redemption reserve.
Utilization of this reserve is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
D. Capital Reserve  Capital Reserve was created through business combinations and shall be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
NOTE - 14: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (Contd...) (a) Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without  payment being received in cash Nil (b) Aggregate number of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares - During FY 2017-18  (March 2018) in ratio of 1:1  4,85,59,04,964  (c) Aggregate number and class of shares bought back - During FY 2018-19 (February 2019) 29,76,51,006 Name of Shareholder March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Number of  shares held Percentage of  Holding Number of  shares held Percentage of  Holding THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA  4,84,81,33,178  51.50  4,84,81,33,178  51.50  OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION  LIMITED   1,33,72,15,256  14.20  1,33,72,15,256  14.20  LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA  74,92,64,496  7.96  72,26,80,547  7.68  OIL INDIA LIMITED  48,55,90,496  5.16  48,55,90,496  5.16  Shares held by promoters At the beginning of the year At the end of the year  % Change  during the year Promoter Name Number of  shares % of total  shares Number of  shares % of total  shares THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA 4,84,81,33,178  51.50  4,84,81,33,178  51.50  -  D. For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, the: E. Details regarding shareholding of Promoters as at March 31, 2022  NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Retained Earnings General Reserve: Opening Balance  87,160.21  74,905.19  Add: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (576.19)  16.78  Add: Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,370.85  -  Add : Transfer from Export profit Reserve  -  53.72  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  14,524.02  12,184.52   1,02,478.89  87,160.21  Surplus (Balance in Statement of Profit and Loss) Profit for the Year  24,184.10  21,836.04  Less: Appropriations  Interim Dividend  8,263.41  9,640.47   Final Dividend  1,377.39  -   Insurance Reserve (Net)  19.28  11.05   General Reserve  14,524.02  12,184.52   Balance carried forward to next year  -  -  Other Reserves Bond Redemption Reserve Opening Balance  3,152.64  3,152.64  Less: Transfer to General Reserve  1,370.85  -   1,781.79  3,152.64  C. Details of shareholders holdings more than 5% shares NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 250 251 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd...)  (At Amortised Cost) * Current maturities are carried to Note - 21: Borrowings - Current Unsecured Loans: A.
Repayment Schedule of Foreign Currency Bonds Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of Issue Date of Repayment 1 USD 900 Million Reg S Bonds 16 January 2019 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of issue.
Out of USD 900 million, USD 313.042 million has been  bought back and payment made on 22 April 2022.
2 USD 500 million Reg S Bonds 1 August 2013 Payable immediately after 10 years from the date of  issue 3 SGD 400 million Reg S Bonds 15 October 2012 On the same day, Cross Currency Swap amounting to  USD 325.57 million entered.
Payable immediately after  10 years from the date of issue.
Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of  Allotment Coupon Rate Date of Redemption 1 Indian Oil 2029 (Series XIV)  30000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 22 October  2019 7.41% p.a.
payable annually  on 22 October 10 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
22  October 2029.
2 Indian Oil 2023 (Series XV)  20000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each  14 January  2020 6.44% p.a.
payable annually  on 14 January 3 years and 3 months from the deemed date of  allotment i.e.
14 April 2023.
3 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVI)  29950 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 6 March  2020 6.39% p.a.
payable annually  on 6 March 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
6 March  2025.
4 Indian Oil 2022 (Series XVII)  30000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 27 May  2020 5.05% p.a.
payable annually  on 27 May 2 years and 6 months from the deemed date of  allotment i.e.
25 November 2022.
5 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVIII)  16250 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 3 August  2020 5.40% p.a.
payable annually  on 03 August 4 years, 8 months and 8 days from the deemed date of  allotment i.e.
11 April 2025.
B.
Repayment Schedule of Rupee Bonds/ Debentures  (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current Maturities* March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Term Loans:  From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency Loans C  20,817.46  17,331.83  4,558.46  2.15   In Rupees D  5,500.00  1,500.00  18.77  2.22  From Government  In Rupees E  1,621.07  1,291.34  -  -   27,938.53  20,123.17  4,577.23  4.37  Total Unsecured Loans  50,579.83  48,434.28  12,736.01  4,236.77  TOTAL LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  50,579.83  48,965.87  12,736.01  4,274.27  NOTE - 15 : OTHER EQUITY (Contd...) E. Insurance Reserve  Insurance Reserve is created by the company with the approval of Board of Directors to mitigate risk of loss of assets not  insured with external insurance agencies.
H 20.00 crore is appropriated by the company every year to this reserve.
The reserve  is utilised to mitigate actual losses by way of net appropriation in case any uninsured loss is incurred.
Amount of J 0.72 crore  (2021: H 8.95 crore) has been utilised for recoupment of uninsured losses.
F. Export Profit Reserve  Amount set aside out of profit from exports for availing income tax benefits u/s 80HHC of the Income tax Act' 1961 for the  Assessment Year 1986-87 to 1988-89.
Creation of reserve for claiming deduction u/s 80HHC was dispensed from AY 1989- 90 onwards.
In view of settlement of tax dispute with respect to claim under section 80HHC, Export Profit Reserve created in  earlier years was no longer required and therefore the balance lying was transferred to General Reserve in FY 2020-21.
G. Fair value of Equity Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations of investments made by the company in equity instruments  of other entities.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income  (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
This will not be re-classified to the statement of profit and loss in subsequent periods.
H. Fair value of Debt Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations in debt investments made by the company to earn  contractual cash flows and are available for sale.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised through  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
This amount will be re-classified to the statement  of profit and loss in subsequent periods on disposal of respective instruments.
I.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve  The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value  of designated portion of hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such  changes are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
Such gains or  losses will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the hedged item occurs/ affects the statement  of profit and loss.
(J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current Maturities* March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 SECURED LOANS Term Loans: Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB)  -  531.59  -  37.50  Total Secured Loans  -  531.59  -  37.50  UNSECURED LOANS Bonds/ Debentures: Foreign Currency Bonds A  8,232.81  12,402.76  4,772.86  3,853.59  Rupee Bonds/ Debentures B  14,408.49  15,908.35  3,385.92  378.81   22,641.30  28,311.11  8,158.78  4,232.40  NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS   (At Amortised Cost) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 252 253 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 17: OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  (At Amortised Cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Liability for Capital Expenditure  -  -  7,128.09  5,782.32  Liability to Trusts and Other Funds  -  -  192.28  117.41  Employee Liabilities  -  -  3,040.23  2,484.00  Liability for Purchases on Agency Basis  -  -  4,745.32  2,277.29  Investor Education & Protection Fund to be  credited on the due dates: - Unpaid Dividend  -  -  46.66  41.09  - Unpaid Matured Deposits  -  -  0.01  0.01   -  -  46.67  41.10  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -  -  307.81  252.65  Security Deposits A  874.25  847.49  31,131.41  29,639.11  Liability for Dividend  -  -  -  1,260.79  Others B  39.54  -  1,459.69  1,783.78  TOTAL  913.79  847.49  48,051.50  43,638.45  A. LPG Deposits classified as current in  line with industry practice and includes: 1.
Deposit received towards LPG connection issued  under Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojna (PMUY),  Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitrak Yojana (RGGLVY)  and various other schemes of State Government/ Central Government of India.
The deposits  against these schemes have been funded from  CSR fund and/or by State Government /Central  Government of India  -  -  6,945.17  6,259.51  2.
Deposit free LPG connections funded by  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited.
-  -  0.52  0.52  B.
The above includes liability towards Renewable Purchase Obligation amounting to H 179.74 Crore (2021: H 52.40 Crore), which is  after adjustment of H 471.77 Crore (2021: H 248.20 Crore) towards Co-generation.
Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 HDFC H 1,500 crore Term Loan 20 March 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of  drawal 2 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 30 June 2021 3 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 22 July 2021 4 HDFC H 250 crore Term Loan 30 September 2021 5 PNB H 250 crore Term Loan 30 September 2021 Payable immediately after 35 months from drawal6 PNB H 750 crore Term Loan 6 November 2021 7 HDFC H 1,250 crore Term Loan 31 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of  drawal8 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 31 March 2022 D. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Rupees  NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd...) E. Repayment Schedule of Unsecured Interest Free Loans from Govt of Odisha      Interest free loan given by Odisha government for 15 years is disbursed in quarterly instalment of H 175 crore starting from  1 April 2016 repayble after 15 years.
Total loan disbursed till now is H 4,200 crore which is repayable after 15 years from the  quarter for which the same is given i.e.
in quarterly instalments starting from last week of June 2031 onwards.
This loan being  interest free loan is accounted at fair value and accordingly accounting for government grant is done.
NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd...) Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 USD 300 Million Syndication loan 29 September 2017 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of  drawal 2 USD 300 Million Term Loan 19 June 2019 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of  drawal 3 USD 100 Million Term Loan 12 March 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years and 3 months from  the date of drawal 4 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI 7 April 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of  drawal 5 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI  - GS 14 May 2021 6 USD 500 Million Syndication loan 30 July 2021 7 USD 125 Million Term Loan from  BOB 3 November 2021 8 USD 125 Million Term Loan from  BOB 1 December 2021 9 USD 330 Million ECB Loan from  SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of  drawal 10 USD 300 Million ECB Loan from  SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 4 years from the date of  drawal 11 USD 250 Million ECB Loan from  SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of  drawal 12 USD 220 Million ECB Loan from  SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years and 5 months from  the date of drawal 13 USD 225 Million Syndication Loan  from BOB NY 30 March 2022 Payable immediately after 1 year and 9 months from the  date of drawal14 USD 50 Million Syndication Loan  from BOB NY 30 March 2022 15 USD 25 Million Syndication Loan  from BOB NY 30 March 2022 Payable immediately after 1 year and 11 months from the  date of drawal 16 USD 300 Million Syndication  Loan from BOB NY 30 March 2022 Payable immediately after 2 years and 6 months from  the date of drawal C. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Foreign Currency Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of  Allotment Coupon Rate Date of Redemption 6 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XIX)  20000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 20 October  2020 5.50% p.a.
payable annually  on 20 October 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
20  October 2025.
7 Indian Oil 2026 (Series XX)  12902 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 25 January  2021 5.60% p.a.
payable annually  on 25 January 4 years, 11 months and 29 days from the deemed date  of allotment i.e.
23 January 2026.
8 Indian Oil-2027 (Series XXI)  15000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 18 February  2022 6.14% p.a.
payable annually  on 18 February 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
18  February 2027 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 254 255 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2021 Provided  during the  year in the  Statement of  Profit and Loss Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2022 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Plant, Property & Equipment  16,935.60  861.36  -  17,796.96  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  16,935.60  861.36  -  17,796.96  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Trade Receivable,  Loans and Advance, Investments  1,288.17  (77.13)  -  1,211.04  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement  Scheme  1.01  0.23  -  1.24  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,794.28  119.75  -  2,914.03  Fair Valuation of Equity Instruments  (126.76)  -  (65.23)  (191.99) MTM on Hedging Instruments  (5.66)  -  (3.53)  (9.19) Fair Value of Debt Instruments  (160.67)  -  42.10  (118.57) Others  180.50  182.54  -  363.04  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  3,970.87  225.39  (26.66)  4,169.60  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  12,964.73  635.97  26.66  13,627.36  NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (i) In compliance of Ind AS – 12 on “Income Taxes”, the item wise details of Deferred Tax Liabilities (net) are  as under:  (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2020 Provided  during the  year in the  Statement of  Profit and Loss Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2021 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Plant, Property & Equipment  16,685.78  249.82  -  16,935.60  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  16,685.78  249.82  -  16,935.60  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Trade Receivable,  Loans and Advance, Investments  845.10  443.07  -  1,288.17  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement  Scheme  3.50  (2.49)  -  1.01  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,590.81  203.47  -  2,794.28  Carry Forward Business Losses/ Unabsorbed  Depreciation  1,828.80  (1,828.80)  -  -  Fair Valuation of Equity Instruments  72.36  -  (199.12)  (126.76) MTM on Hedging Instruments  (15.48)  -  9.82  (5.66) Fair Value of Debt Instruments  (145.11)  -  (15.56)  (160.67) Others  92.66  87.84  -  180.50  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  5,272.64  (1,096.91)  (204.86)  3,970.87  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  11,413.14  1,346.73  204.86  12,964.73   Note: During FY 2020-21, on account of change in the tax liabilities pertaining to the past periods, MAT credit amounting to  H 228.15 crore out of previously written off MAT balance was recognised and utilized against such increased tax liability.
NOTE - 18: PROVISIONS (J in crore) Particulars Opening  Balance Addition  during   the year Utilization  during the  year Reversals  during   the year Unwinding of  discount and  changes in the  discount rate Closing  Balance Decommissioning Liability - E&P Blocks  9.67  0.47  -  - 0.03  10.17  Previous Year Total  7.71  3.20  -  1.40 0.16  9.67  (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Provision for Employee Benefits  899.95  936.57  119.89  204.81  Decommissioning Liability A  7.86  7.36  2.31  2.31  Contingencies for probable obligations B  -  -  11,602.45  10,924.56  Less: Deposits  -  -  2,330.38  1,750.09   -  -  9,272.07  9,174.47  TOTAL  907.81  943.93  9,394.27  9,381.59  A.
In compliance of Ind AS 37 - “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the required information are as under : B.
In compliance of Ind AS 37 - “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the required information is as under : (J in crore) Particulars Opening  Balance Addition  during   the year Utilization  during the  year Reversals  during   the year Closing  Balance* Excise  15.50  -  -  - 15.5 Sales Tax/ GST  1,968.25  100.71  -  44.78 2,024.18 Entry Tax  5,611.76  -  -  - 5,611.76 Others  3,329.05  677.17  5.68  49.53 3,951.01 TOTAL  10,924.56  777.88  5.68  94.31 11,602.45 Previous Year Total  10,810.59  785.80  434.37  237.46 10,924.56 (J in crore) Particulars Addition  includes Reversal  includes - capitalized  2.51  -  - included in Raw Material  3.06  -  - included in Finance Cost  341.35  0.84  - included in Employee Benefit Expenses  250.39  -  - included in Other Expenses  161.81  1.33  - Amount transferred from Liabilities to Provisions  18.76  -   * Expected timing of outflow is not ascertainable at this stage, the matters being under dispute/ contingent.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 256 257 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 22: TRADE PAYABLES   (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises  799.84  547.01  Dues to Related Parties  1,038.72  1,014.06  Dues to Others A  40,630.78  32,029.62  TOTAL  42,469.34  33,590.69  A.
Includes amount related to Micro and Small enterprises for which payment to be  made to financial institutions in pursuance of bills discounted by them  7.91  0.65  Ageing of Trade Payables (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not  Due Outstanding for following periods from due  date of payment Total Less than  1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More  than 3  years Current Year i) MSME*  251.20  368.95  178.57  0.01  -  -  798.73  ii) Others  1,876.18  36,351.21  2,858.40  10.89  11.96  3.83  41,112.47  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  -  1.11  -  -  -  -  1.11  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  220.78  123.38  52.05  22.21  0.18  138.43  557.03  Total  2,348.16 36,844.65  3,089.02  33.11  12.14  142.26 42,469.34  Previous Year i) MSME*  131.10  181.07  234.11  0.01  -  -  546.29  ii) Others  2,375.36  28,214.23  1,898.96  56.69  10.69  7.43 32,563.36  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  -  0.72  -  -  -  -  0.72  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  179.41  55.41  96.02  10.73  14.55  124.20  480.32  Total  2,685.87  28,451.43  2,229.09  67.43  25.24  131.63 33,590.69  * Micro and Small Enterprises in line with Note - 22: Trade Payables Note: Generally, undisputed Trade Payables are settled on or before the due dates and amount outstanding beyond due dates are  on account of pending compliance of Contractual/ Statutory requirement by Vendors.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Loans Repayable on Demand  From Banks/ Financial Institutions    In Foreign Currency  13,639.61  11,080.47     In Rupee  8,001.71  8,905.58   21,641.32  19,986.05   From Others   Commercial Papers  14,640.35  12,930.87   Current Maturities of Long-term Debt (Refer Note - 16)  12,736.01  4,236.77  Total Unsecured Loans  49,017.68  37,153.69  TOTAL SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  60,218.67  45,447.13  A.
Against hypothecation by way of first pari passu charge on Raw Materials, Finished Goods, Stock-in Trade, Trade Receivables,  Outstanding monies, Receivables, Claims, Contracts, Engagements to SBI and HDFC Banks.
The quarterly returns of current  assets filed by the company with banks or financial institutions are in agreement with the books of account.
B.
Against pledging of the following to CCIL:  Government Securities including OMC GOI Special Bonds (Refer Note 4)  6,014.93  2,655.00   Bank Guarantees  1,650.00  1,650.00  NOTE - 21: BORROWINGS - CURRENT (Contd...)NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (Contd...) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 % (J in crore) % (J in crore) Profit Before Tax  31,733.07  29,715.65  Tax as per applicable Tax Rate  25.168  7,986.58  25.168  7,478.83  Tax effect of: Income that are not taxable in determining  taxable profit  (1.846)  (585.94)  (1.051)  (312.34) Expenses that are not deductible in  determining taxable profit  0.368  116.67  0.496  147.46  Recognition of previously unrecognised  allowance/ disallowances  (0.025)  (7.78)  (3.433)  (1,020.09) Expenses/income related to prior years  0.129  41.07  5.345  1,588.23  Difference in tax due to income chargeable  to tax at special rates  (0.005)  (1.63)  (0.008)  (2.48) Average Effective Tax Rate/ Income Tax  Expenses  23.789  7,548.97  26.517  7,879.61  NOTE - 20: OTHER LIABILITIES (NON FINANCIAL) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Deferred Income  2.98  3.64  0.72  0.86  Government Grants (refer Note - 46)  2,728.76  2,265.19  233.90  201.21  Statutory Liabilities  -  -  11,176.06  10,745.81  Advances from Customers  436.76  306.74  5,639.04  4,404.71  Others A  0.50  0.53  1,395.74  1,133.13  TOTAL  3,169.00  2,576.10  18,445.46  16,485.72  A.
Includes liability towards Fleet Customers  1,116.08  926.90  NOTE - 21: BORROWINGS - CURRENT (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 SECURED LOANS Loans Repayable on Demand  From Banks/ Financial Institutions   In Foreign Currency  1,515.95  -    In Rupee A    Working Capital Demand Loan  5,512.98  7,822.63     Cash Credit  -  113.34   7,028.93  7,935.97   From Others:   Loans through Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) B  4,172.06  319.97  Current Maturities of Long-term Debt (Refer Note - 16)  -  37.50  Total Secured Loans  11,200.99  8,293.44  UNSECURED LOANS (ii) Reconciliation between the average effective tax rate and the applicable tax rate is as below : NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 258 259 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 25: COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Opening Stock  28,064.32  19,350.20  Add: Purchases  3,06,799.08  1,65,362.08   3,34,863.40  1,84,712.28  Less: Closing Stock  40,361.92  28,064.32  TOTAL  2,94,501.48  1,56,647.96  NOTE - 26: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, STOCK-IN-TRADE AND  STOCK IN PROCESS (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Closing Stock Finished Products  37,845.40  30,652.95  Stock in Process  9,746.98  5,964.42  Stock- in - trade  10,289.38  9,067.37   57,881.76  45,684.74  Less: Opening Stock Finished Products  30,652.95  27,074.48  Stock in Process  5,964.42  5,432.60  Stock - in - Trade  9,067.37  7,630.09   45,684.74  40,137.17  NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) A  12,197.02  5,547.57  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Dividend: B  From Related Parties  1,265.09  984.90   From Other Companies  1,053.59  256.13   2,318.68  1,241.03   Profit on Sale of Investments (Net)  -  1.84   Profit on sale and disposal of Assets  23.15  -   Exchange Fluctuations (Net)  -  1,154.42   Gain on Derivatives  68.00  140.87   Fair value Gain on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  -  205.56   Other Non Operating Income  45.76  46.88  TOTAL  4,324.26  4,550.72  A 1.
Includes Tax Deducted at Source  42.87  8.55  A 2.
Includes interest received under section 244A of the Income Tax Act.
2.33  24.15  A 3.
Include interest on:  Current Investments  705.18  638.32   Non-Current Investments  393.66  274.37  A 4.
Total interest income (calculated using the effective interest method) for  financial assets:  In relation to Financial Assets classified at amortised cost  755.41  807.87   In relation to Financial Assets classified at FVOCI  825.80  832.42   In relation to Financial Assets classified at FVTPL  273.04  80.27  B.1 Dividend Income consists of Dividend on:  Current Investments  -  1.69   Non-Current Investments  2,318.68  1,239.34  B.2.
Dividend on Non Current Investments Includes Dividend from Subsidiaries  902.85  557.95  B.3.
Includes Tax Deducted at Source  141.58  54.12  NOTE - 24 : OTHER INCOME (Contd...)NOTE - 23: REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS NOTE - 23.1: OTHER OPERATING REVENUES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Sale of Power and Water  462.23  253.77  Revenue from Construction Contracts  7.49  3.91  Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  127.56  371.70  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims and Stores written back  340.28  9.41  Provision for Contingencies written back  92.14  227.65  Recoveries from Employees  14.54  13.32  Retail Outlet License Fees  1,070.06  998.91  Income from Non Fuel Business  234.40  132.45  Commission and Discount Received  7.04  7.01  Sale of Scrap  397.94  251.68  Income from Finance Leases  0.28  0.13  Amortization of Capital Grants  25.96  25.29  Revenue Grants  188.92  190.86  Terminalling Charges  53.06  56.48  Other Miscellaneous Income  835.93  533.91  TOTAL  3,857.83  3,076.48  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Sale of Products and Crude A  7,37,172.13  5,20,749.66  Less: Discounts  13,343.71  10,204.13  Sales (Net of Discounts)  7,23,828.42  5,10,545.53  Sale of Services  307.58  301.37  Other Operating Revenues (Note "23.1")  3,857.83  3,076.48   7,27,993.83  5,13,923.38  Net Claim/(Surrender) of SSC and Other Claims  305.46  891.49  Subsidy From Central/ State Governments  160.65  75.60  TOTAL  7,28,459.94  5,14,890.47  Particulars relating to Revenue Grants are given in Note - 46.
A.
The MoPNG, vide letter dated 30.04.2020 had conveyed to Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) that a) In case, the Market  Determined Price (MDP) is higher than the Effective Cost to Customer (ECC), the difference shall be transferred to consumers  account via Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme and b) In case, where MDP is less the ECC, the OMCs will retain the  difference in a separate buffer account for future adjustment.
However, as on March 31, 2022, the company had a negative  buffer of H 5048.09 Crore (after adjustment of uncompensated cost of H 1893.22 Crore) as the retail selling price was less than  MDP and accordingly the revenue from sale of LPG was reduced by this amount.
NOTE - 24: OTHER INCOME (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Interest on: A Financial items:  Deposits with Banks  0.71  6.41   Customers Outstandings  416.37  341.72   Oil Companies GOI SPL Bonds/ Other Investments  1,098.84  912.69   Other Financial Items  338.33  459.74   Total interest on Financial items  1,854.25  1,720.56   Non-Financial items  14.42  39.56   1,868.67  1,760.12  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 260 261 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 29: OTHER EXPENSES NOTE - 29.1: OFFICE, ADMINISTRATION, SELLING AND OTHER EXPENSES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Rent  646.81  600.32  Insurance  316.60  260.86  Rates & Taxes  171.94  144.19  Donation  2.00  1.00  Payment to Auditors  As Auditors  2.87  2.18   For Taxation Matters  0.53  0.43   Other Services (for issuing other certificates etc.)
1.58  1.41   For reimbursement of expenses  0.13  0.14   5.11  4.16  Travelling & Conveyance  630.86  470.71  Communication Expenses  66.32  59.00  Printing & Stationery  38.17  31.47  Electricity & Water  387.17  376.92  Bank Charges  27.54  30.06  Advance, Claims, CWIP, etc.
written off  11.46  2.92  Provision/ Loss on Assets sold or written off (Net)  -  85.09  Technical Assistance Fees  80.94  103.45  Exchange Fluctuation (net)  1,433.97  -  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims, CWIP, Stores etc.
170.21  574.39  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Consumption: a) Stores, Spares and Consumables  2,086.37  1,717.88  b) Packages & Drum Sheets  558.23  421.30   2,644.60  2,139.18  Power & Fuel  31,995.65  17,845.30  Less : Fuel from own production  24,450.94  13,485.22   7,544.71  4,360.08  Throughput, Processing & Blending Fees, Royalty and Other Charges  1,162.27  1,020.26  Octroi, Other Levies and Irrecoverable taxes  1,918.60  1,566.81  Repairs and Maintenance i) Plant & Equipment  3,778.12  3,136.90  ii) Buildings  354.88  337.89  iii) Others  570.19  526.50   4,703.19  4,001.29  Freight, Transportation Charges and Demurrage  14,750.90  14,459.14  Office Administration, Selling and Other Expenses (Note "29.1")  8,937.30  6,814.72  TOTAL  41,661.57  34,361.48  Less: Company's use of own Products and Crude  1,152.27  688.32  TOTAL (Net)  40,509.30  33,673.16  NOTE - 27: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Salaries, Wages, Bonus etc  7,867.49  8,156.65  Contribution to Provident & Other Funds  1,674.12  1,426.95  Voluntary Retirement Compensation  2.90  2.60  Staff Welfare Expenses  1,447.19  1,125.84  TOTAL  10,991.70  10,712.04  A.
Excludes J 438.84 crore (2021: H  421.12 crore) included in capital work in progress (construction period expenses - Note-2.2) /  intangible assets under development (Note - 3.1) and J 14.11 crore (2021: H 15.08 crore) included in CSR expenses (Note - 29.1).
B.
Contribution to Provident & Other Funds includes J 350.10 crore (2021: H  132.02 crore) towards Provident Fund contribution for  interest shortfall/ losses on portfolio basis.
C. Disclosure in compliance with Indian Accounting Standard-19 on “Employee Benefits” is given in Note - 35.
NOTE - 28: FINANCE COSTS (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Interest Payments on Financial items: Working Capital Loans:  Bank Borrowings  633.32  540.54   Bonds/ Debentures  513.58  434.03   Others  596.10  787.52   1,743.00  1,762.09  Other Loans:  Bank Borrowings  158.60  133.26   Bonds/Debentures  566.26  564.58   Lease Obligations  763.08  765.92   1,487.94  1,463.76   Unwinding of Discount  113.54  88.61   Others  4.15  6.17   3,348.63  3,320.63  Interest Payments on Non Financial items:  Unwinding of Discount  0.10  0.14   Others A  451.16  581.15   451.26  581.29   3,799.89  3,901.92  Other Borrowing Cost B  16.44  19.08  Applicable Net (Gain) / Loss on Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation C  1,012.77  (827.08) TOTAL  4,829.10  3,093.92  A.
Mainly includes:  Interest expenses u/s 234B and 234C of Income Tax Act  88.75  135.19   Interest on Kandla Port Trust Rental Liability  159.88  131.61  B.
Mainly pertains to franking charges, service charges & other indirect expenses on  borrowings.
C. In FY 2020-21, adjustment carried out for the year's exchange gain to the extent  of unrealised exchange losses treated as finance cost in earlier years in line with  Ind AS 23.
Total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial  liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss     3,348.63  3,320.63 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 262 263 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 31: DISTRIBUTIONS MADE AND PROPOSED (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Cash Dividends on Equity Shares declared: Final Dividend Final Dividend during the current year for previous financial year: J 1.50 per share   (2021: NIL per share for earlier financial year)  1,377.16  -  Interim Dividend  Total Interim Dividend for current financial year: J 9.00 per share (2021: H  10.50 per share).
8,262.93 9,640.09 Total 9,640.09 9,640.09 Proposed Dividend on Equity Shares Final proposed Dividend for current financial year: J 3.60 per share (2021: H  1.50 per share)  3,305.17  1,377.16  Notes  1.
233118456 shares held under IOC Share Trust (Shareholder) of face value J 233.12 crore (2021: H  233.12 crore) have been netted  off from paid up capital.
IOC Share Trust have waived its right to receive the Dividend w.e.f.
March 02, 2020 and therefore  dividend on shares held by IOC Share Trust was neither proposed in the last year nor during the current financial year.
2.
The Company has also incurred expenses on distribution of final dividend amounting to J  0.24 crore (2021: H Nil) and on  distribution of interim Dividend amounting to J 0.48 crore (2021: H 0.38 crore) which have been debited to equity.
3.
The Board of Directors recommended issue of bonus equity shares in the ratio of one equity share of H 10 each for every two  equity shares of H 10 each held, subject to approval by the members of the Company.
The bonus shares, upon approval, will  also be eligible for the final dividend.
The Board of Directors also recommended the final dividend of H 3.60 per equity share  having face value of H 10/- (pre-bonus), which translates into final dividend of H 2.40 per equity share having face value of   H 10/- (post-bonus) for FY 2021-22, subject to approval by the members of the Company.
NOTE – 32: EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders by the  weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the profit/ (loss) and number of shares used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:   Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Profit/ (Loss) attributable to Equity holders (H in crore)  24,184.10  21,836.04  Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share  (Basic) 9181040466 9181040466 Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share  (Diluted) 9181040466 9181040466 Earnings Per Share (Basic) (H) 26.34 23.78 Earnings Per Share (Diluted) (H) 26.34 23.78 Face value per share (H) 10.00 10.00 Note   1.
233118456 Equity Shares held under IOC Share Trust of face value J 233.12 crore have been excluded from weighted average  number of Equity Shares and EPS is computed accordingly.
NOTE - 29.1 : OFFICE, ADMINISTRATION, SELLING AND OTHER EXPENSES (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Security Force Expenses  883.46  855.22  Sales Promotion Expenses (Including Commission)  1,279.92  339.07  Handling Expenses  687.01  611.52  Exploration & Production Cost  61.56  68.40  Fair value Loss on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  205.71  -  Loss on Sale/ Write-off of Investments (Net)  4.73  -  Expenses on Construction Contracts  6.64  3.65  Expenses on CSR Activities (Refer Note - 45)  323.14  342.00  Training Expenses  76.65  59.15  Legal Expenses / Payment To Consultants  212.33  151.30  Notices and Announcement  10.74  9.73  Advertisement and Publicity  36.83  65.03  Pollution Control Expenses  85.74  108.60  Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  587.97  1,056.60  Miscellaneous Expenses  485.77  399.91  TOTAL  8,937.30  6,814.72  A.
Includes J 927.64 crore (2021: NIL) towards cost of free hot plates and first refill against LPG connections provided during   FY 2021-22 under PMUY (Ujjwala 2) scheme.
NOTE - 30: OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans      A  (769.98)  22.42  Fair value of Equity Instruments  6,998.94  4,668.51   6,228.96  4,690.93  Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  193.79  (5.64) Fair value of Equity Instruments  (65.23)  (199.12)  128.56  (204.76) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  (167.12)  97.24  Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  36.52  22.47   (130.60)  119.71  Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  42.10  (16.33) Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  (9.19)  (5.66)  32.91  (21.99) TOTAL  6,259.83  4,583.89  A.
Includes contribution in respect of services prior to 01.01.2007 of employees on-roll as on that date based on actuarial  certificate (Refer Note 35).
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 264 265 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 33A : INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES  (Contd...) Name Country of  Incorporation/  Principal place of  business Equity Interest March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 IndianOil Total Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IOC Phinergy Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Paradeep Plastic Park Limited ## India 49.00%  -  @ Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under winding  up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator since 2018.
@@ Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is  pending with Official Liquidator since 2006.
# Indian Oil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the  other JV partner viz.
Ruchi Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit  the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time frame for completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC  was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the same is still pending and IndianOil name is appearing  on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP.
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate Insolvency Resolution  Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited, and for the purpose of carrying out the process of liquidation, M/s.
Sanatan has been inducted as the new partner in place of Indian Oil.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s Ruchi  for completing formalities relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP.
## IndianOil has made equity contribution towards acquisition of 49% stake in Paradeep Plastic Park Limited during the month  of January 2022.
Notes: 1.
Ujjwala Plus Foundation is a joint venture of IOCL, BPCL and HPCL with fund contribution in the ratio of 50:25:25 which was  incorporated as a company limited by guarantee (without share capital) under section 8 of Companies Act, 2013.
2.
A subsidiary of the company, Indian Catalyst Private Limited has been dissolved and name has been struck off from the ROC’s  register on 25th October 2021.
NOTE – 33B: INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS Name Particulars Principle place of  Business Proportion of Ownership Interest March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 E&P BLOCKS 1) AA-ONN-2001/2 A India 20.00% 20.00% 2) GK-OSN-2009/1 B India 25.00% 25.00% 3) AAP-ON-94/1 India 29.03% 29.03% 4) AA/ONDSF/UMATARA/2018 India 90.00% 90.00% 5) BK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 6) NK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 7)  FARSI BLOCK IRAN C Iran 40.00% 40.00% 8) SHAKTHI GABON Gabon 50.00% 50.00% 9) AREA 95-96 D Libya 25.00% 25.00% 10) RJ-ONHP-2017/8 India 30.00% 30.00% 11) AA-ONHP-2017/12 India 20.00% 20.00% Name Country of  Incorporation/  Principal place of  business Equity Interest March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Subsidiaries Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited India 51.89% 51.89% IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lanka 75.12% 75.12% IOC Middle East FZE UAE 100.00% 100.00% IOC Sweden AB Sweden 100.00% 100.00% IOCL (USA) Inc. USA 100.00% 100.00% IndOil Global B.V. Netherlands 100.00% 100.00% IOCL Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100.00% 100.00% Associates Petronet LNG Limited India 12.50% 12.50% AVI-OIL India Private Limited India 25.00% 25.00% Petronet India Limited @ India 18.00% 18.00% Petronet VK Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Joint Ventures Indian Oiltanking Limited India 49.38% 49.38% Lubrizol India Private Limited India 26.00% 26.00% Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Green Gas Limited India 49.98% 49.97% IndianOil Skytanking Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Nigeria 25.00% 25.00% Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility (Private) Limited India 37.00% 37.00% Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% NPCIL IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited India 26.00% 26.00% GSPL India Transco Limited India 26.00% 26.00% GSPL India Gasnet Limited India 26.00% 26.00% IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited India 25.00% 25.00% Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IndianOil LNG Private Limited India 45.00% 50.00% Petronet CI LTD @@ India 26.00% 26.00% IndianOil Ruchi Bio Fuels LLP # India 50.00% 50.00% Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited India 29.67% 29.67% Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited India 20.00% 20.00% IHB Limited India 50.00% 50.00% NOTE – 33A: INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES The list of Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates are as under- NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 266 267 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 34B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING  FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN  RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER: Dirok field of Pre-NELP block AAP-ON-94/1 commenced production of gas and condensate on August 26, 2017 having producing  life cycle of 20 years.
Indian Oil has the participating interest of 29.03% in the block.
Net Proved Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas: Assets March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million Cubic  Meter A) Proved Reserves  Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Beginning 26.15 1030.54 35.81 1137.21  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production 8.42 100.64 9.66 106.67  Balance 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  Total Proved Reserves 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  B) Proved developed Reserves  Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Beginning 26.15 1030.54 35.81 1137.21  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production 8.42 100.64 9.66 106.67  Balance 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  Total Proved developed Reserves 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  Details March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million Cubic  Meter A) Proved Reserves  India 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  Total Proved Reserves 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  Net Proved Reserves & Proved developed Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas  on geographical Basis: (J in crore) Name March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 (v) Cash Flow - Net Cash from/(used) in operating activities  (29.10)  (35.85) - Net Cash from/(used) in investing activities  (0.52)  (2.47) NOTE–34A: DISCLOSURE RELATING EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES  (Contd...) NOTE - 33B : INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS (Contd...) A.
Exploration License expired on October 7, 2015.
Consortium has requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  Appraisal phase, however vide letter dated March 6, 2019, it was opined to carry out Exploration activity instead of Appraisal  work.
Accordingly, Operator requested DGH for extension of exploration period.
Response from DGH is awaited.
B.
Appraisal period has expired on February 1,2022.
Consortium had requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  extension.
Response from DGH is awaited.
C. The project ’s exploration period ended on 24 June 2009.
The contractual arrangement with respect to development of the  block could not be finalized so far with Iranian Authorities.
D. Under Force Majeure since May 20, 2014 IOCL share of Financial position of Joint Operations are as under: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Assets  717.91  650.24  PPE ( including Producing Properties)  141.28  157.13  Capital Work in Progress  340.91  271.19  Intangible Asset under Development (Net of Provisions)  205.23  204.91  Other Assets (Net of Provisions)  30.49  17.01  Liabilities & Provisions  122.32  122.38  Liabilities  112.15  112.71  Provisions  10.17  9.67  Income  126.39  101.08  Sale of Products (Net of Own Consumption)  126.68  100.58  Other Income  (0.29)  0.50  Expenditure  59.80  67.78  Expenditure written off (incl exploration related)  -  45.64  Other Costs (incl exploration related)  59.80  22.14  Net Results  66.59  33.30  Commitments  715.14  766.60  Contingent Liabilities  -  -  Note: Including financial position of relinquished blocks.
NOTE – 34A: DISCLOSURE RELATING EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (J in crore) Name March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 (i) Assets  211.00  211.02  - Intangible Assets under Development  205.23  204.91  - Capital Work in Progress  0.70  0.79  - Other Assets  5.07  5.32  (ii) Liabilities  84.84  86.30  - Provisions  2.31  2.31  - Other Liabilities  82.53  83.99  (iii) Income  -  0.19  - Other Income  -  0.19  (iv) Expenses  27.89  68.71  - Exploration expenditure written off  -  45.64  - Other exploration costs  27.89  23.07  In compliance of Ind-AS-106 on “Exploration and Evaluation of Mineral Resources”, the disclosure of financial information relating  to activity associated with the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources (crude oil, natural gas etc.)
are as under: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 268 269 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd...)  Resettlement Benefit:  Resettlement benefit is allowed to employees to facilitate them to settle down upon retirement.
Ex gratia Scheme:  Ex-gratia is payable to those employees who have retired before January 01, 2007 and either not drawing pension from  superannuation benefit fund (as they superannuated prior to January 01, 1987, i.e.
introduction of superannuation benefit  fund scheme in IndianOil) or are drawing a pension lower than the ex gratia fixed for a Grade (in such case differential amount  between pension and ex gratia is paid).
Employees Compensation for injuries arising out of or during the course of employment:  Employees covered under the Employees’ Compensation Act, 1923 who meet with accidents, while on duty, are eligible for  compensation under the said Act.
Besides, a lumpsum monetary compensation equivalent to 100 months’ Pay (BP+DA) is  paid in the event of an employee suffering death or permanent total disablement due to an accident arising out of and in the  course of his employment.
Felicitation of Retired Employees:  The company has a scheme to felicitate retired employees on attaining different age milestones with a token lumpsum amount.
* As per the Guidelines of Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) on Pay Revision, the Company can contribute upto 30%  of Basic Pay plus Dearness Allowance of its employees towards superannuation schemes comprising of Provident Fund,  Gratuity, Post-Retirement Medical Benefits (PRMBF) and Pension.
In this regard, the total charge to Statement of Profit and  Loss/ Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) was earlier limited to 30% of Basic pay plus Dearness Allowance and balance  amount funded was shown as recoverable advance from the company’s contribution towards superannuation benefits  including pension schemes.
During the current year, these recoverable advances have been adjusted against the contribution  for the year including additional contribution to PRMBF towards services prior to 01.01.2007.
C. Other Long-Term Employee Benefits - General Description        Leave Encashment:  Each employee is entitled to get 8 earned leaves for each completed quarter of service.
Encashment of earned leaves is  allowed during service leaving a minimum balance of 15 days subject to maximum accumulation of 300 days.
In addition,  each employee is entitled to get 5 sick leaves (in lieu of 10 Half Pay Leave) at the end of every six months.
The entire  accumulation of sick leave is permitted for encashment only at the time of retirement.
DPE had clarified earlier that sick leave  cannot be encashed, though Earned Leave (EL) and Half Pay Leave (HPL) could be considered for encashment on retirement  subject to the overall limit of 300 days.
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOP&NG) has advised the company to  comply with the said DPE Guidelines.
However, in compliance to the DPE guidelines of 1987 which had allowed framing of  own leave rules within broad parameters laid down by the Government and keeping in view operational complications and  service agreements the company had requested concerned authorities to reconsider the matter.
Subsequently, based on the  recommendation of the 3rd Pay Revision Committee, DPE in its guidelines on pay revision, effective from January 01, 2017  has inter-alia allowed CPSEs to frame their own leave rules considering operational necessities and subject to conditions set  therein.
The requisite conditions are fully met by the company.
Long Service Award:  On completion of specified period of service with the company and also at the time of retirement, employees are rewarded with  amounts based on the length of service completed.
It is a mode of recognizing long years of loyalty and faithful service in line  with Bureau of Public Enterprises (currently DPE) advice vide its DO No.
7(3)/79-BPE (GM.I) dated February 14, 1983.
On receipt  of communication from MoPNG advising us that the issue of Long Service Award has been made into an audit para in the Annual  Report of CAG of 2019, the Corporation has been clarifying its position to MoP&NG individually as well as on industry basis as  to how Long Service Awards are not in the nature of Bonus or Ex-gratia or honorarium and is emanating from a settlement with  the unions under the Industrial Dispute Act as well as with the approval of the Board in line with the DPE’s advice of 1983.
The  matter is being pursued with MOP&NG for resolution.
Pending this the provision is in line with Board approved policy.
The amount provided during the year on this account is J  17.37 crore (2021: H 18.49 crore) and the payments made to  employees during the year is J 26.58 crore (2021: H 25.33 crore).
The actuarial liability of H 173.16 crore in this respect as on  March 31, 2022 is included under “Provision for Employees Benefit” in “Note 18 – Provisions”.
NOTE - 34B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING  FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN  RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER: (Contd...) Frequency      The Proved and Proved & Developed reserves mentioned above are the provisional numbers based on the estimate provided by  the operator.
For the purpose of estimation of Proved and Proved Developed reserves, Deterministic method has been used by the  operator.
The annual revision of Reserve Estimates is based on the yearly exploratory and development activities and results thereof.
NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Disclosures in compliance with Ind-As 19 on “Employee Benefits” is as under: A.
Defined Contribution Plans- General Description          Employee Pension Scheme (EPS-95) *  During the year, the company has recognised J 30.27 crore (2021: H 32.68 crore) as contribution to EPS-95 in the Statement  of Profit and Loss/ CWIP (included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses  in Note-2.2).
Pension Scheme *  During the year, the company has recognised J 514.19 crore (2021: H 449.83 crore) towards Defined Contributory Employees  Pension Scheme (including contribution in corporate National Pension System) in the Statement of Profit and Loss/ CWIP  (included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2).
B.
Defined Benefit Plans- General Description  Provident Fund: *  The Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund are remitted to the three separate provident fund trusts established for  this purpose based on a fixed percentage of the eligible employee’s salary and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Shortfall of net income of trust below Government specified minimum rate of return, if any, and loss to the trust due to its  investments turning stressed are being made good by the Company.
Actuarial valuation was carried out in this regard and   H 350.10 crore (2021: H 132.02 crore) has been provided by the company towards interest shortfall/ losses of PF trusts.
Gratuity: *   Each employee rendering continuous service of 5 years or more is entitled to receive gratuity amount based on completed  tenure of service subject to maximum of H 0.20 crore at the time of separation from the company.
Besides, the ceiling of  gratuity increases by 25% whenever IDA rises by 50% with reference to January 01, 2017.
Post Retirement Medical Benefit Facility (PRMBF): *  PRMBF provides medical coverage to retired employees and their eligible dependant family members.
During the year, the Company has contributed H 767.13 crore in respect of services prior to 01.01.2007 for employees on-roll  as on that date based on actuarial certificate and as approved by Board.
The contribution to the extent of H 643.89 crore has  been adjusted in Other Comprehensive Income against amount shown as recoverable advance towards PRMB trust in earlier  years.
Details March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million Cubic  Meter B) Proved developed Reserves  India 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  Total Proved developed Reserves 17.73 929.90 26.15 1030.54  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 270 271 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (iii) Reconciliation of Fair Value of Plan Assets and Defined Benefit Obligation (iv) Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss/ Construction Period Expenses (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at  the end of the year  18,367.42  2,648.57  6,925.80  -  -  -   17,381.66  2,742.90  6,286.70  -  -  -  Defined Benefit Obligation  at the end of the year (Net of  Interest Shortfall)  18,069.96  2,655.33  7,045.20  118.90  255.36  467.25   17,244.54  2,739.16  6,527.75  127.26  236.23  486.39  Amount not recognised in  the Balance Sheet (as per  para 64 of Ind-As 19)  297.46  -  -  -  -  -   137.12  -  -  -  -  -  Net Liability/ (Assets)  recognised in the Balance  Sheet  -  6.76  119.40  118.90  255.36  467.25   262.26  (3.74)  241.05  127.26  236.23  486.39  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Current Service Cost  490.17  47.72  273.35  18.37  -  2.02   505.09  51.44  252.04  19.22  -  1.74  Past Service Cost  (262.26)  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Net Interest Cost  -  (0.26)  16.66  8.78  14.95  33.61   -  29.66  37.09  9.17  14.90  30.37  Contribution by Employees  -  -  (1.24)  -  -  -   -  -  (1.22)  -  -  -  Expected Contribution for  NPA  612.36  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on  obligations due to Future  Interest Shortfall  -  -  -  -  -  -   132.02  -  -  -  -  -  Expenses for the year  840.27  47.46  288.77  27.15  14.95  35.63   637.11  81.10  287.91  28.39  14.90  32.11  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Expected Contribution for  NPA  612.36  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Re-measurement (Return  on plan assets excluding  Interest Income)  160.34  19.27  77.56  -  -  -   87.06  13.77  50.49  -  -  -  Fair value of plan assets at  the end of the year  18,367.42  2,648.57  6,925.80  -  -  -   17,381.66  2,742.90  6,286.70  -  -  -  NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd...)NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd...)  Leave Fare Allowance (LFA) / Leave Travel Concession (LTC):  LFA/ LTC is allowed once in a period of two calendar years (viz.
two yearly block).
D. The summarised position of various Defined Benefit Plans recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss, Balance Sheet and  Other Comprehensive Income are as under:   (Figures given in Unbold & Italic Font in the table are for previous year)  (i) Reconciliation of Balance of Defined Benefit Plans (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Defined Obligation at the  beginning  17,506.80  2,739.16  6,527.75  127.26  236.23  486.39   16,128.32  2,777.24  5,897.04  133.63  246.72  444.67  Current Service Cost  490.17  47.72  273.35  18.37  -  2.02   505.09  51.44  252.04  19.22  -  1.74  Past Service Cost  (262.26)  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Interest Cost  1,377.51  189.00  451.07  8.78  14.95  33.61   1,345.15  190.52  401.59  9.17  14.90  30.37  Contribution by employees  1,072.12  -  -  -  -  -   1,187.14  -  -  -  -  -  Net Liability transferred In /  (Out)  187.49  -  -  -  -  -   103.53  -  -  -  -  -  Benefits paid  (2,301.87)  (299.09)  (275.53)  (8.33)  (36.40)  (16.63)  (1,894.45)  (305.52)  (228.48)  (6.89)  (36.40)  (13.70) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on  obligations  -  (21.46)  68.56  (27.18)  40.58  (38.14)  132.02  25.48  205.56  (27.87)  11.01  23.31  Defined Benefit Obligation  at the end of the year  18,069.96  2,655.33  7,045.20  118.90  255.36  467.25   17,506.80  2,739.16  6,527.75  127.26  236.23  486.39  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at  the beginning of the year  17,381.66  2,742.90  6,286.70  -  -  -   16,048.14  2,344.86  5,352.41  -  -  -  Interest Income  1,377.51  189.26  434.41  -  -  -   1,345.15  160.86  364.50  -  -  -  Contribution by employer  490.17  (3.77)  401.42  -  -  -   505.09  528.93  746.56  -  -  -  Contribution by employees  1,072.12  -  1.24  -  -  -   1,187.14  -  1.22  -  -  -  Net Liability transferred In /  (Out)  187.49  -  -  -  -  -   103.53  -  -  -  -  -  Benefit paid  (2,301.87)  (299.09)  (275.53)  -  -  -   (1,894.45)  (305.52)  (228.48)  -  -  -  Provision for NPA  (612.36)  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  (ii) Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 272 273 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (vii) Sensitivity on Actuarial Assumptions: (viii) Investment details: (J in crore) Loss / (Gain) for: Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Change in Discounting Rate Increase by 1%  -  (250.30)  (292.72)  (15.11)  (9.45)  (42.61)  -  (202.94)  (986.91)  (16.16)  (9.17)  (47.09) Decrease by 1%  -  164.66  355.38  19.08  10.32  51.84   -  239.79  1,322.26  20.45  10.03  57.68  Change in Salary Escalation Increase by 1%  -  (9.92)  -  -  -  -   -  57.41  -  -  -  -  Decrease by 1%  -  (117.43)  -  -  -  -   -  (64.02)  -  -  -  -  Change in Inflation Rate Increase by 1%  -  -  831.05  -  -  -   -  -  790.95  -  -  -  Decrease by 1%  -  -  (677.28)  -  -  -   -  -  (640.81)  -  -  -  Provident Fund Gratuity PRMS Funded Funded Funded Investment with Insurer  - 99.60% 85.51%  - 99.54% 88.07% Self managed investments 100.00% 0.40% 14.49% 100.00% 0.46% 11.93%  Details of the investment pattern for the above mentioned funded obligations are as under: Provident Fund Gratuity* PRMS* Funded Funded Funded Government Securities (Central & State) 51.19% 55.57% 15.85% 50.77% 42.84% 21.22% Investment in Equity / Mutual Funds 7.97% 1.09% 16.66% 7.84% 2.83% 0.00% Investment in Debentures / Securities 38.30% 41.29% 67.49% 39.32% 52.12% 78.20% Other approved investments (incl.
Cash) 2.54% 2.05% 0.00% 2.06% 2.21% 0.58%  * Pending receipt of investment pattern from LIC for current year, pattern above pertains to self managed funds & funds  managed by other insurers and the actual investment pattern after considering the details from LIC shall vary.
NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd...) (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Actuarial (gain)/ loss on  Obligations  - Due to change in  Demographic assumptions  -  (3.40)  (1.79)  1.71  -  (11.82)  -  -  653.45  -  5.05  69.18  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on  Obligations  - Due to change in Financial  assumptions  -  (87.52)  (562.39)  (7.28)  (6.39)  (24.09)  -  (8.82)  (115.06)  (0.73)  (2.81)  (4.18) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on  Obligations   - Due to Experience  -  69.46  632.74  (21.61)  46.97  (2.23)  -  34.30  (332.83)  (27.14)  8.77  (41.69) Re-measurement (Return  on plan assets excluding  Interest Income)  -  19.27  77.56  -  -  -   -  13.77  50.49  -  -  -  Amount recoverable from  employee adjusted in OCI  -  (200.56)  (643.89)  -  -  -   -  (13.68)  209.33  -  -  -  Net Loss / (Gain) recognized  in OCI  -  159.83  634.89  (27.18)  40.58  (38.14)  -  25.39  (54.26)  (27.87)  11.01  23.31  (vi) Major Actuarial Assumptions Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non- Funded Non- Funded Discount rate 7.27% 7.31% 7.40% 7.31% 6.96% 7.40% 6.90% 6.90% 6.91% 6.90% 6.33% 6.91% Salary escalation  - 8.00%  -  -  -  -   - 8.00%  -  -  -  -  Inflation  -  - 8.00% 6.00%  -  - 8.00% 6.00% Average Expected Future  Service/ Obligation (Years)  -  17  30  17  9  30   -  16  30  16  9  30  Mortality rate during  employment  -  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban   -  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2006-08) Ult   In case of funded schemes above, expected return on plan assets is same as that of respective discount rate.
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and  other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
(v) Amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 274 275 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd...)  Amount Recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss or Carrying Amount of another asset (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying  value as at April  01, 2021 Net Additions  to RoU Asset  during the  Year** Depreciation  Recognized  During the Year Net Carrying  value as at  March 31, 2022 Leasehold Land  4,358.89  (354.56)  83.94  3,920.39 Buildings Roads etc.
346.38  16.11  23.12  339.37 Plant & Equipment  3,636.08  (46.30)  219.29  3,370.49 Transport Equipments  1,007.56  1,493.84  806.57 1,694.83 Railway Sidings  0.10  0.03  0.09  0.04 Total 9,349.01 1,109.12 1,133.01 9,325.12 (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying  value as at April  1, 2020 Net Additions  to RoU Asset  during the  Year** Depreciation  Recognized  During the Year Net Carrying  value as at  March 31, 2021 Leasehold Land  4,182.54  478.28  301.93  4,358.89  Buildings Roads etc.
94.62  281.77  30.01  346.38  Plant & Equipment  3,887.62  16.91  268.45  3,636.08  Transport Equipments  945.53  662.01  599.98  1,007.56  Railway Sidings  0.11  -  0.01  0.10  Total 9,110.42 1,438.97 1,200.38 9,349.01 (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Depreciation recognized  1,133.01  1,200.38  Interest on lease liabilities  792.79  794.35  Expenses relating to short-term leases (leases more than 30  days but less than 12 months)*  1,597.90  1,829.44  Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets, excluding  short-term leases of Low-value assets  29.11  13.56  Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of  lease liabilities  9,781.93  8,955.04  Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets - As Rental income from Operating Lease  23.29  22.64  - As Finance income from Finance Lease of RoU Asset  0.28  23.57  0.13  22.77  Total cash outflow for leases  3,056.14  2,333.56  Additions to ROU during the year  1,109.12  1,438.97  Net Carrying Amount of ROU at the end the year  9,325.12  9,349.01  Others including Disputed, Leave & License, Reversal of excess  liability of previous year, exchange fluctuation on lease liability etc.
279.80  172.92   *Includes Leases for which agreement are yet to be entered or due for renewal.
The details of ROU Asset included in PPE (Note 2) held as lessee by class of underlying asset (excluding those covered in  Investment property) are presented below :-  2021-22  2020-21  ** Additions to RoU Asset during the year is net of RoU Assets given on Sublease or modifications and cancellations during the year, if any.
Further, it  includes the impact of reclassification of site preparation cost to Building, Plant & Equipment etc in line with the EAC opinion (Refer Note-49).
Its asset  class wise details have been shown under Note 2: Property, Plant and Equipment.
(ix) The following payments are expected projections to the defined benefit plan in future years: (J in crore) Cash Flow Projection from  the Fund/ Employer Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Within next 12 Months  321.16  275.84  8.32 30.21 25.35  188.83  235.73  8.38 36.74 22.89 Between 1 to 5 Years  943.21  1,186.18  26.19 94.49 109.88  1,117.71  1,010.80  28.69 109.65 106.51 Between 6 to 10 Years  1,046.90  1,656.40  32.45 68.49 166.28  1,110.33  1,391.30  34.38 72.48 162.23 NOTE – 36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES A.
Leases     (a) As Lessee  The Company has entered into various material lease arrangements (including in substance lease arrangements) such  as lands and buildings for the purpose of its plants, facilities, offices, retail outlet etc., storage tankages facility for storing  petroleum products, time charter arrangements for coastal transportation of crude and petroleum products, transportation  agreement for dedicated tank trucks for road transportation of petroleum products, handling arrangement with CFA for  providing dedicated storage facility and handling lubes, supply of utilities like Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen and Water, and  port facilities among others.
There are no significant sale and lease back transactions and lease agreements entered by the Company do not contain any  material restrictions or covenants imposed by the lessor upto the current reporting period.
Details of significant leases entered by the Company (including in substance leases) are as under;  1.
BOOT Agreement in respect of Tankages facility at Paradip for a period of 15 years.
Lessor will transfer ownership to IOCL  after 15 years at Nil value.
2.
BOOT Agreement in respect of Water Intake facility at Paradip for a period of 25 years.
Lessor will transfer ownership to  IOCL after 25 years at H 0.01 crore.
3.
Leasehold lands from government for the purpose of plants, facilities and offices for the period 30 to 90 years.
4.
Agreements with vessel owners for hiring of vessels for various tenures, these are classified as Transport Equipments.
5.
BOO Agreement for supply of oxygen and nitrogen at Panipat Refinery.
The land is owned by IOCL and the plant is being  operated by contractor for supply of oxygen and nitrogen to IOCL.
6.
BOO Agreement for leasing of Nitrogen & Hydrogen Plant at Paradip for 15 years.
7.
BOOT Agreement for leasing of Quality Control Lab at Paradip for 10 years.
Lessor will transfer the Assets after 10 years  at H 0.01 crore.
8.
Arrangements with Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited related to port facilities at Mundra for a period of 25  years and 11 months.
9.
Arrangement for lease of land for operating Retail Outlets for sale of Petroleum products, setting up terminals/Bottling  plant/Lube Blending plant for storing petroleum products/bottling LPG/Manufacturing Lubes respectively.
10.
CFA handling arrangement with CFAs for providing dedicated storage facility for handling lubes.
11.
Arrangements with Tank truck operators for providing dedicated tank trucks for transportation of company’s petroleum  products.
12.
Arrangements for dedicated time charter vessels for coastal transportation of Company’s petroleum products.
13.
Arrangement for dedicated storage tanks for storing Company’s petroleum products at various locations.
14.
Arrangement for using hookup facilities for supply of gas to its city gas station in Rewa District with Reliance Gas Pipeline  Limited for a period of 15 years.
NOTE - 35 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED ON MARCH 31, 2022  (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 276 277 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    6.
The Company has entered into lease agreement for sourcing e-locks from various vendors for a period of 3 years  (with an option to extend at the option of IOCL) at rate ranging from H 1050-1300/month and for 1 vendor H 2450/ month.
As at March 31, 2022, 6215 no’s are yet to be supplied.
However, the same are low value items.
7.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies for land for 1 Retail Outlet  at Vizag for a period of 20 years at an monthly rental of H 20000/- with an increment of 10% in every 3 years.
The  possession of land is not given and the matter is pending in the court.
8.
The Company has entered into centralised lease agreement with M/s Trimble for rent payment of H 373/month for  VTS software for POL trucks customised to IOCL requirement for a period of 5 years.
As at March 31, 2022 total 601  Nos are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
9.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with M/s Geovista, M/s Rosevmerta for VTS software of LPG trucks  for a period of 5 years at a rental ranging from H 103-300/month.
As at March 31, 2022 lease a total of 5392 nos.
of  VTS are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
10.
The Company has amended the lease agreement entered with Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited, for  leasing 120 acres of additional developed land at Mundra Port, up to February 16, 2031, for storage facility.
Lease will  commence when the land is developed by the provider and the rights for same is transferred to IOCL.
(b) As Lessor  (i)  Operating Lease         The lease rentals recognized as income in these statements as per the rentals stated in the respective agreements: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Less than one year  84.67  61.53  One to two years  73.86  56.38  Two to three year  70.96  45.23  Three to four years  44.03  40.61  Four to five years  2.86  13.78  More than five years  0.44  1.22  Total  276.82  218.75  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Lease rentals recognized as income during the year  157.59  105.33  - Variable Lease  59.06  48.52  - Others  98.53  56.81     These relate to Land/Buildings subleased for non fuel business, storage tankage facilities for petroleum products, Leave  and License model, machinery and office equipments given on lease.
Asset class wise details have been presented under  Note 2: Property, Plant and Equipments.
Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd...)NOTE - 36 : COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd...)  As per requirement of the standard, maturity analysis of Lease Liabilities have been shown separately from the maturity  analysis of other financial liabilities under Liquidity Risk-Note 40: Financial Instruments & Risk Factors.
Details of items of future cash outflows which the Company is exposed as lessee but are not reflected in the measurement  of lease liabilities are as under;  (i)  Variable Lease Payments    Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are to be included in the measurement of lease liability  although not paid at the commencement date.
As per general industry practice, the Company incurs various variable  lease payments which are not based any index or rate (variable based on kms covered or % of sales etc..) and are  recognized in profit or loss and not included in the measurement of lease liability.
Details of some of the arrangements  entered by the Company which contain variable lease payments are as under;    1.
Transportation arrangement based on number of kms covered for dedicated tank trucks with different operators for  road transportation of petroleum, petrochemical and gas products.
2.
Leases of Land of Retail Outlets based on Sales volume.
3.
Rent for storage tanks for petroleum products on per day basis.
4.
Payment of VTS software and VSAT equipment based on performance of equipment.
(ii) Extension and Termination Options        The Company lease arrangements includes extension options only to provide operational flexibility.
Company assesses  at every lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options and further reassesses  whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances  within its control.
However, where Company has the sole discretion to extend the contract such lease term is included  for the purpose of calculation of lease liabilities.
The Company has the sole discretion to terminate the lease in case of lease agreement for Retail Outlets.
However,  Company is reasonably certain not to exercise the option in view of significant improvement and prominent importance  of Retail to the entity’s operations.
Accordingly, such lease term without any effect of termination is considered for the  purpose of calculation of lease liabilities.
(iii) Residual Value Guarantees    The Company have entered into various BOOT agreements wherein at the end of lease term the leased assets will be  transferred to the company at Nominal value which has no significant impact on measurement of lease liabilities.
(iv) Committed leases which are yet to commence    1.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of oxygen and nitrogen gas to IOCL  Ethylene Glycol Project at Paradip Refinery for a period of 20 years.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction  of the plant.
Lease will commence once plant is commissioned.
2.
The Company has entered into lease agreement for hiring of one time charter vessels for a period of 2 years to be  commenced in the month of April 2022.
3.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Hydrogen and Nitrogen gas to Barauni  Refinery for a period of 20 years.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence  once plant is commissioned.
4.
The Company has paid Advance Upfront Premium of H 71.89 crore to CIDCO for land for 3 Retail outlets at Mumbai  for the period of 60 years.
The agreement is yet to be executed and therefore the amount is lying as Capital Advance  and shall form part of ROU Assets once lease is commenced.
5.
The Company has paid Advance Upfront Premium of H 13.42 crore to MSRDC for land for 6 Retail outlets at  Aurangabad and Nagpur for the period of 30 years.
The agreement is yet to be executed and therefore the amount  is lying as Capital Advance and shall form part of ROU Assets once lease is commenced.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 278 279 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 B.
Contingent Liabilities   B.1 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt  Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt amounting to J 8,441.64 crore (2021: H 8,069.65 crore) are as under:  B.1.1 J 23.66 crore (2021: H 49.15 crore) being the demands raised by the Central Excise /Customs/ Service Tax Authorities  including interest of J 6.67 crore (2021: H 22.43 crore.)
B.1.2 J 40.21 crore (2021: H 42.81 crore) in respect of demands for Entry Tax from State Governments including interest of   J 8.62  crore (2021: H 8.61 crore).
B.1.3 J 1,839.5 crore (2021: H 2,033.87 crore) being the demands raised by the VAT/ Sales Tax Authorities including interest of  J 7,86.26 crore (2021: H 848.96 crore).
B.1.4 J 2,266.47 crore (2021: H 1,812.86 crore) in respect of Income Tax demands including interest of J 113.34 crore (2021:   H 80.15 crore).
B.1.5 J 3,893.39 crore (2021: H 3,837.68 crore) including J 3,306.36 crore (2021: H 3,150.9 crore) on account of Projects for  which suits have been filed in the Courts or cases are lying with Arbitrator.
This includes interest of J 86.59 crore (2021:   H 110.53 crore).
B.1.6 J 378.41 crore (2021: H 293.28 crore) in respect of other claims including interest of J 41.44 crore (2021: H 25.22 crore).
The Company has not considered those disputed demands/claims as contingent liabilities, for which, the outflow of resources  has been considered as remote.
Contingent liabilities in respect of joint operations are disclosed in Note 33B.
B.2 Guarantees excluding Financial Guarantees      B.2.1 The Company has issued Corporate Guarantee in favour of three beneficiaries i.e.
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela  (Republic), The Corporation Venezolana del Petroleo S.A. and PeTroCarabobo S.A., on behalf of Indoil Netherlands B.V.,  Netherlands (an associate Company) to fulfill the associate Company’s future obligations of payment of signature bonus /  equity contribution / loan to the beneficiaries.
The total amount sanctioned by the Board of Directors is USD 424 million.
The  estimated amount of such obligation (net of amount paid) is J 2,776.77 crore - USD 366.34 million (2021: H 2,678.71 crore –  USD 366.37 million).
B.2.2 The Company has entered into Master Guarantee Agreement, on behalf of its subsidiaries viz.
Indoil Global B.V. and  Indoil Montney Ltd. for all of its payments and performance obligations under the various Project Agreements entered by  the subsidiaries with PETRONAS Carigali Canada B.V. and Progress Energy Canada Ltd. (now renamed as Petronas Energy  Canada Ltd.).
The total amount sanctioned by the Board of Directors is CAD 3,924.76 million.
The estimated amount of such  obligation (net of amount paid) is J  4,336.93 crore – CAD 716.83 million (2021: H 4,332.44 crore - CAD 746.55 million).
The  sanctioned amount was reduced by CAD 1,462.00 million due to winding down of LNG Plant during 2017.
B.2.3 The Company has issued Corporate Guarantee, on behalf of IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL), to the  extent of obligations of later company under Performance Bank Guarantee facility provided to IOAGPL by State Bank of  India, Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Indian Bank, IndusInd Bank, Jammu and Kashmir Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank.
The  Company’s share of such obligation is estimated at J 3,533.46 crore (2021: H 3,533.46 crore).
B.2.4 The Company has issued Parent Company Guarantee in favor of Abu Dabhi National Oil Company, on behalf of Urja  Bharat Pte.
Ltd., Singapore (a joint venture company of Company’s subsidiary i.e.
IOCL Singapore Pte Ltd) to fulfill the joint  venture Company’s future obligations of payment and performance of Minimum Work Programme.
The total amount  sanctioned by the Board of Directors is USD 89.7 Million.
The estimated amount of such obligation (net of amount paid) is   J 395.66 crore - USD 52.20 million (2021: H 418.22 crore - USD 57.20 million).
NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd...)  (ii) Finance Lease        The Company has entered into the following material finance lease arrangements:    (i)  The Company has entered into Lease Agreement with Indian Railways in respect of BTPN Tank Wagons for a  minimum period of 20 years.
The lease rentals from the date of formation of rake are @ 16% for the first 10 years and  thereafter at the nominal rate of 1% of the cost.
(ii) The Company has subleased Telematics Equipments to its Fleet Customers.
IOCL has classified the sub lease as a  finance lease, because the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
(iii) The Company has entered into sublease arrangement of Office Space to PCRA for a period of 3 years.
The same has  been classified as finance lease as the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
(iv) The Company has entered into arrangement with Chandigarh administration for subleasing LPG Godowns to LPG  Distributors for a period of 15 years.
The same has been classified as finance lease as the sub-lease is for the whole  of the remaining term of the head lease.
(v) The Company has entered into a lease agreement with Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited in which the Company  has leased out land for one time upfront payment of H 16.65 crore    (vi) The Company has subleased certain Office Premises to IHB Limited.
Lease income from lease contracts in which the Company acts as a lessor is as below:- (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Selling Profit & Loss  0.58  0.13  Finance income on the net investment in the lease  0.28  0.13  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Less than one year  2.61  2.30  One to two years  0.85  1.55  Two to three year  -  0.48  Three to four years  -  -  Four to five years  -  -  More than five years  -  -  Total Undiscounted Lease Payment  3.46  4.33  Less: Unearned finance Income  0.12  0.27  Net Investment in Finance Lease as on date  3.34  4.06  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Gross Investments in Finance Lease  123.96  120.51  Less: Unearned Finance Income  0.12  0.27  Less: Finance Income Received  40.68  40.36  Less: Minimum Lease payment received  79.82  75.82  Net Investment in Finance Lease as on Date  3.34  4.06  Opening Net Investment in Finance Lease  4.06 65.77 Add: New Leases added during the year  3.08  4.44  Less: PV of Minimum Lease payment received during the year  3.80  1.41  Less: Adjustment during the year  -  64.74  Closing Net Investment in Finance Lease 3.34 4.06    Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 280 281 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 1 Sales of Products/ Services  2,471.97  1,660.29  [Includes sales to Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited J 2,318.72 crore  (2021: H 1,447.50 crore) ] 2 Interest received  0.01  -  [Includes interest received from Lanka IOC PLC J 0.01 crore (2021:Nil )] 3 Other Operating Revenue / Other Income  1,012.20  606.08  [Includes Other Operating Revenue / Other Income from IOCL Singapore Pte.
Limited J 757.99 crore (2021: H 297.69 crore) and IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands  J 109.50 crore (2021: H 234.12 crore)] 4 Purchase of Products  55,665.94  38,964.08  [Includes Purchase of Products from Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited   J 55,665.94 crore (2021: H 38,964.08 crore)] 5 Purchase of Raw Materials/ Others  1,538.01  1,556.66  [Includes Purchase of Raw Materials/Others from Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited J 1,537.65 crore (2021: H 859.58 crore) and IndOil Global  B.V., Netherlands J  0.36 crore (2021: H 694.57 crore)] 6 Expenses Paid/ (Recovered) (Net)  (9.44)  (12.22) [Includes Expenses Paid to/(Recovered) from Chennai Petroleum Corporation  Limited J (10.11) crore (2021: H (15.46) crore) and Lanka IOC PLC J 0.56 crore  (2021: H 2.09 crore)] 7 Investments made/ (sold) during the year (Incl Advance for Investment)  1,877.73  (5.32) [Includes Investment made/ (reduction in share capital) in Indian Catalyst Private  Limited- Nil (2021: H (6.45) crore), IOCL Singapore Pte.
Limited J  1,876.52 crore  (2021:Nil ) and IOC Sweden AB J  1.21 crore (2021: H 1.13 crore)] 8 Purchase/ (Sale)/ Acquisition of Fixed Assets (Incl.
CWIP/ Leases)  20.55  19.96  [Includes Purchase/ (Sale)/ Acquisition of Fixed Assets incl.
CWIP/ Leases from  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited J 20.55 crore (2021: H  19.96 crore)] 9 Provisions made/ (write back) during the year  285.60  68.13  [Includes Provision made/ (written back) in IOC Sweden AB J  290.33 crore  (2021:Nil ) and IOCL (USA) INC.- Nil (2021: H 68.12 crore)] 10 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans  1,955.04  1,169.88  [Includes Outstanding Receivables from Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  J 1,893.58 crore (2021: H 1,083.35 crore)] 11 Outstanding Payables (Incl Lease Obligation)  445.97  386.74  [Includes Outstanding payable to Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited   J 420.01 crore (2021: H 348.51 crore)] 12 Investments in Subsidiaries as on date  16,596.86  15,010.13  13 Guarantees Financial Guarantees  3,536.19  5,270.99  [Includes Financial Guarantees given to IndOil Montney Limited J 3,536.19 crore   (2021: H 3,369.92 crore) and IOCL Singapore Pte.
Limited- Nil (2021: H  1,901.07 crore)] Other than Financial Guarantees  4,336.93  4,332.44  [Includes Parent Company Guarantees for other than debt obligation given to  IndOil Montney Limited J 4,336.93 crore (2021: H 4,332.44 crore)] NOTE – 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...)  Notes:   1)  Transactions in excess of 10% of the total related party transactions for each type has been disclosed above.
2)  In case of Subsidiary Companies constituted/acquired during the year, transactions w.e.f.
date of constitution / acquisition  are disclosed.
3)  In case of Subsidiary Companies which have been closed/divested during the year, transactions up to the date of closure  / disinvestment only are disclosed.
B.
The following transactions were carried out with Subsidiary Companies/Entities in the ordinary course of business:B.3 Other money for which the Company is Contingently Liable  B.3.1 Pending decision of the Government, no liability could be determined and provided for in respect of additional  compensation, if any, payable to the land owners and the Government for certain lands acquired.
B.3.2 As on 31.03.2022 company has contingent liability of J 236.85 crore (2021: Nil) towards custom duty for capital goods  imported under Manufacturing & Other operation in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) scheme against which company has  executed and utilised bond amounting to J 710.54 crore (2021: Nil) which represents three times of the custom duty.
The firm  liability towards such custom duty shall be contingent upon conditions (Rate of custom duty/decision of company to export,  etc) at the time of filing of ex-bond bill of entry at the time of disposal.
C. Commitments  C.1 Capital Commitments  Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account and thus not provided for is J 53,030.96 crore  (2021: H 30,538.25 crore) inclusive of taxes.
C.2 Other Commitments  Estimated amount of commitments in respect of CY-ONHP-2018/1 block is J  146.83 crore (2021: H 141.64 crore).
Commitments  in respect of Joint Operations are disclosed in Note 33B.
D. Contingent assets (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 a In respect of M/s Khazana Projects and Industries (P) Ltd. for the amount  of risk & cost claim along with 15% supervision charges admitted by the  Arbitrator in favour of the Company.
A  -  3.85  b In respect of M/s Metro Builders for the amount of risk & cost claim along  with 15% supervision charges, price discount and interest admitted by the  Arbitrator in favour of the Company.
-  7.16  c In respect of interest claim  19.50  -  Total  19.50  11.01  A.
The disclosure as a contingent asset has been discontinued, based on reassessment of the realisablity of this claim in  the current year.
NOTE – 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES As required by Ind-AS -24 “Related Party Disclosures”, are given below : 1.
Relationship with Entities A.
Details of Subsidiary Companies/ Entities and their Subsidiaries:  1) Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited 7) IOCL (USA) INC.  2) IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited 8) IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands  3) Lanka IOC PLC 9) IOCL Singapore Pte.
Limited  4) IOC Middle East FZE 10) IndOil Montney Limited  5) Indian Catalyst Private Limited# 11) IOC Cyprus Limited##  6) IOC Sweden AB 12) IOCL Exploration and Production Oman Limited  # Company dissolved and name of the company has been struck off from the ROC’s Register on 25th October 2021  ## Company dissolved on 14th December 2020 and name of the company has been struck off on 22nd July 2021 NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 282 283 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 37 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...) other JV partner viz.
Ruchi Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will  exit the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time frame for completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with  ROC was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the same is still pending and IndianOil name  is appearing on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP.
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate Insolvency  Resolution Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited, and for the purpose of carrying out the process  of liquidation, M/s Sanatan has been inducted as the new partner in place of Indian Oil.
All necessary documents have been  provided to M/s Ruchi for completing formalities relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP.
## IndianOil has made equity contribution towards acquisition of 49% stake in Paradeep Plastic Park Limited during the  month of January 2022.
C) The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business: (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 1 Sales of Products / Services  3,602.87  1,992.70  [Includes sales to IndianOil Petronas Private Limited J 2,422.77 crore (2021:   H 1,325.16 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited J  698.88 crore  (2021: H 322.55 crore)] 2 Interest received  280.97  93.17  [Includes interest received from IndianOil LNG Private Limited J 273.04 crore  (2021: H 81.88 crore) and Petronet VK Limited J  6.94 crore (2021: H 9.64 crore)] 3 Other Operating Revenue/ Other Income  565.19  528.79  [Includes Other Operating Revenue / Other Income from Petronet LNG Limited  J 202.61 crore (2021: H 287.33 crore), IndianOil Petronas Private Limited   J 148.15 crore (2021: H 141.52 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited  J 145.32 crore (2021: H 57.19 crore)] 4 Purchase of Products  8,177.66  4,474.71  [Includes Purchase of Products from Petronet LNG Limited J  7,344.38 crore  (2021: H 3,963.39 crore)] 5 Purchase of Raw Materials/ Others  7,325.55  3,980.99  [Includes Purchase of Raw Materials/Others from Petronet LNG Limited J  4,755.41  crore (2021: H  3,638.75 crore) and Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. J  2,156.52 crore (2021:Nil )] 6 Interest paid  229.62  249.97  [Includes Interest paid to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited J 229.62 crore (2021:  H 249.97 crore)] 7 Expenses Paid/ (Recovered) (Net)  774.29  686.22  [Includes Expenses Paid to/ (Recovered) from IndianOil Petronas Private Limited   J 379.21 crore (2021: H 355.17 crore), IndianOil Sky Tanking Private Limited   J 162.86 crore (2021: H 141.42 crore) and Indian Oiltanking Ltd J  106.61 crore  (2021: H 110.15 crore)] 8 Investments made/ (sold) during the year (Incl.
Advance for Investment)  1,901.05  4,629.97  [Includes Investment made in IndianOil LNG Private Limited Nil  (2021: H 3,012.00 crore), IHB Limited J  700.00 crore (2021: H 776.50 crore),  Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited J  497.65 crore (2021: H 380.68 crore),  Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited J  267.50 crore (2021: H 50.00 crore)and  Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited J 198.94 crore (2021: H 163.88 crore)] 9 Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition of Fixed Assets (Incl.
CWIP/ Leases)  (2.05)  (1.56) [Includes Purchase/ (Sale)/ Acquisition/ (Recovered) of Fixed Assets incl.
CWIP/  Leases from IHB Limited J  (2.06) crore (2021: H (1.34) crore) and IOT Engineering  & Construction Services Limited- Nil (2021: H (0.28) crore)] 10 Provisions made/ (write back) during the year  144.19  5.93  [Includes Provision made / (written back) in INDOIL Netherlands B.V.- Nil (2021:   H 7.03 crore), Petronet VK Limited J  110.90 crore (2021:Nil ) and GSPL India  Transco Limited J 33.29 crore (2021:Nil )] NOTE - 37 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...) 2.
Relationship with Entities A) Details of Joint Ventures (JV) / Associate Entities to IOCL & its subsidiaries  1 ) Indian Oiltanking Limited 22) Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited  2 ) Lubrizol India Private Limited 23) Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited  3 ) Petronet VK Limited 24) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited  4 ) IndianOil Petronas Private Limited 25) Ujjwala Plus Foundation  5 ) Avi-Oil India Private Limited 26) IHB Limited  6 ) Petronet India Limited * 27) IndianOil Total Private Limited  7 ) Petronet LNG Limited 28) IOC Phinergy Private Limited  8 ) Green Gas Limited 29) Paradeep Plastic Park Limited ##  9) Petronet CI Limited @ 30) Indian Additives Limited  10) IndianOil LNG Private Limited 31) National Aromatics & Petrochemicals Corporation Limited  11) IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited 32) Taas India PTE Limited  12) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited 33) Vankor India PTE Limited  13) Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited 34) Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals Limited  14) Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited 35) Falcon Oil & Gas B.V.  15) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP # 36) Urja Bharat PTE Limited  16) NPCIL- IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited 37) Beximco IOC Petroleum and Energy Limited  17) GSPL India Transco Limited 38) INDOIL Netherlands B.V.  18) GSPL India Gasnet Limited 39) LLC Bharat Energy Office (Incorporated on 18.10.2021)  19) IndianOil - Adani Gas Private Limited 40) Trinco Petroleum Terminal (Private) Limited (Incorporated   20) Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited  on 24.12.2021)  21) Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited 41) Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Limited  B) Details of Subsidiaries to JV’s of IOCL  1) IOT Engineering & Construction Services Limited 9) IOT VITO MUHENDISLIK INSAAT VE TAAHUT A.S.    2) Stewarts and Lloyds of India Limited 10) IndianOil Skytanking Delhi Private Limited   3) IOT Infrastructures Private Limited 11) IOT Biogas Private Limited   4) IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited 12) Petronet LNG Foundation   5) PT IOT EPC Indonesia 13) Petronet Energy Limited    6) IOT Engineering Projects Limited 14) KazakhstanCaspishelf India Private Limited   7) JSC KazakhstanCaspishelf 15) Petronet LNG Singapore PTE.
Limited (Incorporated on   8) Indian Oiltanking Engineering & Construction   07.03.2022)    Services LLC Oman    * Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under  winding up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator since 2018.
@ Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is  pending with Official Liquidator since 2006.
# IndianOil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 284 285 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company  Secretary B.
Independent Directors C. Government Nominee  Directors 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya 1) Shri Rajendra Arlekar   (upto 10.07.2021) 1) Smt Indrani Kaushal (upto  24.09.2021) 2) Shri G. K. Satish (upto 31.08.2021) 2) Ms. Lata Usendi 2) Dr. Navneet Mohan Kothari 3) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar 3) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 4) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra 4) Dr. Ashutosh Pant (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 5) Shri S. K. Gupta 5) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker  (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 6) Shri V. Satish Kumar (w.e.f.
28.10.2021) 6) Shri Prasenjit Biswas (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 7) Shri D.S.
Nanaware (w.e.f.
28.12.2021) 7) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 8) Ms. Sukla Mistry (w.e.f.
07.02.2022) 8) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 9) Shri Sujoy Choudhury (w.e.f.
23.02.2022) 10) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani 4) Key Managerial Personnel D) Details relating to the personnel referred to in Item No.
4A & 4B above:  March 31, 2022 (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short- Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company  Secretary 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.61  0.08  0.01  0.70  -  0.01  2) Shri G. K. Satish  0.38  0.73  0.10  1.21  -  -  3) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.71  0.08  -  0.79  -  0.01  4) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra  0.70  0.08  0.10  0.88  -  0.01  5) Shri S. K. Gupta  0.64  0.08  -  0.72  -  -  6) Shri V. Satish Kumar  0.19  0.03  -  0.22  -  0.06  7) Shri D.S.
Nanaware  0.13  0.02  -  0.15  -  0.02  8) Ms. Sukla Mistry  0.07  0.01  0.01  0.09  -  0.09  9) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  0.05  0.01  -  0.06  -  0.13  10) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani  0.62  0.07  -  0.69  -  0.18  B.
Independent Directors 1) Shri Rajendra Arlekar  -  -  -  -  0.03  -  2) Ms Lata Usendi  -  -  -  -  0.10  -  3) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  -  -  -  -  0.02  -  4) Dr. Ashutosh Pant  -  -  -  -  0.02  -  5) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker  -  -  -  -  0.03  -  6) Shri Prasenjit Biswas  -  -  -  -  0.03  -  7) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray  -  -  -  -  0.03  -  8) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan  -  -  -  -  0.03  -  TOTAL  4.10  1.19  0.22  5.51  0.30  0.51  NOTE - 37 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...)NOTE - 37 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...) (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 11 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans  1,846.50  1,381.09  [Includes Outstanding Receivables/ Loans from IndianOil LNG Private Limited   J 826.53 crore (2021: H 500.66 crore), Petronet LNG Limited J  273.62 crore (2021:  H 297.15 crore), Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited J  164.04 crore (2021: H 158.23 crore)  and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited J  207.63 crore (2021: H 99.19 crore)] 12 Outstanding Payables (Incl.
Lease Obligation)  2,930.74  3,149.20  [Includes Outstanding payable to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited J  2,137.88  crore (2021: H 2,321.57 crore) and Petronet LNG Limited J  612.67 crore (2021:   H 533.88 crore)] 13 Investments in JV/ Associates as on date  9,521.37  8,656.54  14 Guarantees Financial Guarantees  134.54  217.51  [Includes Financial Guarantees given to Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited   J 134.54 crore (2021: H 217.51 crore)] Other than Financial Guarantees  6,705.89  6,630.39  [Includes Parent Company Guarantees for other than debt obligation given to  IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited J 3,533.46 crore (2021: H 3,533.46 crore) and  INDOIL Netherlands B.V. J  2,776.77 crore (2021: H 2,678.71 crore)] Notes:   1)  Transactions in excess of 10% of the total related party transactions for each type has been disclosed above.
2)  In case of Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Companies constituted/acquired during the period, transactions w.e.f.
date of  constitution / acquisition is disclosed.
3)  In case of Joint Venture / Subsidiary Companies which have been closed/divested during the period, transactions up to  the date of closure / disinvestment only are disclosed.
3.
Government related entities where significant transactions carried out  Apart from transactions reported above, the Company has transactions with other Government related entities, which  includes but not limited to the following:  Name of Government: Government of India (Central and State Government)  Nature of Transactions:  •  Sale of Products and Services  •  Purchase of Products  •  Purchase of Raw Materials  •  Handling and Freight Charges, etc.
These transactions are conducted in the ordinary course of the Company’s business on terms comparable to those with other  entities that are not Government-related.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 286 287 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 6) Trusts   Transactions with Post Employment Benefit Plans managed through separate trust (J in crore) Name of the Trust Post  Employment   Benefit Plan March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Contribution  by employer  Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  Contribution  by employer  Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable) 1 IOCL (Refinery Division)  Employees Provident Fund* Provident Fund  232.59  111.08  237.27  82.50  2 Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (Assam Oil Division) Employees  Provident Fund Provident Fund  18.16  (17.12)  21.35  38.10  3 Provident Fund for the Employees  of Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (Marketing Division)* Provident Fund  239.42  95.47  246.47  168.24  4 IOCL Employees  Superannuation Benefit Fund Pension Scheme  191.13  (50.64)  164.06  33.42  5 IOCL Employees Post  Retirement Medical Benefit Fund Post Retirement   Medical Scheme  401.42  (43.14)  746.56  (241.05) 6 IOCL Employees Group Gratuity  Trust Gratuity  (3.77)  115.16  528.93  3.74   *Includes J 254.21 crore (2021: H 335.00 crore) advance given to PF Trust in FY 2020-21 as per acturial valuation  towards interest shortfall/losses against which provision for probable contingencies to the tune of J 363.10 crore   (2021: H 262.26 crore) has been provided for in books (Refer Note 35).
NOTE - 37 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...) (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short- Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company  Secretary 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.45  0.09  0.08  0.62  -  0.01  2) Shri G. K. Satish  0.47  0.09  0.16  0.72  -  -  3) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.55  0.09  0.08  0.72  -  0.01  4) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra  0.46  0.08  0.08  0.62  -  0.02  5) Shri S. K. Gupta  0.47  0.08  0.08  0.63  -  -  6) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani  0.47  0.08  0.06  0.61  -  0.19  B.
Independent Directors 1) Shri Rajendra Arlekar  -  -  -  -  0.10  -  2) Ms Lata Usendi  -  -  -  -  0.07  -  TOTAL  2.87  0.51  0.54  3.92  0.17  0.23   March 31, 2021  Notes:        1)  This does not include the impact of provision made on actuarial valuation of retirement benefit/ long term Schemes  and provision made during the period towards Post Retirement Benefits as the same are not separately ascertainable for  individual directors.
2)  There were no Share Based Employee Benefits given to KMPs during the period.
3)  In addition, whole-time Directors are also allowed the use of Corporation’s car for private purposes up to 12,000 kms.
per annum on a payment of H 2,000/- per mensem.
5) Relatives of Key Managerial Personnel and nature of relation with whom transactions are undertaken  during the year:         1)  Shri Siddharth Vaidya (Senior Production Engineer, Indian Oil Corporation Limited): Son of Key Managerial Personnel    Details relating to the parties referred above: (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 1 Remuneration Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya ^  0.20  0.15  2 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya ^  -  -     ^ Remuneration and Loan balances for relative of KMP is reported for the period of tenure of KMP.
NOTE - 37 : RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd...) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 288 289 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 38: SEGMENT INFORMATION (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Total Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Total Segment Assets  2,85,134.91  26,330.35  12,777.21  3,24,242.47 2,48,983.84  21,734.13  9,209.79  2,79,927.76  Corporate Assets  Investments (Current and  Non Current)  57,786.64  48,619.41   Advances For Investments  778.00  22.63   Advance Tax  2,748.06  2,428.85   Loans  2,703.87  3,006.24   Derivative Asset  76.72  45.13   Finance Lease  Receivables  3.34  4.06  Total Assets  3,88,339.10 3,34,054.08  Segment Liabilities  1,19,629.58  945.22  2,468.56  1,23,043.36  1,03,058.05  847.13  2,045.35  1,05,950.53  Corporate Liabilities  Liability for Dividend  -  1,260.79   Provision For Taxation  611.39  797.85   Borrowings (Short Term  and Long Term)  1,10,798.50  94,413.00   Lease Obligations (Short  Term and Long Term)   8,664.32  7,914.49   Deferred Tax Liability  13,627.36  12,964.73   Derivative Liabiliies  307.81  252.65  Total Liabilities  2,57,052.74 2,23,554.04  Capital Employed Segment Wise  1,65,505.33  25,385.13  10,308.65  2,01,199.11  1,45,925.79  20,887.00  7,164.44  1,73,977.23  Corporate  (69,912.75)  (63,477.19) Total Capital Employed  1,31,286.36  1,10,500.04  Capital Expenditure  23,149.28  1,695.91  1,642.01  26,487.20  19,875.26  2,071.48  2,230.91  24,177.65  Depreciation and  Amortization  9,899.40  883.72  222.79  11,005.91  8,777.27  918.02  109.01  9,804.30  Other Information Geographical information Revenue from major products and services (J in crore) Revenue from external customers Non-current assets 2021-2022 2020-2021 2021-2022 2020-2021 India  6,95,290.11  4,98,109.51  1,94,758.83  1,79,040.95  Outside India  33,169.83  16,780.96  235.18  239.71  Total  7,28,459.94  5,14,890.47  1,94,994.01  1,79,280.66  (J in crore) 2021-2022 2020-2021 Motor Spirit (MS)  1,58,548.80  1,11,485.89  High Speed Diesel (HSD)  3,42,032.40  2,58,141.00  Superior Kerosene Oil (SKO)  6,669.75  4,376.53  Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)  93,492.18  64,124.29  Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF)  21,608.49  9,201.40  Others  1,06,108.32  67,561.36  Total External Revenue  7,28,459.94  5,14,890.47  NOTE - 38: SEGMENT INFORMATION (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Eliminations Total Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Eliminations Total Revenue  External Revenue  6,79,426.12 28,091.37 20,942.45  -  7,28,459.94  4,84,610.57  19,149.78  11,130.12  -  5,14,890.47   Inter-segment Revenue  17,573.65  38.02  79.61  (17,691.28) -  8,516.35  19.31  68.19  (8,603.85) - Total Revenue  6,96,999.77 28,129.39 21,022.06  (17,691.28)  7,28,459.94  4,93,126.92  19,169.09  11,198.31  (8,603.85)  5,14,890.47  Result  Segment Results excluding  Exchange Gain/ (Loss)  28,232.73  4,666.52  1,301.96  -  34,201.21  23,337.30  5,218.82  (146.03)  -  28,410.09   Segmental Exchange Gain/ (Loss)  (1,299.06)  18.94  26.51  -  (1,253.61)  516.51  (0.56)  23.09  -  539.04  Segment Results (Before Exceptional  Items)  26,933.67  4,685.46  1,328.47  -  32,947.60  23,853.81  5,218.26  (122.94)  -  28,949.13  Less: Unallocable Expenditure - Finance Cost  4,829.10  3,093.92  - Loss on Sale of Investments (Net)  4.73  -  - Impairment Loss on Financial Assets  - Pertaining to Investment  318.89  66.15  - Loss on sale and disposal of Assets  -  85.09  - Exchange Loss - (Net)  180.36  -  - Fair value Loss on Financial  instruments classified as FVTPL  205.71  -  Add: Unallocable Income - Interest and Dividend Income  4,187.35  3,001.15  - Profit on Sale of Investments (Net)  -  1.84  - Profit on sale and disposal of Assets  23.15  -  - Exchange Gain - (Net)  -  615.38  - Gain on Derivatives  68.00  140.87  - Fair value gain on Financial  instruments classified as FVTPL  -  205.56  - Other non operating income  45.76  46.88  Profit / (Loss) Before Tax  31,733.07  29,715.65  Less: Income Tax (including deferred tax)  7,548.97  7,879.61  Profit / (Loss) After Tax  24,184.10  21,836.04  Operating Segment Reporting as per Ind-AS 108 for the year ended March 31, 2022 is as under: 1.
The Company is engaged in the following operating segments:  a)  Sale of Petroleum Products  b)  Sale of Petrochemicals  c)  Other operating segment of the Corporation comprises; Gas, Oil & Gas Exploration Activities, Explosives & Cryogenic  Business and Wind Mill & Solar Power Generation.
Segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the nature of products and services and differing risks and returns.
2.
Segment Revenue comprises of the following:  a)  Turnover (Inclusive of Excise Duties)  b)  Net Claim/(Surrender) of SSC  c)  Subsidy / Grants received from Governments  d)  Other Operating Revenue           3.
Inter segment pricing are at Arm’s length basis 4.
There are no reportable geographical segments.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 290 291 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 39 : FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd...)  Note:        The management has assessed that fair values of Trade Receivables, Trade Payables, Cash and Cash Equivalents, Bank  Balances & Bank Deposits, Loans (incl.
Security Deposits) other than mentioned above, Short Term Borrowings (incl.
Current  Maturities of Long Term Borrowings), Floating Rate Borrowings, Lease Liabilities, Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current  Financial Assets & Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current Financial Liabilities approximate their carrying amounts.
METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS   The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values at the reporting date:  A.
Level 1 Hierarchy:    (i)  Quoted Equity Shares: Closing quoted price (unadjusted) in National Stock Exchange of India Limited    (ii) Quoted Government Securities: Closing published price (unadjusted) in Clearing Corporation of India Limited    (iii) Foreign Currency Bonds - US Dollars: Closing price (unadjusted) for the specific bond collected from active market  B.
Level 2 Hierarchy:    (i)  Derivative Instruments at FVTPL: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use  of market observable inputs.
(ii) Hedging Derivatives at FVTOCI: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use  of market observable inputs.
(iii) Loans to employees: Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit  risk and remaining maturities, adjusted for insignificant unobservable inputs specific to such loan like principal and  interest repayments are such that employee get more flexibility in repayment as per the respective loan schemes.
(iv) Non-Convertible Debentures, Foreign Currency Bonds - Singapore Dollars , Loan from Odisha Government and  USD 100 Mn Term Loan: Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms,  credit risk and remaining maturities (Excluding floating rate borrowings).
(v) Term Loans from Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB): Discounting future cash flows using rates currently  available for similar type of borrowings (OIDB Borrowing Rate) using exit model as per Ind AS 113.
C.  Level 3 Hierarchy:    (i)  Unquoted Equity Instruments: Fair values of the unquoted equity shares have been estimated using Market Approach  of valuation techniques with the help of external valuer.
Valuation as per this technique is determined by comparing  the company’s accounting ratios with another company’s of the same nature and size which are considered to be  significant to valuation, such as earnings, cash flow, book value, or sales of various business of the same nature.
The  probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s  estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity investments.
(ii) Non Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares, Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCDs) and Loan to Related  parties - Suntera: Fair value of Preference shares, CCDs and Loan to Suntera is estimated with the help of external  valuer by discounting future cash flows.
The valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in the  model, of which the significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in the tables below.
Management regularly  assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs and determines their  impact on the total fair value.
(iii) PMUY Loan: Fair value of PMUY loans is estimated by discounting future cash flows using approximate interest rates  applicable on loans given by Banks duly adjusted for significant use of unobservable inputs in estimating the cash  flows comprising of specific qualitative and quantitative factors like consumption pattern, assumption of subsidy   rate etc.
NOTE - 39: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT  I.
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s financial  instruments, along with the fair value measurement hierarchy: (J in crore) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at March 31,  2022 As at March 31,  2021 As at March 31,  2022 As at March 31,  2021 FINANCIAL ASSETS A.
Fair Value through Other Comprehensive  Income (FVTOCI): Quoted Equity Shares  19,145.62  12,213.69  19,145.62  12,213.69 Level 1 Unquoted Equity Instruments  926.22  855.52  926.22  855.52 Level 3 Quoted Government Securities  11,596.67  11,883.53  11,596.67  11,883.53 Level 1 Hedging Derivatives  Commodity forward contracts- Margin  Hedging  2.97  17.12  2.97  17.12 Level 2 Interest Rate Swap  53.15  5.35  53.15  5.35 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL): Non Convertible Redeemable Preference  Shares  599.33  600.00  599.33  600.00 Level 3 Compulsorily Convertible Debentures  3,650.74  3,875.66  3,650.74  3,875.66 Level 3 Loan to Related Party - Suntera Nigeria 205  Limited  141.02  121.51  141.02  121.51 Level 3 Derivative Instruments at fair value through  profit or loss   20.60  22.66  20.60  22.66 Level 2 C. Amortised Cost: Loans to employees  1,397.91  1,467.62  1,513.09  1,644.69 Level 2 PMUY Loan (Refer point 1 of Note-49 for  more details)  791.56  1,058.43  845.64  1,108.88 Level 3 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES A. Amortised Cost: Non-Convertible Debentures  14,408.49  15,908.35  14,663.62  15,922.52 Level 2 Term Loans from Oil Industry Development  Board (OIDB)  -  434.99  -  429.32 Level 2 Foreign Currency Bonds - US Dollars  8,232.81  10,228.00  8,450.17  11,349.88 Level 1 Foreign Currency Bonds - Singapore Dollars  -  2,174.76  -  2,268.32 Level 2 Loan from Odisha Government  1,621.07  1,291.34  1,511.85  1,303.89 Level 2 Fixed Rate Term Loan (USD 100 Mn)  757.98  731.15  725.96  731.06 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL): Derivative Instruments at fair value through  profit or loss   245.95  252.65  245.95  252.65 Level 2 C. Fair Value through Other Comprehensive  Income (FVTOCI): Hedging Derivatives  Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  42.26  -  42.26  - Level 2 Commodity forward contracts- Margin Hedging  19.60  -  19.60  - Level 2 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 292 293 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 39 : FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd...) Reconciliation of fair value measurement of Assets and Liabilities under Level 3 hierarchy of Fair Value  measurement:  (J in crore) FVTOCI Assets FVTPL Assets Description Unquoted  Equity Shares Non  Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares  Compulsorily  Convertible  Debentures  Loan to  Suntera Nigeria  205 Ltd. Balance as at March 31 2021  855.52  600.00  3,875.66  121.51  Addition  3.69  -  -  -  Fair Value Changes  67.01  (0.67)  (224.92)  15.06  Exchange Difference  -  -  -  4.45  Balance as at March 31 2022  926.22  599.33  3,650.74  141.02  II.
Disclosures relating to recognition of differences between the fair value at initial recognition and the  transaction price   In the following cases, the Company has not recognized gains/losses in profit or loss on initial recognition of financial assets/  financial liability, instead, such gains/losses are deferred and recognized as per the accounting policy mentioned below.
Financial Assets        1.
Loan to Employees         As per the terms of service, the Company has given long term loan to its employees at concessional interest rate.
Transaction price is not fair value because loans are not extended at market rates applicable to employees.
Since implied  benefit is on the basis of the services rendered by the employee, it is deferred and recognised as employee benefit  expense over the loan period.
2.
PMUY loan          The PMUY loan is the interest free loan given to PMUY beneficiaries towards cost of burner and 1st refill.
The loan is  interest free and therefore transaction price is not at fair value.
The difference between fair value and transaction price  is accumulated in Deferred expenses and amortized over the loan period on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit  and Loss.
Financial Liabilities        1.
Security Deposits          In case certain deposits payable to deceased employees under R2 option and security deposits received in relation to  some revenue expenses contracts, transaction price is not considered as fair value because deposits are interest free.
The  difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated in Deferred income and amortized over the tenure of  security deposit on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
NOTE - 39 : FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd...) Description Valuation  technique Significant  unobservable  Input Range  (weighted  average) Sensitivity of the  Input to Fair Value I Unquoted Equity  Instrument - Haldia  Petrochemicals  Limited   (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) Market  Approach  with equal  weights to  Revenue  Multiple  and EBITDA  Multiple Revenue  Multiple 31.03.22: 0.78x  - 0.82x (0.80x)  31.03.21: 1.02x -  1.06x (1.04x)  0.01x increase/(decrease) in Revenue  Multiple would result in increase/(decrease)  in fair value by: 31.03.22: H 5.2 crore/ H (5.2)  crore 31.03.21: H 4.5 crore/ H (4.5) crore EBITDA  Multiple 31.03.22: 5.8x  - 6.2x (6.0x)  31.03.21: 4.8x -  5.2x (5.0x) 0.1x increase/(decrease) in EBITDA Multiple  would result in increase/(decrease) in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H 6.6 crore/ H (6.5) crore  31.03.21: H 10.0 crore/ H (10.0) crore II Non Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares - Chennai  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited Income  Approach -  Present Value  Measurement Discount  Rate 31.03.22: 7.44%  - 9.44% (8.44%)  31.03.21: 4.63%  - 6.63% (5.63%) 0.5% increase/(decrease) in Discount Rate  would result in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H (6.8) crore/ H 7.2 crore  31.03.21: H (10.0) crore/ H 10.0 crore III Compulsorily  Convertible  Debentures -  IndianOil LNG  Private Limited Income  Approach -  Present Value  Measurement Discount  Rate CCDs -  31.03.22: 7.00%  - 9.00% (8.00%)  CCD - 1&2:  31.03.21: 4.54%  - 6.54% (5.54%) 0.5% increase/(decrease) in Discount Rate  would result in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H (30.31) crore/ H 30.72  crore 31.03.21: H (8.42) crore/ H 8.57 crore CCD-3:  31.03.22: N/A  31.03.21: 4.54%  - 6.54% (5.54%) 0.5% increase/(decrease) in Discount  Rate would result in (decrease)/ increase in fair value by: 31.03.22: N/A   31.03.21: H (10.17) crore/ H 10.34 crore CCD-4:  31.03.22: N/A  31.03.21: 4.66%  - 6.66% (5.66%) 0.5% increase/(decrease) in Discount  Rate would result in (decrease)/ increase in fair value by: 31.03.22: N/A   31.03.21: H (30.12) crore/ H 30.69 crore” IV Loan to Related  Party - Suntera  Nigeria 205 Limited Income  Approach -  Present Value  Measurement Discount  Rate 31.03.22: 15.5%  - 19.5% (17.5%)  31.03.21: 15.0% -  19.0% (17.0%) 1% increase/(decrease) in Discount Rate  would result in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H (4.5) crore/ H 4.5 crore  31.03.21: H (5.1) crore/ H 5.1 crore    The significant unobservable inputs used in fair value assessment categorised within Level 3 of the Fair Value Hierarchy  together with a quantitative sensitivity analysis as on March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 are shown below: Carrying Value (J in crore) As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021 Indian Gas Exchange Limited 5.85 - Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited 0.10 0.10 International Cooperative Petroleum Association, New York 0.02 0.02 Unquoted Equity Instruments carried at FVTOCI includes following investments for which sensitivity  disclosure is not disclosed: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 294 295 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) other price risk viz.
equity shares etc.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include Borrowings, Deposits, FVTOCI  investments and derivative financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post- retirement obligations, provisions, and other non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
1.
Interest Rate Risk    The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibiltiy that changes in interst rates will affect future cash flows  of a financial instrument, principally financial debt.
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest  rates relates primarily to the Company’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Company manages to maintian a mix between fixed and floating rates for rupee and foreign currency loans, based on  liquidity, availability of cost effective instruments and considering the market/ regulatory constraints etc.
The Company  also use interest rate swap contracts for managing the interest rate risk of floating interest rate debt.
As at March 31, 2022,  approximately 55% of the Company’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (March 31, 2021: 63%).
In 2017 Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) of UK, the regulator of the LIBOR rates, announced LIBOR benchmark will  be phased out after end of December 2021.
Subsequently, on 5th March 2021 ICE Benchmark Administrator (IBA), the  administrator of the LIBOR rates and FCA formally announced the extension of the last date of publication of USD  LIBOR for overnight, one, three, six and twelve month tenors from end of December 2021 to end of June 2023 to  accommodate easy transition of existing USD LIBOR based contracts to alternate benchmark.
However, the liquidity  of SOFR loans in ECB loan market started to develop only towards the fag end of the Year 2021.
The Company is not  expecting any material financial impact of transition from USD LIBOR to SOFR on its floating rate loans linked to USD  LIBOR and associated derivative contracts which are maturing beyond 30th June 2023.
The company’s exposure to LIBOR transition is only in respect of USD LIBOR as IndianOil’s entire foreign currency  borrowing is US Dollar denominated.
IndianOil has been exploring various strategies of transitioning its existing USD  LIBOR benchmarked loans into the alternate reference rate, viz., SOFR.
IndianOil is the first Corporate in India to tie-up  long term USD loan using SOFR as benchmark.
Further, IndianOil also went ahead of the curve and transitioned part of  existing LIBOR linked loan to SOFR benchmark during FY 2021-22 by refinancing the existing loan.
The Company has  initiated the process of discussion with the existing lenders of the loans for transition.
The table below gives information about financial instruments that have yet to transition to an alternative benchmark rate  as at March 31, 2022 : Particulars Balances subject to USD LIBOR (in J crore) 1.
Non-derivative Financial Assets Nil 2.
Non-derivative Financial Liabilities  a) Foreign Currency Loans 14,010.41 3.
Derivatives  a) Interest Rate Swap* 1,515.53    *Nominal Amount    The management is likely to complete the transition exercise of the existing USD LIBOR linked loans before 30th June 2023.
(J in crore) Particulars  Opening  Balance   Addition  During the  Year   Amortized  During the  Year   Adjusted  During the  Year  Closing  Balance 2021-22 Deferred Expenses (Refer Note 8) Loan to employees  658.57  210.60  51.25  -  817.92  PMUY Loan  376.50  98.97  4.32  273.21  Deferred Income (Refer Note 20) Security Deposits  4.50  -  0.80  -  3.70  2020-21 Deferred Expenses (Refer Note 8) Loan to employees  678.89  26.36  46.68  -  658.57  PMUY Loan  647.55  -  209.52  61.53  376.50  Deferred Income (Refer Note 20) Security Deposits  5.61  -  1.11  -  4.50     Reconciliation of deferred gains/losses yet to be recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss are as under: NOTE - 39 : FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd...) NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS Financial Risk Factors           The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise Borrowings, trade and other payables, security  deposits, employee liabilities and lease obligation.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s  operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations.
The Company’s principal financial assets include loans & advances,  trade and other receivables, short-term deposits and cash / cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Company  also holds FVTOCI investments and enters into derivative transactions.
The Company is exposed to a number of different financial risks arising from natural business exposures as well as its use of  financial instruments including market risk relating to interest rate, commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and equity  price, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Risk Management Commitee comprised of senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Company’s  senior management is supported by a Risk Management Compliance Board that advises on financial risks and the appropriate  financial risk governance framework for the Company.
The Risk Management Committee provides assurance to the Board that  the Company’s risks are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that risks are identified, measured and managed in  accordance with the Company’s policies, risk objectives and risk appetite.
The Company’s requirement of crude oil are managed through integrated function handled through its international trade and  optimization department.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the  appropriate skills, experience and supervision.
As per the Company’s policy, derivatives contracts are taken only to hedge the  various risks that the Company is exposed to and not for speculation purpose.
The Board of Directors oversee the risk management activities for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: A.
Market risk  Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in  market prices.
The major components of market risk are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 296 297 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Crude benchmark price difference/ refinery margin on the outstanding  commodity hedging position as on March 31, 2022: (J in crore) Particulars Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Margin Hedging +10% (30.27) +10% (2.88) Margin Hedging -10% 30.27 -10% 2.88   4.
Equity Price Risk    The Company’s investment in listed and non-listed equity securities, other than its investments in Joint Ventures/  Associates and Subsidiaries, are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the  investment securities.
At the reporting date, the exposure to unlisted equity securities at fair value was J  926.22 crore.
Sensitivity analysis of  these investments have been provided in Note 39.
The exposure to listed equity securities valued at fair value was J  19,145.62 crore.
An increase / decrease of 5% on  the NSE market index could have an impact of approximately J 957.28 crore on the OCI and equity attributable to the  Company.
These changes would not have an effect on profit or loss.
5.
Derivatives and Hedging  (i)  Classification of derivatives    The Company is exposed to certain market risks relating to its ongoing business operations as explained above.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments.
However, where derivatives  do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Information about  the derivatives used by the Company and outstanding as at the end of the financial year is provided below: In MMT Inventory March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 - Raw Materials 7.045 8.084 - Stock in Process 1.765 1.662 - Finished Products 5.048 4.947 - Stock in Trade 1.407 1.694    Due to variation in prices, the Company incurred total inventory gain/ (Loss) of J  31,007.36 crore during the current year  (2021: H 20,503.03 crore).
Category-wise quantitative data about commodity derivative transactions that are oustanding as at the end of the  financial year is given below: Quantity (in Lakhs bbls) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Margin Hedging Forward contracts  26.25  14.25  inventory hedging and crude oil price hedging through swaps, options and futures in the OTC market as well as domestic  exchanges to mitigate the risk within the approved limits.
The Company’s exposure of various inventories as at the end of the financial year is provided below: NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...)NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) Currency of Borrowings Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 INR +50 (50.11) +50 (37.74) US Dollar +50 (196.78) +50 (136.59) INR -50 50.11 -50 37.74  US Dollar -50 196.78 -50 136.59   2.
Foreign Currency Risk    Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes  in foreign exchange rates.
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to  the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency) and Borrowings.
The Company manages its foreign currency risk through combination of natural hedge, mandatory hedging and hedging  undertaken on occurence of pre-determined triggers.
The hedging is mostly undertaken through forward contracts.
The Company has outstanding forward contract of J  3,610.54 crore as at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: H Nil) which  has been undertaken to hedge its exposure to borrowings and other financial liabilities.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD/INR exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, the  impact on the Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including  non-designated foreign currency derivatives.
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other  currencies other than below is not material.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected, with all  other variables held constant, on floating rate borrowings is as follows: Currency Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Forward Contract - US Dollar +5% 180.53 +5% - -5% (180.53) -5% - Other Exposures - US Dollar +5% (4,119.05) +5% (3,274.30) -5% 4,119.05 -5% 3,274.30  Other Exposures - SGD +5% (114.73) +5% (111.40) -5% 114.73 -5% 111.40  Cross Currency - USD vs. SGD +5% (123.40) +5% (119.03) -5%  123.40 -5% 119.03  Cross Currency - USD vs. INR +5% (66.32) +5% (63.98) -5%  66.32 -5% 63.98     The effects of most exchange rate fluctuations are absorbed in business operating results which are offset by changing  cost competitiveness, lags in market adjustments to movements in rates to its other non-financial assets like inventory  etc.
For this reason, the total effect of exchange rate fluctuations is not identifiable separately in the Company’s   reported results.
3.
Commodity Price Risk    The Company is exposed to various commodity price related risk such as Refinery Margins i.e.
Differential between the  prices of petroleum products & crude oil, Crude Oil Price fluctuation on accounts of inventory valuation fluctuation and  crude oil imports etc.
As per approved risk management policy, the Company can undertake refinery margin hedging,  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 298 299 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22    Hedge Effectiveness               There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments as the terms of the foreign  exchange and commodity forward contracts match the terms of hedge items.
The Company has established a hedge  ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying risk of the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity  forward contracts are identical to the hedged risk components.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Company compares  the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments against the changes in fair value of the hedged items attributable  to the hedged risks.
In case of interest rate swaps, as the critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts and their  corresponding hedged items are similar, the company performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness and it is expected  that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged items will systematically  change in opposite direction in response to movements in the underlying interest rates.
Source of Hedge ineffetiveness    In case of commodity price risk, the Company has identified the following sources of ineffectiveness, which are not  expected to be material:    •  Differences in the timing of the cash flows of the hedged items and the hedging instruments    •  Different indexes linked to the hedged risk of the hedged items and hedging instruments    •  The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movements of the hedging instruments and   hedged items     •  Changes to the forecasted amount of cash flows of hedged items and hedging instruments    In case of foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, the main source of hedge ineffectiveness is the effect of the  counterparty and the company’s own credit risk on the fair value of hedge contracts, which is not reflected in the fair  value of the hedged items.
The effect of this is not expected to be material.
Disclosures of effects of Cash Flow Hedge Accounting     Hedging instruments              The Company is holding the following hedging instruments: (J in crore) As at March 31,2022 Maturity Less  than 1  month 1 to 3  months 3 to 6  months 6 to 12  months More  than 12  Months Total Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans Nominal amount - 1136.65 - - 2473.89 3610.54  Average forward rate (H) - 75.78 - - 82.46  Foreign exchange forward contracts- Crude/  Product Liabilities Nominal amount - - - - - - Average forward rate (H) - - - - - Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount - - - - 1515.53 1515.53  Commodity forward contracts- Margin  Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh bbls) - 8.50 11.00 6.75 - 26.25  Nominal amount - 130.32 110.42 45.35 - 286.09  Average forward rate ($ /bbl) - 20.23 13.24 8.86 - - NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Other Financial  Assets Other Financial  Liabilities Other Financial  Assets Other Financial  Liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedging  instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts-  Loans  -  -  -  -  Foreign Exchange currency swap  20.60  245.95  22.66  252.65  Derivatives designated as hedging  instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts-  Loans  -  42.26  -  -  Foreign exchange forward contracts-  Crude/ Product Liabilities  -  -  -  -  Interest Rate Swap  53.15  -  5.35  -  Commodity Forward Contracts -  Margin Hedging  2.97  19.60  17.12  -  NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...)  (ii) Hedging activities    The primary risks managed using derivative instruments are commodity price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
Commodity Price Risk    IndianOil buys crude and sells petroleum products linked to international benchmark prices and these benchmark prices do  not move in tandem.
This exposes IndianOil to the risk of variation in refining margins which is managed by margin hedging.
The risk of fall in refining margins of petroleum products in highly probable forecast sale transactions is hedged by  undertaking crack spread forward contracts.
The Company wants to protect the realization of margins and therefore to  mitigate this risk, the Company is taking these forward contracts to hedge the margin on highly probable forecast sale  in future.
Risk management activities are undertaken in OTC market i.e.
these are the bilateral contracts with registered  counterparties.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Foreign Currency Risk              The Company is exposed to various foreign currency risks as explained in A.2 above.
As per Company’s Foreign Currency  & Interest Rate Risk Management Policy , the Company is required to fully hedge the short term foreign currency  loans (other than revolving lines and PCFC loans) and at least 50% of the long term foreign currency loans based on   market conditions.
Apart from mandatory hedging of loans, the Company also undertakes foreign currency forward contracts for  the management of currency purchase for repayment of crude/ product liabilities based on market conditions and  requirements.
The above hedgings are undertaken through delivery based forward contracts.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest Rate Risk     The Company is exposed to interest rate risks on floating rate borrowings as explained in A.1 above.
Company hedges  interest rate risk by taking interest rate swaps as per company’s Interest Rate Risk Management Policy based on market  conditions.
The Company uses interest rate derivatives to hedge exposure to interest payments for floating rate  borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 300 301 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liablities Interest Rate  Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 Cash flow Hedge Reserve at  the beginning of the year - - - - 4.00 - 12.80 46.00  Total hedging gain/(loss)  recognised in OCI (42.26) (14.14) 3.35 (6.30) 47.80 5.35 (32.31) 75.18  Income tax on above (16.58) 3.56 1.31 1.59 18.76 (1.35) (12.68) (18.92) Ineffectiveness recognised  in profit or loss - - - - - - - - Line item in the statement  of profit or loss that  includes the recognized  ineffectiveness NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Amount reclassified from  OCI to profit or loss (42.26) (14.14) 3.35 (6.30) - - 1.45 119.55  Income tax on above (6.39) 3.56 0.51 1.59 - - 0.22 (30.09) Cash flow Hedge Reserve at  the end of the year (10.19) - 0.80 - 70.56 4.00 (33.86) 12.80  Line item in the statement  of profit or loss that  includes the reclassification  adjustments Other  Expenses Other  Income Other  Expenses Other  Income NA NA Revenue  from  Operations Revenue  from  Operations    The effect of the cash flow hedge in the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income is as follows: (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liablities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 Balance in Cash flow  hedge reserve as at  the end of the year for  continuing hedges (net  of tax) (10.19) - 0.80 - 70.56 4.00 (33.86) 12.80  Change in value of  the hedged items  used for measuring  ineffectiveness for the  period 42.26 14.14 (3.35) 6.30 (53.15) (5.35) 15.19 (136.67)    Hedge Items     The impact of the Hedged Items on the Balance Sheet is as follows: NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) (J in crore) As at March 31,2021 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to 3  months 3 to 6  months 6 to 12  months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Loans Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  -  -  Average forward rate (H)  -  -  -  -  -  Foreign exchange forward contracts-  Crude/ Product Liabilities Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  -  -  Average forward rate (H)  -  -  -  -  -  Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  1,438.43 1438.43  Commodity forward contracts-  Margin Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh bbls)  0.75  1.50  6.00  6.00  -  14.25  Nominal amount  (0.91)  (1.82 )  37.48  11.17  -  45.92  Average forward rate ($ /bbl)  (1.66)  (1.66)  8.55  2.55  - - NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...)    The impact of the hedging instruments on the Balance Sheet is as under: (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liablities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 March  31, 2022 March  31, 2021 Nominal amount 3610.54 - - - 1515.53 1438.43 286.09 45.92  Carrying amount (42.26) - - - 53.15 5.35 (16.63) 17.12  Line item in the Balance  Sheet that’s includes  Hedging Instruments Other Current Financial Assets / Other Current Financial Liabilities* Change in fair value  used for measuring  ineffectiveness for the  period - Gain (Loss) (42.26) (14.14) 3.35 (6.30) 53.15 5.35 (15.19) 136.67 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 302 303 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  The Company has given loans to PMUY (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) customers which are shown under Loans in Note-5.
PMUY loans are given to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families as per GOI scheme wherein free LPG connections are  issued by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) households.
As per the  scheme, OMCs are providing an option for interest free loan towards cost of burner and 1st refill to PMUY consumers which  is to be recovered from the subsidy amount payable to customer when such customers book refill.
In case of certain PMUY loans, the Company has determined that there is significant increase in the credit risk.
The Company  considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of the loan and whether there has been a significant increase in  credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
It considers past experience and time elapsed since the  last refill for determining probability of default on collective basis.
The Company has categorized the PMUY loans wherein  credit risk has increased significantly under various categories considering the likelihood of default based on time gap since  last refill.
ECL is provided @80% (2021: @80%) in case of time gap since last refill is more than 12 months but not exceeding  18 months, @90% (2021: @90%) in case of time gap is more than 18 months but not exceeding 24 months and @100%   (2021: @100%) for those consumers who have not taken any refill more than 24 months.
ECL is provided for the loans where  the refill is taken within last 12 months based on experience ratio of more than 12 months as above.
The PMUY loans are classified as credit impaired as on reporting date considering significant financial difficulty in case the  customer has not taken any refill from past 24 months (2021: 24 months).
In case of other financial assets, there are certain credit impaired cases mainly due to breach of contract arising due to default  or bankruptcy proceedings.
The movement in the loss allowance for impairment of financial assets at amortised cost during the year was as follows: (J in crore) 2021-22 Opening  Balance ECL created  during the  year ECL write  Back  ECL written off/  Reclassifications Closing  Balance A B C D (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected credit losses  11.45  221.40  -  -  232.85  Specific Provision  595.60  5.05  (431.25)  (6.45)  162.95  Total  607.05  226.45  (431.25)  (6.45)  395.80  Loans 12 Months ECL  327.04  -  (130.13)  -  196.91  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  196.31  -  (67.55)  -  128.76  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  555.66  112.36  (111.42)  -  556.60  Total  1,079.01  112.36  (309.10)  -  882.27  Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.40  0.02  -  -  1.42  Total  1.40  0.02  -  -  1.42  Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  71.56  -  (71.56)  -  -  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  189.02  35.32  (10.98)  (0.08)  213.28  Total  260.58  35.32  (82.54)  (0.08)  213.28  NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) B.
Credit risk  Trade Receivables  Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control  relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating  scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are  regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by Letters of Credit, Bank Guarantees or  other forms of credit insurance, wherever required.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients.
In addition, a large  number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively.
The Company  applies Simplified approach for providing the expected credit losses on Trade Receivables as per the accounting policy of  the company.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial  assets disclosed in Note 10.
The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its  customers are located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) (J in crore) Unbilled Not Due Less than  6 months Above 6  months to  1 year Above 1  year to 2  years Above 2  years to 3  years > 3 years Total Year ended March  31, 2022 Gross Carrying  amount   80.07  10,865.36  5,243.55  1,431.20  351.31  288.41  272.47  18,532.37  Expected loss rate 0.29% 0.28% 2.63% 2.64% 3.19% 4.07% 1.37% Expected credit  losses   (0.23)  (30.05)  (138.07)  (37.80)  (11.22)  (11.75)  (3.72)  (232.84)  Specific Provision  -  -  -  -  (0.98)  (0.32)  (161.66)  (162.96)  Carrying amount  79.84  10,835.31  5,105.48  1,393.40  339.11  276.34  107.09  18,136.57  Year ended March  31, 2021 Gross Carrying  amount   62.31  8,064.99  2,556.34  769.67  2,074.73  190.18  268.39  13,986.61  Expected loss rate 0.10% 0.10% 0.10% 0.10% 0.10% 0.10% 0.10% Expected credit  losses   (0.08)  (7.55)  (2.13)  (0.64)  (0.81)  (0.15)  (0.09)  (11.45)  Specific Provision  -  (96.33)  (74.56)  (23.97)  (224.93)  (6.93)  (168.88)  (595.60)  Carrying amount  62.23  7,961.11  2,479.65  745.06  1,848.99  183.10  99.42 13,379.56   The ECL matrix has been reviewed during the year and accordingly expected credit losses have been computed using  historical credit loss experience for different groups of trade receivables.
Other Financial instruments and cash deposits  The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the Balance Sheet at March 31, 2022 and March 31,  2021 is the carrying amounts as provided in Note 4, 5, 6, 11 & 12.
The Company applies General approach for providing the expected credit losses on these items as per the accounting policy  of the company.
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in  accordance with the Company’s policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within  credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are approved by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential  failure to make payments.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 304 305 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 D. Excessive risk concentration  Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same  geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly  affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the  Company’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Company’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to  focus on the maintenance of a diversified portfolio.
Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed  accordingly.
E. Collateral  As Company has been rated investment grade by various domestic and international rating agencies, there has been no  requirement of submitting any collateral for booking of derivative contracts.
Company undertakes derivatives contract only  with those counterparties that have credit rating above the internally approved threshold rating.
Accordingly, Company does  not seek any collaterals from its counterparties.
NOTE – 41: CAPITAL MANAGEMENT NOTE – 42: DISCLOSURES AS REQUIRED BY REGULATION 34(3) OF SEBI(LODR)  REGULATIONS, 2015 The primary objective of the company’s capital management is to maximise the shareholder value.
Capital includes issued equity  capital, share premium and all other equity reserves, attributable to the equity shareholders, for the purpose of the Company’s  capital management.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and requirements.
The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term and other strategic investment  plans.
The Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares to  maintain or adjust the capital structure.
The Company monitors capital using debt equity ratio, which is borrowings divided by  equity.
The Company’s endeavour is to keep the debt equity ratio around 1:1.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Borrowings  1,10,798.50  94,413.00  Equity Share Capital  9,181.04  9,181.04  Reserves and Surplus  1,22,105.32  1,01,319.00  Equity  1,31,286.36  1,10,500.04  Debt Equity Ratio 0.84 : 1 0.85 : 1 No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the financial year ended March 31,  2022 and March 31, 2021.
(J in crore) Amount as at Maximum Amount outstanding  during the year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 I.
Loans and Advances in the nature of loans: A) To Subsidiary Companies  -  -  -  -  B) To Associates /Joint Venture  (i) Petronet V. K. Limited (Refer Note-1)  113.29  107.05  113.29  107.05  (ii) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited.
(Refer Note- 2)  162.52  156.77  162.52  161.90  (iii) IndianOil LNG Private Limited  -  -  -  135.00  (iv) Indian Oiltanking Limited  15.00  15.00  15.00  15.00  In compliance of Regulation 34(3) of SEBI(LODR) Regulations 2015, the required information are given as under: NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) (J in crore) 2020-21 Opening  Balance ECL created  during the  year ECL write  Back  ECL written off/  Reclassifications Closing  Balance A B C D (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected Credit Loss  12.87  0.62  (2.04)  -  11.45  Specific Provision  114.98  482.71  (2.14)  0.05  595.60  Total  127.85  483.33  (4.18)  0.05  607.05  Loans 12 Months ECL  69.98  257.06  -  -  327.04  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  126.39  69.92  -  -  196.31  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  360.29  197.26  (0.14)  (1.75)  555.66  Total  556.66  524.24  (0.14)  (1.75)  1,079.01  Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.50  -  (0.10)  -  1.40  Total  1.50  -  (0.10)  -  1.40  Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -  71.56  -  -  71.56  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  132.76  58.53  (3.85)  1.58  189.02  Total  132.76  130.09  (3.85)  1.58  260.58  NOTE – 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd...) C. Liquidity risk   The Company monitors its risk of shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tool.
The Company seeks to manage its liquidity  requirement by maintaining access to both short term and long term debt markets.
In addition, Company has committed  credit facilities from banks.
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank  overdrafts, commercial papers, bank loans, debentures, and leases.
The Company assessed the concentration of risk with  respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low.
The Company has access to a sufficient variety of sources of funding.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual payments.
(J in crore) On  demand Less than 3  months 3 to 12  months 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Year ended March 31, 2022 Borrowings  5,512.96  31,401.95  23,303.76  44,297.07  6,282.76  1,10,798.50  Lease Obligations  -  852.02  1,255.14  2,994.64  3,562.52  8,664.32  Trade payables  3,063.66  39,405.68  -  -  -  42,469.34  Other financial liabilities  30,427.27  13,054.01  4,234.32  462.13  451.66  48,629.39  Financial guarantee contracts*  3,670.73  -  -  -  -  3,670.73  Derivatives  -  307.81  -  -  -  307.81  42,674.62  85,021.47  28,793.22 47,753.84  10,296.94 2,14,540.09  Year ended March 31, 2021 Borrowings  16,394.51  21,065.37  7,987.25  44,674.87  4,291.00  94,413.00  Lease Obligations  -  312.27  1,160.14  2,458.54  3,983.54  7,914.48  Trade payables  2,207.89  31,382.80  -  -  -  33,590.69  Other financial liabilities  29,310.76  9,686.36  4,347.09  517.68  329.81  44,191.70  Financial guarantee contracts*  5,488.50  -  -  -  -  5,488.50  Derivatives  -  252.65  -  -  -  252.65  53,401.66  62,699.45  13,494.48  47,651.09  8,604.35  1,85,851.02   * Based on the maximum amount that can be called for under the financial guarantee contract.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 306 307 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 44 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Research and Development Expenses of J  259.68 crore (2021: H 226.16 crore) have been capitalized and J  316.87 crore (2021 :   H 282.79 crore) have been accounted for in the Statment of Profit and Loss during the year.
Detailed break up of total expenditure  are as under:  A.
CAPITAL EXPENSES (Property, Plant and Equipment) (J in crore) S. No.
Asset Block Gross  Block as  at April  1, 2021 Additions  during  the year Transferred  from CWIP Transfer/ Deduction/  Disposal  during the  year Gross  Block as  at March  31, 2022 Work-in- Progress  as at April  1, 2021 Additions  during  the year Transferred  to Fixed  Assets  (Capitalized) Work-in- Progress as  at March  31, 2022 Total Capital  Expenditure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 =  (3+4+5-6) 8 9 10 11 = (8+9- 10) 12=(4+5+11- 8) (a) Property, Plant and Equipment 1 Land - Free Hold  373.43  -  -  -  373.43  -  -  -  -  -  2 Building, Roads etc  106.94  0.37  1.93  1.48  107.76  58.01  95.59  1.93  151.67  95.96  3 Plant & Equipment  807.44  44.38  64.09  14.48  901.43  133.08  105.29  64.09  174.28  149.67  4 Office Equipment  39.11  3.76  1.03  2.56  41.34  0.08  0.98  1.03  0.03  4.74  5 Transport Equipment  0.06  -  -  -  0.06  -  -  -  -  -  6 Furniture & Fixtures  16.62  0.58  0.66  0.49  17.37  -  1.62  0.66  0.96  2.20  7 Drainage & Sewage  1.42  -  -  -  1.42  -  -  -  -  -  8 ROU Asset  0.38  -  -  -  0.38  -  -  -  -  -  Sub Total  1,345.40  49.09  67.71  19.01  1,443.19  191.17  203.48  67.71  326.94  252.57  (b) Intangible Assets 1 Right of way  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  2 Licenses / Technical Know-how  0.11  -  -  -  0.11  -  -  -  -  -  3 Computer Software  31.51  7.11  -  0.56  38.06  1.13  -  -  1.13  7.11   31.62  7.11  -  0.56  38.17  1.13  -  -  1.13  7.11  Total  1,377.02  56.20  67.71  19.57  1,481.36  192.30  203.48  67.71  328.07  259.68  (J in crore) S. No.
Asset Block  Gross  Block as  at April  1, 2020 Additions  during  the year Transferred  from CWIP Transfer/ Deduction/  Disposal  during the  year Gross  Block as  at March  31, 2021 Work-in- Progress  as at April  1, 2020 Additions  during  the year Transferred  to Fixed  Assets  (Capitalized) Work-in- Progress as  at March  31, 2021 Total Capital  Expenditure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 =  (3+4+5-6) 8 9 10 11 = (8+9- 10) 12=(4+5+11- 8) (a) Property, Plant and Equipment 1 Land - Free Hold  377.26  -  -  3.83  373.43  -  -  -  -  -  2 Building, Roads etc  104.45  0.78  2.13  0.42  106.94  36.14  24.00  2.13  58.01  24.78  3 Plant & Equipment  688.47  43.39  75.22  (0.36)  807.44  67.63  140.67  75.22  133.08  184.06  4 Office Equipment  29.52  7.85  3.92  2.18  39.11  0.60  3.40  3.92  0.08   11.25  5 Transport Equipment  0.06  -  -  -  0.06  -  -  -  -  -  6 Furniture & Fixtures  16.25  0.57  0.03  0.23  16.62  -  0.03  0.03  -  0.60  7 Drainage & Sewage  1.42  -  -  -  1.42  -  -  -  -  -  8 ROU Asset  0.38  -  -  -  0.38  -  -  -  -  -  Sub Total  1,217.81  52.59  81.30  6.30  1,345.40  104.37  168.10  81.30  191.17  220.69  (b) Intangible Assets 1 Right of way  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  2 Licenses / Technical Know-how  0.11  -  -  -  0.11  -  -  -  -  -  3 Computer Software  20.69  2.96  7.86  -  31.51  6.48  2.51  7.86  1.13  5.47  Sub Total  20.80  2.96  7.86  -  31.62  6.48  2.51  7.86  1.13  5.47  Total  1,238.61  55.55  89.16  6.30  1,377.02  110.85  170.61  89.16  192.30  226.16  NOTE–42: DISCLOSURES AS REQUIRED BY REGULATION 34(3) OF SEBI(LODR)  REGULATIONS, 2015 (Contd...) Notes: 1 During the period, an amount of H 110.90 crore has been provided for against loan provided to Petronet VK Limited as  Impairment Loss on financial asset.
2 As per the applicable provisions of Indian Accounting Standards, the loan given to Suntera Nigeria 205 Ltd. is measured at  fair value through the Statement of Profit and Loss in the financial statements and fair value of the loan is J  141.02 crore as at  March 31, 2022 (2021: H 121.51 crore).
Refer Note -39 for further details regarding fair valuation.
(J in crore) Amount as at Maximum Amount outstanding  during the year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 C) To Firms/Companies in which directors  are interested  -  -  -  -  II.
Investment by the loanee (as detailed  above) in the shares of IOC and its  subsidiaries -  -  -  -  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Amount due and Payable at the year end - Principal *  1,398.32  971.05  - Interest on above Principal  -  -  Payments made during the year after the due date    - Principal  -  -  - Interest  -  -  Interest due and payable for principals already paid  -  -  Total Interest accrued and remained unpaid at year end  -  -  Further Interest remaining due and payable in succeeding year  -  -  NOTE – 43: DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES The dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 to  the extent information available with the Company is given below: *Amount of J 598.48 crore (2021: H 424.04 crore) included in Note 17: Other Financial Liabilities.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 308 309 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 46: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 In cash Yet to be paid  In cash** Total In cash Yet to be paid  In cash** Total (i) Construction/acquisition of any assets  -  -  -  -  -  -  (ii) On purposes other than (i) above Health and Sanitation  68.65  1.48  70.13  28.48  1.06  29.54  Contribution towards PMUY  7.00  -  7.00  -  -  -  Flagship Projects-CSR  13.42  0.35  13.77  12.27  0.42  12.69  Educational Scholarship  2.26  -  2.26  1.21  -  1.21  Swachh Bharat  11.34  0.59  11.93  9.85  6.53  16.38  Education/employment vocational skills  56.55  0.62  57.17  82.31  2.68  84.99  Drinking Water  4.62  0.21  4.83  10.15  0.80  10.95  Promotion of National Heritage, Art and Culture  0.31  -  0.31  11.94  0.01  11.95  COVID 19  91.01  1.23  92.24  251.17  1.31  252.48  Administration Expenses, training etc.
14.20  -  14.20  15.37  -  15.37  Impact Assessment  0.04  0.01  0.05  -  -  -  Other expenses  24.03  0.37  24.40  23.15  1.66  24.81  Total Expenses (ii) 293.43  4.86 298.29 445.90  14.47 460.37  Grand Total (i) and (ii) 293.43  4.86 298.29 445.90  14.47 460.37  A.
Revenue Grants   1 Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) and LPG (Domestic)  Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) in India amounting to J 154.21 crore (2021: H 72.46 crore) and subsidies on sales of LPG  (Domestic) to customers in Bhutan amounting to J  6.44 crore (2021: H 3.13 crore) have been reckoned as per the schemes  notified by Governments.
2 Export of Notified Goods under MEIS Claims/RoDTEP scheme   The Company has recognised J 3.64 crore (2021: H 0.02 crore) on export of notified goods under Merchandise Exports from  India Scheme (MEIS)/ Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme in the Statement of Profit and  Loss as Revenue Grant.
3 Stipend to apprentices under NATS/NAPS scheme  As per Ministry of HRD & Skill development and Enterpreneurship, a portion of stipend and basic training cost for apprentices  will be reimbursed to employer by Government under National Apprenticeship Training Scheme (NATS) and National  Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS), subject to prescribed threshhold limit.
The Company has recognised grant in  respect of stipend paid to apprentices & Basic training cost under NATS & NAPS amounting to J 5.24 crore (2021: H 2.43 crore)  as Revenue Grant.
4 Grant in respect of revenue expenditure for research projects  During the year, the Company has received revenue grant of J  1.62 crore (2021: H 1.59 crore) in respect of meeting out  revenue expenditure such as Manpower, Consumables, Travel & Contingency etc for research projects undertaken with  various agencies.
**Provisions made for liabilities incurred NOTE–45: DISCLOSURE RELATING TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)  EXPENDITURE (Contd...) Amount spent during the year on: NOTE - 44 : RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS (Contd...) B. RECURRING EXPENSES C. TOTAL RESEARCH EXPENSES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 1 Consumption of Stores, Spares & Consumables  12.13  9.78  2 Repairs & Maintenance (a) Plant & Machinery  12.95  11.74  (b) Building  7.59  7.95  (c) Others  2.36  2.33  3 Freight, Transportation Charges & demurrage  0.06  0.09  4 Payment to and Provisions for employees  179.69  178.36  5 Office Administration, Selling and Other Expenses  102.05  72.51  6 Interest  0.04  0.03  Total  316.87  282.79  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Capital Expenditure  259.68  226.16  Recurring Expenditure  316.87  282.79  Total  576.55  508.95  NOTE – 45: DISCLOSURE RELATING TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)  EXPENDITURE The disclosure in respect of CSR Expenditure is as under: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year (2% of Avg Net  Profit as per Section 135(5)) 323.14 342.00 Surplus arising out of CSR Project  -  -  Set Off Available from Previous Years  118.37  -  Total CSR Obligation for the year 204.77 342.00 Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year  455.05 460.37 Amount Spent during the Year  298.29 460.37 Set Off available for succeeding years  93.52  118.37 Amount Unspent during the year  -  -  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 310 311 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE–46: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (Contd...) NOTE – 47: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS The Company is in the business of oil and gas and it earns revenue primarily from sale of petroleum products, petrochemicals,Gas, E&P  and Others.
Revenue are recognized when control of the goods and services are transferred to the customer.
Generally, Company enters into contract with customers:  a.
On delivered basis in case of Retail Sales, LPG and Aviation.
b.
On Ex-Marketing Installation as well as delivered basis in case of Lubes and Consumers.
c. On FOB or CIF basis depending on terms of contract in case of Export sales.
Majority of Company’s sales are to retail category which are mostly on cash and carry basis.
Company also execute supply to Institutional  Businesses(IB), Lubes , Aviation on credit which are for less than a year.
For maintaining uninterrupted supply of products, customers generally deposit amount in advance with the Company against which  orders for purchase of products are placed by the customers.
Based on these orders, supply is maintained by the Company and  revenue is recognized when the goods are delivered to the customer by adjusting the advance from customers.
Revenue in cases  of performance obligation related to delivered sales are recognized in time based on delivery of identified and actual goods and no  significant judgement is involved.
The Company also extends volume/slab based discounts to its customers on contract to contract basis for upliftment of products  and it is adjusted in revenue as per the terms of the contract.
Company also runs loyalty programmes and incentive schemes for  its retail and bulk customers.
Loyalty points are generated and accumulated by the customers on doing transactions at Company’s  outlet which can be redeemed subsequently for fuel purchases from Company outlets.
Revenue is recognized net of these loyalty  points and incentive schemes.
Besides this, though not significant, the Company also undertakes construction contracts on deposit basis.
Revenue is recognized for  these contracts overtime using input based on cost incurred.
Similarly non-refundable deposits received from Retail Outlets (ROs) are  recognized as revenue over time on proportionate basis.
5 Capital Grant in respect of demonstration unit  Grant received from OIDB for setting up of demonstration unit at Guwahati refinery with the company's R&D developed  IndaDeptG technology and also for Ethanol production from Refinery off gases at Panipat Refinery.
The unamortized capital  grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J  377.97 crore (2021: H 173.27 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised   J 4.38 crore (2021: H 4.38 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
6 Capital Grant in respect of interest subsidy  The Company has received capital grant in respect of interest subsidy on loans taken from OIDB.
The unamortized capital  grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J  11.33 crore (2021: H 26.32 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised   J 0.36 crore (2021: H 0.51 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
7 Capital Grant in respect of Solar Power Generation  The Company has received capital financial assistance from Ministry of New and Renewable Energy in respect of procurement  and installation of Solar Panels for Power Generation.The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is   J 3.78 crore (2021: H 3.96 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised J  0.19 crore (2021: H 0.18 crore) in the  Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
8 Capital Grant from Nepal Government  The Company has received grant from Nepal Government by way of waiver of Local taxes on goods/services procured  locally in Nepal and Import Duty for goods/services imported into Nepal.
The Company has recognised J  1.12 crore   (2021: H 1.05 crore) in Statement of Profit & Loss.
The unamortized balance is J  11.69 crore (2021: H 12.42 crore) NOTE–46: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (Contd...) 5 Incentive on sale of power  Company is getting incentive from Department of Renewable Energy, GOI for wind power generation of Electricity at the  rate of H 0.50 paise for per unit of power generated.
The Company has received grant of J  2.37 crore during the current year  (2021: H 2.08 crore).
6 EPCG Grant  Grant recognized in respect of duty waiver on procurement of capital goods under EPCG scheme of Central Govt.
which  allows procurement of capital goods including spares for pre production and post production at zero duty subject to an  export obligation of 6 times of the duty saved on capital goods procured.
The unamortized grant amount as at March 31, 2022  is Nil (2021:Nil) .
During the year, the Company has recognised Nil (2021: H 39.89 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as  amortisation of revenue grant.
7 Excise duty benefit in North East  Excise duty exemption of 50% of goods manufactured and cleared from north east refineries has been reckoned at full value  in revenue and on net basis in expenses under 'Excise Duty' (to the extent of duty paid).
Financial impact for the current year  is J 5426.43 crore (2021: H 5655.21 crore).
8 Viability Gap Funding (VGF)  The Company has received grant in the form of interest free loans from Orissa Government for a period of 15 years.The  unamortized grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J  2372.48 crore (2021: H 2065.16 crore).
During the year, the Company has  recognised J 176.05 crore (2021: H 144.86 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of grants.
B.
Capital Grants  1 OIDB Government Grant for strengthening distribution of SKO (PDS)  The Company has received government grant from OIDB (Oil Industry Development Board) for strengthening distribution of  PDS Kerosene as per the directions of MoP&NG to be used in construction of 20KL underground Tank, Mechanical Dispensing  Units and Barrel Shed.
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J  0.59 crore (2021: H 0.76 crore).
During  the year, the Company has recognised J  0.17 crore (2021: H 0.25 crore) in Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of  capital grants.
2 Capital Grant in respect of Excise duty, Custom duty and GST waiver  The Company has received grant in respect of Custom duty waiver on import on capital goods,Excise duty waiver and GST  waiver on purchase of goods from local manufacturer in India under the certificate issued by Department of Scientific and  Industrial Research (DSIR).
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J  75.59 crore (2021: H 67.77 crore)  The goods so imported or procured from local manufacturer shall not be transferred or sold for a period of five years from  date of installation.
During the year, the Company has recognised J  11.70 crore (2021: H 10.85 crore) in the Statement of Profit  and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
3 Capital Grant in respect of Research projects  The Company has received capital grant from various agencies in respect of procurement/ setting up of Capital assets for  research projects undertaken.
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J  9.01 crore (2021: H 11.19  crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised J  2.70 crore (2021: H 2.60 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as  amortisation of capital grants.
4 Capital Grant in respect of Entry Tax Exemption from Odisha Govt.
Entry Tax exemption received from Odisha Government for Paradip Refinery Project has been recognized as Capital Grant  and grossed up with the concerned Assets.The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 100.22 crore  (2021: H 105.55 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised J  5.34 crore (2021: H 5.47 crore) in the Statement of  Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 312 313 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF  COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd...)  * In line with EAC opinion received in FY 2018-19, Security Deposits amounting to J 29,442.61 crore (2021: H 28,029.44 crore) obtained from LPG  consumers are consistently treated as current liabilities as the Company does not have unconditional right to defer settlement of the same upon  demand from consumers.
However, based on past experience, it is observed that there is net increase in security deposits and refund claim from  consumers is insignificant.
Numerator Denominator 2021- 2022 2020- 2021 % Variance Reason for Variance Trade Receivables  Turnover (Times) Sales (Net of  Discounts)  Average Trade  Receivables   45.95  38.96 18% Variation majorly on  account of increase  in sales due to rise  in prices of Products  as compared to  previous year.
Net Capital  Turnover (Times) * Sales (Net of  Discounts)  Average Working  Capital (i.e.
Current  Assets - Current  Liabilities)   (17.00)  (11.61) 46% Net Profit Ratio (%) Profit after Tax Revenue from  Operation  3.32% 4.24% -22% Return on Capital  Employed (%) Profit before Tax +  Finance Cost  Average of (Total  Equity + Total Debt  + Deferred Tax  Liabilities)  15.44% 15.20% 2% Return on  Investment (%) Closing Value  of Investment +  Dividend during  the year - (Opening  Value of Investment  + Additional  Investment during  the year)  Opening Value  of Investment  + (Additional  Investment during  the year - Dividend  during the year)/2   - Equity in  Subsidiary/  Associates & JVs 4.69% 5.08% -8%  - Equity in Others 64.19% 59.50% 8%  - Preference Shares -0.11% 7.99% -101% Variation majorly  on account of  change in fair value  of investment as at  31.03.2022.
- Govt.
Securities  (Non- current+Current) 4.70% 6.81% -31%  - Debentures or  Bonds 1.29% 12.71% -90% NOTE–47: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (Contd...) (J in crore) 2021-22 2021-22 Total Revenue (A+D)  7,28,459.94  5,14,890.47   Revenue from contract with customers (A)  7,26,449.95  5,12,435.71    Recognized from contract liability balance of previous year (B)  3,714.04  4,290.55    Recognized from contracts initiated in current year (C)  7,22,735.92  5,08,145.16   Revenue from other contracts/from others (D)  2,009.99  2,454.76  (J in crore) Receivables Contract Asset Contract  Liability Opening Balance  13,427.62  -  5,648.19  Closing Balance  18,221.78  -  7,157.53  An amount of J 226.45 crore (2021: H 483.48 crore) on account of impairment losses on receivables is recognised under the head  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets on the face of Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company discloses information on reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 under Note 38 - Segmental Information.
An amount  of J  689.76 crore (2021: H 572.84 crore) is recognised over time under Revenue from contract with customers.
The Company has applied practical expedient as per IndAS 115 in case of delivered sales, advance from customers where the  performance obligation is part of the contract and the original expected duration is one year or less and in case of construction  contracts/deposit works wherein the company has a right to consideration from customer that correspond directly with the value  of the entity’s performance completed for the customer.
Bifurcation of Total Revenue into Revenue from contract with customers and other sources of revenue as  per requirement of Ind AS is given below: NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF  COMPANIES ACT 2013  Numerator Denominator 2021- 2022 2020- 2021 % Variance Reason for Variance Current Ratio  (Times) * Current Assets Current Liabilities  0.76  0.73 4% Debt Equity Ratio  (Times) Total Debt (i.e.
Non- Current Borrowings  + Current  Borrowings)  Total Equity  0.84:1  0.85:1 -1% Debt Service  Coverage Ratio  (Times) Profit after Tax +  Finance Cost in P&L  + Depreciation  Finance Cost (P&L  + Capitalised) +  Lease & Principal  Repayments (Long- term)   4.93  5.00 -1% Return on Equity (%) Profit after Tax Average Total  Equity  20.00% 21.38% -6% Inventory Turnover  (Times) Sales (Net of  Discounts)  Average Inventory  7.98  7.20 11% Trade Payables  Turnover (Times) Purchase of Raw  Material + Purchase  of Stock-in-Trade +  Other Expenses  Average Trade  Payables   14.95  11.64 28% Variation majorly on  account of increase  in purchase value due  to rise in prices of  Raw Material in the  international market  as compared to  previous year.
1.
Ratios NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 314 315 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Relevant line item in  the Balance sheet Description of item of property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name  of Whether title  deed holder is a  promoter, director  or relative of  promoter/ director  or employee of  promoter/ director Property held  since which date Under  Dispute Reason for not being held in the name of the company 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 (Yes/ No) PPE Land Land allotted by Govt.
of Assam  0.16  0.16 Government of Assam No 1962 No Land measuring 60.50 Acre not registered in the name of IOCL, GR for  which follow is being made with the government Freehold Land-Refinery  0.20  0.20 Government of Bihar No 1959 Yes The matter related to the claim of District Authorities, for additional cost  of Registration charges, is pending with the Hon’ble High Court, Patna.
Land at Mathura Refinery  10.18  10.18 Government of Uttar Pradesh No 1977 No Approval for lease deed & execution is pending at the level of  Department of Industries, UP Govt., Lucknow.
Land of Calico Mill, Baroda  31.99  31.99 Gujarat Industrial Development  Corporataion No 2006 Yes Case is pending in High Court Leased land at Paradip  0.04  0.04 Government of Orissa No 2019 No Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under process Land at Jobra Barrage Water Intake  Facility  27.54  27.54 Government of Orissa No 2010 No Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under process Leased land at Paradip  4.83  4.83 Government of Orissa No 2010 No Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under process CTMPL RCP land at Reddimangudii*  0.00  0.00 Nalluswamy Ramar No 30.05.05 No Purchase process for the private land portion shall be completed after  receiving demand from Government.
Land  0.01  0.01 Not available No 07.11.95 No The title deed is not available either with the functional department  or with the law department.
Action has been taken to retrieve the  documents.
Land  0.02  0.02 RAMAVATHI/ LEGAL HEIRS No 20.03.95 Yes Title Appeal has been filed before Jharkhand High Court.
Approval for  the same is accorded.
Land*  0.00  0.00 RAMAVATHI/ LEGAL HEIRS No 28.04.95 Yes Title Appeal has been filed before Jharkhand High Court.
Approval for  the same is accorded.
Land  51.90  51.90 Govt.
of Assam No 18.02.17 No Entry of the name of IOCL in Jamabandi/Mutation record is pending.
Land  0.10  0.10 BPCL No 01.10.90 No The land has been registered in the name of BPCL.
BPCL has  demarcated 77,540.00 Sqm of land in the name of IOCl.
Land  0.52  0.52 Kerala state Government  (GCDA) No 31.03.03 No Retail sales dept is  following up with Govt.
Secretary and GCDA for  registration.
Land  5.77  5.77 Indian Railways No 31.03.94 Yes The said land had been exchanged with railways for construction of  railway siding and the same had not been registered.
However a person  had disputed the title in the court claiming that they have registered  documents to portion of the land (400 Sq.Yards) .
Pending the decision  of the Railways and the legal case, IOC is unable to go ahead with the  registration of land.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.01  0.01 Not available No 31.12.93 No The title deed is not available either with the functional department  or with the law department.
Action has been taken to retrieve the  documents.
ROU - Leasehold Land (3 cases)  0.08  0.08 TISCO No 14.11.96 No The Land has been awarded to TISCO during British Govt.
Embargo  from State Govt.
over Subleasing to IOCL.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.01  0.01 TISCO No 14.12.96 No The Land has been awarded to TISCO during British Govt.
Embargo  from State Govt.
over Subleasing to IOCL.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.05  0.05 TISCO No 19.11.96 No The Land has been awarded to TISCO during British Govt.
Embargo  from State Govt.
over Subleasing to IOCL.
NOTE - 48 : ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF  COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd...) 2 Title deeds of Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company A Cases continuing from previous year: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 316 317 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 B Cases added during the year: NOTE - 48 : ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF  COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd...) (J in crore) Relevant line item in  the Balance sheet Description of item of property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name  of Whether title  deed holder is a  promoter, director  or relative of  promoter/ director  or employee of  promoter/ director Property held  since which date Under  Dispute Reason for not being held in the name of the company 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 (Yes/ No) PPE ROU - Leasehold Land (37 cases)  321.04  326.39 IAF No 30.08.11 No AFS Umbrela Agreement/MOU, but no individual Agreement ROU - Leasehold Land  1.94  1.94 Mumbai Port Trust No 01.04.98 No A letter was submitted to MbPT Chairman office requesting waiving of  interest on arrear and renewal of expired lease.
The concerned location  is following up with MbPT .
ROU - Leasehold Land  1.84  1.92 Indian Railways No 01.04.18 No Draft lease deed has been submitted to Railway.
Awaiting confirmation  from them.
ROU - Leasehold Land (2 cases)  0.48  0.48 MP Government No 01.04.94 No Title deed is pending for execution with MP Government Revenue land  office, lease rent payment is being made as per negotiated rate.
ROU - Leasehold Land*  0.00  0.00 Northern Coalfields Limited No 17.07.92 No Lease deed with NCL for Jayant Depot land is not available with IOCL  and NCL.
In view of the fact, that IOCL is supplying product to other  Retail Outlet and Kerosene agency from Jayant Depot, the lease  agreement might not have been concluded.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.10  0.10 Tuticorn Port Trust No 31.07.98 Yes The lease agreement not yet signed due to dispute with Tuticorin Port  Trust on incorporation of MGT clause PPE Building NBCC_Type VI Flats & Parking_ Kidwai Nagar 20.42 20.42 NBCC No 28.12.18 No Under process to be registered through L&DO Office, MHA NBCC Commercial Space 231.02 231.02 NBCC No 31.03.21 No Under process to be registered through L&DO Office, MHA NBCC_Building_Type V Flats 17.67 17.67 NBCC No 20.07.20 No Under process to be registered through L&DO Office, MHA Building  5.42  5.42 Govt.
of West Bengal No 26.07.89 No The executed deed was not registered after taking over the building.
Mutation of this plot of Land & Building is not available.
Building  0.01  0.01 M/s Bonny Enterprise No 01.04.84 No No one from Bonny Enterprise is traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is  closed.
Therefore, Title Deed cannot be executed Building  0.04  0.04 M/s Bonny Enterprise No 16.05.83 No No one from Bonny Enterprise is traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is  closed.
Therefore, Title Deed cannot be executed Building (3 cases)  0.05  0.05 M/s Bonny Enterprise No 29.04.85 No No one from Bonny Enterprise is traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is  closed.
Therefore, Title Deed cannot be executed Building  0.06  0.06 Mukund Constructions No 29.02.84 Yes Matter under Litigation for execution of sale deed (J in crore) Relevant line item in  the Balance sheet Description of item of property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name  of Whether title  deed holder is a  promoter, director  or relative of  promoter/ director  or employee of  promoter/ director Property held  since which date Under  Dispute Reason for not being held in the name of the company 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 (Yes/ No) PPE Land*  0.00 Govt.
of Assam No 31.03.82 No Mutation is pending.
Land  0.01 Govt.
of Assam No 14.03.85 No Mutation is pending.
Land*  0.00 Not available No 01.01.59 No Title Deed is not available or found.
Re-generation of title deed is in  process for making an application to Sub registrar.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 318 319 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 48 : ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF  COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd...) (in J) Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions  with struck off company Balance outstanding March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Hotel Dynasty Payables  52,573  -  Grand Marshall Engineers Private Limited Payables  12,537  -  Skpei Engineering Works Private Limited Payables  -  -  Vidhoo Industrial Service Private Limited Payables  2,107  2,107  Paonta Technologies & Solutions Private Limited Payables  5,520  5,520  Bharati Instrumentation Private Limited Payables  52  52  Spectacular Advertising & Events Private Limited Payables  10,931  10,931  3I Computers Private Limited Payables  11,300  11,300  Unique Energies Private Limited Payables  8,175  8,175  Promises Medical Equipments Private Limited Payables  -  8,395  DLS Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -  352  Kamrupinyae Infrastructures Private Limited Payables  -  3,45,030  Amstar Infrastructure India Private.Limited Payables  -  1,18,542  Shree Sai Ip Consultant Private Limited Payables  -  -  Arvind Singh Consultants Private Limited Payables  -  -  Maypri Foods Private Limited Payables  -  -  Aditya Inkjet Technologies Private Limited Payables  1,892  41,653  Murthy Electronics Private Limited Payables  2,541  1,56,936  Linear Point Surveys Private Limited Payables  -  -  First Office Solutions India Private Limited Payables  14,100  -  Kdc Infra Projects Private Limited Receivables  1,08,500  6,39,163  Khazina Digital Private Limited Receivables  (5,07,000)  (5,07,000) Salai Energy Solutions Private Limited Receivables  (3,86,890)  (7,53,237) Emanar Enterprise Private Limited Receivables  -  14,720  Zeba Construction & Dev P Limited Receivables  -  (1,551) Yumiko Global Infratech Private Limited Receivables  (5,000)  -  Rc Residency Private Limited Receivables  -  (2,866) Deonarayan Pawan Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (8,069) Vacha Energy Ventures Private.Limited Receivables  -  (2,201) Gabharu Infracon Private Limited Receivables  (56,804)  (56,804) Idha E Tail Arks Private Limited Receivables  65  65  Dalhousie Jute Co Limited Receivables  (3,26,345)  (2,51,556) Chenari Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (921) Eco E Waste Recyclers India Private Limited Receivables  -  -  Barnagore Jute Factory Co.Limited Receivables  (27,223)  (8,774) Singh Brothers Construction Private Limited Receivables  (1,111)  (1,111) Fairwinds Aviation Private Limited Receivables  (4,441)  (3,193) Kumar Engicon & Agency Private Limited Receivables  -  (621) Birendra Nag Constuction Private Limited Receivables  (900)  -  R & S Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (6,815) Palamu And Shivam Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (78,139) Sri Ram Technocrate Private Limited Receivables  -  (17,523) Rs - Srivaru Exim Private Limited Receivables  -  -  3 Relationship with Struck off Companies  Note: The Company does not have any relationship with the above mentioned struck-off companies.
NOTE - 48 : ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF  COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd...) C Cases settled during the year: (J in crore) Relevant  line item  in the  Balance  sheet Description  of item of  property Gross carrying value Title deeds  held in the  name of Whether title  deed holder  is a promoter,  director or  relative of  promoter/  director or  employee of  promoter/  director Property  held  since  which  date Under  Dispute Reason for not being  held in the name of the  company31.03.2022 31.03.2021 (Yes/  No) PPE Land Land  320.43 Indian Oil  Corporation  Limited No 01.09.19 No Not Applicable Land  1.82 Govenrment No 31.03.21 No Final allotment letter  was awaited from  Government Land  35.37 Govenrment No 03.02.17 No Final allotment letter  was awaited from  Government ROU ASSETS  - Land*  0.00 Not available No 04.09.73 No Reconciliation of the  property has been  concluded with the  Functional Department  wherein it has been  found that the title deed  is not available either  with the functional  department or with the  law department.
Action  has been taken to  retreive the documents.
ROU ASSETS  - Land (46  cases)  173.97 AAI No 01.11.86 No AFS Umbrela  Agreement, but no  individual Agreement ROU ASSETS  - Land  0.18 SAIL No 12.07.15 No Registration pending.
Land  12.08 PUDA No 22.03.21 No Payment pending for  land procurement  *Following's carrying value is not reflected above due to rounding off: Description of item of property Title deeds held in the  name of Gross carrying value (In J) 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 CTMPL RCP land at Reddimangudii Nalluswamy Ramar 30,000 30,000 Land Ramavathi / Legal heirs 25,540 25,540 ROU - Leasehold Land Northern Coalfields Limited 1 1 Land Govt.
of Assam 45,000 Land Not available 24,416 ROU ASSETS - Land Not available 5,096 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements   Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 320 321 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 4 In FY 2021-22, the Company has signed amendment side letter to LNG Sales and Purchase Agreement (SPA) with Diamond  Gas International (DGI) for including make up right in SPA against Monthly Reservation Fees paid for the FOB LNG Cargoes not  received due to Force Majeure event during 2020-21 from Cameron LNG Project in USA.
Resulting to this amendment, the  provision created in FY 2020-21 for H 288.38 crore against advance paid to DGI and for H 19.36 crore on account of additional  expenses under LNG SPA have been written back and included in the Revenue from Operations.
5.
The Company has reached a settlement against one of its long pending receivables, with full principal amount and interest  at a reduced rate.
“Net Loss on de-recognition of Financial Assets at Amortised Cost” shown on the face of the Statement of  Profit and Loss, mainly comprises of interest so waived amounting to H 167.47 Crore as a part of the settlement.
6 Due to Outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and consequent national lockdown, the operations of the company during FY  2020-21 were considerably affected due to demand reduction.
The demand for the petroleum products resumed to near  normal levels from second half of that year and impact of the pandemic in current financial year is minimal.
7 Purchase of crude oil from Panna Mukta and some other small oilfields has been accounted for provisionally pending  finalisation of agreements with respective parties.
The management estimates that no significant adjustments will arise upon  finalisation of these agreements.
8 Transactions with other Oil Marketing Companies are jointly reconciled on an ongoing basis.
9 There are no other significant subsequent events that would require adjustments or disclosures in the Financial Statements  as at Balance Sheet date, other than those disclosed above.
10 Previous year's comparative figures have been regrouped wherever necessary.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions/losses.
NOTE–49: OTHER DISCLOSURES (Contd...) For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  NOTE – 49: OTHER DISCLOSURES 1 In order to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families, Government has approved “Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)”  scheme where free LPG connections are issued by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below  Poverty Line (BPL) households as per SECC -2011 (Rural) database.
The scheme was launched on May 1, 2016.
As per the  scheme, the initial cost towards connection charges (Refundable deposit) would be borne by the Central Government for  each card holder.
Few State Governments have also extended this scheme to other beneficiaries.
As per the scheme, OMCs  would provide an option for EMI/Loans towards cost of burner and 1st refill to the PMUY consumers.
The loan amount is  to be recovered from the subsidy amount payable by the government to the customers on each refill sale.
During the year,  discounting of the loan has been done based on assumption of 4 refills in a year and respective average subsidy rate per  cylinder under different range of subsidy buckets.
The amount of outstanding as at March 31, 2022 towards PMUY claim from Central Government is J 8.63 crore (2021: H 6.38  crore) and loan to PMUY consumers is J 2770.67 crore (2021: H 3022.58 crore) (net of recovery through subsidy).
Against the  above loan, a provision for doubtful loans amounting to J 601.46 crore (2021: H 910.45 crore) has been created as at March  31, 2022 against the beneficiaries who have not taken any refill for more than 12 months based on expected credit loss(ECL)  model and applying experience factor based on experience ratio of doubtful provision on more than 12 months to the loans  in less than 12 month category.
(Also refer Credit Risk under Note 40)  The Company has remeasured the gross carrying amount of PMUY loan as at Balance Sheet date based on revised estimated  future contractual cash flows resulting in reduction in PMUY loans by J 489.00 crore (2021: H 847.08 crore)which has been  charged to Statement of Profit and Loss in NOTE - 29.1 under the head "Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets".
2 Pursuant to the Board approval for formation of a Joint Venture company between Indian Oil Corporation Ltd and Coal India  Ltd for transfer of explosives business to the said venture Company on slump sale basis at a value of J 311.00 crore (Net Assets  WDV of H 77.49 crore as at March 31, 2021), consent of Niti Ayog was initially received for formation of the JV vide letter dated  April 27, 2018.
However, the formation of the JV is not carried forward on account of subsequent communication dated July  11, 2018 from MoPNG.
The matter is under deliberation and accordingly, the explosive business continues to be in operation  as at March 31, 2022.
The Net Asset WDV of the business as at March 31, 2022 is J 132.00 crore.
3 During the year company has received an opinion of the Expert Advisory Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountant  of India on the treatment of cost incurred towards land filling, reclamation and dredging on the land allotted on lease for  Paradip Refinery including township.
The said cost was capitalized prior to implementation of Ind AS as “Leasehold Land”  under Tangible Fixed Asset Schedule and was depreciated accordingly.
Pursuant to implementation of Ind AS w.e.f.
1st April  2016 the unamortized portion of the cost was accounted under erstwhile Ind AS 17 as “Prepaid Rentals” and was amortized  as “Rent Expenses” upto 31st March 2019.
Subsequently, the unamortized portion as on 1st April 2019 was accounted as  “Right of Use Assets” as per the provision of Ind AS 116.
Based on the opinion, the said cost amounting to H 741.00 crore has  been capitalized in books of accounts in respective assets class such as Building, Plant & Equipment etc.
by corresponding  reduction in gross block of “Right of Use Assets”.
This has resulted in additional depreciation amounting to H 116.00 crore and  reduction in rent expenses amounting to H 40.00 crore.
In line with the opinion, cost of land filling jobs amounting to H 36.27 crore, incurred on land taken on lease from Government  of Himachal Pradesh, for Una Terminal, earlier treated as cost Right of Use Asset has now been capitalized in books of  accounts in respective assets class such as Building, Plant & Equipment etc.
The additional charged to P&L on account of  depreciation is H 3.46 crore.
High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 322 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  (TOWNSHIP) FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022  ON PROVISION OF TOWNSHIP, EDUCATION, MEDICAL AND OTHER FACILITIES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 INCOME : 1.
Recovery of House Rent  17.80  15.53  2.
Recovery of Utilities-Power and Water  4.37  4.18  3.
Recovery of Transport Charges  0.08  0.09  4.
Other Recoveries  7.31  8.02  5.
Excess of Expenditure over Income  715.17  661.63  TOTAL :  744.72  689.46  EXPENDITURE : 1.
Employee Benefit Expenses  151.84  146.45  2.
Consumable Stores and Medicines  100.51  76.89  3.
Repairs and Maintenance  156.05  152.49  4.
Finance Cost  29.48  29.63  5.
Depreciation & Amortization  39.80  41.42  6.
Miscellaneous Expenses  67.47  63.56  7.
Utilities-Power, Water and Gas  144.06  128.99  8.
Rent  2.40  1.57  9.
Subsidies for Social & Cultural Activities  38.99  29.66  10.
Others  14.14  18.81  TOTAL:  744.72  689.46  (J in crore) Particulars Gross  Block As at 01.
04.2021 Additions during  the year Transfers  from  Capital work-in- progress Disposals/ Deductions/ Transfers/  Reclassifications Gross  Block As at 31.
03.2022 Depreciation &  Amortization During the Year Deprereciation & Amortization As at 31.03.2022  Net Block As at 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 LAND FREEHOLD  139.47  0.06  -  (1.04)  138.49  -  -  138.49  139.47  LAND-LEASEHOLD  16.51  0.93  -  -  17.44  0.83  1.84  15.60  15.50  BUILDINGS, ROADS etc.
1,006.70  3.28  36.63  (17.94) 1,028.67  28.58  233.94  794.73  800.86  PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  76.17  2.21  1.14  (1.04)  78.48  4.17  26.28  52.20  53.62  OFFICE EQUIPMENTS  27.89  1.96  0.68  0.84  31.37  3.87  21.56  9.81  10.27  FURNITURE & FIXTURES  18.63  1.21  0.63  (2.27)  18.20  1.60  10.07  8.13  10.15  DRAINAGE, SEWAGE &  WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS  0.92  -  -  -  0.92  0.02  0.12  0.80  0.82  TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT  1.86  0.15  -  (0.57)  1.44  0.73  0.88  0.56  0.78  GRAND TOTAL : 1,288.15  9.80  39.08  (22.02)  1,315.01  39.80  294.69  1,020.32  1,031.47  PREVIOUS YEAR : 1,254.97  33.85  12.90  (13.57) 1,288.15  41.42  256.68  1,031.47  INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR  ENDED MARCH 31, 2022  Financial Statements Consolidated Independent Auditors’ Report 323 G. S. MATHUR & CO. K. C.MEHTA & CO. SINGHI & CO. S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants A-160, Ground Floor Meghdhanush, 161, Sarat Bose Road, A 3/7, Gillander House Defence Colony, Race Course Circle, West Bengal, 8, N.S.
Road, New Delhi – 110024 Vadodara – 390007 Kolkata - 700026 Kolkata - 700001 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT To  The Members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements  Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (hereinafter referred to  as “the Holding Company”/”the Company”) and its Subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”), its Joint Ventures and  Associates, which comprise of the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2022, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and  Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement  of Cash Flows for the year ended on that date, and notes to the consolidated financial statements including, a summary of  the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial  statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of  reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries, joint ventures  and associates as referred to in the “Other Matter” Paragraphs 2 and 3, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the  information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity  with Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)  Rules 2015, as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the  Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates as at March 31, 2022, of consolidated total comprehensive income (comprising of loss  and other comprehensive loss), consolidated changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion  We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified  under section 143(10) of the Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for  the Audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group, its Joint Ventures and  Associates in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), together with the  ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the  Rules made there under, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s  Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports  referred in to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters  Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial  statements of the current year.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as  a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have determined the  matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report: Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters  Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets There are areas where management judgement impacts the  carrying value of property, plant and equipment, intangible  assets and their respective depreciation/amortisation rates.
These include the decision to capitalise or expense costs; the  annual asset life review; the timeliness of the capitalisation of We assessed the controls in place over the fixed asset cycle,  evaluated the appropriateness of capitalisation process,  performed tests of details on costs capitalised, the timeliness of  the capitalisation of the assets and the de-recognition criteria  for assets retired from active use.
Financial Statements Consolidated Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 324 325 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters Since judgement of the management is required to determine  whether there is indication of possible impairment and  considering the subjectivity of the estimates relating to the  determination of the cash flows and the key assumptions of the  impairment test, the area is considered a key audit matter for  our audit.
The following audit procedures were adopted: • identification and understanding of the significant controls  implemented by the Company over the impairment testing  process; analysis of the reasonableness of the principal  assumptions made to estimate their cash flows, and  obtaining other information from management that we  deemed to be significant;  • analysis of actual data of the year and previous years in  comparison with the original plan, in order to assess the  nature of variances and the reliability of the planning  process;  • assessment of the reasonableness of the discount rate and  growth rate;  • Verification of the mathematical accuracy of the model  used to determine the value in use of the investments.
We also examined the adequacy of the information provided  by the Company about the impairment test and its consistency  with the requirements of Ind AS 36.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information.
The other information  comprises the information included in the Financial Performance highlights, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report,  Management Discussions and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Report on Corporate Governance,  Shareholders Information and other information in Integrated Annual Report but does not include the consolidated financial  statements and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of  assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and  identified above when it becomes available, and in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with  the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If,  based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required  to report that fact.
If, based on the work we have performed, and report of the other auditors as furnished to us (refer paragraphs 2 and 3 of other matter  para below), we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have  nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the other information, which we will obtain after the date of auditors’ report and if we conclude that there is material  misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial  Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial  statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated  financial performance, total comprehensive income, consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and consolidated Statement  of Cash Flows of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in  India, including the Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, of its Joint Ventures and Associates are responsible  for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the  Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of  appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation  and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true  Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters assets and the use of management assumptions and estimates  for the determination or the measurement and recognition  criteria for assets retired from active use.
Due to the materiality  in the context of the Balance Sheet of the Company and the  level of judgement and estimates required, we consider this to  be as area of significance.
In performing these procedures, we reviewed the judgements  made by management including the nature of underlying costs  capitalised; determination of realizable value of the assets retired  from active use; the appropriateness of assets lives applied in the  calculation of depreciation; the useful lives of assets prescribed  in Schedule II to the Act and the useful lives of certain assets as  per the technical assessment of the management.
We observed  that the management has regularly reviewed the aforesaid  judgements and there are no material changes.
Provision for Direct Taxes The Company has uncertain direct tax positions including  matters under dispute which involves significant judgment  relating to the possible outcome of these disputes in estimation  of the provision for income tax.
Because of the judgement  required, the area is a key audit matter for our audit.
Our audit procedures involved assessment of the  management’s underlying assumptions in estimating the tax  provision (as confirmed by the Company’s tax consultants) and  the possible outcome of the disputes taking into account the  legal precedence, jurisprudence and other rulings in evaluating  management’s position on these uncertain direct tax positions.
We have also assessed the disclosures made by the company  in this regard.
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities The Company is involved in various taxes and other disputes  for which final outcome cannot be easily predicted and  which could potentially result in significant liabilities.
The  assessment of the risks associated with the litigations is based  on complex assumptions, which require the use of judgement  and such judgement relates, primarily, to the assessment of the  uncertainties connected to the prediction of the outcome of  the proceedings and to the adequacy of the disclosures in the  consolidated financial statements.
Because of the judgement  required, the materiality of such litigations and the complexity  of the assessment process, the area is a key matter for our audit.
Our audit procedures in response to this Key Audit Matter  included, among others, • Assessment of the process and relevant controls  implemented to identify legal and tax litigations and pending  administrative proceedings.
• Assessment of assumptions used in the evaluation of  potential legal and tax risks performed by the legal and  tax department of the Company considering the legal  precedence and other rulings in similar cases.
• Inquiry with the legal and tax departments regarding the  status of the most significant disputes and inspection of the  key relevant documentation.
• Analysis of opinion received from the experts wherever  available.
• Review of the adequacy of the disclosures in the notes to  the consolidated financial statements.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates which  are valued at cost have been adjusted for impairment losses  in line with “Ind AS 36 Impairment of assets”.
In case there is  an indication of possible impairment, the Company carries  out an impairment test by comparing the recoverable amount  of the investments determined according to the value in use  method and their carrying amount.
The valuation process  adopted by management is complex and is based on a series of  assumptions, such as the forecast cash flows, the appropriate  discounting rate and the growth rate.
These assumptions are,  by nature, influenced by future expectations regarding the  evolution of external market.
With reference to this key audit matter, we considered the  following: • Book value of the investments in subsidiaries, joint venture  and associates as compared to the carrying amount.
• Market capitalization in case of listed entities in which  investments have been made.
• Some of the entities are still in the construction stage and  have not begun commercial operations.
Based on the information and explanations obtained as above,  we concluded that the Management’s judgement regarding  indication of impairment in certain investments during the  year is appropriate.
Where there is indication of impairment,  we examined the approach taken by management to  determine the value of the investments, analysed the methods  and assumptions applied by management to carry out the  impairment test and the reports obtained from the experts in  valuation.
Financial Statements Consolidated Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 326 327 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance  in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these  matters in our Auditors’ Report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare  circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing  so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters 1.
The consolidated financial statements include the Holding Company’s proportionate share (relating to Jointly controlled  operations of E&P activities) in assets J 716.94 crore and liabilities J 122.31 crore as at March 31, 2022 and total revenue of   J 126.39 crore and profit before tax of J 49.59 crore for the year ended on that date and in items of the statement of cash flow  and related disclosures contained in the enclosed consolidated financial statements.
Our observations thereon are based on  unaudited statements from the operators to the extent available with the Company in respect of 21 Blocks (out of which 11  Blocks are relinquished) and have been certified by the management.
2.
2.
We did not audit the financial statements of 7 subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements, whose financial  statements reflect total assets of J 38,845.04 crore as at March 31, 2022, total revenues of J 66,941.55 crore and net cash  outflow amounting to J 1.97 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of J 693.15 crore for the year ended  March 31, 2022, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of 23 joint ventures and associates, whose  financial statements / financial information have not been audited by us.
These financial statements have been audited by  other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial  statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint venture and  associates, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) and (11) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid  subsidiaries, joint venture and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
3.
We did not audit the financial statements / financial information of one subsidiary whose financial statement / financial  information reflect total assets of J 524.16 crore as at March 31, 2022, total revenues of J 1166.81 crore and net cash  inflows amounting to J 1.19 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net loss of J 2.66 crore for the year ended March  31, 2022, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of 2 joint ventures, whose financial statements /  financial information have not been audited by us.
These financial statements / financial information are unaudited and have  been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to  the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint venture and associates, and our report in terms of  sub-sections (3) and (11) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, JV and associates, is based  solely on such unaudited financial statements / financial information.
In our opinion and according to the information and  explanations given to us by the Management, this financial statements / financial information are not material to the Group.
4.
Certain of these subsidiaries and joint ventures are located outside India whose financial statements and other financial  information have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries  and which have been audited by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective  countries.
The Company’s management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries and joint ventures and  associates located outside India from the accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting  principles generally accepted in India.
These converted financial statements have been certified by Chartered Accountants in  India appointed by the Company for the specific purpose and have been relied upon by us.
Our opinion in so far as it relates  to the balances and affairs of such subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates located outside India is based on the reports  of other Chartered Accountants as mentioned above.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements is not modified in respect of the above matters.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements  1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate  financial statements and on the other financial information of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, as noted in “Other  Matters” paragraph above, we report, to the extent applicable, that:   a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of  preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, its  Joint Ventures and Associates are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates to continue  as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting  unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates, are responsible for  overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements  Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable  assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect  a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or  in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these  consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout  the audit.
We also:  • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,  design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate  to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for  one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of  internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are  appropriate in the circumstances.
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on  whether the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates which are companies incorporated in India, has adequate internal  financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related  disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit  evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on  the ability of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material  uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated  financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit  evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group, its Joint  Ventures and Associates controlled entities to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,  and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves  fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the  Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for  the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated  financial statements of which we are the independent auditors.
For the other entities included in the consolidated financial  statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision  and performance of the audits carried out by them.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated  financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the  audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding  independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our  independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
Financial Statements Consolidated Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 328 329 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K. C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
091007 M. No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 UDIN: 22091007AJCGIN8114 UDIN: 22101533AJCGFS2751 UDIN: 22063769AJCHJS9939 UDIN: 22053960AJCGQI1966 Place: New Delhi Date: 17th May 2022 with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company or any of such subsidiaries  shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or  on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf  of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,  nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and  (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement    v.  As stated in Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements:      a) The interim dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year and until the date of this audit report is  in accordance with section 123 of the Companies Act 2013.      b) The final dividend paid by the Company during the year in respect of the same declared for the previous year is  in accordance with section 123 of the Companies Act 2013 to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval  of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
The dividend declared is in accordance with section  123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
2.
According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective  auditors in the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order 2020 (CARO) reports of the companies included in the consolidated  financial statements.
b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial  statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors/ chartered accountants.
c)  The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive  Income), Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by  this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the  consolidated financial statements.
d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified  under Section 133 of the Act.
e)  On the basis of the reports of the statutory auditors of subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates incorporated in India,  none of the directors of joint ventures and associates incorporated in India is disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
We are informed that the provisions of Section 164(2) of the  Act are not applicable to the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India being Government  companies in terms of notification no.
G.S.R.463(E) dated 5th June 2015 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding  Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness  of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure 1”.
g)  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with the requirements of section  197 (16) of the Act, as amended:     We are informed that the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, relating to managerial remuneration  are not applicable to the Holding Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in India, being Government Companies  in terms of Ministry of Corporate Affairs Notification no G.S.R.
463(E) dated 5th June, 2015.
On the basis of the reports  of the statutory auditors of the Joint Ventures and Associates incorporated in India, the remuneration paid by the Joint  Ventures and Associates to its directors during the current year is in accordance with the Section 197 of the Act and the  remuneration paid to any director is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
h)  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies  (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations  given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on the financial statements of the  subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates and management certified financial statements, as noted in other  matter paragraph:    i.
The consolidated financial statements disclosed the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial position  of the Group, its joint ventures and associates (Refer Note 33 B and 37 B to the consolidated financial statements).
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or Indian  Accounting Standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long term contracts including derivative contracts.
Refer Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates incorporated in India, during  the year ended March 31, 2022.    iv.
(a) The respective Managements of the Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in  India, whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us that, to the best  of their knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been  advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of  funds) by the Company or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity  (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall,  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on  behalf of the Company or any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security  or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(b) The respective Managements of the Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,  whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us that, to the best of their  knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by  the Company or any of such subsidiaries from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”),  Financial Statements Consolidated Independent Auditors’ ReportHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 330 331 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with  authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or  timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on  the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements  Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the  possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud  may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to financial  statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies  or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion  In our opinion the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates which are incorporated in  India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements reporting  and such internal financial controls with reference to financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31,  2022,except in the case of two joint venture where the auditor has qualified his opinion on certain matters, which we  are informed will not have material impact on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of internal financial control with  reference to financial statements of the Group, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established  by the Group considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal  Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matter Our aforesaid reports under section 143(3) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial  control with reference to financial statements insofar as it relates to 2 subsidiaries, 24 joint ventures and associates which  are companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding standalone/consolidated reports of the auditors, as  applicable, of such companies incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For G. S. MATHUR & CO. For K. C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
008744N Firm Regn.
No.
106237W Firm Regn.
No.
302049E Firm Regn.
No.
310009E  Sd/-  Sd/-  Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
091007 M. No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 UDIN: 22091007AJCGIN8114 UDIN: 22101533AJCGFS2751 UDIN: 22063769AJCHJS9939 UDIN: 22053960AJCGQI1966 Place: New Delhi Date: 17th May 2022 Annexure 1 to the Independent Auditors’ Report  On the consolidated financial statements of even date to the members of Indian Oil Corporation  Limited for the year ended March 31, 2022 (Referred to in paragraph 1 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’) Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of  Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)  In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March  31, 2022, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation  Limited (hereinafter referred to as “Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies (collectively referred to as “the Group”)  joint ventures and associates, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls  The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates which are  companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal  control with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates which are companies incorporated in India, considering the essential components of internal control stated in the  Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants  of India (“ the ICAI”).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial  controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the  respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and  completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the  Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates which are companies incorporated in India,  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards  on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls  both issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan  and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls  with reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with  reference to financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement,  including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and audit evidence obtained by other auditors in term of their reports  is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, its joint ventures and associates, which are companies  incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements A company’s internal financial control with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control with reference to financial  statement includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,  accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance  that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally  Financial Statements Consolidated Balance SheetHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 332 333 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021  ii) Lease Liabilties  6,363.62  6,249.89   iii) Other Financial Liabilities 17  913.79  847.48  b) Provisions 18  1,586.59  1,596.83  c) Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 19  15,354.37  13,964.47  d) Other Non-Current Liabilities 20  3,180.59  2,583.36   83,343.50  79,927.04  Current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 21  67,605.56  54,241.27   ii) Lease Liabilities  2,105.87  1,472.89   iii) Trade Payables 22   A.
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises  806.63  556.39    B.
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small  Enterprises  48,239.28  36,407.68   iv) Other Financial Liabilities 17  44,024.79  42,122.01  b) Other Current Liabilities 20  18,979.61  17,141.77  c) Provisions 18  9,748.59  9,430.36  d) Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 7  619.31  802.52   1,92,129.64  1,62,174.89  Liabilities directly associated with the Assets Held for Sale 13  25.06  -   1,92,154.70  1,62,174.89  TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  4,10,624.85  3,54,915.92  Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 49 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 ASSETS Non-current Assets a) Property, Plant and Equipment 2  1,57,194.98  1,53,698.39  b) Capital Work-in-Progress 2.1  44,049.82  32,953.16  c) Goodwill - On Consolidation  1.04  1.04  d) Intangible Assets 3  3,318.33  3,385.36  e) Intangible Assets Under Development 3.1  3,419.45  3,337.38  f) Equity Investment in Joint Ventures and Associates 4  16,335.00  15,010.12  g) Financial Assets  i) Investments (Other than Investment in Joint Ventures and Associates) 4  28,003.76  20,424.09   ii) Loans 5  2,292.96  2,447.43   iii) Other Financial Assets 6  2,639.28  2,120.25  h) Income Tax Assets (Net) 7  2,819.51  2,479.91  i) Other Non-Current Assets 8  3,690.03  2,851.09   2,63,764.16  2,38,708.22  Current Assets a) Inventories 9  1,11,736.51  83,427.46  b) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4  8,013.20  9,282.61   ii) Trade Receivables 10  18,700.42  13,782.16   iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents 11  1,176.59  781.19   iv) Bank Balances other than above 12  643.55  1,693.49   v) Loans 5  450.92  612.29   vi) Other Financial Assets 6  1,509.22  2,876.95  c) Other Current Assets 8  3,842.03  3,558.65   1,46,072.44  1,16,014.80  Assets Held for Sale 13  788.25  192.90   1,46,860.69  1,16,207.70  TOTAL ASSETS  4,10,624.85  3,54,915.92  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY a) Equity Share Capital 14  9,181.04  9,181.04  b) Other Equity 15  1,24,354.14  1,02,657.01  c) Non Controlling Interest  1,591.47  975.94   1,35,126.65  1,12,813.99  LIABILITIES Non-current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 16  55,944.54  54,685.01  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2022 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  Financial Statements Consolidated Statement Of Profit And LossHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 334 335 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022   (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2021-2022 2020-2021 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (Comprising Profit/ (Loss) and  Other Comprehensive Income for the Year) attributable to: Equityholders of the Parent  31,329.26  26,159.77  Non-Controlling Interest  619.67  103.62  XII.
Earnings per Equity Share (J): 32 (1) Basic  27.34  23.57  (2) Diluted  27.34  23.57  Face Value Per Equity Share (H)  10  10  Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 49 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2021-2022 2020-2021 I.
Revenue From Operations 23  7,36,730.84  5,20,236.84  II.
Other Income 24  3,082.22  3,499.54  III.
Total Income (I+II)  7,39,813.06  5,23,736.38  IV.
Expenses: Cost of Material Consumed 25  3,30,672.38  1,74,196.22  Excise Duty  1,47,395.10  1,56,287.17  Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  1,69,991.50  1,07,087.93  Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-trade and Stock-In  Process 26  (13,710.98)  (6,181.61) Employee Benefits Expense 27  11,582.92  11,308.78  Finance Costs 28  5,423.26  3,589.12  Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on :  a) Property, Plant and Equipment  11,986.15  10,643.34   b) Intangible Assets  361.43  298.11   12,347.58  10,941.45  Impairment Loss (including reversal of impairment loss) on Financial Assets  (444.98)  1,111.98  Net Loss on de-recognition of financial assets at amortised cost  172.75  7.69  Other Expenses 29  43,330.47  35,833.65  Total Expenses (IV)  7,06,760.00  4,94,182.38  V. Profit / (Loss) before Share of profit/(loss) of associate/joint venture  (III-IV)  33,053.06  29,554.00  VI Share of profit/(loss) of associates/ joint ventures  1,235.56  1,196.73  VII.
Profit / (Loss) before Tax (V+VI)  34,288.62  30,750.73  VIII.
Tax Expense: Current Tax  7,234.66  6,868.47  Deferred Tax  1,327.36  2,120.04  IX.
Profit / (Loss) for the year (VII-VIII)  25,726.60  21,762.22  Profit / (Loss) for the Year attributable to : Equityholders of the Parent  25,102.23  21,638.21  Non-Controlling Interest  624.37  124.01  X.
Other Comprehensive Income: 30 A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  6,043.72  4,604.83  A (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  121.03  (202.84) B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  24.67  121.17  B (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 32.91  (21.99) XI.
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (IX+X) (Comprising Profit/  (Loss) and Other Comprehensive Income for the Year)  31,948.93  26,263.39  For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  Financial Statements Consolidated Statement Of Cash FlowsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 336 337 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021  Purchase of Other Investments  (1,796.69)  (3,972.99)  Receipt of government grants (Capital Grant)  710.41  583.98   Interest Income received  1,892.16  1,824.32   Dividend Income on Investments  1,053.59  260.87   Net Cash Generated/(Used) in Investing Activities:  (21,177.64)  (22,934.67) C Net Cash Flow From Financing Activities:  Proceeds from Long-Term Borrowings  11,423.04  13,579.86   Repayments of Long-Term Borrowings  (2,988.76)  (4,633.05)  Repayments of Lease Liabilities  (1,772.66)  (1,112.89)  Proceeds from/(Repayments of) Short-Term Borrowings  5,934.92  (22,317.43)  Interest paid  (4,697.79)  (4,502.27)  Dividend paid  (10,896.04)  (8,383.19)  Net Cash Generated/(Used) from Financing Activities:  (2,997.29)  (27,368.97) D Net Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)  395.40  (653.42) E1 Cash & Cash Equivalents as at end of the year  1,176.59  781.19   Less: E2 Cash & Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of year  781.19  1,434.61   NET CHANGE IN CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS (E1 - E2)  395.40  (653.42) CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 Notes: 1.
Net Cash Flow From Financing Activities includes following non-cash changes: (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 (Gain)/ Loss due to changes in exchange rate  921.43  (1,130.93) 2.
Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using Indirect Method as per Indian Accounting Standard-7: Statement of Cash Flows.
3.
Figures for previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary for uniformity in presentation.
(J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 A Cash Flow from Operating Activities  1 Profit / (Loss) Before Tax  34,288.62  30,750.73   2 Adjustments for :   Share of Profit of Joint Ventures and Associates  (1,235.56)  (1,196.73)   Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment  12,347.58  10,941.45    Loss/(Profit) on sale of Assets (net)  (11.97)  136.50    Loss/(Profit) on sale of Investments (net)  -  (4.12)   Amortisation of Capital Grants  (27.63)  (26.60)   Provision for Probable Contingencies (net)  142.72  (227.65)   MTM Loss/(gain) arising on financial assets/liabilities as at fair  value through profit and loss  (6.12)  27.64    Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  (130.23)  (371.90)   Bad Debts, Advances & Claims written off  184.21  25.05    Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims and Obsolescence  of Stores (net)  (154.64)  563.95    Impairment Loss on Financial Assets (Net)  (444.98)  1,111.98    MTM Loss/(Gain) on Derivatives  (68.00)  (140.87)   Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans thru OCI  (739.83)  15.08    Interest Income  (1,938.65)  (1,833.65)   Dividend Income  (1,053.59)  (260.87)   Finance costs  4,327.37  4,392.58    Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  587.97  1,056.60   11,778.65  14,208.44   3 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes (1+2)  46,067.27  44,959.17   4 Change in Working Capital (excluding Cash & Cash Equivalents):   Trade Receivables & Other Assets  (2,558.15)  8,717.40    Inventories  (28,336.99)  (16,420.99)   Trade Payables & Other Liabilities  16,930.06  16,462.63    Change in Working Capital  (13,965.08)  8,759.04   5 Cash Generated From Operations (3+4)  32,102.19  53,718.21   6 Less : Taxes paid  7,531.86  4,067.99   7 Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities (5-6)  24,570.33  49,650.22  B  Cash Flow from Investing Activities:  Proceeds from sale of Property, plant and equipment / Transfer  of Assets  (233.33)  792.85   Purchase of Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets  (4,704.41)  (5,467.41)  Expenditure on Construction Work in Progress  (18,099.37)  (17,071.57)  Proceeds from sale of financial instruments (other than working  capital)   -  115.28  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  Financial Statements Consolidated Statement Of Changes In EquityHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 338 339 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 A Equity Share Capital B Other Equity (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Balance at the beginning of the year  9,181.04  9,181.04  Changes in during the year  -  -  Balance at the end of the year  9,181.04  9,181.04    (J in crore)  Particulars Reserves and Surplus Reserves and  Surplus Items of Other Comprehensive Income Attributable  to  Equityholders  of the Parent Non- Controlling  Interest TOTAL Retained  Earnings Bond  Redemption  Reserve Capital  Reserve/  Capital  Redemption  Reserve Securities  Premium Insurance  Reserve Export  Profit  Reserve Corporate Social  Responsibility  Reserve Fair value  of Equity  Instruments Fair value  of Debt  Instruments Cash  Flow  Hedge  Reserve Translation  Reserve on  Consolidation Opening Balance as at April 01, 2020 75,981.10  3,171.39  732.16  76.74  261.09  53.72  0.86  5,416.88  391.67  46.00  85.26  86,216.87  876.27  87,093.14  Opening Balance Adjustment  (28.20)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (28.20)  -  (28.20) Profit/(Loss) for the Year  21,638.21  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  21,638.21  124.01  21,762.22  Other Comprehensive Income  13.98*  -  -  -  -  -  -  4,398.83  80.91  16.81  11.03  4,521.56  (20.39)  4,501.17  Total Comprehensive Income  21,652.19  -  -  -  -  -  -  4,398.83  80.91  16.81  11.03  26,159.77  103.62  26,263.39  Transfer from Export Profit Reserve  53.72  -  -  -  -  (53.72)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Appropriation towards Interim Dividend  (9,640.47)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (9,640.47)  -  (9,640.47) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (3.95)  (3.95) Appropriation towards Insurance reserve (Net)  (11.05)  -  -  -  11.05  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Appropriation towards Corporate Social  Responsibility Reserve (net)  (0.24)  -  -  -  -  -  0.24  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Transfer from fair Value of Debt Instruments  (recycling)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (2.28)  -  -  (2.28)  -  (2.28) Addition to Capital Reserve/ Capital Redemption  Reserve during the year/Other adjustment in JVs  (1.08)  -  (1.59)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (2.67)  -  (2.67) Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss (recycling)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (46.01)  -  (46.01)  -  (46.01) Closing Balance as at March 31, 2021 88,005.97  3,171.39  730.57  76.74  272.14  -  1.10  9,815.71  470.30  16.80  96.29  1,02,657.01  975.94  1,03,632.95  Financial Statements Consolidated Statement Of Changes In EquityHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 340 341 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 B Other Equity (Contd..)   (J in crore)  Particulars Reserves and Surplus Reserves and  Surplus Items of Other Comprehensive Income Attributable  to  Equityholders  of the Parent Non- Controlling  Interest TOTAL Retained  Earnings Bond  Redemption  Reserve Capital  Reserve/  Capital  Redemption  Reserve Securities  Premium Insurance  Reserve Export  Profit  Reserve Corporate Social  Responsibility  Reserve Fair value  of Equity  Instruments Fair value  of Debt  Instruments Cash  Flow  Hedge  Reserve Translation  Reserve on  Consolidation Opening Balance as at April 01, 2021  88,005.97  3,171.39  730.57  76.74  272.14  -  1.10  9,815.71  470.30  16.80  96.29  1,02,657.01  975.94  1,03,632.95  Opening Balance Adjustment  5.83  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  5.83  -  5.83  Profit/(Loss) for the Year  25,102.23  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  25,102.23  624.37  25,726.60  Other Comprehensive Income  (564.84)*  -  -  -  -  -  -  6,741.66  (125.02)  27.33  147.90  6,227.03  (4.70)  6,222.33  Total Comprehensive Income  24,537.39  -  -  -  -  -  -  6,741.66  (125.02)  27.33  147.90  31,329.26  619.67  31,948.93  Share of JV Sold  24.93  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  24.93  -  24.93  Appropriation towards Interim Dividend  (8,263.41)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (8,263.41)  -  (8,263.41) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  (1,377.39)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (1,377.39)  (4.14)  (1,381.53) Appropriation towards Insurance reserve (Net)  (19.28)  -  -  -  19.28  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,370.85  (1,370.85)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Appropriation towards Corporate Social Responsibility  Reserve (net)  0.57  -  -  -  -  -  (0.57)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Addition to Capital Reserve/ Capital Redemption  Reserve during the year/Other adjustment in JVs  (1.24)  -  (4.04)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (5.28)  -  (5.28) Transferred to Statement of Profit and Loss (recycling)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (16.81)  -  (16.81)  -  (16.81) Closing Balance as at March 31, 2022  1,04,284.22  1,800.54  726.53  76.74  291.42  -  0.53  16,557.37  345.28  27.32  244.19  1,24,354.14  1,591.47  1,25,945.61  * Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial Statements 343 High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited342 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22   (b) Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the  parent company’s investment in each subsidiary  and the parent company’s portion of equity of each  subsidiary.
Business combinations policy explains  how to account for any related goodwill.
(c) Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities,  equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to  transactions between entities of the group (profits  or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that  are recognized in assets, such as inventory and fixed  assets, are eliminated in full).
Intragroup losses may  indicate an impairment that requires recognition  in the consolidated financial statements.
Ind AS  12 Income Taxes applies to temporary differences  that arise from the elimination of profits and losses  resulting from intragroup transactions.
Profit or loss and each component of other  comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the  equity holders of the parent company of the Group  and to the non-controlling interests, even if this  results in the non-controlling interests having a  deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are  made to the financial statements of subsidiaries  to bring their accounting policies into line with the  Group’s accounting policies.
All intra-group assets  and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash  flows relating to transactions between members of  the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Change in the Group’s ownership interests in  existing subsidiaries    A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary,  without a loss of control, is accounted for as an  equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a  subsidiary, it:    - De-recognizes the assets (including goodwill) and  liabilities of the subsidiary     - De-recognizes the carrying amount of any non- controlling interests    - De-recognizes the cumulative translation  differences recorded in equity    - Recognizes the fair value of the consideration  received    - Recognizes the fair value of any investment retained    - Recognizes any surplus or deficit in profit or loss    - Reclassifies the parent company’s share of  components previously recognized in OCI to  profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate,  as would be required if the Group had directly  disposed of the related assets or liabilities NOTE - 1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) 1.4.2 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures   An associate is an entity over which the Group has  significant influence.
Significant influence is the power  to participate in the financial and operating policy  decisions of the investee but is not control or joint  control over those policies.
Investments in associates are  accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby  the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint  control is the contractually agreed sharing of control  of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions  about the relevant activities require unanimous consent  of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining whether  significant influence or joint control are similar to those  necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries.
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint  venture are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an  associate or a joint venture is initially recognized at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to  recognize changes in the Group’s share of net assets  of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition  date.
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture  is included in the carrying amount of the investment  and is not tested for impairment individually.
The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s  share of the results of operations of the associate or  joint venture.
Any change in OCI of those investees  is presented as part of the Group’s OCI.
In addition,  when there has been a change recognized directly in  the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group  recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, in  the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and  losses resulting from transactions between the Group  and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the  extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
If an entity’s share of losses of an associate or a joint  venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or  joint venture (which includes any long term interest that,  in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in  the associate or joint venture), the entity discontinues  recognizing its share of further losses.
Additional losses  are recognized only to the extent that the Group has  incurred legal or constructive obligations or made  payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports  profits, the entity resumes recognizing its share of those  profits only after its share of the profits equals the share  of losses not recognized.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 I.
Corporate Information The Financial Statements comprise Financial statements of  “Indian Oil Corporation Limited” (“the Holding company” or  “IOCL” or “Parent Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively,  the Group) for the year ended March 31, 2022.
IOCL is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled  in India.
Its shares are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange and  National Stock Exchange in India.
The registered office of the  Holding company is located at Indian Oil Bhavan, G-9, Ali  Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai.
The Group has with business interests straddling the entire  hydrocarbon value chain - from refining, pipeline transportation  & marketing, to exploration & production of crude oil & gas,  petrochemicals, gas marketing, alternative energy sources and  globalisation of downstream operations.
The Financial Statements have been approved for issue in  accordance with a resolution of the Board of directors passed  in its meeting held on May 17, 2022.
II.
Significant Accounting Policies 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION/ CONSOLIDATION  AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE 1.1 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance  with the applicable Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)  prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013  (“the Act”) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Rules and other relevant provisions of the Act  and Rules thereunder, as amended from time to time.
1.2 The financial statements have been prepared on a  historical cost basis, except for the following assets and  liabilities which have been measured at fair value:  -  Derivative financial instruments,  -  Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at  fair value (refer serial no.
17 of accounting policies  regarding financial instruments) and   -  Plan assets related to employee benefits (refer  serial no.
12 of accounting policies regarding   employee benefits) 1.3 The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees  (H) which is the presentation currency of the Group and  all values are rounded to the nearest crore (up to two  decimals) except when otherwise indicated.
1.4 Basis of Consolidation: 1.4.1  Subsidiaries:   The financial statements comprise the financial  statements of the IOCL and its subsidiaries as at March  31, 2022.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed,  or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with  the investee and has the ability to affect those returns  through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the  Group controls an investee if and only if it has:  - Power over the investee   - Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its  involvement with the investee, and  -  The ability to use its power over the investee to affect  its returns   The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an  investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there  are changes to one or more of the three elements of  control listed above.
Consolidation of a subsidiary  begins when the Group obtains control over the  subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of  the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses  of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year  are included in the Financial Statements from the date  the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases  to control the subsidiary.
Financial Statements are prepared using uniform  accounting policies for like transactions and other events  in similar circumstances.
If a member of the group uses  accounting policies other than those adopted in the  Financial Statements for like transactions and events  in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are  made to that group member’s financial statements in  preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements to  ensure conformity with the group’s accounting policies.
The Financial Statements of all entities used for the  purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same  reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., year  ended on March 31.
Following consolidation procedure  is followed:   (a) Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity,  income, expenses and cash flows of the parent  company with those of its subsidiaries.
For this  purpose, income and expenses of the subsidiary  are based on the amounts of the assets and  liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial  statements at the acquisition date.
NOTE - 1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 344 345 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 2.2.2 Borrowing cost incurred during construction period  on loans specifically borrowed and utilized for  projects is capitalized on quarterly basis up to the date   of capitalization.
2.2.3  Borrowing cost, if any, incurred on General Borrowings  used for projects is capitalized at the weighted average  cost.
The amount of such borrowings is determined  on quarterly basis after setting off the amount of   internal accruals.
B.
Capital Stores 2.2.4  Capital Stores are valued at weighted average cost.
Specific provision is made for likely diminution in value,  wherever required.
2.3 Intangible Assets & Amortisation 2.3.1 Technical know-how / license fee relating to production  process and process design are recognized as Intangible  Assets and amortised on a straight line basis over the life  of the underlying plant/ facility.
2.3.2  Expenditure incurred in research phase is charged to  revenue and that in development phase, unless it is of  capital nature, is also charged to revenue.
2.3.3 Cost incurred on computer software/licenses purchased/ developed resulting in future economic benefits, other  than specific software that are integral part of the  related hardware, are capitalized as Intangible Asset  and amortised over a period of three years beginning  from the month in which such software/ licenses are  capitalized.
However, where such computer software/  license is under development or is not yet ready for use,  accumulated cost incurred on such items are accounted  as “Intangible Assets Under Development” 2.3.4  Right of ways with indefinite useful lives are not  amortised but tested for impairment annually at the  cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite  life is reviewed annually to determine whether the  indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the  change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on  a prospective basis.
2.3.5  Intangible Assets acquired separately are measured on  initial recognition at cost.
The cost of Intangible Assets  acquired in a business combination is based on its fair value  at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition,  Intangible Assets are carried at cost less any accumulated  amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
In case  of internally generated intangibles, development cost is  recognized as an asset when all the recognition criteria are  met.
However, all other internally generated intangibles  including research cost are not capitalized and the related  expenditure is recognized in the statement of profit and  loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
2.3.6  The useful lives of Intangible Assets are assessed as  either finite or indefinite.
Intangible Assets with finite  lives are amortised over the useful life on straight line  basis and assessed for impairment whenever there is an  indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The  amortisation period and the amortisation method for an  intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at the  end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected  useful life or the expected pattern of consumption  of future economic benefits embodied in the asset  are considered to modify the amortisation period or  method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in  accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on  Intangible Assets with finite lives is recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure  forms part of carrying value of another asset.
2.3.7  On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to  continue with the carrying value of all of its Intangible  Assets recognized as at April 1, 2015 measured as per  the previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the  deemed cost of the Intangible Assets.
2.3.8 Amortisation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/upto the month of capitalization/ sale,  disposal/ or classified to Asset held for disposal.
2.4 Depreciation 2.4.1  Cost of PPE (net of residual value) excluding freehold  land is depreciated on straight-line method as per the  useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Act except in  case of the following assets:   a) Useful life based on technical assessment    • 15 years for Plant and Equipment relating to Retail  Outlets (other than storage tanks and related  equipment), LPG cylinders and pressure regulators    • 25 years for solar power plant    • Certain assets of R&D Centre (15-25 years)    • Certain assets of CGD business,(Compressor /  Booster Compressor and Dispenser - 10 years,  Cascade – 20 years)    • Moulds used for the manufacturing of the  packaging material for Lubricants- 5 years    • In other cases, like Spare Parts etc.
(2-30 years)   b) In case of specific agreements e.g.
enabling assets  etc., useful life as per agreement or Schedule II to the  Act, whichever is lower and   c) In case of immovable assets constructed on leasehold  land, useful life as per Schedule-II to the Act or lease  period of land (including renewable/ likely renewable  period), whichever is lower.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of  an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The financial statements of the associate or joint venture  are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the  accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group  determines whether it is necessary to recognize an  impairment loss on its investments in its associate  or joint venture.
At each reporting date, the Group  determines whether there is objective evidence that the  investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the  amount of impairment as the difference between the  recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture  and its carrying value, and then recognizes the loss as  ‘Share of profit of an associate and a joint venture’ in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate  or joint control over the joint venture, the Group  measures and recognizes any retained investment  at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying  amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of  significant influence or joint control and the fair value of  the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is  recognized in profit or loss.
1.4.3 Interest in Joint operations:   For the interest in joint operations, the Group recognizes:   - Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly   - Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred  jointly   - Revenue from the sale of its share of the output  arising from the joint operation   - Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by  the joint operation   - Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred  jointly 2.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND  INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) 2.1.1 Property, Plant & Equipment (PPE) comprises of tangible  assets and capital work in progress.
PPE are stated  in the Balance Sheet at cost, less any accumulated  depreciation and accumulated impairment losses (if  any), except freehold land which are carried at historical  cost.
The cost of an item of PPE comprises its purchase  price/construction cost including applicable taxes (net  of credits) after deducting any discounts and rebates,  any directly attributable costs of bringing the assets to  its working condition and location for its intended use  and present value of any estimated cost of dismantling  and removing the item and restoring the site on which  it is located.
These costs are capitalized until the asset is  ready for use and includes borrowing cost capitalized in  accordance with the Group’s accounting policy.
2.1.2 The cost of an item of PPE is recognized as an asset if,  and only if:   (a) it is probable that future economic benefits  associated with the item will flow to the entity; and   (b) the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
In accordance with the above criteria, subsequent  costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or  recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate.
2.1.3  Technical know-how / license fee relating to plants/ facilities and specific software that are integral part of  the related hardware are capitalized as part of cost of  the underlying asset.
2.1.4 Spare parts are capitalized when they meet the definition  of PPE, i.e., when the Group intends to use these for a  period exceeding 12 months.
2.1.5 The acquisition of some items of PPE although not  directly increasing the future economic benefits of any  particular existing item of PPE, may be necessary for the  Company to obtain the future economic benefits from  its other assets.
Such items of PPE are recognized as  assets.
2.1.6 Environment responsibility related obligations directly  attributable to projects is recognized as project cost on  the basis of progress of project or on actual incurrence,  whichever is higher.
2.1.7 On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to continue  with the carrying value of all of its PPE recognized as  at April 1, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP  and use that carrying value as the deemed cost of the  property, plant and equipment.
2.2  Capital Work in Progress (CWIP)   A.
Construction Period Expenses 2.2.1  Revenue expenses exclusively attributable to projects  incurred during construction period are capitalized.
However, such expenses in respect of capital facilities  being executed along with the production/operations  simultaneously and where the expenses are not  attributable exclusively are charged to revenue.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 346 347 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Group at  the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise  of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using  the estimated useful life of the asset as per 2.4 above.
Perpetual Right of use (ROU) assets related to land are  not depreciated but tested for Impairment loss, if any.
3.1.3  Modifications to a lease agreement beyond the  original terms and conditions are generally accounted  for as a re-measurement of the lease liability with a  corresponding adjustment to the ROU asset.
Any gain  or loss on modification is recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
However, the modifications that  increase the scope of the lease by adding the right  to use one or more underlying assets at a price  commensurate with the stand-alone selling price are  accounted for as a separate new lease.
In case of lease  modifications, discounting rates used for measurement  of lease liability and ROU assets is also suitably adjusted.
3.1.4  Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets   The Group applies the short-term lease recognition  exemption to its short-term leases of Property, Plant and  Equipment (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 12  months or less from the commencement date and do  not contain a purchase option).
It also applies the lease  of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases  that are considered of low value and is not intended  for sublease..
Lease payments on short-term leases and  leases of low-value assets are recognized as expense  on a straight-line basis over the lease term or another  systematic basis if that basis is more representative of  the pattern of the lessee’s benefit.
3.2 Leases as Lessor (assets given on lease) 3.2.1 When the Group acts as lessor, it determines at the  commencement of the lease whether it is a finance  lease or an operating lease.
3.2.2 Rental income from operating lease is recognized  on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant  lease except where another systematic basis is more  representative of the time pattern of the benefit derived  from the asset given on lease.
3.2.3  All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables  at an amount equal to net investment in the lease.
Principal component of the lease receipts is adjusted  against outstanding receivables and interest income is  accounted by applying the interest rate implicit in the  lease to the net investment.
If an arrangement contains  lease and non-lease components, the Company applies  principles enunciated in Ind AS 115 “Revenue from  Contracts with Customers” to allocate the consideration  in the contract.
3.2.4  When the Group is an intermediate lessor it accounts  for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease  separately.
It assesses the lease classification of a sub- lease with reference to the ROU asset arising from  the head lease, not with reference to the underlying  asset.
If a head lease is a short-term lease to which  the Company applies the short term lease exemption  described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an  operating lease.
4.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS (also  refer para 14 for impairment of E&P Assets)  The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether  there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If  any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing  for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s  recoverable amount.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the  higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair  value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Recoverable  amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the  asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely  independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount  of an asset exceeds recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows  are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax  discount rate that reflects current market assessments  of the time value of money and the risks specific to the  asset.
In determining fair value less cost of disposal, recent  market transactions are taken into account.
If no such  transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation  model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by  valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly  traded companies or other available fair value indicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed  budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared  separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which  the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and  forecast calculations generally cover a period of 15 years.
For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated  and applied to project future cash flows after the fifteenth  year.
To estimate cash flow projections beyond periods  covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, Group  extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget using  a steady or declining growth rate for subsequent years,  unless an increasing rate can be justified.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made  at each reporting date to determine whether there is an  indication that previously recognized impairment losses no    Depreciation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/upto the month of capitalization/sale,  disposal/ or classified to Asset held for disposal.
Residual value is determined considering past  experience and generally the same is between 0 to 5%  of cost of assets except   a.
In case of Steel LPG cylinder and pressure regulator,  residual value is considered maximum at 15% and in  case of fibre composite LPG cylinder, residual value is  considered at 10% based on estimated realisable value   b. in case of catalyst with noble metal content, residual  value is considered based on the cost of metal  content and   c. In few cases residual value is considered based on  transfer value agreed in respective agreement.
The Group depreciates components of the main asset  that are significant in value and have different useful  lives as compared to the main asset separately.
The  Group depreciates spares over the life of the spare from  the date it is available for use.
2.4.2  PPE, other than LPG Cylinders and Pressure Regulators,  costing upto H 5,000/- per item are depreciated fully in  the year of capitalization.
Further, spares, components  like catalyst excluding noble metal content and major  overhaul/ inspection are also depreciated fully over  their respective useful life.
2.4.3 The residual values, useful lives and methods of  depreciation of PPE are reviewed at each financial year  end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
2.5 Derecognition 2.5.1  PPE and Intangible Assets are derecognized upon disposal  or when no future economic benefits are expected to  arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss  arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of PPE or  Intangible Asset is determined as the difference between  the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset  and is recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
3.
LEASES   The Group assesses at contract inception whether a  contract is, or contains, a lease.
That is, if the contract  conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset  for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
3.1 Leases as Lessee (Assets taken on lease)  The Group applies a single recognition and measurement  approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and  leases of low-value assets.
The Group recognizes lease  liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets  representing the right to use the underlying assets.
3.1.1  Lease Liabilities  At the commencement date of the lease, the Group  recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value  of lease payments to be made over the lease term.
The  lease payments include fixed payments (including in  substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives  receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an  index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under  residual value guarantees.
The lease payments also include  the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain  to be exercised by the Group and payments of penalties  for terminating a lease, if the lease term reflects the Group  exercising the option to terminate.
The variable lease  payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are  recognized as expense in the period on which the event  or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments,  the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the  lease commencement date if the interest rate implicit  in the lease is not readily determinable.
After the  commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is  increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced  for the lease payments made.
The Group accounts for each lease component within the  contract as a lease separately from non-lease components  of the contract and allocates the consideration in the  contract to each lease component on the basis of the  relative stand-alone price of the lease component  and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease  components, except for leases where the company has  elected to use practical expedient not to separate non- lease payments from the calculation of the lease liability  and ROU asset where the entire consideration is treated as  lease component.
3.1.2  Right-of-use Assets   The Group recognizes right-of-use (ROU) assets at  the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date  the underlying asset is available for use).
Right-of-use  assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated  depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for  any remeasurement of lease liabilities.
The cost of right- of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities  recognized, initial direct costs incurred, and lease  payments made at or before the commencement date  less any lease incentives received.
Unless the Group is  reasonably certain to obtain ownership of the leased  asset at the end of the lease term, the recognized right- of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis  over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease  term.
Right-of use assets are subject to impairment.
If  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 348 349 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  Any goodwill or fair value adjustments arising in business  combinations/ acquisitions, which occurred before the  April 1, 2013, are treated as assets and liabilities of the  entity rather than as assets and liabilities of the foreign  operation.
Therefore, those assets and liabilities are  non-monetary items already expressed in the functional  currency of the parent company and no further translation  differences occur.
7.
INVENTORIES 7.1 Raw Materials & Stock-in-Process 7.1.1  Raw materials including crude oil are valued at cost  determined on weighted average basis or net realisable  value, whichever is lower.
7.1.2  Stock in Process is valued at raw material cost plus  processing cost as applicable or net realisable value,  whichever is lower.
7.1.3  Crude oil in Transit is valued at cost or net realisable  value, whichever is lower.
7.1.4  Initial cost of inventories includes the transfer of gains  and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges, recognized  in OCI, in respect of the purchases of raw materials.
7.2 Finished Products and Stock-in-Trade 7.2.1  Finished Products and Stock in Trade, other than  lubricants, are valued at cost determined on ‘First in First  Out’ basis or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost  of Finished Products produced internally is determined  based on raw material cost and processing cost.
7.2.2 Lubricants are valued at cost on weighted average  basis or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost of  lubricants internally produced is determined based on  cost of inputs and processing cost.
7.2.3 Imported products in transit are valued at cost or net  realisable value whichever is lower.
7.3  Stores and Spares 7.3.1  Stores and Spares (including Chemicals.
packing  Containers i.e.
empty barrels, tins etc.)
are valued at  weighted average cost.
Specific provision is made  in respect of identified obsolete stores & spares and  chemicals for likely diminution in value.
Further, a  provision @ 5% of cost is also made on the balance  stores and spares (excluding barrels, tins, stores in  transit, chemicals/catalysts, crude oil and own products)  towards likely diminution in the value.
7.3.2 Stores and Spares in transit are valued at cost.
8.
PROVISIONS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES &  CONTINGENT ASSETS 8.1  Provisions 8.1.1 Provisions are recognized when the Group has a  present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of  a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources  embodying economic benefits will be required to settle  the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of  the amount of the obligation.
8.1.2 When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be  recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognized  as a separate asset but only when it is virtually certain  and amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the  Statement of Profit and Loss net of reimbursement, if  any.
8.1.3 If the effect of the time value of money is material,  provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate  that reflects current market assessments of the time  value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific  to the liability.
When discounting is used, the increase in  the provision due to the passage of time is recognized  as a finance cost.
8.1.4 Decommissioning Liability   Decommissioning costs are provided at the present  value of expected cost to settle the obligation using  estimated cash flows and are recognized as part of  the cost of the particular asset.
The cash flows are  discounted at a current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks  specific to the decommissioning liability.
The unwinding  of the discount is expensed as incurred and recognized  in the Statement of Profit and Loss as a finance cost.
The  estimated future cost of decommissioning is reviewed  annually and adjusted as appropriate.
Changes in the  estimated future cost or in the discount rate applied are  adjusted in the cost of the asset.
8.2 Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 8.2.1 Show-cause notices issued by various Government  Authorities are generally not considered as obligations.
8.2.2 When the demand notices are raised against such show  cause notices and are disputed by the Group, these are  classified as disputed obligations.
8.2.3 The treatment in respect of disputed obligations are as  under:   a) a provision is recognized in respect of present  obligations where the outflow of resources is  probable as per 8.1.1 above; longer exist or have decreased.
If such indication exists, the  Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount.
A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only  if there has been a change in the assumptions used to  determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last  impairment loss was recognized.
The reversal is limited so  that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its  recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that  would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no  impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
5.
BORROWING COSTS  Borrowing cost consists of interest and other cost incurred  in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Borrowing costs that are attributable to the acquisition  or construction of the qualifying asset are capitalized as  part of the cost of such asset.
A qualifying asset is one  that necessarily takes substantial period of time to get  ready for intended use.
Capitalization of borrowing costs  is suspended when active development activity on the  qualifying assets is interrupted other than on temporary  basis and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss  during such extended periods.
All other borrowing costs  are recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the  period in which the same are incurred.
6.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS/  TRANSLATION  6.1 The Group’s financial statements are presented in Indian  Rupee (H) which is also functional currency of the Holding  Company.
6.2 Transactions in currencies other than the respective group  entities’ functional currencies (foreign currencies) are  initially recorded at spot exchange rates prevailing on the  date of transactions.
6.3  Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies (such  as cash, receivables, payables etc) outstanding at the  end of reporting period, are translated at exchange rates  prevailing on that date.
6.4  Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currency,  (such as PPE, intangible assets, equity investments, capital/  revenue advances other than expected to be settled in  cash etc.)
are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on  the date of the transaction, other than those measured at  fair value.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign  currency are translated using the exchange rates at the  date when the fair value is determined.
The gain or loss  arising on translation of non-monetary items measured  at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the  gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e.,  translation differences on items whose fair value gain or  loss is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  or the Statement of Profit and Loss are also recognized in  OCI or the Statement of Profit and Loss, respectively).
6.5 Any gains or losses arising due to differences in exchange  rates at the time of translation or settlement are accounted  for in the Statement of Profit and Loss either under the head  foreign exchange fluctuation or interest cost to the extent  regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs as the case  may be, except those relating to loans mentioned below.
Exchange differences on long-term foreign currency  loans obtained or re-financed on or before March 31, 2016  relating to acquisition of depreciable assets are adjusted  to the carrying cost of the assets and depreciated over the  balance life of the assets.
6.6 Exchange differences arising on monetary items that  forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a  foreign operation are recognized in profit or loss in the  separate financial statements of the reporting entity  or the individual financial statements of the foreign  operation, as appropriate.
In the financial statements that  include the foreign operation and the reporting entity  (e.g., consolidated financial statements when the foreign  operation is a subsidiary), such exchange differences are  recognized initially in OCI.
These exchange differences  are reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of  the net investment.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign  operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange  prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of  profit or loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing  at the dates of the transactions.
For practical reasons, the  group uses an average rate to translate income and expense  items, if the average rate approximates the exchange rates  at the dates of the transactions.
The exchange differences  arising on translation for consolidation are recognized in  OCI.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the component  of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is  recognized in profit or loss.
Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/ business  combination of a foreign operation on or after April 1, 2013  and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as  assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated  at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 350 351 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 customer loyalty points, the likelihood of exercising the  option is adjusted.
Wherever the Group is acting as an  agent in this arrangement, the Company recognize the  revenue on net basis.
9.2 Other claims are recognized when there is a reasonable  certainty of recovery.
10.
EXCISE DUTY  Excise duty is accounted on the basis of both, payments  made in respect of goods cleared as also provision made  for goods lying in stock.
Value of stock includes excise  duty payable / paid on finished goods wherever applicable.
11.
TAXES ON INCOME 11.1 Current Income Tax  The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current  tax amount are those that are enacted or substantively  enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the  Group operates and generates taxable income.
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at  the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the  taxation authorities.
Current income tax relating to items recognized outside  profit or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in  other comprehensive income or in equity).
Management  periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns  with respect to situations in which applicable tax  regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes  provisions where appropriate.
11.2 Deferred Tax 11.2.1 Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet  method on temporary differences between the tax  bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts  for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable  temporary differences, except:   (a) when the deferred tax liability arises from the initial  recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a  transaction that is not a business combination and,  at the time of the transaction, affects neither the  accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss;    (b) in respect of taxable temporary differences associated  with investments in subsidiaries, associates and  interests in joint ventures, when the timing of  the reversal of the temporary differences can be  controlled and it is probable that the temporary  differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible  temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax  credits and any unused tax losses.
Deferred tax assets  are recognized to the extent that it is probable that  taxable profit will be available in future against which  the deductible temporary differences, and the carry  forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can  be utilized, except:   (a) when the deferred tax asset relating to the  deductible temporary difference arises from  the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a  transaction that is not a business combination and,  at the time of the transaction, affects neither the  accounting profit or loss nor taxable profit or loss.
(b) In respect of deductible temporary differences  associated with investments in subsidiaries,  associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred  tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is  probable that the temporary differences will reverse  in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be  available against which the temporary differences  can be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based  on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or  substantively enacted at the reporting date.
11.2.2 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it  is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will  be available in future to allow all or part of the deferred  tax assets to be utilized.
Unrecognized deferred tax  assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are  recognized to the extent that it has become probable  that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax  assets to be recovered.
11.2.3 Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside profit  or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in  other comprehensive income or in equity).
11.2.4 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset  if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax  assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred  taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same  taxation authority.
12.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 12.1  Short Term Benefits:  Short Term Employee Benefits are accounted for in the  period during which the services have been rendered.
b) all other cases are disclosed as contingent liabilities  unless the possibility of outflow of resources is remote.
8.2.4 Contingent Liabilities are possible obligations that arise  from past events and whose existence will only be  confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one  or more future events not wholly within the control of  the Company.
Where it is not probable that an outflow  of economic benefits will be required, or the amount  cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed  as a contingent liability.
Contingent liabilities are  disclosed on the basis of judgment of the management/ independent experts and reviewed at each Balance  Sheet date to reflect the current management estimate.
8.2.5  Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed  towards capital expenditure are considered for disclosure.
8.2.6 A Contingent Asset is disclosed where an inflow of  economic benefits is probable.
9.
REVENUE  9.1  REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS  9.1.1  The Group is in the business of oil and gas operations  and it earns revenue primarily from sale of petroleum  products and petrochemical products.
In addition, the  Group also earns revenue from other businesses which  comprises Gas, Exploration & Production and Others.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or  services are transferred to the customer at an amount  that reflects the consideration to which the Company  expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or  services.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration  specified in a contract with a customer and excludes  amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Group has generally concluded that it is the  principal in its revenue arrangements, except a few  agency services, because it typically controls the goods  or services before transferring them to the customer.
The Group considers whether there are other promises  in the contract that are separate performance obligations  to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be  allocated (e.g., customer loyalty points).
In determining  the transaction price for the sale of products, the Group  considers the effects of variable consideration, the  existence of significant financing components, non- cash consideration and consideration payable to the  customer (if any).
9.1.2 Revenue from the sale of petroleum products,  petrochemical products, Crude and gas are recognized  at a point in time, generally upon delivery of the products.
The Group recognizes revenue over time using input  method (on the basis of time elapsed) in case of non- refundable deposits from dealers and service contracts.
In case of construction contracts, revenue and cost are  recognized by measuring the contract progress using  input method by comparing the cost incurred and total  contract cost.
Contract modifications are accounted  for as a part of existing contract or separate contract  based on conditions prescribed in Ind AS 115.
9.1.3 The Company has assumed that recovery of excise duty  flows to the Company on its own account.
This is for  the reason that it is a liability of the manufacturer which  forms part of the cost of production, irrespective of  whether the goods are sold or not.
Since the recovery of  excise duty flows to the Company on its own account,  revenue includes excise duty.
However, Sales Tax/ Goods and Services Tax (GST) and  Value Added Tax (VAT) is not received by the company  on its own account.
Rather, it is tax collected on value  added to the product by the seller on behalf of the  government.
Accordingly, it is excluded from revenue.
9.1.4 Variable consideration    If the consideration in a contract includes a variable  amount, the Group estimates the amount of consideration  to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring  the goods to the customer.
The variable consideration  is estimated at contract inception and constrained until  it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in  the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not  occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable  consideration is subsequently resolved   The Group provides volume rebates to certain customers  once the quantity of products purchased during the  period exceeds a threshold specified in the contract.
Rebates are offset against amounts payable by the  customer.
The volume rebates/ cash discount give  rise to variable consideration.
To estimate the variable  consideration for the expected future rebates/ cash  discount, the Group applies the most likely amount  method for contracts with a single-volume threshold and  the expected value method for contracts with more than  one volume threshold.
The selected method that best  predicts the amount of variable consideration is primarily  driven by the number of volume thresholds contained  in the contract and accordingly, the Group recognizes a  refund liability for the expected future rebates.
9.1.5  Loyalty Points   The Group operates various loyalty point schemes.
The  transaction price allocated to customer loyalty points  is based on their relative estimated standalone selling  price and the same is reduced from revenue from sale  of goods.
While estimating standalone selling price of  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 352 353 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 13.4  When loans or similar assistance are provided by  governments or related institutions, with an interest rate  below the current applicable market rate or NIL interest  rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as  a government grant.
The loan or assistance is initially  recognized and measured at fair value and the government  grant is measured as the difference between the initial  carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received.
The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting  policy applicable to financial liabilities.
Classification of  the grant is made considering the terms and condition of  the grant i.e.
whether grants relates to assets or otherwise.
14.
OIL & GAS EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 14.1 Pre-acquisition Cost:   Expenditure incurred before obtaining the right(s) to  explore, develop and produce oil and gas are expensed as  and when incurred.
14.2 Exploration Stage:   Acquisition cost relating to projects under exploration  are initially accounted as “Intangible Assets under  Development”.
The expenses on oil and gas assets that is  classified as intangible include:  -  acquired rights to explore  -  exploratory drilling cost   Cost of Survey and prospecting activities conducted in the  search of oil and gas are expensed as exploration cost in  the year in which these are incurred  If the project is not viable based upon technical feasibility  and commercial viability study, then all cost relating  to Exploratory Wells are expensed in the year when  determined to be dry.
If the project is proved to be viable, then all cost relating  to drilling of Exploratory Wells shall be continued to be  presented as “Intangible Assets under Development” 14.3  Development Stage:  Acquisition cost relating to projects under development  stage are presented as “Capital Work-in-Progress”.
When a well is ready to commence commercial  production, the capitalized cost corresponding to proved  developed oil and gas reserves is reclassified as ‘Completed  wells/ Producing wells’ from “Capital Work-in-Progress/  Intangible Assets under Development” to the gross block  of assets.
Examples of Oil and Gas assets that might be  classified as Tangible Assets include development drilling  cost, piping and pumps and producing wells.
14.4 Production Phase  Production cost include pre-well head and post-well head  expenses including depreciation and applicable operating  costs of support equipment and facilities are expensed off.
Depletion is calculated using the Unit of Production  method based upon proved and developed reserves.
14.5 Abandonment Phase  In case of development / production phase, abandonment  / decommissioning amount is recognized at the present  value of the estimated future expenditure.
Any change  in the present value of the estimated decommissioning  expenditure other than the unwinding of discount is  adjusted to the decommissioning provision and the  carrying value of the corresponding asset.
The unwinding  of discount on provision is charged in the Statement of  Profit and Loss as finance costs.
14.6   Impairment of E&P Assets  14.6.1  Impairment testing in case of Development and  producing assets   In case of E&P related development and producing  assets, expected future cash flows are estimated using  management’s best estimate of future oil and natural  gas prices, production volumes, proved & probable  reserves volumes and discount rate.
The expected  future cash flows are estimated on the basis of value  in use concept.
The value in use is based on the cash  flows expected to be generated by the projected oil  or gas production profiles up to the expected dates of  cessation of production of each producing field, based  on current estimates of proved and probable reserves  and on reasonable & supportable fiscal assumptions that  represent management’s best estimate of the range of  economic conditions that will exist over the remaining  useful life of the asset.
Management takes a long-term  view of the range of economic conditions over the  remaining useful life of the asset and, are not based  on the relatively short-term changes in the economic  conditions.
However, impairment of exploration and  evaluation assets is to be done in line with para 14.6.2 14.6.2  Impairment in case of Exploration and Evaluation  assets   Exploration and Evaluation assets are tested for  impairment where an indicator for impairment exists.
In such cases, while calculating recoverable amount, in  addition to the factors mentioned in 14.6.1, management’  s best estimate of total current reserves and resources  are considered (including possible and contingent  reserve) after appropriately adjusting the associated  12.2  Post-Employment Benefits and Other Long Term  Employee Benefits:   a) The Group’s contribution to the Provident Fund is  remitted to separate trusts established for this purpose  based on a fixed percentage of the eligible employee’s  salary and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss/ CWIP.
Shortfall, if any, in the fund assets, based on the  Government specified minimum rate of return, is made  good by the Group and charged to the Statement of  Profit and Loss/CWIP.
b) The Group operates defined benefit plans for Gratuity,  Post-Retirement Medical Benefits, Resettlement,  Felicitation Scheme and Ex-gratia.
The cost of providing  such defined benefits is determined using the projected  unit credit method of actuarial valuation made at the  end of the year.
Out of these plans, Gratuity and Post- Retirement Medical Benefits are administered through  respective Trusts.
c) Obligations on other long-term employee benefits  viz leave encashment and Long Service Awards are  provided using the projected unit credit method of  actuarial valuation made at the end of the year.
Out of  these obligations, leave encashment obligations are  funded through qualifying insurance policies made with  insurance companies.
d) The Group also operates a defined contribution scheme  for Pension benefits for its employees and the contribution  is remitted to a separate Trust/Corporate NPS.
12.3 Termination Benefits:  Payments made under Voluntary Retirement Scheme are  charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on incurrence.
12.4 Remeasurements:  Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses,  the effect of the asset ceiling (excluding amounts included  in net interest on the net defined benefit liability) and the  return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net  interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognized  immediately in the Balance Sheet with a corresponding  debit or credit to retained earnings through Other  Comprehensive Income (OCI) in the period in which it  occurs.
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or  loss in subsequent periods.
Remeasurements in respect of  other long term benefits are recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss.
Past service cost is recognized in profit or loss on the  earlier of:  • The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and   • The date that the Group recognizes related restructuring  cost  Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate  to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The Group  recognizes the following changes in the net defined  benefit obligation as an expense in the Statement of Profit  and Loss:  • Service cost comprising current service cost, past- service cost, gains and losses on curtailments and non- routine settlements; and  • Net interest expense or income 13.
GRANTS  13.1 Government grants are recognized where there is  reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and  all attached conditions will be complied with.
13.2 Grant relating to Assets (Capital Grants)  In case of grants relating to depreciable assets, the cost  of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon  is treated as Deferred Income which are recognized as  “Other Operating Revenues” usually in the Statement of  Profit and Loss over the period and in the proportion in  which depreciation is charged.
13.3 Grant related to Income (Revenue Grants)  Revenue grants are recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which  the entity recognizes as expenses the related cost for  which the grants are intended to compensate.
Subsidy and budgetary support towards under recoveries  are recognized in “Revenue from Operations” as per  schemes notified by Government from time to time,  subject to final adjustments, wherever applicable.
The Group has treated waiver of duty under EPCG  Scheme as revenue grant as the condition of meeting  the export obligations is a primary condition of availing  the grant as per the EPCG Scheme.
The above grant  is set up by recording the assets at gross value and  corresponding grant amount as deferred income.
Such  grant is recognized in “Other Operating Revenues” in  proportion of export obligations actually fulfilled during  the accounting period.
In case of post export EPCG Duty  Credit Scrip Scheme, revenue grant is recognized in “Other  Operating Revenues” equivalent to the amount of Custom  duty remission in proportion to export obligations actually  fulfilled during the accounting period.
Revenue grants are generally recorded under “Other  Operating Revenues”, except north east excise duty  exemption which is netted off with the related expense.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 354 355 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  • Financial Assets at amortised cost  • Debt Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)  • Equity Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)  • Financial Assets and derivatives at fair value through  profit or loss (FVTPL) 17.1.1  Financial Assets at Amortised Cost   A Financial Asset is measured at the amortised cost if  both the following conditions are met:   a) The asset is held within a business model whose  objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual  cash flows,    and   b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments  of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal   amount outstanding.
After initial measurement, such Financial Assets are  subsequently measured at amortised cost using the  effective interest rate (EIR) method.
Amortised cost  is calculated by taking into account any discount or  premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an  integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included  in finance income in the profit or loss.
The losses arising  from impairment are recognized in the profit or loss.
Apart from the same, any income or expense arising  from remeasurement of financial assets measured  at amortised cost, in accordance with Ind AS 109, is  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
This  category generally applies to trade and other receivables.
17.1.2 Debt Instrument at FVTOCI   A ‘Debt Instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both  of the following criteria are met:   a) The objective of the business model is achieved both  by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the  Financial Assets, and   b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent solely  payments of principal and interest (SPPI).
Debt Instruments included within the FVTOCI category  are measured initially as well as at each reporting date  at fair value.
Fair Value movements are recognized in  the Other Comprehensive Income (OCI).
However, the  Group recognizes interest income, impairment losses  & reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
On derecognition of the  asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in  OCI is reclassified from the equity to the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI  Debt Instrument is reported as interest income using  the EIR method.
17.1.3 Equity Instrument at FVTOCI (Other than Subsidiaries,  Joint Ventures and Associates)   All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are  measured at fair value.
The Group has made an  irrevocable election to present subsequent changes  in the fair value in Other Comprehensive Income.
The  classification is made on initial recognition/transition  and is irrevocable.
There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to the  Statement of Profit and Loss, even on sale of investment.
Dividend income is recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss when the Group’s right to receive dividend   is established.
17.1.4 Debt Instruments and Derivatives at FVTPL   FVTPL is a residual category for Debt Instrument.
Any  debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for  categorization as at amortised cost or as FVTOCI, is  classified as at FVTPL.
This category also includes derivative financial instruments  entered into by the Group that are not designated as  hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by  Ind AS 109.
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are  measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest income on such  instruments has been presented under interest income.
17.1.5  Derecognition   A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a  financial asset or part of a group of similar financial  assets) is primarily derecognized (i.e.
removed from the  Balance Sheet) when:   • The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have  expired, or   • The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash  flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation  to pay the received cash flows in full without  material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’  arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred  substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or  (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained  substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but  has transferred control of the asset.
inherent risks.
Impairment loss is reversed subsequently,  to the extent that conditions for impairment are no  longer present.
14.6.3  Cash generating unit    In case of E&P assets, the Group generally considers a  project as cash generating unit.
However, in case where  the multiple fields are using common production/ transportation facilities and are sufficiently economically  interdependent the same are considered to constitute a  single cash generating unit (CGU).
15.
CURRENT VERSUS NON-CURRENT  CLASSIFICATION  The Group presents assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet  based on current/ non-current classification as below.
15.1  An asset is treated as current when it is:  • Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or  consumed in normal operating cycle  • Held primarily for the purpose of trading  • Expected to be realised within twelve months after the  reporting period, or  • Cash or Cash Equivalents unless restricted from being  exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve  months after the reporting period  All other assets are classified as non-current.
15.2 A liability is treated as current when:  • It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle  • It is held primarily for the purpose of trading  • It is due to be settled within twelve months after the  reporting period, or  • There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement  of the liability for at least twelve months after the  reporting period  All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
16.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE  16.1 The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal  groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be  recovered principally through a sale rather than through  continuing use.
Actions required to complete the sale  should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes  to the sale will be made or that the decision to sell will be  withdrawn.
Management must be committed to the sale  expected within one year from the date of classification.
16.2 For these purposes, sale transactions include exchanges  of non-current assets for other non-current assets when  the exchange has commercial substance.
The criteria for  held for sale classification is regarded met only when the  assets or disposal group is available for immediate sale  in its present condition, subject only to terms that are  usual and customary for sales (or disposal groups), its  sale is highly probable; and it will genuinely be sold, not  abandoned.
The Group treats sale of the asset or disposal  group to be highly probable when:  • The appropriate level of management is committed to a  plan to sell the asset (or disposal group),  • An active programme to locate a buyer and complete  the plan has been initiated (if applicable),  • The asset (or disposal group) is being actively marketed  for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its  current fair value,  • The sale is expected to qualify for recognition as  a completed sale within one year from the date of  classification , and  • Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it  is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be  made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
16.3 Non-current Assets held for sale and disposal groups are  measured at the lower of their carrying amount and the fair  value less cost to sell.
Assets and liabilities classified as held  for sale are presented separately in the Balance Sheet.
PPE and Intangible Assets once classified as held for sale  are not depreciated or amortised.
17.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a  financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity  instrument of another entity.
Financial assets and financial  liabilities are recognized when the Group becomes a party  to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
17.1 Financial Assets  Initial recognition and measurement  All Financial Assets are recognized initially at fair value plus,  in the case of Financial Assets not recorded at fair value  through profit or loss, transaction cost that are attributable  to the acquisition of the financial assets.
Transaction costs  directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets  measured at fair value through profit or loss are recognized  immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Subsequent measurement  For the purpose of subsequent measurement, Financial  Assets are classified in four categories: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 356 357 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 17.2.2  Subsequent measurement   The measurement of financial liabilities depends on  their classification, as described below:   A.
Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss    Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or  loss include financial liabilities held for trading and  financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition  as at fair value through Statement of Profit or Loss.
Financial Liabilities are classified as held for trading if  they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in  the near term.
This category also includes derivative  financial instruments entered into by the Group that  are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge  relationships as defined by Ind AS 109.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B.
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost    Financial Liabilities that are not held-for-trading  and are not designated as at FVTPL are measured at  amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting  periods.
The carrying amounts of financial liabilities  that are subsequently measured at amortised cost are  determined based on the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss when the liabilities are derecognized  as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  any discount or premium on acquisition and fees  or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The  EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
17.2.3  Derecognition   A Financial Liability is derecognized when the obligation  under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another  from the same lender on substantially different terms,  or the terms of an existing liability are substantially  modified, such an exchange or modification is treated  as the derecognition of the original liability and the  recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the  respective carrying amounts is recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
17.3  Embedded Derivatives  If the hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial  asset within the scope of Ind AS 109, the Group does  not separate embedded derivatives.
Rather, it applies  the classification requirements contained in Ind AS 109  to the entire hybrid contract.
Derivatives embedded in  all other host contracts are accounted for as separate  derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic  characteristics and risks are not closely related to those  of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held  for trading or designated at fair value though profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value  with changes in fair value recognized in the Statement  of Profit and Loss, unless designated as effective hedging  instruments.
Reassessment only occurs if there is either  a change in the terms of the contract that significantly  modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required  or a reclassification of a financial asset out of the fair value  through profit or loss.
17.4 Offsetting of Financial Instruments  Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities are offset and the  net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet if there is a  currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized  amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis,  to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
17.5  Derivative Instrument- Initial recognition / subsequent  measurement  The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such  as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and  forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign  currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity price  risks, respectively.
Such derivative financial instruments  are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which  a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently  re-measured at fair value.
The accounting for subsequent  changes in fair value of derivatives depends on the  designation or non- designation of derivative as hedging  instruments.
Derivatives are carried as Financial Assets  when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities  when the fair value is negative.
17.5.1  Derivative that are designated as Hedge Instrument   The Company designates certain foreign exchange  forward contracts commodity forward contracts  and interest rates swap contracts for hedging foreign  currency risks, commodity price risks and interest rate  risks respectively.
The Company generally designates  the whole forward contract as hedging instrument.
These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
These hedging instruments are as per the policies  approved by the Board of Directors.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Company  formally designates and documents the hedge  relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge  accounting and the risk management objective and  strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation    When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash  flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through  arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has  retained the risks and rewards of ownership.
When it has  neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the  risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control  of the asset, the Group continues to recognize the  transferred asset to the extent of the Group’s continuing  involvement.
In that case, the Group also recognizes  an associated liability.
The transferred asset and the  associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects  the rights and obligations that the Group has retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a  guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the  lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and  the maximum amount of consideration that the Group  could be required to repay.
17.1.6  Impairment of Financial Assets   In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies  Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for measurement  and recognition of impairment loss on the following  Financial Assets and credit risk exposure:   a) Financial Assets that are Debt Instruments, and are  measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities,  deposits, trade receivables and bank balance   b) Lease Receivables under Ind AS 116   Simplified Approach   The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition  of impairment loss allowance on Trade Receivables.
The application of simplified approach does not require the  Group to track changes in credit risk.
Rather, it recognizes  impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each  reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Group uses a provision  matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on  portfolio of its trade receivables.
The provision matrix  is based on its historically observed default rates over  the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted  for forward-looking estimates.
At every reporting date,  the historical observed default rates are updated and  changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
On that basis, the Group estimates provision on trade  receivables at the reporting date.
General Approach   For recognition of impairment loss on other Financial  Assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that  whether there has been a significant increase in the  credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit risk has  not increased significantly, 12-months ECL is used to  provide for impairment loss.
However, if credit risk  has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used.
If, in  a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument  improves such that there is no longer a significant  increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the  entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss allowance  based on 12-months ECL.
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting  from all possible default events over the expected life of  a financial instrument.
The 12-months ECL is a portion  of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that  are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized  during the period is recognized as expense /income  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Balance  Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is  described below:   • Financial Assets measured as at amortised cost: ECL  is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part  of the measurement of those assets in the Balance  Sheet.
The allowance reduces the net carrying  amount.
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the  Group does not reduce impairment allowance from  the gross carrying amount.
• Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: Since Financial  Assets are already reflected at fair value, impairment  allowance is not further reduced from its value.
Rather, ECL amount is presented as ‘accumulated  impairment amount’ in the OCI.
17.2  Financial Liabilities 17.2.1  Initial recognition and measurement.
Financial Liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as  financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and  financial liabilities at amortised cost, as appropriate.
All Financial Liabilities are recognized initially at fair  value and, in the case of liabilities subsequently  measured at amortised cost, they are measured net of  directly attributable transaction cost.
In case of Financial  Liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss,  transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition  of financial liabilities are recognized immediately in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Group’s Financial Liabilities include trade and other  payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial  instruments.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 358 359 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 20.6  All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured  or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised  within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based  on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value  measurement as a whole:  Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active  markets for identical assets or liabilities  Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level  input that is significant to the fair value measurement is  directly or indirectly observable  Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level  input that is significant to the fair value measurement is  unobservable  For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the  financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group  determines whether transfers have occurred between  levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation  (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the  fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each   reporting period.
In case of Level 3 valuations, external valuers are also involved  in some cases for valuation of assets and liabilities, such as  unquoted Financial Assets, loans to related parties etc.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has  determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of  the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability  and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
21.
EARNINGS PER SHARE  The basic Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing  the net profit / (loss) after tax for the year attributable to  the Equity Shareholders of the Holding Company by the  weighted average number of equity shares outstanding  during the year, adjusted for bonus elements in equity  shares issued during the year and excluding treasury  shares.
The holding company did not have any potentially  dilutive securities in the years presented.
22. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL 22.1 In accordance with Ind AS 101 provisions related to first  time adoption, the Group has elected to apply Ind AS  accounting for business combinations prospectively  from 1 April 2013.
As such, Indian GAAP balances  relating to business combinations entered into before  that date, including goodwill, have been carried forward  with minimal adjustment.
The same first time adoption  exemption is also used for associates and joint ventures.
22.2 Business combinations are accounted for using the  acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured  as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured  at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non- controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business  combination, the Group elects whether to measure the  non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at  the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net  assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and  the liabilities assumed are recognized at their acquisition  date fair values.
For this purpose, the liabilities assumed  include contingent liabilities representing present  obligation and they are measured at their acquisition fair  values irrespective of the fact that outflow of resources  embodying economic benefits is not probable.
However,  the following assets and liabilities acquired in a business  combination are measured at the basis indicated below:  • Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the assets or liabilities  related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized  and measured in accordance with Ind AS 12 Income Tax  and Ind AS 19 Employee Benefits respectively.
• Liabilities or equity instruments related to share based  payment arrangements of the acquiree or share –  based payments arrangements of the Group entered  into to replace share-based payment arrangements of  the acquire are measured in accordance with Ind AS  102 Share-based Payments at the acquisition date.
• Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held  for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-current  Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are  measured in accordance with that standard.
• Reacquired rights are measured at a value determined  on the basis of the remaining contractual term of the  related contract.
Such valuation does not consider  potential renewal of the reacquired right.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the Financial  Assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification  and designation in accordance with the contractual terms,  economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the  acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded  derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any  previously held equity interest is re-measured at its  acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is  recognized in profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the  acquirer is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability  includes the Company’s risk management objective and  strategy for undertaking hedge, the hedging/ economic  relationship, the hedged item or transaction, the nature  of the risk being hedged, hedge ratio and how the entity  will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging  instrument’s fair value in offsetting the exposure to  changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows  attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in  achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and  are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that the  hedge is actually have been highly effective throughout  the financial reporting periods for which it was designated.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of  derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow  hedges is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income  and accumulated under the heading Cash Flow Hedge  Reserve within Equity.
The gain or loss relating to the  ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the  Statement of Profit and Loss and included in the Other  Income or Other Expenses as Gain on Derivatives or  Loss on Derivatives respectively.
Amounts previously recognized in OCI and  accumulated in equity relating to effective portion  are reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss in the  periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss,  in the same line item as the recognized hedged item  or treated as basis adjustment if a hedged forecast  transaction subsequently results in the recognition of  a non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a  forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur,  the cumulative gain or loss accumulated in equity is  transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging  instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no longer  qualifies for hedge accounting.
17.5.2  Derivatives that are not designated as hedge  instrument   The Company enters into certain derivative contracts to  hedge risks which are not designated as hedges.
Such  contracts are accounted for at fair value through the  Statement of Profit and Loss and are included in the  Other Income or Other Expenses as Gain on Derivatives  or Loss on Derivatives respectively.
17.6  Commodity Contracts  Commodity contracts that are entered into and continue to  be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non- financial item in accordance with the Group’s expected  purchase, sale or usage requirements are held at cost.
18.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  Cash and Cash Equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise  cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an  original maturity of three months or less, which are subject  to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdraft  (negative balance in Account) is shown under short term  borrowings under Financial Liabilities & Positive balance in  that account is shown in Cash & Cash Equivalents.
19.
TREASURY SHARES  Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation, IOC Shares  Trust has been set up by IOCL for holding treasury shares  in relation to IBP and BRPL mergers.
The shares held by  IOC Shares Trust are treated as treasury shares.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury  shares) are recognized at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of  the Group’s own equity instruments.
20.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT 20.1 The Group measures financial instruments, such as,  derivatives at fair value at each Balance Sheet date.
Fair  value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or  paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between  market participants at the measurement date.
20.2 The fair value measurement is based on the presumption  that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability  takes place either in the principal market for the asset or  liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most  advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal  or the most advantageous market must be accessible by  the Group.
20.3 The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using  the assumptions that market participants would use  when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market  participants act in their economic best interest.
20.4  A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes  into account a market participant’s ability to generate  economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and  best use or by selling it to another market participant that  would use the asset in its highest and best use.
20.5 The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate  in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are  available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of  relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of  unobservable inputs.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE – 1B: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial Statements 361 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE-1A: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited360 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires  management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets  and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the  disclosure of contingent liabilities.
These include recognition  and measurement of financial instruments, estimates of useful  lives and residual value of Property, Plant and Equipment and  intangible assets, valuation of inventories, measurement of  recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, measurement  of employee benefits, actuarial assumptions, provisions etc.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result  in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying  amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
The  Group continually evaluates these estimates and assumptions  based on the most recently available information.
Revisions  to accounting estimates are recognized prospectively in the  Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which the estimates  are revised and in any future periods affected.
A. JUDGEMENTS  In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies,  management has made the following judgements, which  have the significant effect on the amounts recognised in  the consolidated financial statements:  Materiality  Ind AS requires assessment of materiality for accounting and  disclosure of various transactions in the financial statements.
Accordingly, the Group assesses materiality limits for various  items for accounting and disclosures and follows on a  consistent basis.
Overall materiality is also assessed based on  various financial parameters such as Gross Block of assets,  Net Block of Assets, Total Assets, Revenue and Profit Before  Tax.
The materiality limits are reviewed and approved by the  Board of the Holding Company.
Oil & Gas Reserves  The determination of the group’s estimated oil reserves  requires significant judgements and estimates to be  applied and these are regularly reviewed and updated.
Reserves are estimated using independent reservoir  engineering reports and factors such as the availability of  geological and engineering data, reservoir performance  data, acquisition and divestment activity, drilling of  new wells, and commodity prices all impact on the  determination of the group’s estimates of its oil reserves.
Independent reservoir engineers perform evaluations  of the Corporation’s oil and natural gas reserves on an  annual basis The group determines its proved reserves  estimates on the requirement of reasonable certainty  with rigorous technical and commercial assessments  based on conventional industry practice and regulatory  requirements.
Refer note-35 for related disclosure.
Intangible Asset under Development  Acquisition costs and drilling of exploratory well costs  are capitalized as intangible asset under development  and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm that  exploration drilling is still under way or work has been  determined / under way to determine that the discovery  is economically viable based on a range of technical  & commercial considerations and for establishing  development plans and timing , sufficient / reasonable  progress is being made.
If no future activity is planned on  reasonable grounds / timeframes, Intangible asset under  development and property acquisition costs is written  off.
Upon start of production from field and recognition  of proved reserves, cost carried as intangible asset under  development is transferred to producing properties.
Also  refer Note-35 for related disclosures.
Contingencies   Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course  of business in relation to claims against the Group,  including legal, contractor, land access and other claims.
By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when  one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum,  of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of  significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding  the outcome of future events.
Refer Note-37 for the  related disclosures.
B.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS  The key assumptions concerning the future and other  key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting  date, that have a significant risk of causing a material  adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and  liabilities within the next financial year, are described  below.
Existing circumstances and assumptions about  future developments, however, may change due to  market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond  the control of the Group.
Such changes are reflected in  the assumptions when they occur.
Defined benefit plans/ Other Long term employee  benefits   The cost of the defined benefit plans and other long term  employee benefit plans are determined using actuarial  valuations.
An actuarial valuation involves making various  assumptions that may differ from actual developments  in the future.
These include the determination of the  discount rate, future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its  long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly  sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
All assumptions  are reviewed at each reporting date.
that is a financial instrument and within the scope of Ind  AS 109 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss.
If the  contingent consideration is not within the scope of Ind AS  109, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate Ind  AS.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity  is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and  subsequent its settlement is accounted for within equity.
22.3 Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess  of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and  the amount recognized for non-controlling interests,  and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable  assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value  of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate  consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether  it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and  all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures  used to measure the amounts to be recognized at the  acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an  excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the  aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is  recognized in OCI and accumulated in equity as Capital  Reserve.
However, if there is no clear evidence of bargain  purchase, the entity recognizes the gain directly in equity  as capital reserve, without routing the same through OCI.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less  any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose  of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business  combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each  of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to  benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other  assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been  allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more  frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be  impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating  unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss  is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any  goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets  of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each  asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized in profit  or loss.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not  reversed in subsequent periods.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating  unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed  of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation  is included in the carrying amount of the operation  when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill  disposed in these circumstances is measured based on  the relative values of the disposed operation and the  portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is  incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which  the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional  amounts for the items for which the accounting is  incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted  through goodwill during the measurement period, or  additional assets or liabilities are recognized, to reflect  new information obtained about facts and circumstances  that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would  have affected the amounts recognized at that date.
These adjustments are called as measurement period  adjustments.
The measurement period does not exceed  one year from the acquisition date.
23.
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST  Non-controlling interest represent the proportion of  income, other comprehensive income and net assets  in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the Company’s  shareholders.
Non-controlling interest is initially measured  at the proportionate share of the recognized amounts  of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to  acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling  interest is the amount of the interest at initial recognition  plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent  changes in equity.
III.
New Standards/ amendments and other changes effective  April 1,2021 or thereafter Ministry of Corporate Affairs notified amendments to the  existing standards vide notification G.S.R.
419(E) dated 18th  July 2021.
The effect of those amendments is not material.
IV.
Standards issued but not yet effective Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new standard or  amendments to the existing standards.
During the year, vide  Notification G.S.R.
255(E) dated 23th March 2022, minor  modifications in existing standards has been notified which will  be applicable from April 1, 2022.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial Statements 363 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  NOTE – 1B: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS (Contd..) High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited362 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Current Year Previous Year (K in crore)  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant And  Equipment  Office  Equipments Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures  Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of Use   Assets (ROU) Total (Refer A&E) (Refer B&E) (Refer E) GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2021  3,780.97  17,114.99  1,55,456.73  2,188.13  104.21  802.02  199.02  1,284.12  8,449.01  11,592.81  2,00,972.01  Additions during the year  61.56  214.92  3,889.33  200.74  6.23  31.24  1.24  11.84  258.79  2,402.01  7,077.90  Transfers from construction  work-in-progress  7.10  2,260.49  5,759.27  178.41  3.29  87.68  7.40  0.14  457.15  -  8,760.93  Disposals/ Deductions /  Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  (28.67)  155.80  (438.65)  (97.77)  (1.98)  (19.12)  (4.43)  (0.26)  341.06  (1,371.96)  (1,465.98) Gross Block as at March 31,  2022  3,820.96  19,746.20 1,64,666.68  2,469.51  111.75  901.82  203.23  1,295.84  9,506.01  12,622.86  2,15,344.86  DEPRECIATION &  AMORTISATION Depreciation & Amortisation  as at April 01, 2021  -  3,874.04  36,234.47  1,214.06  42.99  391.01  63.60  261.52  2,303.63  2,418.22  46,803.54  Depreciation & Amortisation  during the year (Refer C)  -  991.16  8,116.36  359.36  8.16  78.40  13.62  50.69  643.81  1,653.63  11,915.19  Disposals/ Deductions /  Transfers/ Reclassifications/  FCTR  -  (45.25)  (457.38)  (85.56)  (1.17)  (13.44)  (2.17)  -  102.24  (610.13)  (1,112.86) Depreciation & Amortisation  as at March 31, 2022  -  4,819.95  43,893.45  1,487.86  49.98  455.97  75.05  312.21  3,049.68  3,461.72  57,605.87  IMPAIRMENT (Refer H) Impairment Loss as at April  01, 2021  -  19.01  103.28  -  -  -  -  0.27  347.52  -  470.08  Impairment Loss during the  year  -  -  82.55  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  82.55  Impairment Loss reversed  during the year/ FCTR  -  (2.85)  (19.95)  -  -  -  -  -  14.18  -  (8.62) Impairment Loss as at March  31, 2022  -  16.16  165.88  -  -  -  -  0.27  361.70  -  544.01  Net Block as at March 31, 2022  3,820.96  14,910.09  1,20,607.35  981.65  61.77  445.85  128.18  983.36  6,094.63  9,161.14  1,57,194.98  (J in crore)  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant And  Equipment  Office  Equipments Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures  Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of Use   Assets (ROU) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01,  2020  3,646.51  15,257.63  1,40,270.64  1,872.27  92.95  720.79  183.65  1,296.88  7,412.89  10,514.84  1,81,269.05  Additions during the year  206.95  153.05  3,660.44  248.28  10.39  31.52  14.60  -  272.30  1,558.29  6,155.82  Transfers from construction  work-in-progress  4.37  1,841.09  12,502.10  172.37  2.67  64.54  1.33  -  387.93  -  14,976.40  Disposals/ Deductions /  Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  (76.86)  (136.78)  (976.45)  (104.79)  (1.80)  (14.83)  (0.56)  (12.76)  375.89  (480.32)  (1,429.26) Gross Block as at March 31,  2021  3,780.97  17,114.99  1,55,456.73  2,188.13  104.21  802.02   199.02  1,284.12  8,449.01  11,592.81  2,00,972.01  DEPRECIATION &  AMORTISATION Depreciation & Amortisation  as at April 01, 2020  -  3,084.09  28,837.32  962.88  34.66  322.85  48.91  211.10  1,750.88  1,587.43  36,840.12  Depreciation & Amortisation  during the year (Refer C)  -  806.41  7,613.39  335.31  9.38  76.30  14.71  50.42  457.57  1,201.23  10,564.72  Disposals/ Deductions /  Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  -  (16.46)  (216.24)  (84.13)  (1.05)  (8.14)  (0.02)  -  95.18  (370.44)  (601.30) Depreciation & Amortisation  as at March 31, 2021  -  3,874.04  36,234.47  1,214.06  42.99  391.01  63.60  261.52  2,303.63  2,418.22  46,803.54   The parameter most subject to change is the discount  rate.
The management considers the interest rates of  government securities based on expected settlement  period of various plans.
Further details about various employee benefit obligations  are given in Note 36.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments  When the fair values of financial assets and financial  liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be  measured based on quoted prices in active markets,  their fair value is measured using valuation techniques  including the discounted cash flow (DCF) model based  on level-2 and level-3 inputs.
The inputs to these models  are taken from observable markets where possible,  but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is  required in establishing fair values.
Judgements include  considerations of inputs such as price estimates, volume  estimates, rate estimates etc.
Changes in assumptions  about these factors could affect the reported fair value  of financial instruments.
Also refer note 40 for further  disclosures of estimates and assumptions.
Impairment of Financial Assets  The impairment provisions for trade receivables are made  considering simplified approach based on assumptions  about risk of default and expected loss rates.
The Group  uses judgement in making these assumptions and  selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation based  on the company’s past history and other factors at the end  of each reporting period.
In case of other financial assets,  the Group applies general approach for recognition of  impairment losses wherein the Group uses judgement  in considering the probability of default upon initial  recognition and whether there has been a significant  increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout  each reporting period.
Also refer Note-41 for impairment  analysis and provision.
Provision for decommissioning   At the end of the operating life of the Corporation’s  facilities and properties and upon retirement of its oil and  natural gas assets, decommissioning costs will be incurred.
Estimates of these costs are subject to uncertainty  associated with the method, timing and extent of future  decommissioning activities.
The liability, related asset and  expense are impacted by estimates with respect to the  costs and timing of decommissioning.
Refer note-18 for  the provisions in respect of decommissioning cost.
Income Taxes  The Group uses estimates and judgements based on the  relevant facts, circumstances, present and past experience,  rulings, and new pronouncements while determining the  provision for income tax.
A deferred tax asset is recognised  to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the deductible temporary  differences and tax losses can be utilised.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 364 365 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..) Details of assets given on operating lease included in the above (J in crore)  Asset Particulars Gross Block Accumulated Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at 31.03.22 W.D.V.
as at 31.03.21  Land - Freehold  19.25  -  -  19.25  16.23   ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold)  78.80  7.61  -  71.19  64.42   Buildings  159.69  24.23  0.17  135.29  143.85   Plant and Equipment  287.47  31.22  -  256.25  270.12   Office Equipment  12.80  4.80  -  8.00  8.86   Furniture  1.46  0.37  -  1.09  1.12   Drainage, Sewage & Water Supply  -  -  -  -  1.55  (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint  Owner* Gross Block Accumulated Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at 31.03.22 W.D.V.
as at 31.03.21 Land - Freehold HPCL, BPCL  1.59  -  -  1.59  1.59  ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold) BPCL  0.05  -  -  0.05  0.06  Buildings HPCL, BPCL,  Others  51.45  16.55  -  34.90  36.53  Plant and Equipment HPCL, BPCL,  RIL, Others  64.88  22.82  -  42.06  45.10  Office Equipments BPCL  0.51  0.30  -  0.21  0.31  Railway Sidings HPCL, BPCL  17.76  7.16  -  10.60  9.51  Drainage,Sewage & Water Supply HPCL, BPCL,  GSFC  0.45  0.09  -  0.36  0.37  Total  136.69  46.92  -  89.77  93.47  Details of Company’s share of Jointly Owned Assets included in the above:  Additions to Gross Block Includes:  * HPCL: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., GSFC: Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Ltd., RIL: Reliance  Industries Ltd. (J in crore)  Asset Particulars Exchange Fluctuation  Borrowing Cost 31.03.22 31.03.21 31.03.22 31.03.21  Buildings  5.07  (5.30)  23.65  3.11   Plant and Equipment  247.11  (252.84)  68.64  213.90   Office Equipments  0.06  (0.04)  0.04  -   Furniture & Fixtures  -  -  0.05  -   Drainage,Sewage & Water Supply  11.84  (12.64)  0.34  -   Total  264.08  (270.82)  92.72  217.01  (J in crore)  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant And  Equipment  Office  Equipments Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures  Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of Use   Assets (ROU) Total IMPAIRMENT  (Refer H) Total Impairment as at April  01, 2020  -  19.01  99.57  -  -  -  -  0.27  233.78  -  352.63  Impairment Loss during the  year  -  -  3.70  -  -  - -  -  93.25  -  96.95  Impairment Loss reversed  during the year/ FCTR  -  -  0.01  -  -  -  -  -  20.49  -  20.50  Total Impairment as at March  31, 2021  -  19.01  103.28  -  -  -  -  0.27  347.52  -  470.08  Net Block as at March 31, 2021  3,780.97  13,221.94  1,19,118.98  974.07  61.22  411.01  135.42  1,022.33  5,797.86  9,174.59  1,53,698.39  NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..) Previous Year (Contd..) A. i) Freehold Land includes J 1.61 crore (2021: H 1.61 crore) lying vacant due to title disputes/ litigation.
ii) Out of the Freehold Land measuring 1364.01 acres at Mathura and Agra regions, land measuring 50 acres (approx) has been  acquired by NHAI as a part of the NH2 widening project for which the determination of value of compensation is pending.
Accordingly, the value of land amounting to H 1.18 crore is continued to be included in Freehold land.
iii) Freehold Land includes J 41.75 crore of compensation paid in respect of land at Panipat Refinery as per District and High court  orders of earlier dates, which was later quashed by subsequent High Court order dated 18.12.2019.
Since, the process of recovery,  for compensation already paid, has been stayed by Honble Supreme Court vide order dated 21.09.2020, necessary adjustment  shall be made in the cost of the land upon actual recovery, if any.
B. i) Buildings include J 0.01 crore (2021: H 0.01 crore) towards value of 1605 (2021: 1605) Shares in Co-operative Housing  Societies towards membership of such societies for purchase of flats.
ii) Includes Roads, Bridges etc.
(i.e.
Assets other than Building) of Gross block amounting to J 5,122.57 crore (2021: H 4,219.39  crore) and net block amounting to J 2,834.91 crore (2021: H 2,390.91 crore) .
C. Depreciation and amortisation for the year includes J 11.59 crore (2021: H 18.33 crore) relating to construction period expenses  shown in Note-2.2 D. Railways have claimed transfer of ownership in respect of certain assets provided by the Company at railway premises which has  not been accepted by the Group and continue to be part of fixed to be part of Plant, Property & Equipment of the Group, WDV  of such assets is J 47.97 crore (2021: H 49.28 crore).
This includes WDV of assets worth J 17.59 crore (2021: H 17.91 crore) which  are being used by other oil companies based on award of tender by Railways.
However, considering the right on the assets and  future commercial interest of the Group, these assets are continued to be reflected as Property, Plant & Equipment.
E. Land and Buildings (Including ROU Asset) include J 733.68 crore (2021: H 1282.96 crore) in respect of which Title/ Lease  Deeds are pending for execution or renewal.
F. For details regarding hypothecation/ pledge of assets, refer Note-16.
For details regarding ROU Assets, refer Note-37.
G. In accordance with the requirements prescribed under Schedule II to Companies Act, 2013, the Group has adopted useful  lives as prescribed in that schedule except in some cases as per point no.
2.4.1 of significant accounting policies (Note-1).
H. During the year, Holding Company has provided an impairment loss in the statement of Profit and Loss under the Head  ‘Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on Tangible Assets’ on windmills in Rajasthan of J 82.55 crore (2021: NIL)  considering uncertainty over availment of eligible Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) and retaining tariff of H 3.14/Kwh as  per RRECL order dated 05.03.2019.
I.
Hitherto, the depreciation was being charged pro-rata on quarterly basis on assets from/ upto the quarter of capitalisation/  disposal.
As an improvement in present practice, the Holding Company has adopted a shorter time period of monthly  grouping for pro-rata depreciation effective from April 01, 2021.
The impact on account of above change is reduction in  depreciation by J 146.78 crore in FY 2021-22.
However, the overall impact over the useful life of asset will be nil.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 366 367 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) Current Year Ageing of Capital Work in Progress Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original  Plan Current Year Previous Year (J in crore) Particulars   Construction  Work in  Progress  - Tangible  Assets Capital  Stores Capital  Goods in  Transit Construction  Period  Expenses  pending  allocation Total Refer A Refer B Balance as at beginning of the year  25,832.42  4,406.37  754.28  2,169.11  33,162.18  Additions during the year  16,888.53  3,288.06  572.80  -  20,749.39  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -  -  -  1,593.02  1,593.02  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment (Note 2)  (8,760.93)  -  -  -  (8,760.93) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment - Direct  Addition (Note 2)  -  -  (10.41)  -  (10.41) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (5.57)  -  -  -  (5.57) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  918.10  (2,237.51)  (770.85)  (402.59)  (2,492.85)  34,872.55  5,456.92  545.82  3,359.54  44,234.83  Provision for Capital Losses  (165.32)  (19.69)  -  -  (185.01) Closing Balance  34,707.23  5,437.23  545.82  3,359.54  44,049.82  (J in crore) Particulars   Amount of CWIP for a period of TotalLess than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  19,333.86  14,543.44  7,043.21  3,136.94  44,057.45  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  1.78  16.97  7.48  151.15  177.38  Total  19,335.64  14,560.41  7,050.69  3,288.09  44,234.83  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  19,150.97  8,631.93  3,029.29  2,163.15  32,975.34  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  23.06  7.86  72.95  82.97  186.84  Total  19,174.03  8,639.79  3,102.24  2,246.12  33,162.18  (J in crore) Particulars   To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years i) Projects in Progress  - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  3,404.73   - Indjet Unit at Barauni Refinery  128.32   - Infrastructure development to facilitate import of Grid power  420.22   - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  548.44   - Ethanol production from PSA Off gas at Panipat Refinery  539.29   - Catalyst Manufacturing Unit at Panipat Refinery  162.87   - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  878.11   - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  383.95   - Infrastructure at Dumad for (Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur  Pipeline) KASPL  292.54   - Additional Tankages Project at Paradip Refinery  201.34   - MEG Project at Paradip Refinery  3,666.69   - CBR-Trichy Product Pipeline  108.26   - Paradip - Hyderabad Pipeline  2,783.26   - Augmentation of PHDPL and its extension upto Patna and  Muzaffarpur  1,488.56   - Koyali - Ahmednagar-Sholapur Pipeline  1,542.71   - Ennore-Thiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry-Nagapattinam- Madurai-Tuticorin Gas Pipeline  3,585.20  (J in crore) Particulars   Construction  Work in  Progress  - Tangible  Assets Capital  Stores Capital  Goods in  Transit Construction  Period  Expenses  pending  allocation Total Refer-A Refer-B Balance as at beginning of the year  22,003.77  5,630.15  620.03  1,418.40  29,672.35  Additions during the year  17,133.31  2,979.08  862.38  -  20,974.77  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -  -  -  1,400.36  1,400.36  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment (Note 2)  (14,976.40)  -  -  -  (14,976.40) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment - Direct  Addition (Note 2)  -  -  (26.73)  -  (26.73) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (1.56)  (0.26)  -  -  (1.82) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  1,673.30  (4,202.60)  (701.40)  (649.65)  (3,880.35)  25,832.42  4,406.37  754.28  2,169.11  33,162.18  Provision for Capital Losses  (185.15)  (23.87)  -  -  (209.02) Closing Balance  25,647.27  4,382.50  754.28  2,169.11  32,953.16  A.
Includes JJ 461.87 crore (2021: H 345.06 crore) towards Capital Expenditure relating to ongoing Oil & Gas Exploration &  Production activities B.
Includes J 392.84 crore (2021: H 689 crore) towards Stock lying with Contractors NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 368 369 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars   To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years  - Paradip-Somnathpur-Haldia Pipeline  818.51   - 30" OD Crude Oil Pipeline in H-B section of PHBPL and  Conversion of existing 18” twin pipelines in H-B section  from crude to Product & Gas service  2,224.08   - LPG Import Facility At Paradip  593.93   - Motihari LPG Bottling Plant  168.87   - POL Terminal at Motihari  196.40   - Railhead depot at Silchar (Assam)  123.08   - TOP at Manmad Terminal  149.48   - TOP at Solapur Depot  231.92   - TOP at Ahmednagar Depot  167.44   - Augmentation of Ratlam Terminal Project  252.79   - POL Terminal at Atchutapuram  233.14   - Guntakal Railfed Depot  180.20   - TOP on PHPL at Vijayawada  152.86   - Cochin LPG Import facility  488.02   - Pipeline TOP at Asaur  216.81   - BK-CBM-2001/1  220.73   - NK-CBM-2001/1  109.31   - BS VI Projects  921.45   - RESID-COKE Handling System  223.41   - Cooling Tower  42.90   - Others Projects *  1,895.63  9.84  0.02  -  Total  29,636.15  119.15  0.02  -  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - 80 TPH PETCOKE FIRED BOILER Project at Guwahati  Refinery  120.38   - Others Projects *  16.07  0.30  0.47  39.92  Total  16.07  0.30  0.47  160.30  NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original  Plan (Contd..) Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original  Plan (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years i) Projects in Progress  - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  274.74   - Ethanol production from PSA Off gas at Panipat Refinery  291.74   - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  602.47   - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  284.23  1,702.88   - Additional Crude Tanks Project at Paradip Refinery  156.82   - MEG Project at Paradip Refinery  2,739.16   - Infrastructure at Dumad for (Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur  Pipeline) KASPL  189.66   - Paradip - Hyderabad Pipeline  2,693.63   - Augmentation of PHDPL and its extension upto Patna and  Muzaffarpur  1,205.24   - Koyali - Ahmednagar-Sholapur Pipeline  1,286.75   - Ennore-Thiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry-Nagapattinam- Madurai-Tuticorin Gas Pipeline  3,004.12   - Augmentation of Chennai Trichy Madurai Pipeline  112.97   - LPG Import Facility At Paradip  554.19   - Motihari LPG Bottling Plant  127.87   - POL Terminal at Motihari  226.67   - Railhead depot at Silchar (Assam)  210.15   - Augmentation of Ratlam Terminal Project  168.91   - Modernisation of Lube Blending Plant, Trombay  109.89   - Guntakal Railfed Depot  232.00   - Revamping/Augmentation of Baitalpur Depot  143.29   - BK-CBM-2001/1  177.51   - BS VI Projects  804.63   - Gasified Liquified Natural Gas ( RLNG)  96.67   - RESID-COKE Handling System  206.37   - Cooling Tower  39.04   - Others Projects *  964.91  411.50  93.57  0.96  Total  11,421.48  7,596.52  93.57  0.96  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - 80 TPH PETCOKE FIRED BOILER Project at Guwahati  Refinery  120.38   - Others Projects *  14.60  10.85  0.06  40.39  Total  14.60  10.85  0.06  160.77  * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Others Projects Previous Year NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 370 371 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 2.2: CONSTRUCTION PERIOD EXPENSES (NET) DURING THE YEAR (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Employee Benefit Expenses  477.68  446.06  Repairs and Maintenance  6.61  5.82  Consumption of Stores and Spares  0.16  0.20  Power & Fuel  8.34  58.53  Rent  13.21  11.47  Rates and Taxes  1.55  2.69  Travelling Expenses  63.27  59.24  Communication Expenses  1.75  1.78  Printing and Stationery  0.87  0.81  Electricity and Water Charges  3.64  6.76  Bank Charges  0.11  0.06  Technical Assistance Fees  3.89  2.40  Finance Costs  A  968.29  724.96  Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on :  Property, Plant and Equipment  11.59  18.33   Intangible Assets  0.11  0.30  Start Up/ Trial Run Expenses (net of revenue)  0.98  5.30  Others  55.03  70.36  Total Expenses  1,617.08  1,415.07  Less : Recoveries  24.06  14.71  Net Expenditure during the year  1,593.02  1,400.36  A.
Rate of Specific borrowing eligible for capitalisation is 1.11% to 7.41% (2021: 1.08% to 8.12%) (J in crore) Right of Way Licenses Computer  Software Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2021  1,270.30   3,193.31  374.36   4,837.97  Additions during the year  110.14  13.21  22.53  145.88  Transfers from Intangible Assets under Development  -  86.68  42.44  129.12  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  -  53.17  (12.12)  41.05  Gross Block as at March 31, 2022  1,380.44  3,346.37  427.21  5,154.02  DEPRECIATION,  AMORTISATION AND  IMPAIRMENT Total Amortisation as at April 01, 2021  19.37  800.25  256.00  1,075.62  Amortisation during the year  3.80  282.13  75.61  361.54  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  -  19.67  (11.93)  7.74  Total Amortisation as at March 31, 2022  23.17  1,102.05  319.68  1,444.90  Total Impairment as at April 01, 2021  0.27  376.70  0.02  376.99  Impairment Loss during the year  -  -  -  -  Impairment Loss reversed during the year  -  13.82  (0.02)  13.80  Total Impairment as at March 31, 2022  0.27  390.52  -  390.79  Net Block as at March 31, 2022  1,357.00  1,853.80  107.53  3,318.33  (J in crore) Right of Way Licenses Computer  Software Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2020  919.57  2,955.11  251.63  4,126.31  Additions during the year  350.71  28.00  31.62  410.33  Transfers from Intangible Assets under Development  -  276.21  90.99  367.20  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  0.02  (66.01)  0.12  (65.87) Gross Block as at March 31, 2021  1,270.30  3,193.31  374.36  4,837.97  DEPRECIATION,  AMORTISATION AND  IMPAIRMENT Amortisation as at April 01, 2020  14.37  608.01  169.01  791.39  Amortisation during the year  5.01  206.56  86.83  298.40  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications/  FCTR  (0.01)  (14.32)  0.16  (14.17) Amortisation as at March 31, 2021  19.37  800.25  256.00  1,075.62  Impairment Losss as at April 01, 2020  0.27  389.84  0.01  390.12  Impairment Loss during the year  -  -  0.01  0.01  Impairment Loss reversed during the year  -  (13.14)  -  (13.14) Impairment Loss as at March 31, 2021  0.27  376.70  0.02  376.99  Net Block as at March 31, 2021  1,250.66  2,016.36  118.34  3,385.36  NOTE - 3: INTANGIBLE ASSETS Current Year Previous Year A. Amortisation for the year includes J 0.11 crore (2021: H  0.30 crore) relating to construction period expenses taken to Note 2.2 B.
Hitherto, the amortisation was being charged pro-rata on quarterly basis on assets from/ upto the quarter of capitalisation/  disposal.
As an improvement in present practice, the company has adopted a shorter time period of monthly grouping for  pro-rata depreciation effective from April 01, 2021.
The impact on account of above change is reduction in amortisation by   J 2.13 crore in FY 2021-22.
However, the overall impact over the useful life of asset will be nil.
B.
Net Block of Intangible assets with indefinite useful life: (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Right of Way  1,353.91  1,243.77  Right of way for laying pipelines are acquired on a perpetual basis.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 372 373 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (Contd..) Current Year Ageing of Intangible Assets under Development Completion Schedule of Intangible Assets under Development for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded  its Original Plan Previous Year (J in crore) Total Balance as at beginning of the year  5,975.65  Net expenditure during the year  524.81  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (129.12) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  (110.00)  6,261.34  Provision for Loss  (2,841.89) Closing Balance  3,419.45  (J in crore) Total Balance as at beginning of the year  5,552.44  Net expenditure during the year  558.05  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (367.20) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (46.22) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  278.58   5,975.65  Provision for Loss  (2,638.27) Closing Balance  3,337.38  Intangible assets under development are mainly in the nature of Exploration & Production Blocks and Licences & Computer  Softwares.
Amount above Includes J 1,953.03 crore (2021: H 1,858.78 crore) towards Capital Expenditure (Net) relating to ongoing  Oil & Gas Exploration & Production activities (J in crore) Particulars   Amount of Intangible Assets under Development for a period of TotalLess than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  113.50  653.26  365.36  4,650.28  5,782.40  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  0.28  11.35  60.82  406.49  478.94  Total  113.78  664.61  426.18  5,056.77  6,261.34  (J in crore) Particulars   Amount of Intangible Assets under Development for a period of TotalLess than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  322.36  701.39  372.54  4,207.10  5,603.39  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  -  -  -  372.26  372.26  Total  322.36  701.39  372.54  4,579.36  5,975.65  (J in crore) Particulars   To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  107.97   - Acrlycs/ OXO Alcohol project at Gujarat Refinery  204.70   - Shakthi Gabon  148.77   - Others  263.53  25.25  -  -  Total  371.50  229.95  148.77  -  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  132.21   - Farsi, Iran  126.26   - Others  -  -  -  220.47  Total  -  -  -  478.94  (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in Less than 1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Previous Year i) Projects in Progress   - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  107.97    - Shakthi Gabon  148.78    - Others  14.02  132.71  25.25  0.01  Total  14.02  240.68  25.25  148.79  ii) Projects temporarily suspended   - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  132.21    - Farsi, Iran  126.25    - Others  -  -  -  113.80  Total  -  -  -  372.26  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 374 375 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS Particulars Investment  Currency Face  Value/   Paid up  Value March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS : I In Equity Shares A In Associates (Equity Method*):  QUOTED:  Petronet LNG Limited Indian Rupees 10 187500000  1,708.51 187500000  1,465.65   UNQUOTED:  Avi-Oil India Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 4500000  18.84 4500000  17.47   Petronet India Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 0.10 18000000  0.47 18000000  0.47   Petronet VK Limited Indian Rupees 10 50000000  0.02 50000000  0.02   Sub-total: (I)(A) 1,727.84 1483.61  B In Joint Ventures (Equity Method*):  UNQUOTED:  Indian Oiltanking Limited Indian Rupees 10 494828289  715.97 494828289  681.08   Lubrizol India Private Limited Indian Rupees 100 499200  178.28 499200  179.69   Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 134000000  607.18 134000000  632.86   Petronet CI Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 10 3744000  - 3744000  -   Green Gas Limited Indian Rupees 10 23047250  195.06 23042250  165.96   IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 25950000  91.05 25950000  84.90   Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Naira 1 2500000  - 2500000  -   Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 60680000  90.00 60680000  91.97   Indian Synthetic Rubbers Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 222861375  318.67 222861375  199.30   NPCIL-IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation  Limited Indian Rupees 10 260000  0.38 260000  0.37   GSPL India Gasnet Limited Indian Rupees 10 491925030  499.76 413925030  402.66   GSPL India Transco Limited Indian Rupees 10 157820000  90.76 151320000  124.70   Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 631190000  619.82 432245000  416.09    Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility   Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 52918750  94.64 48288750  87.62   Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 275000000  260.38 202500000  192.94   IndianOil LNG Private Limited a (Refer Note B.5) Indian Rupees 10 4500  - 5000  -   Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited Indian Rupees 10 1629415000  1,621.43 1131765000  1,129.67   Ratnagiri Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited Indian Rupees 10 100000000  59.41 100000000  63.82   Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited Indian Rupees 10 85000000  82.31 61000000  57.92   IHB Limited Indian Rupees 10 1029000000  1,027.92 829000000  829.51   IndianOil Total Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 15000000  13.51 7500000  6.39   IOC Phinergy Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 562500  0.34  -  -   Paradeep Plastic Park Limited Indian Rupees 10 32720000  32.69  -  -   Indian Additives Limited Indian Rupees 100 1183401  208.44 1183401  198.51   National Aromatics and Petrochemical  Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 10 25000  - 25000  -  NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd…) Particulars Investment  Currency Face  Value/   Paid up  Value March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore  VANKOR India Pte Limited USD 1 568968589 4,335.88 568968589  4,527.61   TAAS India Pte Limited USD 1 407941730 3,283.08 407941730  3,296.87   Urja Bharat Pte.
Limited USD 1 37500100  140.05 32500100  110.61   Bharat Energy Office LLC RUB 1000000 1  0.76  -  -   Falcon Oil & Gas BV USD 1 30  39.39 30  45.42   Beximco IOC Petroleum & Energy Limited Bangladeshi  Taka 10 50000  - 50000  0.04   Sub-total: (I)(B) 14,607.16 13,526.51   Total Investments in Associates & JVs [(I)(A)+(I) (B)] 16,335.00 15,010.12  C In Others  Investments designated at fair value   through OCI:  QUOTED:  Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 5 986885142  16,175.05 986885142  10,081.03   GAIL (India) Limited Indian Rupees 10 108905460  1,695.11 108905460  1,475.67   Oil India Limited Indian Rupees 10 53501100  1,275.46 53501100  656.99   Phinergy Limited USD 148 82770  70.47 82770  118.39   UNQUOTED:  International Cooperative Petroleum  Association, New York USD 100 350  0.02 350  0.02   Haldia Petrochemical Limited Indian Rupees 10 150000000  920.25 150000000  855.40   Indian Gas Exchange Limited Indian Rupees 10 3693750  5.85   Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited b (Formerly  Effluent Channel Projects Limited) Indian Rupees 10 7151  - 7151  -   Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited  (Refer Note B.2) Indian Rupees  -  -  - 101095  0.10   Shama Forge Co. Limited c (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 10 100000  - 100000  -   BioTech Consortium India Limited Indian Rupees 10 100000  0.10 100000  0.10   Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal Limited Sri Lankan  Rupees 10 250000000  119.05 250000000  261.31   Trinco Petroleum Terminal Private Limited Sri Lankan  Rupees 10 4900  1.28   Lanzatech New Zealand Limited USD 19.9294 1204251  410.23 1204251  161.13  *Investment in Joint Ventures/ Associates have been shown as per equity method of consolidation.
Accordingly, carrying value of investments have been  reduced by share of losses and wherever other long term interest in the entity exists, unadjusted losses,if any, have been set-off against such interest.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 376 377 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd…) NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd…) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments  32,521.27  25,681.26  Aggregate market value of quoted investments  34,445.57  28,427.80  Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments  19,830.69  19,035.56  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments  -  -  Nature of Bond No.
of Bonds Face Value (J in crore) Investment  Value (J in crore) Carrying Value (J in crore) 1 Current investment:  7.95% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2025 457250  457.25  457.25  491.18   8.20% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2023 1453510  1,453.51  1,453.51  1,570.86   8.00% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2026 189270  189.27  189.27  201.71   8.20% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2024 3105060  3,105.06  3,105.06  3,307.23   Total Current Investments 5205090  5,205.09  5,205.09  5,570.98  2 Non Current investment:  6.90% GOI SPECIAL BONDS 2026 2977930  2,977.93  2,977.93  3,086.87   Total Non Current Investments 2977930  2,977.93  2,977.93  3,086.87  Note: A Investment in Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds consists of: Particulars Investment  Currency Face  Value/   Paid up  Value March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore  Carabobo Ingenieria Y Construcciones S.A. USD 12.1% of  Capital  Stock  - 12.1% of  Capital  Stock  6.44   Petrocarabobo S.A. USD 3.5% of  Capital  Stock 39.79 3.5% of  Capital  Stock  339.64   Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Co Ltd  ("MOST") Mauritian  Rupees 1,000 5000  14.57 5000  5.67   In Consumer Cooperative Societies:  Barauni  d Indian Rupees 10 250  - 250  -   Guwahati  e Indian Rupees 10 750  - 750  -   Mathura  f Indian Rupees 10 200  - 200  -   Haldia  g Indian Rupees 10 2190  - 2190  -   In Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores  Limited, Delhi h Indian Rupees 10 375  - 375  -   MRL Industrial Cooperative Service Society Ltd Indian Rupees 10 9000  0.01 9000  0.01   Sub-total: (I)(C) 20,727.24 13,961.90   Sub-total: (I)=[(I)(A)+(I)(B)+(I)(C)] 37,062.24 28,972.02  II In Preference Shares  Investments at fair value through profit or loss  UNQUOTED:  Shama Forge Co. Limited i (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 100 5000  - 5000  -   9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares  Sub-total: (II)  -  -  III In Government Securities  Investments at fair value through OCI  Quoted: (Note A and B)  Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds Indian Rupees 10,000 2977930  3,086.87  -  -   9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10,000 6000  6.74 1960000  2,263.75   7.35% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10,000 695000  738.24 695000  752.49   Sub-total: (III) 3831.85 3,016.24  IV In Debentures or Bonds  (Investments in JV adjusted for equity  method)  Unquoted:  IndianOil LNG Private Limited Indian Rupees 10,00,000 36650  3,444.67 36650  3,445.95   (7.45% Fully and Compulsorily Convertible  Debentures)  Sub-total: (IV)  3,444.67  3,445.95   Total Other Investments [(I)(C)+(II)+(III)+(IV)] 28,003.76 20,424.09   Total Non Current Investments (I+II+III+IV) 44,338.76  35,434.21  Particulars Investment  Currency Face  Value/   Paid up  Value March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore Number Carrying/ Fair Value  J in crore CURRENT INVESTMENTS :  Unquoted: (at fair value through profit or loss) Unit Trust Investment (NAV) Sri Lankan  Rupees  63.95  289.02  Investment through portfolio management  services Sri Lankan  Rupees  184.43  126.30  In Government Securities (at fair value through  OCI) Quoted: Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds Indian Rupees 10,000 5205090  5,570.98 8261020  8,867.29  9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10,000 1954000  2,193.84  -  -   8,013.20  9,282.61  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 378 379 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd…) Note: B - Other Disclosures 1 During the year, Oil Marketing Companies 6.90% Special Bonds of investment value of H 2,977.93 crore is reclassified from  Current to Non Current Investment and 9.15% Govt Stock 2024 of Investment value of H 2,236.07 crore is reclassified from  Non Current to Current Investment.
2 During the year, the company has reclassified investment in 101095 Equity shares of Woodlands Multispecialty Hospital  Limited with carrying value of J 0.10 crore (2021: H 0.10 crore) as held for sale.
3 Following, Government Securities pledged in favour of Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) for Loans through Tri-party  Repo Segment (TREPS) of CCIL have been classified as Non Current.
4 Out of Oil Marketing Companies 8.20% GOI Special Bonds 2024 classified as Current Investment, bonds of Investment value  H 2336 crore (Carrying value H 2488.10 crore) has been used as collateral against availment of overnight borrowings through  CROMS platform of CCIL.
5 During the current year, 500 equity shares of Indian Oil LNG Private Limited having face value and Investment value of H 5000  has been sold to Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31,2022 March 31,2021 Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value 9.15% GOVT.STOCK 2024  6.00  6.84  6.74  1,960.00  2,242.91  2,263.75  7.35% GOVT.STOCK 2024  695.00  704.04  738.24  695.00  704.04  752.49  Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds  2,977.93  2,977.93  3,086.87  -  -  -  (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Loans  To Related Parties   Secured, Considered Good  0.34  0.17  0.06  104.69    Unsecured, Considered Good  120.90  15.11  0.49  106.78    Credit Impaired  110.90  -  0.60  0.60   232.14  15.28  1.15  212.07    Less : Allowance for Doubtful Loans  110.90  -  0.60  0.60   121.24  15.28  0.55  211.47   To Others   Secured, Considered Good  898.94  940.68  119.77  115.95    Unsecured, Considered Good  1,414.98  1,747.97  360.40  319.24    Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  132.32  215.03  21.34  17.44    Credit Impaired  247.79  348.75  197.32  206.31   2,694.03  3,252.43  698.83  658.94    Less : Allowance for Doubtful Loans  522.31  820.28  248.46  258.12   2,171.72  2,432.15  450.37  400.82  TOTAL  2,292.96  2,447.43  450.92  612.29  NOTE - 5: LOANS (At amortised cost unless otherwise stated)  (Amount in J)  Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 a IndianOil LNG Private Limited 45,000 50,000 b Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited 10 10 c Shama Forge Co. Limited 100 100 d Barauni Consumer Cooperative Societies 2,500 2,500 e Guwahati Consumer Cooperative Societies 2,500 2,500 f Mathura Consumer Cooperative Societies 2,000 2,000 g Haldia Consumer Cooperative Societies 16,630 16,630 h Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores Limited, Delhi 3,750 3,750 i Shama Forge Co. Limited 100 100 6 Following are not reflecting above due to rounding off:- (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Security Deposits  To Others   Secured, Considered Good  0.10  0.09  -  -    Unsecured, Considered Good  192.13  167.77  290.03  318.81    Credit Impaired  -  -  1.42  1.40   192.23  167.86  291.45  320.21    Less: Allowance for Doubtful Deposits  -  -  1.42  1.40   192.23  167.86  290.03  318.81  Advances for Investments   A  2,276.85  1,460.64  Amount Recoverable from Central/State Governments  -  -  414.11  681.45  Finance Lease Receivables  0.83  1.93  2.51  2.13  Deposits for Leave Encashment Fund  128.06  111.08  -  -  Interest Accrued on Investments/ Bank Deposits/  Loans  -  -  0.03  0.10  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -  -  76.72  45.13  Advance to Employee Benefits Trusts/Funds  -  -  151.83  870.53  NOTE - 6: OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (Unsecured, Considered Good at amortised  cost unless otherwise stated) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 380 381 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Bank Deposits (with original maturity of more than 12  months) B  39.64  376.09  0.42  2.04  Claims Recoverable:  From Related Parties     Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  54.99  55.70    Credit Impaired  -  -  26.92  26.92   -  -  81.91  82.62   From Others   Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  169.06  297.88    Credit Impaired  -  -  199.99  187.61   -  -  369.05  485.49    Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -  -  226.91  214.53   -  -  142.14  270.96   -  -  224.05  353.58  Others:  Unsecured, Considered Good  1.67  2.65  349.52  272.20   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  -  -  -  402.54   Credit Impaired  -  -  14.92  3.04   1.67  2.65  364.44  677.78   Less: Allowance for doubtful asset  -  -  14.92  74.60   1.67  2.65  349.52  603.18  TOTAL  2,639.28  2,120.25  1,509.22  2,876.95  A.
Advance for equity pending allotment.
B.
Earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities/ provided as Security to participate in Tender.
(J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Income/Current Tax Asset/ (Liability) - Net  Advance payments for Current Tax  8,444.12  21,340.87  6,165.52  4,703.29   Less : Provisions  5,624.61  18,860.96  6,784.83  5,505.81  TOTAL  2,819.51  2,479.91  (619.31)  (802.52) NOTE - 7: INCOME TAX/CURRENT TAX ASSET/ (LIABILITY) - NET NOTE - 6: OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (Unsecured, Considered Good at amortised  cost unless otherwise stated) (Contd…) (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current  March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Advances for Capital Expenditure  To Others   Secured, Considered Good  15.21  21.01    Unsecured, Considered Good  1,337.53  1,116.23    Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  9.33  9.36   1,362.07  1,146.60   1,362.07  1,146.60    Less: Provision for Doubtful Advances  9.33  9.36   1,352.74  1,137.24  Advances Recoverable  From Related Parties   Unsecured, Considered Good  1,022.29  719.76  23.94  22.66   From Others   Unsecured, Considered Good  284.60  15.25  2,202.50  2,173.70    Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -  -  4.57  292.62   284.60  15.25  2,207.07  2,466.32    Less : Provision for Doubtful Advances  -  -  4.57  292.62   284.60  15.25  2,202.50  2,173.70   1,306.89 735.01 2,226.44 2,196.36 Claims Recoverable :       From Others   Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  727.36  447.36    Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -  -  34.27  29.98   -  -  761.63  477.34    Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -  -  34.27  29.98   -  -  727.36  447.36   -  -  727.36  447.36  Balance/ Deposits with Government Authorities Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  500.92  521.77  Gold / Other Precious Metals  -  -  118.08  71.31  Less : Provision for Diminution in value  -  -    5.67   -   -  -  112.41  71.31  Deferred Expenses  1,013.53  948.88  118.74  116.88  Prepaid Rentals  16.87  29.96  20.14  63.64  Pre-Spent Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses  -  -  93.52  118.37  Others  -  -  42.50  22.96  TOTAL  3,690.03  2,851.09  3,842.03  3,558.65  NOTE - 8: OTHER ASSETS (NON FINANCIAL) (Unsecured, Considered Good unless  otherwise stated) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 382 383 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 In Hand :  Raw Materials  29,978.62  18,756.61   Stock in Process  10,728.63  6,263.12   Finished Products  38,898.49  31,473.92   Stock in Trade  8,267.08  6,703.39   Stores, Spares etc.
5,464.36  5,036.71   Less : Provision for Losses  257.11  229.17   5,207.25  4,807.54   Barrels and Tins  122.45  106.30   93,202.52  68,110.88  In Transit :  Raw Materials  14,139.83  11,268.13   Finished Products  1,387.46  1,112.22   Stock in Trade  2,710.95  2,728.98   Stores, Spares etc.
295.75  207.25   18,533.99  15,316.58  TOTAL  1,11,736.51  83,427.46  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  434.65  265.19   Credit Impaired  7.29  7.03   441.94  272.22  From Others  Secured Considered Good  15.43  21.40   Unsecured, Considered Good  18,485.27  11,536.35   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  -  2,399.55   Credit Impaired  170.14  164.64   18,670.84  14,121.94  Total  19,112.78  14,394.16  Less : Allowance for Doubtful Debts  A  412.36  612.00   18,700.42  13,782.16  TOTAL  18,700.42  13,782.16  NOTE - 9: INVENTORIES NOTE - 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES (At amortised cost) NOTE - 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES (At amortised cost) (Contd…) Amount of write down of inventories carried at NRV and recognised as Expense.
1,364.42   504.25  Valuation of inventories are done as per point no.
7 of significant accounting policies (Note - 1).
For hypothecation details refer Note-21.
A.
Includes provision as per expected Credit Loss method as per accounting policy  234.93   13.22  Ageing of Trade Receivables (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not  Due Outstanding for following periods from due  date of payment TotalLess  than 6  months 6  months-  1 year 1-2  years 2-3  years More  than 3  years Current Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered  good  80.20  11,108.64  5,505.93  1,384.49  274.12 268.46  38.30  18,660.14  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – which  have significant increase in credit risk  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit  impaired  -  -  -  -  0.61  0.17  69.91  70.69  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables – considered  good  4.31  4.78  69.54  40.87  67.65  15.11  72.95  275.21  v) Disputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – credit  impaired  -  -  -  -  0.37  0.19  106.18  106.74  Total  84.51  11,113.42  5,575.47  1,425.36  342.75 283.93  287.34  19,112.78  Previous Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables – considered  good  51.94  7,726.59  2,285.07  584.78  778.23  137.17  42.42  11,606.20  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – which  have significant increase in credit risk  -  541.87  419.45  134.81 1,226.78  38.97  -  2,361.88  iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit  impaired  -  -  -  0.01  0.20  2.30  58.64  61.15  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables – considered  good  1.18  8.32  39.99  55.56  28.21  14.39  69.08  216.74  v) Disputed Trade Receivables – which have  significant increase in credit risk  -  -  -  -  37.67  -  -  37.67  vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – credit  impaired  -  -  -  -  -  -  110.52  110.52  Total  53.12  8,276.78  2,744.51  775.17 2,071.09 192.83 280.66 14,394.16  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Bank Balances with Scheduled Banks : In Current Account  1,141.76  545.76  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  4.85  34.40   1,146.61  580.16  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  18.01  189.00  Cheques, Drafts in hand  11.46  11.54  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.51  0.49  TOTAL  1,176.59  781.19  NOTE - 11: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 384 385 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Fixed Deposits  A  488.57  348.09  Earmarked Balances B  153.63  1,344.67  Blocked Account C  0.74  0.72  Other Bank Balances D  0.61  0.01  TOTAL  643.55  1,693.49  A) Includes Fixed Deposits earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities.
13.09  12.91  B) Pertains to - Unpaid Dividend  50.33  44.78  - Fractional Share Warrants  0.03  0.02  - Amount received from PM CARES Fund for procurement of Liquid Oxygen Equipments  103.27  - Interim Dividend Declared but not Disbursed (including TDS)  -  1,299.87  C) There exists restrictions on banking transactions in Libya due to political unrest.
D) There exists restrictions on repatriation/ utilisation of these balances.
(J in crore) Particulars Note March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Freehold land A  0.64  1.56  Building  0.07  0.17  Plant and Equipment  98.80  190.90  Office Equipment  0.19  0.23  Transport Equipment  -  0.02  Furniture and Fixtures  0.01  0.02  Total 99.71  192.90  Disposal Group: Cauvery Basin Refinery, Nagapattinam B Freehold land  4.96  -  Building  12.97  -  Plant and Equipment  52.00  -  Office Equipment  0.05  -  Others  618.46  Total  688.44  -  Investment in Equity Shares C  0.10  -  Total Asset held for sale  788.25  192.90  Total Liability directly associated with Asset held for sale  25.06  -  NOTE - 12: BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN ABOVE NOTE - 13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE NOTE - 13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE (Contd…) C. During the year the Group has reclassified investment in 101095 Equity shares in Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited  with carrying value of J 0.10 crore (2021: H 0.10 crore) as Asset held for sale.
During the year the Group has reclassified Assets Held for sale amounting to J 72.99 crore (2021: H 0.09 crore) as Property, Plant  and Equipment/ Other Assets based on the plan for disposal of assets.
During the year, the Group has recognized impairment loss of J 17.88 crore (2021: H 30.00 crore) on write-down of asset to fair  value less costs to sell and the same has been shown in Provision/loss on Other Assets sold or written off under ‘Other Expenses’  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Authorized: 15,00,00,00,000 Equity Shares of H 10 each  15,000.00  15,000.00  Issued Subscribed and Paid Up: 9,41,41,58,922 (2021: 9,41,41,58,922)  9,414.16  9,414.16  Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up Less: Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust  233.12  233.12  23,31,18,456 (2021: 23,31,18,456) Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up TOTAL  9,181.04  9,181.04  A. Reconciliation of No.
of Equity Shares Opening Balance  9,41,41,58,922  9,41,41,58,922  Closing Balance  9,41,41,58,922  9,41,41,58,922  NOTE - 14 : EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL B. Terms/Rights attached to Equity Shares  The Holding Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of H 10 each and is entitled to one vote per share.
In the event of liquidation of the corporation, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of  the Company in proportion to the number of equity shares held.
IOC Shares Trust (Shareholder) has waived its right to receive the dividend w.e.f.
02.03.2020.
C. Details of shareholders holdings more than 5% shares Name of Shareholder March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Number of  shares held  Percentage  of Holding  Number of  shares held  Percentage  of Holding THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA 4,84,81,33,178  51.50  4,84,81,33,178  51.50  OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LIMITED 1,33,72,15,256  14.20  1,33,72,15,256  14.20  LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA  74,92,64,496  7.96  72,26,80,547  7.68  OIL INDIA LIMITED  48,55,90,496  5.16  48,55,90,496  5.16  A.
The Group has surplus land at various locations such as LPG Plant , Depots and RO’s etc.
which is under the process of  disposal.
The management intends to sell the land.
No impairment was recognised on reclassification of land as held for sale  as the Group expects that the fair value (estimated based on the recent market prices of similar properties in similar locations)  less costs to sell is higher than the carrying amount.
B.
A new Joint venture is proposed to be formed between IOCL (Parent Company) and CPCL (Subsidiary) with combined equity  holding of 50% and balance to be retained by strategic / public investors for construction of new 9 MMTPA refinery at Cauvery  Basin Nagapattinam.
During the year, NITI Aayog has given approval for formation of Joint Venture.
and accordingly, the land  and other facilities held by the Group at Narimanam Marketing Terminal which are intended to be transferred to the new Joint  Venture are classified under Disposal group.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 386 387 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 14 : EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (Contd…) (a) Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s)  without payment being received in cash Nil (b) Aggregate number of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares - During  FY 2017-18 (March 2018) in ratio of 1:1  4,85,59,04,964  (c) Aggregate number and class of shares bought back - During FY 2018-19 (February 2019)  29,76,51,006  D. For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, the: E. Details regarding shareholding of Promoters as at March 31, 2022 (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Retained Earnings General Reserve: Opening Balance  86,292.79  74,381.17  Add: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (564.84)  13.98  Add : Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,370.85  -  Add : Transfer from Export profit Reserve  -  53.72  Add: Other Adjustment in JVs/Adj in Opening Balance  (1.24)  (1.08) Add: Appropriation from Surplus  14,135.67  11,845.00   1,01,233.23  86,292.79  Surplus (Balance in Statement of Profit and Loss): Opening Balance  1,713.18  1,599.93  Profit for the Year  25,102.23  21,638.21  Add: Opening Balance Adjustment  5.83  (28.20) Less: Appropriations  Interim Dividend  8,263.41  9,640.47   Final Dividend  1,377.39  -   Insurance Reserve (Net)  19.28  11.05   Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve (Net)  (0.57)  0.24   Share of JV Sold  (24.93)  -   General Reserve  14,135.67  11,845.00   Balance carried forward to next year  3,050.99  1,713.18   1,04,284.22  88,005.97  Other Reserves: Bond Redemption Reserve Opening Balance  3,171.39  3,171.39  Less: Transfer to General Reserve  1,370.85  -   1,800.54  3,171.39  Capital Redemption Reserve Account  298.06  298.06  NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY Name of Shareholder At the beginning of the year At the end of the year  % Change  during the  year Promoter Name Number of  shares % of total  shares Number of  shares % of total  shares THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA 4,84,81,33,178  51.50 4,84,81,33,178  51.50  -  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Capital Reserve Opening Balance  432.51  434.10  Add: On Consolidation  (4.04)  (1.59)  428.47  432.51  Securities Premium Opening Balance  76.74  76.74   76.74  76.74  Insurance Reserve Opening Balance  272.14  261.09  Less : Recoupment of uninsured fire loss  0.72  8.95  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  20.00  20.00   291.42  272.14  Export Profit Reserve : Opening Balance  -  53.72  Less: Transfer To General Reserve  -  53.72   -  -  Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve Opening Balance  1.10  0.86  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  (0.47)  2.43  Less: Utilized during the year  0.10  2.19   0.53  1.10  Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income : Fair value of Equity Instruments Opening Balance  9,815.71  5,416.88  Add: Fair value during the year  6,741.66  4,398.83   16,557.37  9,815.71  Fair value of Debt Instruments Opening Balance  470.30  391.67  Add: Fair value during the year  (125.02)  80.91  Less: Transferred to statement of profit and loss  -  2.28   345.28  470.30  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve Opening Balance  16.80  46.00  Add: Fair value during the year  27.33  16.81  Less: Transferred during the year  16.81  46.01   27.32  16.80  Translation Reserve on Consolidation Opening Balance  96.29  85.26  Add : Translation difference  147.90  11.03   244.19  96.29  TOTAL  1,24,354.14  1,02,657.01 NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd..) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 388 389 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Nature and Purpose of Reserves A.
Retained Earnings  The retained earnings comprises of general reserve and surplus which is used from time to time to transfer profits by  appropriations.
Retained earnings is free reserve of the Company and is used for the purposes like issuing bonus shares, buy  back of shares and other purposes (like declaring Dividend etc.)
as per the approval of Board of Directors.
It includes the re- measurement of defined benefit plan as per actuarial valuations which will not be re-classified to statement of profit and loss  in subsequent periods.
B.
Bond Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, a Bond Redemption Reserve is required to be created for all bonds/ debentures issued by the  company at a specified percentage.
This reserve is created out of appropriation of profits and is transferred back to general  reserve on repayment of bonds for which it is created.
In 2019, this requirement was dispensed with in case of public issue/  private placement of debentures by listed companies to NBFCs, Housing Finance Companies and other listed companies.
C. Capital Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of  free reserves or securities premium.
A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to capital  redemption reserve.
Utilization of this reserve is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
D. Capital Reserve  Capital Reserve was created through business combinations and shall be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
E. Securities Premium  Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares.
The reserve is utilised in accordance with the  provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
F. Insurance Reserve  Insurance Reserve is created by the company with the approval of Board of Directors to mitigate risk of loss of assets not  insured with external insurance agencies.
H 20.00 crore is appropriated by the company every year to this reserve.
The reserve  is utilised to mitigate actual losses by way of net appropriation in case any uninsured loss is incurred.
Amount of J 0.72 crore  (2021: H 8.95 crore) has been utilised for recoupment of uninsured losses.
G. Export Profit Reserve  Amount set aside out of profit from exports for availing income tax benefits u/s 80HHC of the Income tax Act’ 1961 for the  Assessment Year 1986-87 to 1988-89.
Creation of reserve for claiming deduction u/s 80HHC was dispensed from AY 1989- 90 onwards.
In view of settlement of tax dispute with respect to claim under section 80HHC, Export Profit Reserve created in  earlier years was no longer required and therefore the balance lying was transferred to General Reserve in FY 2020-21.
H. Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reserve is created for meeting expenses relating to CSR activities in line with CSR policy  of respective group of companies.
I.
Fair value of Equity Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations of investments made by the company in equity  instruments of other entities.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised through Other Comprehensive  Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
This will not be re-classified to the statement of profit and loss in   subsequent periods.
J.
Fair value of Debt Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations in debt investments made by the company to earn  contractual cash flows and are available for sale.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised through  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
This amount will be re-classified to the statement of  NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd..) profit and loss in subsequent periods on disposal of respective instruments.
K. Cash Flow Hedge Reserve  The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value  of designated portion of hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such  changes are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
Such gains or  losses will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the hedged item occurs/ affects the statement  of profit and loss.
L. Translation Reserve on Consolidation  The exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements of foreign operations with functional currency  other than Indian rupees is recognised thru Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and is presented within equity in the foreign  currency translation reserve.
NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd..) NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current Maturities* March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 SECURED LOANS Term Loans: From Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB) A  306.55  975.47  137.50  125.00   306.55  975.47  137.50  125.00  Other Loans: From Banks  In Foreign Currency Loans B  -  -  -  365.79  Total Secured Loans  306.55  975.47  137.50  490.79  UNSECURED LOANS Bonds/ Debentures:  Foreign Currency Bonds C  8,232.81  12,402.76  4,772.86  3,853.59   Rupee Bonds/ Debentures D  14,408.49  15,908.35  3,385.92  378.81   22,641.30  28,311.11  8,158.78  4,232.40  Debentures:  Non-Convertible Debentures E  1,585.00  1,955.00  1,217.12  39.35   1,585.00  1,955.00  1,217.12  39.35  Term Loans: From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency Loans F  24,290.62  20,652.09  4,558.46  1,896.50   In Rupees G  5,500.00  1,500.00  18.77  2.22  From Government  In Rupees H  1,621.07  1,291.34  -  -   31,411.69  23,443.43  4,577.23  1,898.72  Total Unsecured Loans  55,637.99  53,709.54  13,953.13  6,170.47  TOTAL LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  55,944.54  54,685.01  14,090.63  6,661.26  * Current maturities are carried to Note - 21: Borrowings - Current NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 390 391 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Sl.
No.
Particulars Availed  Date Rate of Interest Date of Repayment Security Details 1 Term Loan  from Oil  Industry  Development  Board - H 50  crore 18 th   March  2019 Floating rate  based on month  end (semi- annualised)  interest rates for  5 years G-Sec  as per FIMMDA  plus 50% of  margins of AAA  rated Bonds over  G-Sec as quoted  in INCORP (qoute  AAA INBMK) reset  on a quaterly  basis.
The loan will be for a  period of 5 years with  1 year moratorium and  repayable in 4 equal  installments.
Interest  payable on Quaterly basis First Mortgage and charge on Immovable  properties, both present and future and First  Charge by way of Hypothecation on Movables  including movable machinery, machinery spares,  tools and accessories, present and future,  pertaining to RLNG project  2 Term Loan  from Oil  Industry  Development  Board - H 50  crore 17 th  May  2019 The loan will be for a  period of 5 years with  1 year moratorium and  repayable in 4 equal  installments.
Interest  payable on Quaterly basis First Mortgage and charge on Immovable  properties, both present and future and First  Charge by way of Hypothecation on Movables  including movable machinery, machinery spares,  tools and accessories, present and future,  pertaining to RLNG project 3 Term Loan  from Oil  Industry  Development  Board - H 150  crore 30 th   October  2019 The loan will be for a  period of 5 years with  1 year moratorium and  repayable in 4 equal  installments.
Interest  payable on Quaterly basis First Mortgage and charge on Immovable  properties, both present and future and First  Charge by way of Hypothecation on Movables  including movable machinery, machinery spares,  tools and accessories, present and future,  pertaining to BS-VI project 4 Term Loan  from Oil  Industry  Development  Board - H 100  crore 31 st  March  2020 6.16% The loan will be for a  period of 5 years with  1 year moratorium and  repayable in 4 equal  installments.
Interest  payable on Quaterly basis First Mortgage and charge on Immovable  properties, both present and future and First  Charge by way of Hypothecation on Movables  including movable machinery, machinery spares,  tools and accessories, present and future,  pertaining to BS-VI project 5 Term Loan  from Oil  Industry  Development  Board - H 100  crore 30 th  June  2020 5.68% The loan will be for a  period of 5 years with  1 year moratorium and  repayable in 4 equal  installments.
Interest  payable on Quaterly basis First Mortgage and charge on Immovable  properties, both present and future and First  Charge by way of Hypothecation on Movables  including movable machinery, machinery spares,  tools and accessories, present and future,  pertaining to BS-VI project 6 Term Loan  from Oil  Industry  Development  Board - H 100  crore 26 th   March  2021 Floating rate  based on month  end (semi- annualised)  interest rates for  5 years G-Sec  as per FIMMDA  plus 50% of  margins of AAA  rated Bonds over  G-Sec as quoted  in INCORP (qoute  AAA INBMK) reset  on a quaterly  basis.
The loan will be for a  period of 5 years with  1 year moratorium and  repayable in 4 equal  installments.
Interest  payable on Quaterly basis First Mortgage and charge on Immovable  properties, both present and future and First  Charge by way of Hypothecation on Movables  including movable machinery, machinery spares,  tools and accessories, present and future,  pertaining to BS-VI project Secured Loans: A.
Term Loan from OIDB NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At amortised cost) (Contd..) B.
Foreign Currency Loans Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of Issue Date of Repayment 1 USD 900 Million Reg S Bonds Wednesday, 16  January 2019 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of issue.
Out of USD  900 million, USD 313.042 million has been bought back and payment  made on 22 April 2022.
2 USD 500 million Reg S Bonds Thursday, 1  August 2013 Payable immediately after 10 years from the date of issue 3 SGD 400 million Reg S Bonds Monday, 15  October 2012 On the same day, Cross Currency Swap amounting to USD 325.57  million entered.
Payable immediately after 10 years from the date of  issue.
Sl.
No.
Particulars Availed  Date Rate of Interest Date of  Repayment Security Details 1 Foreign  Currency Term  Loan from South  Indian Bank  -USD 50 Mn 13th  December  2018 1) 6 Months LIBOR + 125 Bps for  first 6 months, 2) 6 Months LIBOR + 175 Bps for  next 30 months 3) Reset at half yearly intervels 4) Interest payable on monthly basis Principal  repayable at  the end of 3  years from date  of availment.
Interest payable  monthly.
Fully repaid on  10th December  2021.
Pari passu first charge on entire fixed  assets of the Company (excluding Land  and building & assets pertaining to BS  VI project and R-LNG projects) with a  minimum Fixed Asset Coverage Ratio  of 1.50 times and second pari passu  charge on movable assets of BS VI  project and R-LNG project.
Unsecured Loans: C. Repayment Schedule of Foreign Currency Bonds NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At amortised cost) (Contd..) Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of  Allotment Coupon Rate Date of Redemption 1 Indian Oil 2029 (Series XIV)  30000 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Tuesday,  22 October  2019 7.41% p.a.
payable  annually on 22 October 10 years from the deemed date of allotment  i.e.
22 October 2029.
2 Indian Oil 2023 (Series XV)  20000 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each  Tuesday,  14 January  2020 6.44% p.a.
payable  annually on 14 January 3 years and 3 months from the deemed date  of allotment i.e.
April 14,2023.
3 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVI)  29950 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Friday, 6  March 2020 6.39% p.a.
payable  annually on 6 March 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
6 March 2025.
D. Repayment Schedule of Rupee Bonds/ Debentures NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 392 393 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Sl.
No.
Particulars Availed Date Rate of  Interest Date of Redemption 1 Unsecured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of H 10 Lakhs  each redeemable at par - Series -I-2021 17th July 2020 5.78% Principal repayable at the end of 5 years from  date of availment.
Interest payable Annually 2 Unsecured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of H 10 Lakhs  each redeemable at par - Series -II- 2022 23rd June 2021 5.44% Principal repayable at the end of 3 years from  date of availment.
Interest payable Annually 3 Unsecured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of H 10 Lakhs  each redeemable at par - Series -I-2020 28th February  2020 6.43% Principal repayable at the end of 3 years from  date of availment.
Interest payable Annually E. Repayment Schedule of Non-Convertible Debentures NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At amortised cost) (Contd..) G. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Rupees F. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Foreign Currency Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 HDFC H 1,500 crore Term Loan Saturday, 20 March 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the  date of drawal 2 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan Wednesday, 30 June 2021 3 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan Thursday, 22 July 2021 4 HDFC H 250 crore Term Loan Thursday, 30 September 2021 5 PNB H 250 crore Term Loan Thursday, 30 September 2021 Payable immediately after 35 months from  drawal6 PNB H 750 crore Term Loan Saturday, 6 November 2021 7 HDFC H 1,250 crore Term Loan Friday, 31 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the  date of drawal8 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan Thursday, 31 March 2022 Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 USD 300 Million Syndication loan Friday, 29  September 2017 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of drawal 2 USD 300 Million Term Loan Wednesday, 19  June 2019 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal 3 USD 100 Million Term Loan Friday, 12 March  2021 Payable immediately after 3 years and 3 months from the  date of drawal 4 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI Wednesday, 7  April 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of drawal5 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI - GS Friday, 14 May  2021 6 USD 500 Million Syndication loan Friday, 30 July  2021 NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At amortised cost) (Contd..) Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of  Allotment Coupon Rate Date of Redemption 4 Indian Oil 2022 (Series XVII)  30000 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Wednesday,  27 May  2020 5.05% p.a.
payable  annually on 27 May 2 years and 6 months from the deemed date  of allotment i.e.
25 November 2022.
5 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVIII)  16250 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Monday,  3 August  2020 5.40% p.a.
payable  annually on 03 August 4 years 8 months and 8 days from the  deemed date of allotment i.e.
11 April 2025.
6 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XIX)  20000 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Tuesday,  20 October  2020 5.50% p.a.
payable  annually on 20 October 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
20 October 2025.
7 Indian Oil 2026 (Series XX)  12902 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Monday,  25 January  2021 5.60% p.a.
payable  annually on 25 January 4 years 11 months and 29 days from the  deemed date of allotment i.e.
23 January  2026.
8 Indian Oil-2027 (Series XXI)  15000 debenture of Face Value  H 10,00,000 each Friday, 18  February  2022 6.14% p.a.
payable  annually on 18 February 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
18 February 2027 Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 7 USD 125 Million Term Loan from BOB Wednesday, 3  November 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of drawal 8 USD 125 Million Term Loan from BOB Wednesday, 1  December 2021 9 USD 330 Million ECB Loan from SBI  London Thursday, 30  December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal 10 USD 300 Million ECB Loan from SBI  London Thursday, 30  December 2021 Payable immediately after 4 years from the date of drawal 11 USD 250 Million ECB Loan from SBI  London Thursday, 30  December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of drawal 12 USD 220 Million ECB Loan from SBI  London Thursday, 30  December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years and 5 months from the  date of drawal 13 USD 225 Million Syndication Loan from  BOB NY Wednesday, 30  March 2022 Payable immediately after 1 year and 9 months from the  date of drawal14 USD 50 Million Syndication Loan from  BOB NY Wednesday, 30  March 2022 15 USD 25 Million Syndication Loan from  BOB NY Wednesday, 30  March 2022 Payable immediately after 1 year and 11 months from the  date of drawal 16 USD 300 Million Syndication Loan from  BOB NY Wednesday, 30  March 2022 Payable immediately after 2 years and 6 months from the  date of drawal NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 394 395 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 H. Repayment Schedule of Unsecured Interest Free Loans from Govt of Odisha Interest free loan given by Odisha government for 15 years is disbursed in quarterly instalment of H 175 crore starting from 1 April  2016 repayble after 15 years.
Total loan disbursed till now is H 4,200 crore which is repayable after 15 years from the quarter for  which the same is given i.e.
in quarterly instalments starting from last week of June 2031 onwards.
This loan being interest free  loan is accounted at fair value and accordingly accounting for government grant is done.
NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At amortised cost) (Contd..) NOTE - 17: OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (At Amortised Cost unless otherwise  stated) (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  -  -  5.94  4.04  Liability for Capital Expenditure  -  -  7,560.87  6,273.32  Liability to Trusts and Other Funds  -  -  192.28  161.21  Employee Liabilities  -  -  3,197.09  2,591.55  Investor Education & Protection Fund to be credited  on the due dates:  - Unpaid Dividend  -  -  50.33  44.78   - Unpaid Matured Deposits  -  -  0.01  0.01   -  -  50.34  44.79  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -  -  307.81  252.65  Security Deposits  874.25  847.48  31,163.40  29,674.56  Liability for Dividend  -  -  -  1,260.79  Others A  39.54  -  1,547.06  1,859.10  TOTAL  913.79  847.48  44,024.79  42,122.01  NOTE - 18: PROVISIONS (Contd..) NOTE - 18: PROVISIONS (J in crore) Particulars    Non Current  Current March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Provision for Employee Benefits  1,011.92  1,046.73  140.21  227.37  Decommissioning Liability A  574.67  550.10  3.58  4.02  Contingencies for probable obligations B  -  -  11,935.18  10,949.06  Less: Deposits  -  -  2,330.38  1,750.09   -  -  9,604.80  9,198.97  TOTAL  1,586.59  1,596.83  9,748.59  9,430.36  A.
In compliance of Ind AS 37 - “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the required information is as under : B.
In compliance of Ind AS 37 - “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the required information is as under : A.
The above includes liability towards Renewable Purchase Obligation amounting to H 179.74 Crore (2021: H 52.40 Crore), which  is after adjustment of H 471.77 Crore (2021: H 248.20 Crore) towards Co-generation.
(J in crore) Particulars  Opening   Balance Addition  during   the year Utilization  during the  year Reversals  during   the year** Unwinding of  discount and  changes in the  discount rate  Closing  Balance Decommissioning Liability - E&P Blocks  554.12  9.35  -  (3.92)  10.86  578.25  Previous Year Total  584.68  13.29  -  8.01  (35.84)  554.12  (J in crore) Particulars  Opening   Balance Addition  during   the year Utilisation  during the  year Reversals  during   the year** Closing  Balance* Excise  15.50  -  -  -  15.50  Sales Tax / GST  1,979.41  335.69  -  44.88  2,270.22  Entry Tax  5,611.76  -  -  -  5,611.76  Others  3,342.39  763.86  5.68  62.87  4,037.70  TOTAL  10,949.06  1,099.55  5.68  107.75  11,935.18  Previous Year Total  10,834.98  785.91  434.37  237.46  10,949.06  (J in crore) Addition  includes Reversal   includes - capitalized  2.51  -  - included in Raw Material  3.06  -  - included in Finance Cost  379.43  0.84  - included in Employee Benefit Expenses  250.39  -  - included in Other Expenses  161.93  14.77  - Amount transferred from Liabilities to Provisions  67.37  -  * Expected timing of outflow is not ascertainable at this stage, the matters being under dispute/ contingent.
** Includes Gain on account of transalation amounting to J 20.91 crore (2021: Loss of H 0.03 crore) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 396 397 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (i) In compliance of Ind AS – 12 on “Income Taxes”, the item wise details of Deferred Tax Liability (net) are as under:  NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2021 Provided during the  year in Statement of  Profit and Loss * Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2022 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Fixed Assets  18,485.00  1,015.41  -  19,500.41  Others  147.32  (4.55)  -  142.77  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  18,632.32  1,010.86  -  19,643.18  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Debtors, Loans and Advance,  Investments  1,298.40  (8.41)  -  1,289.99  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement Scheme  1.01  0.23  -  1.24  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,794.26  119.75  -  2,914.01  Carry Forward Business Losses/ Unabsorbed  Depreciation  653.13  (489.13)  -  164.00  Remeasurement of defined benefit plan  12.37  (10.49)  (7.59)  (5.71) Fair valuation of Equity instruments  (126.76)  -  (65.23)  (191.99) MTM on Hedging Instruments  (5.66)  -  (3.53)  (9.19) Fair value of debt instruments  (160.67)  -  42.10  (118.57) Others  201.77  43.26  -  245.03  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  4,667.85  (344.79)  (34.25)  4,288.81  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  13,964.47  1,355.65  34.25  15,354.37  * Includes translation reserve of H 28.29 crore due to translation of Opening Balance at Closing Exchange Rate.
NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (Contd..) Note: During FY 2020-21, on account of change in the tax liabilities pertaining to the past periods, MAT credit amounting to   H 228.15 crore out of previously written off MAT balance was recognised and utilized against such increased tax liability.
# Includes H 599.99 crore towards MAT credit written off by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited upon movement to new Tax Regime.
* Includes translation reserve of H (25.91) crore due to translation of Opening Balance at Closing Exchange Rate.
(J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2020 Provided during the  year in Statement of  Profit and Loss * Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2021 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Fixed Assets  18,731.32  (246.32)  -  18,485.00  Others  238.78  (91.46)  -  147.32  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  18,970.10  (337.78)  -  18,632.32  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Debtors, Loans and Advance,  Investments  860.36  438.04  -  1,298.40  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement Scheme  3.50  (2.49)  -  1.01  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,654.02  140.26  (0.02)  2,794.26  Carry Forward Business Losses/ Unabsorbed  Depreciation  3,297.67  (2,644.54)  -  653.13  Remeasurement of defined benefit plan  20.44  (10.05)  1.98  12.37  Fair valuation of Equity instruments  72.36  -  (199.12)  (126.76) (ii) Reconciliation between the average effective tax rate and the applicable tax rate is as below : 2021-22 2020-21 % (J in crore) % (J in crore) Profit Before Tax  34,288.62  30,750.73  Tax as per applicable Tax Rate  25.168  8,629.76  25.168  7,739.34  Tax effect of: Income that are not taxable in determining taxable profit  (1.773)  (607.89)  (1.348)  (414.45) Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit  0.430  147.61  0.626  192.47  Recognition of previously unrecognised allowance/  disallowances  (0.058)  (19.83)  (3.078)  (946.38) Expenses/income related to prior years  0.228  78.34  5.165  1,588.23  Difference in tax due to income chargeable to tax at special rates  (0.211)  (72.48)  (0.010)  (2.97) Share of profit of JVs/ Associates added net of tax in PBT of  Group  0.499  170.97  0.416  128.06  Different or nil tax rates of Group Companies  (0.065)  (22.43)  (0.046)  (14.20) Effect of Taxes in foreign jurisdiction  0.783  268.58  0.087  26.86  Difference due to change in Rate of Tax  0.005  1.55  2.261  695.22  Others  (0.035)  (12.17)  (0.012)  (3.67) Average Effective Tax Rate/ Income Tax Expenses  24.971  8,562.02  29.229  8,988.51  (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2020 Provided during the  year in Statement of  Profit and Loss * Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2021 MTM on Hedging Instruments  (15.48)  -  9.82  (5.66) Fair value of debt instruments  (145.11)  -  (15.56)  (160.67) Others  183.06  18.71  -  201.77  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  6,930.82  (2,060.07)  (202.90)  4,667.85  MAT Credit Entitlement (C) #  599.99  (599.99)  -  -  Deferred Tax Liability net of MAT Credit (A-B-C)  11,439.29  2,322.28  202.90  13,964.47  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 398 399 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 20: OTHER LIABILITIES (NON FINANCIAL) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 Deferred Income  2.98  3.64  0.72  0.88  Government Grants (Refer Note 43)  2,740.35  2,272.45  235.59  202.90  Statutory Liabilities  -  -  11,655.96  11,374.69  Advances from Customers  436.76  306.74  5,691.88  4,430.54  Others  0.50  0.53  1,395.46  1,132.76  TOTAL  3,180.59  2,583.36  18,979.61  17,141.77  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 SECURED LOANS Loans Repayable on Demand  From Banks/ Financial Institutions   In Foreign Currency  1,745.99  84.61    In Rupee A    Working Capital Demand Loan  8,020.44  7,825.58     Cash Credit  -  113.34   9,766.43  8,023.53   From Others:   Loans through Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) B  4,172.06  319.97   Other Loans A  -  2,011.42  Current maturities of long-term debt ( refer note 16)  137.50  490.79  Total Secured Loans  14,075.99  10,845.71  UNSECURED LOANS Loans Repayable on Demand  From Banks/ Financial Institutions   In Foreign Currency  13,874.21  11,355.78    In Rupee  10,962.05  9,454.19   24,836.26  20,809.97  NOTE - 21: BORROWINGS - CURRENT NOTE - 22: TRADE PAYABLES (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises  806.63  556.39  Dues to Related Parties  852.63  911.33  Dues to Others  47,386.65  35,496.35  TOTAL  49,045.91  36,964.07  (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021  From Others  Commercial Papers  14,740.18  16,415.12  Current maturities of long-term debt ( refer note 16)  13,953.13  6,170.47  Total Unsecured Loans  53,529.57  43,395.56  TOTAL SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  67,605.56  54,241.27  A.
Against hypothecation by way of first pari passu charge on Raw Materials, Finished Goods, Stock-in Trade, Trade Receivables,  Outstanding monies, Receivables, Claims, Contracts, Engagements to SBI and HDFC Banks.
The quarterly returns of current  assets filed by the company with banks or financial institutions are in agreement with the books of accounts.
B.
Against pledging of the following to CCIL:  Government Securities including OMC GOI Special Bonds (Refer Note 4)  6,014.93  2,655.00   Bank Guarantees  1,650.00  1,650.00  NOTE - 21: BORROWINGS - CURRENT (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not  Due Outstanding for following periods from due  date of payment Total Less than  1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More  than 3  years Current Year i) MSME*  251.20  368.95  185.36  0.01  -  -  805.52  ii) Others  1,995.15  41,436.69  4,204.31  12.93  11.82  21.20  47,682.10  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  -  1.11  -  -  -  -  1.11  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  220.78  123.38  52.05  22.36  0.18  138.43  557.18  Total  2,467.13  41,930.13  4,441.72  35.30  12.00  159.63  49,045.91  Previous Year i) MSME*  131.10  181.07  243.49  0.01  -  -  555.67  ii) Others  2,431.75  30,687.65  2,706.56  57.49  13.11  29.67  35,926.23  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  -  0.72  -  -  -  -  0.72  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  179.41  55.41  96.17  10.73  14.55  125.18  481.45  Total  2,742.26  30,924.85  3,046.22  68.23  27.66  154.85  36,964.07  Ageing of Trade Payables *Micro and Small Enterprises in line with Note -22: Trade Payables Note: Generally, undisputed Trade Payables are settled on or before the due dates and amount outstanding beyond due dates are  on account of pending compliance of Contractual/ Statutory requirement by Vendors.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 400 401 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 23: REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Sale of Products and Crude A  7,45,733.49  5,26,243.75  Less: Discounts  13,609.74  10,391.02  Sales (Net of Discounts)  7,32,123.75  5,15,852.73  Sale of Services  289.46  279.87  Other Operating Revenues (Note "23.1")  3,851.52  3,137.15   7,36,264.73  5,19,269.75  Net Claim/(Surrender) of SSC and other claims  305.46  891.49  Subsidy From Central/State Government  160.65  75.60  TOTAL  7,36,730.84  5,20,236.84  NOTE - 23.1: OTHER OPERATING REVENUES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Sale of Power and Water  464.21  255.68  Revenue from Construction Contracts  7.49  3.91  Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  130.23  371.90  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims, and Stores written back  340.28  10.51  Provision for Contingencies written back  92.14  227.65  Recoveries from Employees  16.11  14.79  Retail Outlet License Fees  1,070.70  999.52  Income from Non Fuel Business  237.58  136.16  Commission and Discount Received  1.19  1.22  Sale of Scrap  418.96  258.56  Income from Finance Leases  0.28  0.13  Amortization of Capital Grants  27.63  26.60  Revenue Grants  188.92  192.54  Terminalling Charges  63.74  59.07  Other Miscellaneous Income  792.06  578.91  TOTAL  3,851.52  3,137.15  Particulars relating to Revenue Grants are given in Note - 43.
A.
The MoPNG, vide letter dated 30.04.2020 had conveyed to Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) that a) In case, the Market  Determined Price (MDP) is higher than the Effective Cost to Customer (ECC), the difference shall be transferred to consumers  account via Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) Scheme and b) In case, where MDP is less the ECC, the OMCs will retain the  difference in a separate buffer account for future adjustment.
However, as on March 31, 2022, the company had a negative  buffer of H 5048.09 Crore (after adjustment of uncompensated cost of H 1893.22 Crore) as the retail selling price was less than  MDP and accordingly the revenue from sale of LPG was reduced by this amount.
NOTE - 24: OTHER INCOME (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Interest on: A Financial items:  Deposits with Banks  52.06  65.16   Customers Outstandings  416.38  341.74   Oil Companies GOI SPL Bonds/ Other Investment  1,098.84  912.69   Other Financial Items  356.95  474.50  Total interest on Financial items  1,924.23  1,794.09  NOTE - 25: COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Opening Stock  30,024.74  20,099.02  Add: Purchases  3,44,766.09  1,84,121.94   3,74,790.83  2,04,220.96  Less: Closing Stock  44,118.45  30,024.74  TOTAL  3,30,672.38  1,74,196.22  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Closing Stock Finished Products  40,285.95  32,586.14  Stock in Process  10,728.63  6,263.12  Stock- in - trade  10,978.03  9,432.37   61,992.61  48,281.63  NOTE - 26: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, STOCK-IN-TRADE  AND STOCK IN PROCESS NOTE - 24: OTHER INCOME (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Non-Financial items  14.42  39.56   1,938.65  1,833.65  Dividend B  1,053.59  260.87  Profit on Sale of Investments (Net)  -  1.84  Profit on sale and disposal of Assets  11.97  -  Exchange Fluctuations (Net)  -  1,257.62  Gain on Derivatives  68.00  140.87  Fair value Gain on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  6.12  -  Other Non Operating Income  3.89  4.69  TOTAL  3,082.22  3,499.54  A 1.
Includes Tax Deducted at Source  42.87  8.55  A 2.
Includes interest received under section 244A of the Income Tax Act.
2.33  24.15  A 3.
Include interest on:  Current Investments  705.18  638.32   Non-Current Investments  393.66  274.37  A 4.
Total interest income (calculated using the effective interest method) for  financial assets:  In relation to Financial assets classified at amortised cost  825.39  881.40   In relation to Financial assets classified at FVOCI  1,098.84  912.69  B Dividend Income consists of Dividend on:  Current Investments  -  1.69   Non-Current Investments  1,053.59  259.18  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 402 403 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 26: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, STOCK-IN-TRADE  AND STOCK IN PROCESS (Contd..) NOTE - 27: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Salaries, Wages, Bonus etc  8,302.58  8,621.45  Contribution to Provident & Other Funds  1,764.66  1,502.06  Voluntary Retirement Compensation  2.90  2.60  Staff Welfare Expenses  1,512.78  1,182.67  TOTAL  11,582.92  11,308.78  A.
Excludes J 477.68 crore (2021: H 446.06 crore) included in capital work in progress (construction period expenses - Note- 2.2) / intangible assets under development (Note - 3.1) and J 14.11 crore (2021: H 15.08 crore) included in CSR expenses   (Note - 29.1).
B.
Disclosure in compliance with Indian Accounting Standard-19 on “Employee Benefits” is given in Note - 36.
(J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Interest Payments on Financial items: Working Capital Loans: Bank Borrowings  668.64  565.53  Bonds/Debentures  513.58  434.03  Others  596.10  787.52   1,778.32  1,787.08  Other Loans: Bank Borrowings  443.03  427.82  Bonds/Debentures  706.87  673.44  Lease Obligations  763.08  765.92  Others  2.10  2.09   1,915.08  1,869.27  Unwinding of Discount  121.97  97.13  Others  4.15  6.17   3,819.52  3,759.65  NOTE - 28: FINANCE COSTS (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Less: Opening Stock Finished Products  32,586.14  28,136.11  Stock in Process  6,263.12  5,713.98  Stock - in - Trade  9,432.37  8,249.93   48,281.63  42,100.02  NET INCREASE / (DECREASE)  13,710.98  6,181.61  (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Consumption: a) Stores, Spares and Consumables  2,175.67  1,792.39  b) Packages & Drum Sheets  559.49  422.15   2,735.16  2,214.54  Power & Fuel  34,480.85  19,397.52  Less : Fuel from own production  26,870.22  14,979.47   7,610.63  4,418.05  Throughput, Processing & Blending Fees, Royalty and Other Charges  1,192.36  1,036.80  Octroi, Other Levies and Irrecoverable taxes  2,225.69  1,789.15  Repairs and Maintenance i) Plant & Equipment  3,965.98  3,301.17  ii) Buildings  358.05  340.33  iii) Others  642.81  578.87   4,966.84  4,220.37  Freight, Transportation Charges and Demurrage  14,813.66  14,610.91  Office Administration, Selling and Other Expenses (Note "29.1")  10,939.50  8,232.80  TOTAL  44,483.84  36,522.62  Less: Company's use of own Products and Crude  1,153.37  688.97   43,330.47  35,833.65  TOTAL (Net)  43,330.47  35,833.65  NOTE - 29: OTHER EXPENSES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Interest Payments on Non Financial items: Unwinding of Discount  25.72  16.67  Others  451.53  581.98   477.25  598.65   4,296.77  4,358.30  Other Borrowing Cost A  30.60  34.28  Applicable Net (Gain) / Loss on Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation B  1,095.89  (803.46) TOTAL  5,423.26  3,589.12  A.
Mainly pertains to franking charges, service charges & other indirect expenses on borrowings.
B.
In FY 2021-22, adjustment carried out for the year’s exchange gain to the extent of unrealised exchange losses treated as  finance cost in earlier years in line with Ind AS 23  Total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial liabilities that are not at fair value through  profit or loss  3,819.52   3,759.65 NOTE - 28: FINANCE COSTS (Contd..) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 404 405 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Rent  656.02  607.65  Insurance  346.52  286.49  Rates & Taxes  174.90  146.90  Donation  2.00  1.00  Payment to auditors  As Auditors  4.85  4.83   For Taxation Matters  0.57  0.50   Other Services(for issuing other certificates etc.)
1.73  1.56   For reimbursement of expenses  0.13  0.14   7.28  7.03  Travelling & Conveyance  649.30  485.40  Communication Expenses  68.63  61.60  Printing & Stationery  39.38  32.89  Electricity & Water  388.51  378.56  Bank Charges  30.81  32.61  Advances, Claims, CWIP, etc.
written off  11.46  17.36  Provision/ Loss on Assets sold or written off (Net)  -  136.50  Technical Assistance Fees  89.59  108.63  Exchange Fluctuation (net)  1,452.28  -  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims, CWIP, Stores etc.
185.64  574.46  Security Force Expenses  913.93  889.56  Sales Promotion Expenses (Including Commission)  1,287.61  344.68  Handling Expenses  715.03  641.67  Terminalling Charges  13.74  11.52  Provision for Probable Contingencies  234.86  -  Exploration & Production Cost  1,817.20  1,216.46  Fair value Loss on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  -  27.64  Expenses on Construction Contracts  6.64  3.65  Expenses on CSR Activities  323.24  344.19  Training Expenses  78.23  60.62  Legal Expenses / Payment To Consultants  223.33  160.18  Notices and Announcement  11.51  10.59  Advertisement and Publicity  37.32  65.47  Pollution Control Expenses  87.34  115.75  Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  587.97  1,056.60  Miscellaneous Expenses  499.23  407.14  TOTAL  10,939.50  8,232.80  NOTE - 29.1: OFFICE,ADMINISTRATION,SELLING AND OTHER EXPENSES (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans A  (739.29)  14.95  Fair value of Equity Instruments  6,783.55  4,589.75  Share of Joint Ventures and associates in Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (0.54)  0.13   6,043.72  4,604.83  Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  186.20  (3.64) Fair value of Equity Instruments  (65.23)  (199.12) Share of Joint Ventures and associates in Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  0.06  (0.08)  121.03  (202.84) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  (167.12)  97.24  Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  36.52  22.47  Translation Reserve on Consolidation  161.61  (4.05) Share of Joint Ventures and associates in Translation Reserve on Consolidation  (6.34)  5.51   24.67  121.17  Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  42.10  (16.33) Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  (9.19)  (5.66)  32.91  (21.99) TOTAL  6,222.33  4,501.17  NOTE - 30: OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Cash Dividends on Equity Shares declared: Final Dividend Total Final Dividend during the current year for previous financial year: J 1.50 per  share (2021: NIL per share for previous financial year)  1,377.16  -  Interim Dividend  Total Interim Dividend for current financial year: J 9.00 per share (2021: H 10.50 per  share).
8,262.93  9,640.09  Total  9,640.09  9,640.09  Proposed Dividend on Equity Shares Final proposed Dividend for current financial year: J 3.60 per share (2021: H 1.50 per  share)  3,305.17  1,377.16  NOTE – 31: DISTRIBUTIONS MADE AND PROPOSED Notes 1.
233118456 Shares held under IOC Share Trust (Shareholder) of face value J  233.12 crore (2021: H  233.12 crore) have been  netted off from paid up capital.
IOC Share Trust have waived its right to receive the dividend w.e.f.
March 02, 2020 and therefore  dividend on shares held by IOC Share Trust was neither proposed in the last year nor during the current financial year.
A.
Includes contribution in respect of services prior to 01.01.2007 of employees on-role as on that date based on actuarial  certificate (Refer Note 36).
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 406 407 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 31: DISTRIBUTIONS MADE AND PROPOSED (Contd..) 2.
The Company has also incurred expenses on distribution of final dividend amounting to J 0.24 crore (2021: Nil) and on  distribution of interim dividend amounting to J 0.48 crore (2021: H 0.38 crore) which have been debited to equity.
3.
The Board of Directors recommended issue of bonus equity shares in the ratio of one equity share of H 10 each for every two  equity shares of H 10 each held, subject to approval by the members of the Company.
The bonus shares, upon approval, will  also be eligible for the final dividend.
The Board of Directors also recommended the final dividend of H 3.60 per equity share  having face value of H 10/- (pre-bonus), which translates into final dividend of H 2.40 per equity share having face value of   H 10/- (post-bonus) for FY 2021-22, subject to approval by the members of the Company.
NOTE – 32: EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Profit/ (loss) attributable to Equity holders (H in crore)  25,102.23  21,638.21  Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share  (Basic) 9181040466 9181040466 Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share  (Diluted) 9181040466 9181040466 Earnings Per Share (Basic) (H)  27.34  23.57  Earnings Per Share (Diluted) (H)  27.34  23.57  Face value per share (H)  10.00  10.00  Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent  by the weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the profit/ (loss) and number of shares used in the basic and diluted EPS computations: Note 1.
233118456 Equity Shares held under IOC Share Trust of face value H 233.12 crore have been excluded from weighted average  number of Equity Shares and EPS is computed accordingly.
NOTE – 33A: GROUP INFORMATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES Name Principal Activities Country of  Incorporation Equity Interest Mar-2022 Mar-2021 Chennai Petroleum Corporation LimitedRefining of petroleum products India 51.89% 51.89% IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited Terminalling, Retailing & Aviation  refuelling Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% Lanka IOC PLC Retailing, Terminalling &  Bunkering Sri Lanka 75.12% 75.12% IOC Middle East FZE Lube blending & marketing of  lubricants UAE 100.00% 100.00% IOC Sweden AB Investment company for E&P  Project in Venezuela & Israel Sweden 100.00% 100.00% IOCL (USA) Inc.
Participation in Shale Gas Asset  Project USA 100.00% 100.00% Information about subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements of the Group includes subsidiaries listed in the table below: NOTE – 33A: GROUP INFORMATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES   ( Contd..) The Holding Company 51.50% of total shares are held by President of India as at March 31, 2022 (31 March 2021: 51.50%) Material partly-owned subsidiaries Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: 1.
Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Name Country of incorporation Mar-2022 Mar-2021 Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited India 48.11% 48.11% Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lanka 24.88% 24.88% (J in crore) Mar-2022 Mar-2021 Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest:  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  1,436.91  775.15   Lanka IOC PLC  154.56  200.81  Profit/(loss) allocated to material non-controlling interest:  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  650.46  123.77   Lanka IOC PLC  (26.09)  0.24  2.
Information regarding non-controlling interest: The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries are provided below.
This information is based on amounts before  inter-company eliminations.
1.
Summarised Balance Sheet: (J in crore) Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Lanka IOC PLC Mar-2022 Mar-2021 Mar-2022 Mar-2021 Current assets  8,866.58  5,056.73  1,421.80  979.26  Current liabilities  11,505.94  9,361.18  1,054.27  971.09  Non-current assets  8,729.00  9,168.30  265.10  800.81  Non-current liabilities  3,102.91  3,252.65  11.44  1.90  Net assets  2,986.73  1,611.20  621.19  807.08  Accumulated Non-Controlling Interests  1,436.91  775.15  154.56  200.81  Name Principal Activities Country of  Incorporation Equity Interest Mar-2022 Mar-2021 IndOil Global B.V. Investment company for E&P  Project in Canada Netherlands 100.00% 100.00% IOCL Singapore PTE Limited Investment company for E&P  Project in Russia, Oman & Abu  Dhabi Singapore 100.00% 100.00% # Indian Catalyst Private Limited has been dissolved and name has been struck off from the ROC’s register on 25th October 2021.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 408 409 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 33A: GROUP INFORMATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES   ( Contd..) (J in crore) Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Lanka IOC PLC 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 Operating Activities  1,025.87  452.25  (132.93)  235.33  Investing Activities  (675.85)  (547.95)  75.24  (335.07) Financing Activities  (342.84)  96.80  128.33  121.36  Currency Translation Difference  -  -  (26.69)  (1.68) Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents  7.18  1.10  43.95  19.94  2.
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss: (J in crore) Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Lanka IOC PLC 2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 Revenue From Operations  60,474.29  41,899.07  3,304.54  2,637.86  Other Income  17.74  100.97  119.22  86.49  Cost of Material Consumed  40,045.19  19,864.68  -  -  Excise Duty  17,098.91  19,454.31  -  -  Purchases of Stock in trade  47.72  39.94  3,623.71  2,364.95  Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and  work in progress  (1,227.29)  (892.11)  (358.61)  178.59  Employee Benefits Expense  555.26  564.51  27.03  23.90  Finance Costs  412.44  375.04  110.88  49.00  Depreciation and amortization expense  503.89  469.49  16.65  17.20  Impairment Losses  (0.37)  (1.13)  -  (13.93) Other Expenses  1,230.62  854.63  86.64  99.34  Profit before exceptional items and tax  1,825.66  1,270.68  (82.54)  5.30  Share of Profit of Joint Ventures/Associates  15.59  25.56  -  -  Profit/(loss) before tax  1,841.25  1,296.24  (82.54)  5.30  Tax expense  489.22  1,038.98  22.32  4.34  Profit (Loss) for the period  1,352.03  257.26  (104.86)  0.96  Other Comprehensive Income  23.50  (5.33)  (64.33)  (71.66) Total comprehensive income  1,375.53  251.93  (169.19)  (70.70) Profit Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests  650.46  123.77  (26.09)  0.24  Dividends paid to Non-Controlling Interests  -  -  4.16  3.95  3.
Summarised Cash Flow Information: A.
Details of Interest in Joint Venture & Associates is as under: NOTE - 33 B: INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATES Name of entity Place of Business % of Ownership  Interest Carrying Amount   (J in crore) Joint Venture  Indian Oiltanking Limited India 49.38%  715.97  Lubrizol India Private Limited India  26.00%  178.28  Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited India 50.00%  607.18  Green Gas Limited India 49.98%  195.06  Indian Oil Skytanking Private Limited India 50.00%  91.05  Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Nigeria 25.00%  -  Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited India 37.00%  90.00  Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited India 50.00%  318.67  Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP@ India 50.00%  -  NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited India 26.00%  0.38  GSPL India Transco Limited India 26.00%  90.76  GSPL India Gasnet Limited India 26.00%  499.76  IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited India 50.00%  619.82  Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited India 25.00%  94.64  Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited India 50.00%  260.38  IndianOil LNG Private Limited India 45.00%  3,444.67  Petronet CI Limited @@ India 26.00%  -  Hinduatan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited India 29.67%  1,621.43  Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited India 50.00%  59.41  Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited India 20.00%  82.31  IHB Limited India 50.00%  1,027.92  IndianOil Total Private Limited India 50.00%  13.51  IOC Phinergy Private Limited India 50.00%  0.34  Paradeep Plastic Park Limited India 49.00%  32.69  Associates Avi-Oil India Private Limited India 25.00%  18.84  Petronet VK Limited India 50.00%  0.02  Petronet LNG Limited India 12.50%  1,708.51  Petronet India Limited@@@ India 18.00%  0.47  @Indian Oil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the  other JV partner viz.
Ruchi Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit  the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time frame for completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC  was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the same is still pending and IndianOil name is appearing  on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP.
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate Insolvency Resolution  Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited, and for the purpose of carrying out the process of liquidation, M/s.
Sanatan has been inducted as the new partner in place of Indian Oil.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s Ruchi  for completing formalities relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP.
@@Petronet CI Ltd. (PCIL) is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is  pending with Official Liquidator since 2006.
@@@ Petronet India Limited (PIL) is a JV amongst Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under  winding up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator since 2018.
Notes: 1.
The financials of Joint Operations as mentioned in Note 34 have been included in the financial statements of Indian Oil  Corporation Ltd & Subsidiary Companies and in respect of other Joint Ventures/Associates of Subsidiary Companies, the same  has been included in the financial statements of respective subsidiary company.
2.
Ujjwala Plus Foundation is a joint venture of IOCL, BPCL and HPCL with fund contribution in the ratio of 50:25:25 which was  incorporated as a limited by guarantee Company (without share capital) under section 8 of Companies Act, 2013.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 410 411 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 33 B: INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATES ( Contd..) B. Summarised Financials of Material Joint Venture: I.A.
Summarised Balance Sheet of M/s Indian Oiltanking Limited: (J in crore) Particulars 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Current assets  1,381.28  1,126.97  Current liabilities  598.44  581.20  Non-current assets  2,473.39  2,803.73  Non-current liabilities  1,808.18  1,972.11  Net assets  1,448.05  1,377.39  Proportion of the Group’s ownership  715.11  680.21  Carrying amount of the investment  715.97  681.08  The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the followings Cash and cash equivalents  87.60  49.07  Current Financial Liabilities  460.48  444.91  Non-current financial liabilities  1,703.91  1,874.48  (J in crore) Particulars 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Revenue From Operations  525.67  507.89  Other Income  85.89  74.64  Revenue From Operations  611.55  582.53  Cost of Material/Service Consumed  1.59  2.00  Employee Benefits Expense  59.92  58.83  Finance Costs  181.38  200.10  Depreciation and amortization expense  30.10  28.12  Other Expenses  183.82  137.54  Profit/(loss) Before tax  154.74  155.94  Tax expense: Current Tax  2.62  9.41  Deferred Tax  36.29  33.65  Profit (Loss) for the year  115.83  112.88  Other Comprehensive Income  -0.08  -0.75  Total comprehensive income  115.75  112.13  Group's Share in above: Profit (Loss) for the period  57.20  55.74  Other Comprehensive Income  -0.03  -0.38  Total comprehensive income  57.17  55.36  Dividend received  22.27  -  I.B.
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss of M/s Indian Oiltanking Limited: (J in crore) Particulars 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Current assets  928.32  888.65  Current liabilities  213.11  137.59  Non-current assets  918.37  955.30  Non-current liabilities  274.38  295.77  Net assets  1,359.20  1,410.59  Proportion of the Group’s ownership  679.60  705.30  Carrying amount of the investment  607.18  632.86  The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the followings Cash and cash equivalents  284.75  41.39  Current Financial Liabilities  193.36  110.31  Non-current financial liabilities  196.32  215.98  NOTE - 33 B: INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATES ( Contd..) II.A.
Summarised Balance Sheet of M/s Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited: (J in crore) Particulars 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Revenue From Operations  2,956.66  1,872.22  Other Income  32.20  27.58  Revenue From Operations  2,988.86  1,899.80  Cost of Material/Service Consumed  2,393.93  1,319.64  Employee Benefits Expense  20.84  17.38  Finance Costs  24.71  23.92  Depreciation and amortization expense  77.78  68.48  Other Expenses  216.66  190.55  Profit/(loss) Before tax  254.94  279.83  Tax expense: Current Tax  66.62  75.01  Deferred Tax  -1.45  -0.99  Profit (Loss) for the year  189.77  205.81  Other Comprehensive Income  0.04  -0.18  Total comprehensive income  189.81  205.63  Group's Share in above: Profit (Loss) for the period  94.88  102.91  Other Comprehensive Income  0.02  -0.09  Total comprehensive income  94.90  102.82  Dividend received  120.60  120.60  II.B.
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss of M/s Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 412 413 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Particulars 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Carrying Amount of Investments Joint Ventures  8,721.08  7,479.46  Associates  1,727.84  1,483.61  Aggregate amounts of the group’s share of immaterial Joint Ventures: Share of Profits After Tax  107.04  103.10  Other comprehensive income  -6.82  6.03  Total comprehensive income  100.22  109.13  Aggregate amounts of the group’s share of immaterial Associates: Share of Profits After Tax  431.37  357.56  Other comprehensive income  -0.25  0.08  Total comprehensive income  431.12  357.64  NOTE - 33 B: INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATES (Contd..) C. Details in respect of Immaterial Joint Venture & Associates: (J in crore) Particulars 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Capital Commitments  3,692.61  4,164.21  Contingent Liabilities  864.02  764.89  D. Group’s share in Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in respect of Joint Venture & Associates  is as under: NOTE – 34: INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS Name Principle place of  business Proportion of Ownership Interest March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 A.
The Group’s interest in Joint Operations are as under: E&P BLOCKS 1) AA-ONN-2001/2 A India 20.00% 20.00% 2) GK-OSN-2009/1 B India 25.00% 25.00% 3) AAP-ON-94/1 India 29.03% 29.03% 4) AA/ONDSF/UMATARA/2018 India 90.00% 90.00% 5) BK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 6) NK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 7) FARSI BLOCK IRAN C Iran 40.00% 40.00% 8) SHAKTHI GABON Gabon 50.00% 50.00% 9) AREA 95-96 D Libya 25.00% 25.00% 10) RJ-ONHP-2017/8 India 30.00% 30.00% 11) AA-ONHP-2017/12 India 20.00% 20.00% A.
Exploration License expired on October 7, 2015.
Consortium has requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  Appraisal phase, however vide letter dated March 6, 2019, it was opined to carry out Exploration activity instead of Appraisal  work.
Accordingly, Operator requested DGH for extension of exploration period.
Response from DGH is awaited.
B.
Appraisal period has expired on February 1,2022.
Consortium had requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  extension.
Response from DGH is awaited.
C. The project ’s exploration period ended on 24 June 2009.
The contractual arrangement with respect to development of the  block could not be finalized so far with Iranian Authorities.
D. Under Force Majeure since May 20, 2014 E. IOC Sweden AB through its JV INDOIL Netherlends B.V has invested in Petrocarabobo project, the outcome of this investment  may get delayed due to the political and economic situation in Venezuela.
B.
The Group share of Financial position of Joint Operations are as under: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Assets  9,172.63  9,157.05  PPE ( including Producing Properties)  6,226.82  5,871.14  Capital Work in Progress  340.91  271.19  Intangible Asset under Development (Net of Provisions)  1,953.03  1,858.77  Other Assets (Net of Provisions)  651.87  1,155.95  Liabilities & Provisions  5,130.42  4,786.66  Liabilities  4,552.18  4,232.53  Provisions  578.24  554.13  Income  3,188.18  1,742.68  Sale of Products (Net of Own Consumption)  3,188.05  1,740.24  Other Income  0.13  2.44  Expenditure  2,890.20  1,911.12  Expenditure written off (incl exploration related)  -  45.64  Other Costs (incl exploration related)  2,890.20  1,865.48  Net Results  297.98  (168.44) Commitments  715.14  766.60  Contingent Liabilities  -  -  Name Principle place of  business Proportion of Ownership Interest March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 12) North Montney Joint Venture Canada 10.00% 10.00% 13) Niobrara Shale Project USA 10.00% 10.00% 14) Mukhaizna Oil Field Oman 17.00% 17.00% OTHERS 15) INDOIL Netherlands B.V. E Netherlands 50.00% 50.00% NOTE – 34: INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS (Contd..) Note: Including financial position of relinquished blocks.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 414 415 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Name March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 (i) Assets  211.00  211.02  - Intangible Assets under Development  205.23  204.91  - Capital Work in Progress  0.70  0.79  - Other Assets  5.07  5.32  (ii) Liabilities  84.84  86.30  - Provisions  2.31  2.31  - Other Liabilities  82.53  83.99  (iii) Income  -  0.19  - Other Income  -  0.19  (iv) Expenses  27.89  68.71  - Exploration expenditure written off  -  45.64  - Other exploration costs  27.89  23.07  (v) Cash Flow - Net Cash from/(used) in operating activities  (29.10)  (35.85) - Net Cash from/(used) in investing activities  (0.52)  (2.47) NOTE – 35A: DISCLOSURE RELATING EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES In compliance of Ind-AS-106 on “Exploration and Evaluation of Mineral Resources”, the disclosure of financial information relating  to activity associated with the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources (crude oil, natural gas etc.)
are as under: Assets March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million  Cubic Meter A) Proved Reserves Niobrara Shale Project, USA Begining  166.54  48.79  264.48  77.50  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  32.57  5.66  90.82  22.86  Production  8.76  3.46  7.12  5.85  Balance  125.21  39.67  166.54  48.79  Pacific Northwest LNG, Canada Begining  1,384.97  10,372.70  1,231.61  9,065.38  Addition  325.22  2,861.07  212.62  1,796.84  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  68.81  604.62  59.26  489.53  Balance  1,641.38  12,629.15  1,384.97  10,372.70  Oman Begining  5,154.18  -  8,413.23  -  Addition  995.66  -  535.62  -  Deduction  -  -  3,050.69  -  Production  816.88  -  743.98  -  Balance  5,332.96  -  5,154.18  -  NOTE – 35 B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING  FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN  RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER Net Proved Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas: NOTE – 35 B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING  FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN  RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER (Contd..) Assets March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million  Cubic Meter Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Begining  26.15  1,030.54  35.81  1,137.21  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  8.42  100.64  9.66  106.67  Balance  17.73  929.90  26.15  1,030.54  Total Proved Reserves  7,117.28  13,598.72  6,731.84  11,452.03  B) Proved developed Reserves Niobrara Shale Project, USA Begining  56.06  19.91  66.02  23.02  Addition  12.34  7.30  -  2.74  Deduction  -  -  2.84  -  Production  8.76  3.46  7.12  5.85  Balance  59.64  23.75  56.06  19.91  Pacific Northwest LNG, Canada Begining  326.58  2,830.77  218.04  2,534.79  Addition  258.75  1,685.73  167.80  785.51  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  68.81  604.62  59.26  489.53  Balance  516.52  3,911.88  326.58  2,830.77  Oman Begining  4,453.09  -  6,869.93  -  Addition  840.34  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  1,672.86  -  Production  816.88  -  743.98  -  Balance  4,476.55  -  4,453.09  -  Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Begining  26.15  1,030.54  35.81  1,137.21  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  8.42  100.64  9.66  106.67  Balance  17.73  929.90  26.15  1,030.54  Total Proved developed Reserves  5,070.44  4,865.53  4,861.88  3,881.22  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 416 417 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Details March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate,  NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million  Cubic Meter TMT Million  Cubic Meter A) Proved Reserves U.S.  125.21  39.67  166.54  48.79  Canada  1,641.38  12,629.15  1,384.97  10,372.70  Oman  5,332.96  -  5,154.18  -  India  17.73  929.90  26.15  1,030.54  Total Proved Reserves  7,117.28  13,598.72  6,731.84  11,452.03  B) Proved developed Reserves U.S.  59.64  23.75  56.06  19.91  Canada  516.52  3,911.88  326.58  2,830.77  Oman  4,476.55  -  4,453.09  -  India  17.73  929.90  26.15  1,030.54  Total Proved developed Reserves  5,070.44  4,865.53  4,861.88  3,881.22  Net Proved Reserves & Proved developed Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas  on Geographical Basis:      Frequency The Group uses in house study as well as third party agency each year for reserves certification who adapt latest industry practices  for reserve evaluation.
For the purpose of estimation of Proved and Proved developed reserves, deterministic method is used by  the Group.
The annual revision of estimates is based on the yearly exploratory and development activities and results thereof.
NOTE – 35 B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING  FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN  RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER (Contd..) NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Disclosures in compliance with Ind-As 19 on “Employee Benefits” is as under: A.
Defined Contribution Plans- General Description  Employee Pension Scheme (EPS-95) *  During the year, the Group has recognised J 32.08 crore (2021: H 34.63 crore) as contribution to EPS-95 in the Statement of Profit  and Loss/ CWIP (included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2).
Pension Scheme *       During the year, the Group has recognised J 538.81 crore (2021: H 470.93 crore) towards Defined Contributory Employees  Pension Scheme (including contribution in corporate National Pension Scheme) in the Statement of Profit and Loss/ CWIP  (included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2).
B.
Defined Benefit Plans- General Description  Provident Fund: *        The Group’s contribution to the Provident Fund are remitted to the three separate provident fund trusts established for this  purpose based on a fixed percentage of the eligible employee’s salary and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Shortfall of net income of trust below Government specified minimum rate of return, if any, and loss to the trust due to  its investments turning stressed are being made good by the Group.
Actuarial valuation was carried out in this regard and   J 355.01 crore (2021: H 136.36 crore) has been provided by the Group towards interest shortfall/ losses of PF trusts.
Gratuity: *  Each employee rendering continuous service of 5 years or more is entitled to receive gratuity amount based on completed  tenure of service subject to maximum of H 0.20 crore at the time of separation from the group.
Besides, the ceiling of gratuity  increases by 25% whenever IDA rises by 50% with reference to January 01, 2017.
Post Retirement Medical Benefit Facility (PRMBF):*  PRMBF provides medical coverage to retired employees and their eligible dependant family members.
During the year, the Parent Company has contributed H 767.13 crore in respect of services prior to 01.01.2007 for employees on- roll as on that date based on actuarial certificate and as approved by Board.
The contribution to the extent of H 643.89 crore has  been adjusted in Other Comprehensive Income against amount shown as recoverable advance towards PRMB trust in earlier  years.
Resettlement Benefit:  Resettlement benefit is allowed to employees to facilitate them to settle down upon retirement.
Ex gratia Scheme:  Ex-gratia is payable to those employees who have retired before January 01, 2007 and either not drawing pension from  superannuation benefit fund (as they superannuated prior to January 01, 1987, i.e.
introduction of superannuation benefit  fund scheme in IndianOil) or are drawing a pension lower than the ex gratia fixed for a Grade (in such case differential amount  between pension and ex gratia is paid).
Employees Compensation for injuries arising out of or during the course of employment:  Employees covered under the Employees’ Compensation Act, 1923 who meet with accidents, while on duty, are eligible for  compensation under the said Act.
Besides, a lumpsum monetary compensation equivalent to 100 months’ Pay (BP+DA) is  paid in the event of an employee suffering death or permanent total disablement due to an accident arising out of and in the  course of his employment.
Felicitation of Retired Employees:  The Parent Company has a scheme to felicitate retired employees on attaining different age milestones with a token   lumpsum amount.
* As per the Guidelines of Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) on Pay Revision, the Parent Company can contribute upto  30% of Basic Pay plus Dearness Allowance of its employees towards superannuation schemes comprising of Provident  Fund, Gratuity, Post-Retirement Medical Benefits (PRMBF) and Pension.
In this regard, the total charge to Statement of Profit  and Loss/ Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) was earlier limited to 30% of Basic pay plus Dearness Allowance and balance  amount funded was shown as recoverable advance from the Parent Company’s contribution towards superannuation  benefits including pension schemes.
During the current year, these recoverable advances have been adjusted against the  contribution for the year including additional contribution to PRMBF towards services prior to 01.01.2007.
C. Other Long-Term Employee Benefits - General Description  Leave Encashment:  Each employee is entitled to get 8 earned leaves for each completed quarter of service.
Encashment of earned leaves is  allowed during service leaving a minimum balance of 15 days subject to maximum accumulation of 300 days.
In addition,  each employee is entitled to get 5 sick leaves (in lieu of 10 Half Pay Leave) at the end of every six months.
The entire  accumulation of sick leave is permitted for encashment only at the time of retirement.
DPE had clarified earlier that sick leave  cannot be encashed, though Earned Leave (EL) and Half Pay Leave (HPL) could be considered for encashment on retirement  subject to the overall limit of 300 days.
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOP&NG) has advised the Parent Company  to comply with the said DPE Guidelines.
However, in compliance to the DPE guidelines of 1987 which had allowed framing  of own leave rules within broad parameters laid down by the Government and keeping in view operational complications and  service agreements the Parent company had requested concerned authorities to reconsider the matter.
Subsequently, based  on the recommendation of the 3rd Pay Revision Committee, DPE in its guidelines on pay revision, effective from January 01,  NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 418 419 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ( Contd..) 2017 has inter-alia allowed CPSEs to frame their own leave rules considering operational necessities and subject to conditions  set therein.
The requisite conditions are fully met by the Parent Company.
Long Service Award:  On completion of specified period of service with the Group and also at the time of retirement, employees are rewarded with  amounts based on the length of service completed.
It is a mode of recognizing long years of loyalty and faithful service in  line with Bureau of Public Enterprises (currently DPE) advice vide its DO No.
7(3)/79-BPE (GM.I) dated February 14, 1983.
On  receipt of communication from MoPNG advising us that the issue of Long Service Award has been made into an audit para  in the Annual Report of CAG of 2019, the Parent Company has been clarifying its position to MoP&NG individually as well as  on industry basis as to how Long Service Awards are not in the nature of Bonus or Ex-gratia or honorarium and is emanating  from a settlement with the unions under the Industrial Dispute Act as well as with the approval of the Board in line with the  DPE’s advice of 1983.
The matter is being pursued with MOP&NG for resolution.
Pending this the provision is in line with  Board approved policy.
The amount provided during the year on this account is J 18.33 crore (2021: H 19.29 crore) and the payments made to  employees during the year is J 28.14 crore (2021: H 27.18 crore).
The actuarial liability of J 184.11 crore in this respect as on  31.03.2022 is included under “Provision for Employees Benefit” in “Note 18 – Provisions”.
Leave Fare Allowance (LFA) / Leave Travel Concession (LTC):  LTC is allowed once in a period of two calendar years (viz.
two yearly block).
An employee has, in any given block period of  two years, an option of availing LTC or encashing the entilements of LFA.
D. The summarised position of various Defined Benefit Plans recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss,  Balance Sheet and Other Comprehensive Income are as under:   (Figures given in Unbold & Italic Font in the table are for previous year) (i) Reconciliation of balance of Defined Benefit Plans (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Defined Obligation at the beginning  18,124.08  2,907.22  6,785.75  127.26  236.23  486.39   16,724.32  2,935.92  6,133.72  133.63  246.72  444.67  Current Service Cost  513.75  51.28  277.28  18.37  -  2.02   531.68  54.04  255.80  19.22  -  1.74  Past Service Cost  (262.26)  -  -  -  -  -   -  16.83  -  -  -  -  Interest Cost  1,438.72  200.63  468.90  8.78  14.95  33.61   1,391.01  201.48  417.71  9.17  14.90  30.37  Contribution by employees  1,112.53  -  -  -  -  -   1,235.48  -  -  -  -  -  Net Liability transferred In / (Out)  187.37  -  -  -  -  -   103.23  -  -  -  -  -  Benefits paid  (2,414.60)  (319.28)  (281.54)  (8.33)  (36.40)  (16.63)  (1,999.36)  (325.34)  (232.62)  (6.89)  (36.40)  (13.70) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on obligations due  to Future Interest Shortfall  0.27  (28.08)  49.40  (27.18)  40.58  (38.14)  137.72  24.29  211.14  (27.87)  11.01  23.31  Defined Benefit Obligation at the end of  the year  18,699.86  2,811.77  7,299.79  118.90  255.36  467.25   18,124.08  2,907.22  6,785.75  127.26  236.23  486.39  NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ( Contd..) (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at the  beginning of the year  17,994.59  2,884.03  6,533.15  -  -  -   16,647.25  2,481.21  5,547.42  -  -  -  Interest Income  1,438.44  199.05  451.44  -  -  -   1,391.01  170.30  377.78  -  -  -  Contribution by employer  513.75  20.29  409.71  -  -  -   531.68  543.60  788.24  -  -  -  Contribution by employees  1,112.53  -  1.24  -  -  -   1,235.48  -  1.22  -  -  -  Net Liability transferred In / (Out)  187.37  -  -  -  -  -   103.23  -  -  -  -  -  Benefit paid  (2,414.60)  (301.69)  (275.53)  -  -  -   (1,999.36)  (325.34)  (228.48)  -  -  -  Provision for NPA  (612.36)  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Expected Contribution for NPA  612.36  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Re-measurement (Return on plan  assets excluding Interest Income)  160.34  20.46  81.67  -  -  -   85.30  14.26  46.97  -  -  -  Fair value of plan assets at the end of  the year  18,992.42  2,822.14  7,201.68  -  -  -   17,994.59  2,884.03  6,533.15  -  -  -  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at the end of  the year  18,992.42  2,822.14  7,201.68  -  -  -   17,994.59  2,884.03  6,533.15  -  -  -  Defined Benefit Obligation at the end  of the year (Net of Interest Shortfall)  18,699.86  2,811.77  7,299.79  118.90  255.36  467.25   17,861.82  2,907.22  6,785.75  127.26  236.23  486.39  Amount not recognised in the Balance  Sheet (as per para 64 of Ind-As 19)  297.46  -  -  -  -  -   137.12  -  -  -  -  -  Net Liability/ (Assets) recognised in the  Balance Sheet  4.90  (10.37)  98.11  118.90  255.36  467.25   266.61  23.19  252.60  127.26  236.23  486.39  (iii) Reconciliation of Fair Value of Plan Assets and Defined Benefit Obligation (ii) Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 420 421 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ( Contd..) (iv) Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss / Construction Period Expenses (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Current Service Cost  513.75  51.28  277.28  18.37  -  2.02   531.68  54.04  255.80  19.22  -  1.74  Past Service Cost  (262.26)  -  -  -  -  -   -  16.83  -  -  -  -  Net Interest Cost  0.28  1.58  17.46  8.78  14.95  33.61   -  31.18  39.93  9.17  14.90  30.37  Contribution by Employees  -  -  (1.36)  -  -  -   -  -  (1.22)  -  -  -  Expected Contribution for NPA  612.36  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on obligations due  to Future Interest Shortfall  -  -  -  -  -  -   132.02  -  -  -  -  -  Expenses for the year  864.13  52.86  293.38  27.15  14.95  35.63   663.70  102.05  294.51  28.39  14.90  32.11  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations  - Due to change in Demographic  assumptions  (4.62)  (1.79)  1.71  -  (11.82)  (0.36)  653.45  -  5.05  69.18  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations  - Due to change in Financial  assumptions  0.27  (93.05)  (581.55)  (7.28)  (6.39)  (24.09)  5.70  (10.30)  (109.48)  (0.73)  (2.81)  (4.18) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations   - Due to Experience  -  69.59  632.74  (21.61)  46.97  (2.23)  -  34.95  (332.83)  (27.14)  8.77  (41.69) Re-measurement (Return on plan  assets excluding Interest Income)  -  20.46  81.67  -  -  -   (1.76)  14.26  46.97  -  -  -  Amount recoverable from employee  adjusted in OCI  -  (200.56)  (643.89)  -  -  -   7.46  (13.68)  209.33  -  -  -  Net Loss / (Gain) recognized in OCI #  0.27  152.02  611.62  (27.18)  40.58  (38.14)  -  23.71  (45.16)  (27.87)  11.01  23.31  (v) Amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) # Net of Translation difference loss/ (gain) amounting to J 0.12 crore (2021: H 0.05 crore) NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ( Contd..) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Discount rate 7.27% 7.31% 7.40% 7.31% 6.96% 7.40% 6.90% 6.90% 6.91% 6.90% 6.33% 6.91% Salary escalation  - 8.00%  -  -  -  -   - 8.00%  -  -  -  -  Inflation  -  - 8.00% 6.00%  -  -   -  - 8.00% 6.00%  -  -  Average Expected Future Service/  Obligation (Years)  -  17  30  17  9  30   -  16  30  16  9  30  Mortality rate during employment  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban   Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2006-08) Ult  In case of funded schemes above, expected return on plan assets is same as that of respective discount rate.
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as  supply and demand factors in the employment market.
* Assumptions considered in actuarial valuation of defined benefit obligations of the Parent Company.
(vii) Sensitivity on Actuarial Assumptions: (J in crore) Loss / (Gain) for Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Change in Discounting Rate Increase by 1%  -  (260.03)  (331.16)  (15.11)  (9.45)  (42.61)  -  (213.10)  (1,028.41)  (16.16)  (9.17)  (47.09) Decrease by 1%  -  175.32  399.14  19.08  10.32  51.84   -  250.76  1,369.80  20.45  10.03  57.68  Change in Salary Escalation Increase by 1%  -  (1.64)  -  -  -  -   -  65.72  -  -  -  -  Decrease by 1%  -  (110.35)  -  -  -  -   -  (71.64)  -  -  -  -  Change in Inflation Rate Increase by 1%  -  -  875.03  -  -  -   -  -  838.49  -  -  -  Decrease by 1%  -  -  (716.24)  -  -  -   -  -  (682.71)  -  -  -  (vi) Major Actuarial Assumptions* NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 422 423 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ( Contd..) (viii) Investment details: Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Funded Funded Funded Government Securities (Central & State) 51.10% 53.99% 18.38% 50.49% 44.38% 23.42% Investment in Equity / Mutual Funds 8.04% 1.91% 16.34% 7.82% 3.13% 0.22% Investment in Debentures / Securities 38.24% 41.85% 65.26% 39.49% 50.29% 75.75% Other approved investments (incl.
Cash) 2.62% 2.25% 0.02% 2.20% 2.20% 0.61% Provident Fund Gratuity PRMS Funded Funded Funded Investment with Insurer  - 99.62% 86.07%  - 99.56% 88.52% Self managed investments 100.00% 0.38% 13.93% 100.00% 0.44% 11.48% Details of the investment pattern for the above mentioned funded obligations are as under: * In case of Parent Company, pending receipt of investment pattern from LIC, pattern above pertains to self managed funds & funds managed by other  insurers and the actual investment pattern after considering the details from LIC shall vary.
(J in crore) Cash Flow Projection from the Fund/Employer Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Within next 12 Months  341.71  283.37  8.32  30.21 25.35  213.60  242.23  8.38  36.74 22.89 Between 1 to 5 Years  1,007.51  1,225.00  26.19  94.49 109.88  1,183.34  1,045.65  28.69  109.65 106.51 Between 6 to 10 Years  1,122.57  1,726.50  32.45  68.49 166.28  1,191.03  1,455.47  34.38  72.48 162.23 (ix) The following payments are expected projections to the defined benefit plan in future years: NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES A.
Leases (a) As Lessee  The Group has entered into various material lease arrangements (including in substance lease arrangements) such as lands  and buildings for the purpose of its plants, facilities, offices, retail outlet etc., storage tankages facility for storing petroleum  products, time charter arrangements for coastal transportation of crude and petroleum products, transportation agreement  for dedicated tank trucks for road transportation of petroleum products, handling arrangement with CFA for providing  dedicated storage facility and handling lubes, supply of utilities like Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen and Water, and port facilities  among others.
There are no significant sale and lease back transactions and lease agreements entered by the Group do not contain any  material restrictions or covenants imposed by the lessor upto the current reporting period.
Details of significant leases entered by the Group (including in substance leases) are as under;  1.
BOOT Agreement in respect of Tankages facility at Paradip for a period of 15 years.
Lessor will transfer ownership to IOCL  after 15 years at Nil value.
2.
BOOT Agreement in respect of Water Intake facility at Paradip for a period of 25 years.
Lessor will transfer ownership to  IOCL after 25 years at H 0.01 crore.
3.
Leasehold lands from government for the purpose of plants, facilities and offices for the period 30 to 90 years.
4.
Agreements with vessel owners for hiring of vessels for various tenures, these are classified as Transport Equipments.
5.
BOO Agreement for supply of oxygen and nitrogen at Panipat Refinery.
The land is owned by IOCL and the plant is being  operated by contractor for supply of oxygen and nitrogen to IOCL.
6.
BOO Agreement for leasing of Nitrogen & Hydrogen Plant at Paradip for 15 years .
7.
BOOT Agreement for leasing of Quality Control Lab at Paradip for 10 years.
Lessor will transfer the Assets after 10 years  at H 0.01 crore.
8.
Arrangements with Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited related to port facilities at Mundra for a period of 25  years and 11 months.
9.
Arrangement for lease of land for operating Retail Outlets for sale of Petroleum products, setting up terminals/Bottling  plant/Lube Blending plant for storing petroleum products/bottling LPG/Manufacturing Lubes respectively.
10.
CFA handling arrangement with CFAs for providing dedicated storage facility for handling lubes.
11.
Arrangements with Tank truck operators for providing dedicated tank trucks for transportation of Group’s   petroleum products.
12.
Arrangements for dedicated time charter vessels for coastal transportation of Group’s petroleum products.
13.
Arrangement for dedicated storage tanks for storing Group’s petroleum products at various locations.
14.
Arrangement for using hookup facilities for supply of gas to its city gas station in Rewa District with Reliance Gas Pipeline  Limited for a period of 15 years.
15.
Employee Township at Cauvery Basin Refinery of CPCL (Subsidiary) has been constructed on land area of thirty four acres  and forty nine cents leased from a trust on five year renewable basis.
Amount Recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss or Carrying Amount of Another Asset (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Depreciation recognized  1,134.62  1,201.23  Interest on lease liabilities  776.05  777.99  Expenses relating to short-term leases (leases more than 30  days but less than 12 months)*  1,601.51  1,833.14  Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets, excluding  short-term leases of Low-value assets  29.11  13.56  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 424 425 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES ( Contd..) *Includes Leases for which agreement are yet to be entered or due for renewal.
The details of ROU Asset included in PPE (Note 2) held as lessee by class of underlying asset (excluding those covered in  Investment property) is presented below :- 2021-22 (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying value  as at April 01, 2021 Additions to RoU  Asset during the  Year** Depreciation  Recognized  During the Year** Net Carrying  value as at  March 31, 2022 Leasehold Land 4171.61 (348.41) 78.01 3745.19 Buildings Roads etc.
350.84 19.36 24.93 345.27 Plant & Equipment 3637.19 (46.30) 220.40 3370.49 Transport Equipments 1014.85 1495.51 810.21 1700.15 Railway Sidings  0.10  0.03  0.09 0.04 Total 9174.59 1120.19 1133.64 9161.14 2020-21 (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying value  as at April 1, 2020 Additions to RoU  Asset during the  Year** Depreciation  Recognized  During the Year** Net Carrying  value as at  March 31, 2021 Leasehold Land 3990.82 477.04 296.25 4171.61 Buildings Roads etc.
100.66 282.39 32.21 350.84 Plant & Equipment 3887.62 19.13 269.56 3637.19 Transport Equipments 948.20 669.62 602.97 1014.85 Railway Sidings  0.11  -  0.01 0.10 Total 8927.41 1448.18 1201.00 9174.59 (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of  lease liabilities  9,784.12  8,959.41  Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets -As Rental income from Operating Lease  23.29  22.64  -As Finance income from Finance Lease of RoU Asset  0.28  23.57  0.13  22.77  Total cash outflow for leases  3,072.06  2,338.12  Additions to ROU during the year  1,123.31  1,449.93  Gain or losses arising from sale and leaseback transactions  -  -  Net Carrying Amount of ROU at the end the year  9,161.14  9,174.59  Others including Disputed, Leave & License, Reversal of excess  liability of previous year, exchange fluctuation on lease liability  etc…  279.89  172.93  ** Additions to RoU Asset during the year is net of RoU Assets given on Sublease or modifications and cancellations during the year, if any.
Further, it includes  the impact of reclassification of site preparation cost to Building, Plant & Equipment etc in line with the EAC opinion (Refer Note-49).
Its asset class wise details  have been shown under Note 2: Property, Plant and Equipment.
**Includes J (3.12) crore (2021: H (1.75) crore) on account of FCTR difference in Additions and J (0.98) crore (2021: H (0.23) crore) under Depreciation.
NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES ( Contd..) As per requirement of the standard, maturity analysis of Lease Liabilities have been shown separately from the maturity analysis of  other financial liabilities under Liquidity Risk-Note 41: Financial Instruments & Risk Factors.
Details of items of future cash outflows which the Group is exposed as lessee but are not reflected in the measurement of lease  liabilities are as under; (i) Variable Lease Payments  Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are to be included in the measurement of lease liability although  not paid at the commencement date.
As per general industry practice, the Group incurs various variable lease payments  which are not based any index or rate (variable based on kms covered or % of sales etc..) and are recognized in profit or loss  and not included in the measurement of lease liability.
Details of some of the arrangements entered by the Group which  contain variable lease payments are as under;  1.
Transportation arrangement based on number of kms covered for dedicated tank trucks with different operators for road  transportation of petroleum, petrochemical and gas products.
2.
Leases of Land of Retail Outlets based on Sales volume.
3.
Rent for storage tanks for petroleum products on per day basis.
4.
Payment of VTS software and VSAT equipment based on performance of equipment.
(ii) Extension and Termination Options  The Group lease arrangements includes extension options only to provide operational flexibility.Group assesses at every  lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options and further reassesses whether it  is reasonably certain to exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within its  control.
However, where Group has the sole discretion to extend the contract such lease term is included for the purpose of  calculation of lease liabilities.
The Group has the sole discretion to terminate the lease in case of lease agreement for Retail Outlets.
However, Group is  reasonably certain not to exercise the option in view of significant improvement and prominent importance of Retail to  the entity’s operations.
Accordingly, such lease term without any effect of termination is considered for the purpose of  calculation of lease liabilities.
(iii) Residual Value Guarantees  The Group have entered into various BOOT agreements wherein at the end of lease term the leased assets will be transferred  to the Group at Nominal value which has no significant impact on measurement of lease liabilities.
(iv) Committed leases which are yet to commence  1.
Parent Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of oxygen and nitrogen gas to IOCL Ethylene  Glycol Project at Paradip Refinery for a period of 20 years.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence once plant is commissioned.
2.
Parent Company has entered into lease agreement for hiring of one time charter vessels for a period of 2 years to be  commenced in the month of April 2022.
3.
Parent Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Hydrogen and Nitrogen gas to Barauni  Refinery for a period of 20 years.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence  once plant is commissioned.
4.
Parent Company has paid Advance Upfront Premium of H  71.89 crore to CIDCO for land for 3 Retail outlets at Mumbai for  the period of 60 years.
The agreement is yet to be executed and therefore the amount is lying as Capital Advance and shall  form part of ROU Assets once lease is commenced.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 426 427 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES ( Contd..)  5.
Parent Company has paid Advance Upfront Premium of H 13.42 crore to MSRDC for land for 6 Retail outlets at Aurangabad  and Nagpur for the period of 30 years.
The agreement is yet to be executed and therefore the amount is lying as Capital  Advance and shall form part of ROU Assets once lease is commenced.
6.
Parent Company has entered into lease agreement for sourcing e-locks from various vendors for a period of 3 years (with  an option to extend at the option of IOCL) at rate ranging from H 1050-1300/month and for 1 vendor H 2450/month.
As  at March 31, 2022, 6215 no’s are yet to be supplied.
However, the same are low value items.
7.
Parent Company has entered into lease agreement with Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies for land for 1 Retail Outlet at  Vizag for a period of 20 years at an monthly rental of H 20000/- with an increment of 10% in every 3 years.
The possession  of land is not given and the matter is pending in the court.
8.
Parent Company has entered into centralised lease agreement with M/s Trimble for rent payment of H 373/month for VTS  software for POL trucks customised to IOCL requirement for a period of 5 years.
As at March 31, 2022 total 601 Nos are  yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
9.
Parent Company has entered into lease agreement with M/s Geovista, M/s Rosevmerta for VTS software of LPG trucks  for a period of 5 years at a rental ranging from H 103-300/month.
As at March 31, 2022 lease a total of 5392 nos.
of VTS  are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
10.
The Parent Company has amended the lease agreement entered with Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited,  for leasing 120 acres of additional developed land at Mundra Port, up to February 16, 2031, for storage facility.
Lease will  commence when the land is developed by the provider and the rights for same is transferred to IOCL.
(b) As Lessor (i) Operating Lease   The lease rentals recognized as income in these statements as per the rentals stated in the respective agreements: (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 A.
Lease rentals recognized as income during the year 158.74 103.06 - Variable Lease 59.06 45.62 - Others 99.68 57.44 These relate to Land/Buildings subleased for non fuel business, storage tankage facilities for petroleum products, Leave and  License model, machinery and office equipments given on lease.
Asset class wise details have been presented under Note 2:  Property, Plant and Equipments.
Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Less than one year 85.82 61.94 One to two years 73.94 56.42 Two to three year 71.03 45.26 Three to four years 44.10 40.64 Four to five years 2.86 13.81 More than five years 0.44 1.22 Total 278.19 219.29 NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES ( Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Selling Profit and Loss 0.58 0.13 Finance income on the net investment in the lease 0.28 0.13 (ii) Finance Lease  The Group has entered into the following material finance lease arrangements:    (i)  Parent Company has entered into Lease Agreement with Indian Railways in respect of BTPN Tank Wagons for a minimum  period of 20 years.
The lease rentals from the date of formation of rake are @ 16% for the first 10 years and thereafter at  the nominal rate of 1% of the cost.
(ii) Parent Company has subleased Telematics Equipments to its Fleet Customers.
IOCL has classified the sub lease as a  finance lease, because the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
(iii) Parent Company has entered into sublease arrangement of Office Space to PCRA for a period of 3 years.
The same has  been classified as finance lease as the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
(iv) Parent Company has entered into arrangement with Chandigarh administration for subleasing LPG Godowns to LPG  Distributors for a period of 15 years.
The same has been classified as finance lease as the sub-lease is for the whole of the  remaining term of the head lease.
(v) Parent Company has entered into a lease agreement with Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited in which the Company  has leased out land for one time upfront payment of H 16.65 crore  (vi) Parent Company has subleased certain Office Premises to IHB Limited.
Lease income from lease contracts in which the Group acts as a lessor is as below:- (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Gross Investments in Finance Lease 123.96 120.51 Less: Unearned Finance Income 0.12 0.27 Less: Finance Income Received 40.68 40.36 Less: Minimum Lease payment received 79.82 75.82 Net Investment in Finance Lease as on Date 3.34 4.06 Opening Net Investment in Finance Lease 4.06 65.77 Add: New Leases added during the year 3.08 4.44 Less: PV of Minimum Lease payment received during the year 3.80 1.41 Less: Adjustments during the year - 64.74 Closing Net Investment in Finance Lease 3.34 4.06 (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Less than one year 2.61 2.30 One to two years 0.85 1.55 Two to three year - 0.48 Three to four years  -  -  Four to five years  -  -  Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 428 429 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES ( Contd..) B.
Contingent Liabilities  B.1 Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt   Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt amounting to J 8,695.07 crore (2021: H 8,587.36 crore) are as under:  B.1.1   J 51.69 crore (2021: H 75.76 crore) being the demands raised by the Central Excise /Customs/ Service Tax Authorities  including interest of J 18.93 crore (2021: H 33.43 crore.)
B.1.2   J 40.21 crore (2021: H 42.81 crore) in respect of demands for Entry Tax from State Governments including interest of J 8.62  crore (2021: H 8.61 crore).
B.1.3   J 1,985.23 crore (2021: H 2,415.13 crore) being the demands raised by the VAT/ Sales Tax Authorities including interest of   J 786.26 crore (2021: H 848.96 crore).
B.1.4  J 2,318.42 crore (2021: H 1,885.91 crore) in respect of Income Tax demands including interest of J 113.34 crore (2021:   H 80.15 crore).
B.1.5  J 3,914.06 crore (2021: H 3,866.61 crore) including J 3,327.03 crore (2021: H 3,179.83 crore) on account of Projects for  which suits have been filed in the Courts or cases are lying with Arbitrator.
This includes interest of J 95.00 crore (2021:  H 118.3 crore).
B.1.6 J 385.46 crore (2021: H 301.14 crore) in respect of other claims including interest of J 42.71 crore (2021: H 26.39 crore).
The Group has not considered those disputed demands/claims as contingent liabilities, for which, the outflow of      resources has been considered as remote.
Contingent liabilities in respect of joint operations are disclosed in Note 34.
B.2 Other money for which the Group is Contingently Liable  B.2.1 Pending decision of the Government, no liability could be determined and provided for in respect of additional  compensation, if any, payable to the land owners and the Government for certain lands acquired.
B.2.2  As on 31.03.2022 Parent Company has contingent liability of J 236.85 crore (2021: Nil) towards custom duty for capital  goods imported under Manufacturing & Other operation in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) scheme against which  Parent Company has executed and utilised bond amounting to J 710.54 crore (2021: Nil) which represents three times  of the custom duty.
The firm liability towards such custom duty shall be contingent upon conditions (Rate of custom  duty/decision of Parent Company to export, etc) at the time of filing of ex-bond bill of entry at the time of disposal.
C. COMMITMENTS C.1 Capital Commitments      Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account and thus not provided for J 53,302.04       crore (2021: H 30,990.14 crore) inclusive of taxes.
C.2 Other Commitments  C.2.1  The Group has an export obligation to the extent of J 147.02 crore (2021: H 147.02 crore) on account of concessional  rate of duty availed under EPCG license scheme on procurement of capital goods and the same is expected to be  fulfilled by way of exports.
C.2.2  Estimated amount of commitments in respect of CY-ONHP-2018/1 block is J 146.83 crore (2021: H 141.64 crore).
Commitments in respect of Joint Operations are disclosed in Note 34.
C.2.3   The Group has issued Corporate Guarantee, on behalf of IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL), to the extent  of obligations of later company under Performance Bank Guarantee facility provided to IOAGPL by State Bank of India,  Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Indian Bank, IndusInd Bank, Jammu and Kashmir Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank.
The  Group’s share of such obligation is estimated at J 3,533.46 crore (2021: H 3,533.46 crore).
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 More than five years  -  -  Total Undiscounted Lease Payment 3.46 4.33 Less: Unearned finance Income 0.12 0.27 Net Investment in Finance Lease as on date 3.34 4.06  C.2.4 The Group has issued Parent Company Guarantee in favor of Abu Dabhi National Oil Company, on behalf of Urja  Bharat Pte.
Ltd., Singapore (a joint venture company of Company’s subsidiary i.e.
IOCL Singapore Pte Ltd) to fulfill the  joint venture Company’s future obligations of payment and performance of Minimum Work Programme.
The total  amount sanctioned by the Board of Directors is USD 89.7 Million.
The estimated amount of such obligation (net of  amount paid) is J 395.66 crore - USD 52.20 million (2021: H 418.22 crore - USD 57.20 million).
C.2.5 The Group has entered into Signature Bonus Agreement with Republic of Venezuela payable on achievement of  various project timelines.
The estimated amount of such obligation is at J 431.01 crore (2021: H 416.10 crore).
NOTE – 37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES ( Contd..) D. Contingent assets (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 a.
In respect of M/s Khazana Projects and Industries (P) Ltd. for the amount  of risk & cost claim along with 15% supervision charges admitted by the  Arbitrator in favor of the Parent Company.
A  -  3.85  b.
In respect of M/s Metro Builders for the amount of risk & cost claim along  with 15% supervision charges, price discount and interest admitted by the  Arbitrator in favor of the Parent Company.
-  7.16  c. In respect of interest claim  19.50 - Total  19.50  11.01  A.
The disclosure as a contingent asset has been discontinued, based on reassessment of the realisablity of this claim in the  current year.
NOTE – 38: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES As required by Ind-AS -24 “Related Party Disclosures”, are given below : 1.
Relationship with Entities A) Details of Joint Ventures (JV) / Associate Entities to IOCL & its subsidiaries 1 ) Indian Oiltanking Limited 22) Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited 2 ) Lubrizol India Private Limited 23) Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited 3 ) Petronet VK Limited 24) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 4 ) IndianOil Petronas Private Limited 25) Ujjwala Plus Foundation 5 ) Avi-Oil India Private Limited 26) IHB Limited 6 ) Petronet India Limited * 27) IndianOil Total Private Limited  7 ) Petronet LNG Limited 28) IOC Phinergy Private Limited  8 ) Green Gas Limited 29) Paradeep Plastic Park Limited ## 9) Petronet CI Limited @ 30) Indian Additives Limited 10) IndianOil LNG Private Limited 31) National Aromatics & Petrochemicals Corporation Limited 11) IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited 32) Taas India PTE Limited 12) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited 33) Vankor India PTE Limited 13) Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited 34) Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals Limited 14) Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited 35) Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. 15) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP # 36) Urja Bharat PTE Limited 16) NPCIL- IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited 37) Beximco IOC Petroleum and Energy Limited  17) GSPL India Transco Limited 38) INDOIL Netherlands B.V. 18) GSPL India Gasnet Limited 39) LLC Bharat Energy Office (Incorporated on 18.10.2021) 19) IndianOil - Adani Gas Private Limited 40) Trinco Petroleum Terminal (Private) Limited (Incorporated  on 24.12.2021) 20) Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited 41) Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Limited 21) Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 430 431 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 38: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) B) Details of Subsidiaries to JV’s of IOCL 1) IOT Engineering & Construction Services Limited 9) IOT VITO MUHENDISLIK INSAAT VE TAAHUT A.S.  2) Stewarts and Lloyds of India Limited 10) IndianOil Skytanking Delhi Private Limited 3) IOT Infrastructures Private Limited 11) IOT Biogas Private Limited 4) IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited 12) Petronet LNG Foundation 5) PT IOT EPC Indonesia 13) Petronet Energy Limited  6) IOT Engineering Projects Limited 14) KazakhstanCaspishelf India Private Limited 7) JSC KazakhstanCaspishelf 15) Petronet LNG Singapore PTE.
Limited (Incorporated  on 07.03.2022) 8) Indian Oiltanking Engineering & Construction Services LLC Oman  * Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending  with Official Liquidator since 2018.
@ Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator  since 2006.
# IndianOil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the other JV partner viz.
Ruchi  Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time frame for  completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the  same is still pending and IndianOil name is appearing on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP.
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate  Insolvency Resolution Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited and for the purpose of carrying out the process of liquidation, M/s.
Sanatan has been inducted as the new partner in place of Indian Oil.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s Ruchi for completing formalities  relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP.
## IndianOil has made equity contribution towards acquisition of 49% stake in Paradeep Plastic Park Limited during the month of January 2022.
C) The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 1 Sales of Products / Services  3,632.63  2,004.13  [Includes sales to IndianOil Petronas Private Limited J 2,422.77 crore (2021:   H 1,325.16 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited J 698.88 crore  (2021: H 322.55 crore)] 2 Interest received  280.97  93.17  [Includes interest received from IndianOil LNG Private Limited J 273.04 crore  (2021: H 81.88 crore) and Petronet VK Limited J 6.94 crore (2021: H 9.64 crore)] 3 Other Operating Revenue/ Other Income  890.33  872.53  [Includes Other Operating Revenue / Other Income from Vankor India PTE  Limited J 324.51 crore (2021: H 447.55 crore), Taas India PTE Limited J 244.63  crore (2021: H 129.83 crore), Petronet LNG Limited J 202.61 crore (2021:   H 287.33 crore), IndianOil Petronas Private Limited J 148.15 crore (2021: H 141.52  crore), Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited J 145.32 crore (2021: H 57.19  crore) and Falcon Oil & Gas BV J 111.75 crore (2021: H 182.51 crore)] 4 Purchase of Products  8,177.66  5,160.37  [Includes Purchase of Products from Petronet LNG Limited J 7,344.38 crore  (2021: H 3,963.39 crore) and Falcon Oil & Gas BV- Nil (2021: H 685.66 crore)] 5 Purchase of Raw Materials/ Others  7,325.55  3,980.99  [Includes Purchase of Raw Materials/Others from Petronet LNG Limited   J 4,755.41 crore (2021: H 3,638.75 crore) and Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. J 2,156.52  crore (2021:Nil )] 6 Interest paid  229.62  249.97  [Includes Interest paid to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited J 229.62 crore (2021:  H 249.97 crore)] 7 Expenses Paid/ (Recovered) (Net)  796.05  712.19  [Includes Expenses Paid to/ (Recovered) from IndianOil Petronas Private Limited  J 379.21 crore (2021: H 355.17 crore), IndianOil Sky Tanking Private Limited   J 162.86 crore (2021: H 141.42 crore) and Indian Oiltanking Ltd J 106.61 crore  (2021: H 110.15 crore)] (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 8 Investments made/ (sold) during the year (Incl.
Advance for Investment)  1,902.85  4,629.97  [Includes Investment made in IndianOil LNG Private Limited Nil (2021: H 3,012.00  crore), IHB Limited J 700.00 crore  (2021: H 776.50 crore), Hindustan Urvarak and  Rasayan Limited J 497.65 crore  (2021: H 380.68 crore), Kochi Salem Pipelines Private  Limited J 267.50 crore  (2021: H 50.00 crore) and Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited J  198.94 crore  (2021: H 163.88 crore)] 9 Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition of Fixed Assets (Incl.
CWIP/ Leases)  (2.05)  (1.56) [Includes Purchase/ (Sale)/ Acquisition/ (Recovered) of Fixed Assets incl.
CWIP/  Leases from IHB Limited J (2.06) crore (2021: H (1.34) crore) and IOT Engineering  & Construction Services Limited- Nil (2021: H (0.28) crore)] 10 Provisions made/ (write back) during the year  144.19  5.93  [Includes Provision made / (written back) in INDOIL Netherlands B.V.- Nil (2021:  H 7.03 crore), Petronet VK Limited J 110.90 crore (2021:Nil ) and GSPL India  Transco Limited J 33.29 crore (2021:Nil )] 11 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans  1,847.29  1,381.85  [Includes Outstanding Receivables/ Loans from IndianOil LNG Private Limited   J 826.53 crore (2021: H 500.66 crore), Petronet LNG Limited J 273.62 crore  (2021: H 297.15 crore), Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited J 164.04 crore (2021:   H 158.23 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited J 207.63 crore (2021:  H 99.19 crore)] 12 Outstanding Payables (Incl.
Lease Obligation)  2,943.85  3,183.23  [Includes Outstanding payable to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited J 2,137.88  crore (2021: H 2,321.57 crore) and Petronet LNG Limited J 612.67 crore (2021:  H 533.88 crore)] 13 Investments in JV/ Associates as on date  17,443.25  16,261.19  14 Guarantees Financial Guarantees  134.54  217.51  [Includes Financial Guarantees given to Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited   J 134.54 crore (2021: H 217.51 crore)] Notes:  1)  Transactions in excess of 10% of the total related party transactions for each type has been disclosed above.
2)  In case of Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Companies constituted/acquired during the period, transactions w.e.f.
date of  constitution / acquisition is disclosed.
3)  In case of Joint Venture / Subsidiary Companies which have been closed/divested during the period, transactions up to  the date of closure / disinvestment only are disclosed.
2.
Government related entities where significant transactions carried out Apart from transactions reported above, the Group has transactions with other Government related entities, which includes but  not limited to the following: Name of Government: Government of India (Central and State Government) Nature of Transactions:  • Sale of Products and Services  • Purchase of Products  • Purchase of Raw Materials  • Handling and Freight Charges, etc.
These transactions are conducted in the ordinary course of the Group’s business on terms comparable to those with other entities  that are not Government-related.
NOTE – 38: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 432 433 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 38: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES ( Contd..)  3) Key Managerial Personnel A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company  Secretary B.
Independent Directors C. Government Nominee  Directors 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya 1) Shri Rajendra Arlekar (upto 10.07.2021) 1) Smt Indrani Kaushal   (upto 24.09.2021) 2) Shri G. K. Satish (upto 31.08.2021) 2) Ms. Lata Usendi 2) Dr. Navneet Mohan Kothari 3) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar 3) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 4) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra 4) Dr. Ashutosh Pant (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 5) Shri S. K. Gupta 5) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 6) Shri V. Satish Kumar (w.e.f.
28.10.2021) 6) Shri Prasenjit Biswas (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 7) Shri D.S.
Nanaware (w.e.f.
28.12.2021) 7) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 8) Ms. Sukla Mistry (w.e.f.
07.02.2022) 8) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan (w.e.f.
24.11.2021) 9) Shri Sujoy Choudhury (w.e.f.
23.02.2022) 10) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani D) Details relating to the personnel referred to in Item No.
3A & 3B above: March 31, 2022 (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/  Company Secretary  1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.61  0.08  0.01  0.70  -  0.01   2) Shri G. K. Satish  0.38  0.73  0.10  1.21  -  -   3) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.71  0.08  -  0.79  -  0.01   4) Shri Ranjan Kumar  Mohapatra  0.70  0.08  0.10  0.88  -  0.01   5) Shri S. K. Gupta  0.64  0.08  -  0.72  -  -   6) Shri V. Satish Kumar  0.19  0.03  -  0.22  -  0.06   7) Shri D.S.
Nanaware  0.13  0.02  -  0.15  -  0.02   8) Ms. Sukla Mistry  0.07  0.01  0.01  0.09  -  0.09   9) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  0.05  0.01  -  0.06  -  0.13   10) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani  0.62  0.07  -  0.69  -  0.18  B.
Independent Directors  1) Shri Rajendra Arlekar  -  -  -  -  0.03  -   2) Ms Lata Usendi  -  -  -  -  0.10  -   3) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  -  -  -  -  0.02  -   4) Dr. Ashutosh Pant  -  -  -  -  0.02  -   5) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker  -  -  -  -  0.03  -   6) Shri Prasenjit Biswas  -  -  -  -  0.03  -   7) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray  -  -  -  -  0.03  -   8) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan  -  -  -  -  0.03  -  TOTAL  4.10  1.19  0.22  5.51  0.30  0.51  Notes : 1) This does not include the impact of provision made on actuarial valuation of retirement benefit/ long term Schemes and provision  made during the period towards Post Retirement Benefits as the same are not separately ascertainable for individual directors.
2) There were no Share Based Employee Benefits given to KMPs during the period.
3) In addition, whole-time Directors are also allowed the use of Corporation’s car for private purposes up to 12,000 kms.
per  annum on a payment of H 2,000/- per mensem.
(J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans  (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/  Company Secretary  1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.45  0.09  0.08  0.62  -  0.01   2) Shri G. K. Satish  0.47  0.09  0.16  0.72  -  -   3) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.55  0.09  0.08  0.72  -  0.01   4) Shri Ranjan Kumar  Mohapatra  0.46  0.08  0.08  0.62  -  0.02   5) Shri S. K. Gupta  0.47  0.08  0.08  0.63  -  -   6) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani  0.47  0.08  0.06  0.61  -  0.19  B.
Independent Directors  1) Shri Rajendra Arlekar  -  -  -  -  0.10  -   2) Ms Lata Usendi  -  -  -  -  0.07  -  TOTAL  2.87  0.51  0.54  3.92  0.17  0.23  NOTE – 38: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES ( Contd..)  March 31, 2021 4) Relatives of Key Managerial Personnel and nature of relation with whom transactions are undertaken  during the year:  1) Shri Siddharth Vaidya (Senior Production Engineer, Indian Oil Corporation Limited): Son of Key Managerial Personnel (J in crore) Details relating to the parties referred above: March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 1 Remuneration  Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya ^  0.20  0.15  2 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans  Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya ^  -  -  ^ Remuneration and Loan balances for relative of KMP is reported for the period of tenure of KMP.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 434 435 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 38: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES ( Contd..)  5) Trusts  Transactions with Post Employment Benefit Plans managed through separate trust (J in crore) Name of the Trust Post Employment   Benefit Plan March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Contribution  by employer Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  Contribution  by employer Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  1 IOCL (Refinery Division) Employees  Provident Fund* Provident Fund  232.59  111.08  237.27  82.50  2 Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Assam  Oil Division) Employees Provident Fund Provident Fund  18.16  (17.12)  21.35  38.10  3 Provident Fund for the Employees of  Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Marketing  Division)* Provident Fund  239.42  95.47  246.47  168.24  4 IOCL Employees Superannuation Benefit  Fund Pension Scheme  191.13  (50.64)  164.06  33.42  5 IOCL Employees Post Retirement  Medical Benefit Fund Post Retirement   Medical Scheme  401.42  (43.14)  746.56  (241.05) 6 IOCL Employees Group Gratuity Trust Gratuity  (3.77)  115.16  528.93  3.74  7 CPCL Employees Provident Fund Provident Fund  24.05  2.00  28.25  2.00  8 CPCL Employees Superannuation  Benefit Fund Pension Scheme  11.52  -  11.05  -  9 CPCL Employees Group Gratuity Trust Gratuity  23.59  -  14.28  26.43  10 CPCL Post Retirement Medical Benefit  Trust PRMB  8.17  -  41.68  11.55  Transactions with CPCL Educational Trust (J in crore) Type of Transactions March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 1 CSR Expenses  -  0.30  *Includes J 254.21 crore (2021: H 335.00 crore) advance given to PF Trust in FY 2020-21 as per acturial valuation towards interest shortfall/losses against which  provision for probable contingencies to the tune of J 363.10 crore (2021: H 262.26 crore) crore has been provided for in books (Refer Note 36).
NOTE - 39: SEGMENT INFORMATION Operating Segment Reporting as per Ind-AS 108 for the period ended March 31, 2022 is as under: (J in crore) Particulars 2021-2022 2020-2021 Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Eliminations Total Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Eliminations Total Revenue  External Revenue 6,84,635.84 28,091.37 24,003.63  -  7,36,730.84  4,88,313.68  19,149.78  12,773.38  -  5,20,236.84   Inter-segment Revenue  17,573.65  38.02  79.61  (17,691.28) -  8,516.35  19.31  68.19  (8,603.85) - Total Revenue  7,02,209.49 28,129.39 24,083.24  (17,691.28)  7,36,730.84 4,96,830.03  19,169.09  12,841.57  (8,603.85) 5,20,236.84  Result  Segment Results excluding Exchange  Gain/(Loss)  30,417.69  4,666.52  1,767.72  -  36,851.93  24,904.18  5,218.82  (317.27)  -  29,805.73   Segmental Exchange Gain/(Loss)  (1,241.82)  18.94  26.51  -  (1,196.37)  666.56  (0.56)  23.09  -  689.09  Segment Results  29,175.87  4,685.46  1,794.23  -  35,655.56  25,570.74  5,218.26  (294.18)  -  30,494.82  Less: Unallocable Expenditure  - Finance Cost  5,423.26  3,589.12   - Impairment Loss on Financial Assets -  Pertaining to Investment  5.55  -   - Loss on sale and disposal of Assets  -  136.50   - Exchange Loss - (Net)  255.91  -   - Fair value Loss on Financial instruments  classified as FVTPL  -  27.64  Add: Unallocable Income  - Interest and Dividend Income  2,992.24  2,094.52   - Profit on Sale of Investments (Net)  -  1.84   - Provision for diminution in Investments  written back (Net)  -  1.99   - Profit on sale and disposal of Assets  11.97  -   - Exchange Gain - (Net)  -  568.53   - Gain on Derivatives  68.00  140.87   - Fair value gain on Financial instruments  classified as FVTPL  6.12  -   - Other non operating income  3.89  4.69   - Share of Profit in Joint Venture and  Associates  1,235.56  1,196.73  Profit Before Tax  34,288.62  30,750.73  Less: Income Tax (including deferred tax)  8,562.02  8,988.51  Profit After Tax  25,726.60  21,762.22  1.
The Company is engaged in the following business segments:   a)  Sale of Petroleum Products            b)  Sale of Petrochemicals            c)  Other operating segment of the Corporation comprises; Gas, Oil & Gas Exploration Activities, Explosives & Cryogenic  Business and Wind Mill & Solar Power Generation.
Segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the nature of products and services and differing risks and returns.
2.
Segment Revenue comprises of the following:  a)  Turnover (Inclusive of Excise Duties)  b)  Net Claim/(Surrender) of SSC  c)  Subsidy / Grants received from Governments  d)  Other Operating Revenue 3.
Inter segment pricing are at Arm’s length basis 4.
There are no reportable geographical segments.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 436 437 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Other Information NOTE - 39: SEGMENT INFORMATION (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Eliminations Total Petroleum Products Petro- chemicals Other Business Eliminations Total Segment Assets  3,01,551.76 26,330.35 22,469.41  3,50,351.52  2,62,804.15  21,734.13  18,610.22  3,03,148.50  Corporate Assets  Investments (Current and Non  Current)   52,351.96  44,716.82   Advances For Investments  2,276.85  1,460.64   Advance Tax  2,819.51  2,479.91   Interest Accrued On Investments/ Bank  Deposits  0.03  0.10   Loans  2,743.88  3,059.72   Derivative Asset  76.72  45.13   Finance Lease Receivables  3.34  4.06  Total Assets  4,10,623.81 3,54,914.88  Segment Liabilities  1,22,827.62  945.22  3,418.34  1,27,191.18  1,05,453.64  847.13  2,867.63  1,09,168.40  Corporate Liabilities  Liability for Dividend  -  1,260.79   Provision For Taxation  619.31  802.52   Borrowings (Short Term and Long  Term)  1,23,550.10  1,08,926.28   Lease Obligations (Short Term and  Long Term)  8,469.49  7,722.78   Deferred Tax Liability  15,354.37  13,964.47   Interest Accrued But Not Due On  Borrowings  5.94  4.04   Derivative Liabiliies  307.81  252.65  Total Liabilities   2,75,498.20    2,42,101.93  Capital Employed Segment Wise  1,78,724.14  25,385.13  19,051.07  2,23,160.34  1,57,350.51 20,887.00  15,742.59  1,93,980.10  Corporate  (88,034.73)  (81,167.15) Total Capital Employed  1,35,125.61  1,12,812.95  Capital Expenditure  23,166.40  1,695.91  2,609.86  -  27,472.17  21,055.86  2,071.48  2,695.46  -  25,822.80  Depreciation and Amortization  10,428.91  883.72  1,034.95  -  12,347.58  9,273.44  918.02  749.99  -  10,941.45  Geographical information (J in crore) Revenue from external  customers Non-current assets 2021-2022 2020-2021 2021-2022 2020-2021 India  6,95,998.28  4,98,501.23  2,11,188.39  1,94,492.40  Outside India  40,732.56  21,735.61  16,820.26  16,744.14  Total  7,36,730.84  5,20,236.84  2,28,008.65  2,11,236.54  Revenue from major products and services (J in crore) 2021-2022 2020-2021 Motor Spirit (MS)  1,60,005.24  1,12,706.72  High Speed Diesel (HSD)  3,43,864.73  2,60,139.23  Superior Kerosene Oil (SKO)  6,962.64  4,502.41  Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)  93,492.18  64,124.29  Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF)  22,586.32  9,550.30  Others  1,09,819.73  69,213.90  Total External Revenue  7,36,730.84  5,20,236.84  NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT  (J in crore) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021 As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021 FINANCIAL ASSETS A.
Fair Value through Other  Comprehensive Income  (FVTOCI): Quoted Equity Shares  19,216.09  12,332.08  19,216.09  12,332.08 Level 1 Unquoted Equity Instrument  1,511.25  1,629.82  1,511.25  1,629.82 Level 3 Quoted Government Securities  11,596.67  11,883.53  11,596.67  11,883.53 Level 1 Hedging derivatives  Commodity forward contracts-  Margin Hedging  2.97  17.12  2.97  17.12 Level 2 Interest Rate Swap  53.15  5.35  53.15  5.35 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and Loss  (FVTPL): Derivative Instruments at fair value  through profit or loss   20.60  22.66  20.60  22.66 Level 2 Unit Trust Investments  63.95  289.02  63.95  289.02 Level 1 Investment through PMS  184.43  126.30  184.43  126.30 Level 1 C. Amortised Cost: Loans to employees  1,473.16  1,535.80  1,569.71  1,703.63 Level 2 PMUY Loan (Refer point 1 of Note- 49 for more details)  791.56  1,058.43  845.64  1,108.88 Level 3 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES A. Amortised Cost: Non-Convertible Debentures  15,993.49  17,863.35  16,265.13  17,863.60 Level 2 Term Loans from Oil Industry  Development Board (OIDB)  306.55  878.87  315.16  878.32 Level 2 Foreign Currency Bonds - US  Dollars  8,232.81  10,228.00  8,450.17  11,349.88 Level 1 Foreign Currency Bonds -  Singapore Dollars  -  2,174.76  -  2,268.32 Level 2 Loan from Odisha Government  1,621.07  1,291.34  1,511.85  1,303.89 Level 2 Term Loan (USD 100 Mn)  757.98  731.15  725.96  731.06 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and Loss  (FVTPL): Derivative Instruments at fair value  through profit or loss   245.95  252.65  245.95  252.65 Level 2 I.
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying value and fair value of the Group’s financial  instruments, along with the fair value measurement hierarchy: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 438 439 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 (J in crore) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021 As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021 C. Fair Value through Other  Comprehensive Income  (FVTOCI): Hedging Derivatives  Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Loans  42.26  -  42.26  - Level 2 Commodity forward contracts-  Margin Hedging  19.60  -  19.60  - Level 2 NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) Note:       The management has assessed that fair values of Trade Receivables, Trade Payables, Cash and Cash Equivalents, Bank Balances  & Bank Deposits, Loans (incl.
Security Deposits) other than mentioned above, Short Term Borrowings (incl.
Current Maturities of  Long Term Borrowings), Floating Rate Borrowings, Lease Liabilities, Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current Financial Assets  & Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current Financial Liabilities approximate their carrying amounts.
METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS  The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values at the reporting date: A.
Level 1 Hierarchy:  (i)  Quoted Equity Shares: Closing quoted price (unadjusted) in National Stock Exchange of India Limited and Tel Aviv Stock  Exchange, Israel  (ii) Quoted Government Securities: Closing published price (unadjusted) in Clearing Corporation of India Limited  (iii) Foreign Currency Bonds - US Dollars: Closing price (unadjusted) for the specific bond collected from active market  (iv) Unit Trust Investment/PMS: Closing NAV for the specific investment available in Trust Bulletin/ Newspaper/PMS B.
Level 2 Hierarchy:       (i)  Derivative Instruments at FVTPL: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use of  market observable inputs.
(ii) Hedging Derivatives at FVTOCI: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use of  market observable inputs.
(iii) Loans to employees : Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit risk  and remaining maturities, adjusted for insignificant unobservable inputs specific to such loan like principal and interest  repayments are such that employee get more flexibility in repayment as per the respective loan schemes.
(iv) Non-Convertible Debentures, Foreign Currency Bonds - Singapore Dollars , Loan from Odisha Government and USD  100 Mn Term Loan: Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit risk  and remaining maturities (Excluding floating rate borrowings).
(v) Term Loans from Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB): Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available  for similar type of borrowings (OIDB Borrowing Rate) using exit model as per Ind AS 113.
NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) C. Level 3 Hierarchy:  (i)  Unquoted Equity Instruments: Fair values of the unquoted equity shares have been estimated using Market Approach  & Income Approach of valuation techniques.
The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about  the model inputs, including forecast cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility.
The probabilities of the various  estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these  unquoted equity investments.
(ii) PMUY Loan: Fair value of PMUY loans is estimated by discounting future cash flows using approximate interest rates  applicable on loans given by Banks duly adjusted for significant use of unobservable inputs in estimating the cash flows  comprising of specific qualitative and quantitative factors like consumption pattern, assumption of subsidy rate etc.
The significant unobservable inputs used in fair value assessment categorised within Level 3 of the Fair Value Hierarchy together  with a quantitative sensitivity analysis as on March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 are shown below: Description Valuation  technique Significant  unobservable  inputs Range  (weighted  average) Sensitivity of the  input to fair value I Unquoted Equity  Instrument - Lanzatech  New Zealand Limited   (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) 31.03.22:  Income  Approach  & Market  Approach 31.03.21:  Income  Approach -  Option Pricing  Model (OPM) Equity Volatility 31.03.22: 84.1%  - 88.1% (86.1%)  31.03.21: 55.9%  - 59.9% (57.9%) 1% increase/(decrease) in Discount Rate  would result in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H (0.10) crore/ H 0.11 crore  31.03.21: H (0.35) crore/ H 0.35 crore Expected time  to liquidity  event 31.03.22: 2 Yrs  - 4 Yrs (3 Yrs)  31.03.21: 2 Yrs -  4 Yrs (3 Yrs) Increase/ (decrease) in 1 year would result in  (decrease)/ increase in fair value by: 31.03.22:  H (0.83) crore/ H 1.11 crore 31.03.21: H (0.88)  crore/ H 1.59 crore II Unquoted Equity  Instrument - Haldia  Petrochemicals Limited   (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) Market  Approach with  equal weights  to Revenue  and EBITDA  Multiple Revenue  Multiple 31.03.22: 0.78x  - 0.82x (0.80x)  31.03.21: 1.02x -  1.06x (1.04x) 0.01x increase/(decrease) in Revenue  Multiple would result in increase/(decrease)  in fair value by: 31.03.22: H 5.2 crore/ H (5.2)  crore 31.03.21: H 4.5 crore/ H (4.5) crore EBITDA  multiple 31.03.22: 5.8x  - 6.2x (6.0x)  31.03.21: 4.8x -  5.2x (5.0x) 0.1x increase/(decrease) in EBITDA Multiple  would result in increase/(decrease) in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H 6.6 crore/ H (6.5) crore  31.03.21: H 10.0 crore/ H (10.0) crore III Unquoted Equity  Instrument - Ceylon  Petroleum Storage  Terminals Limited   (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) Market  Approach with  equal weights  to Revenue  and EBITDA  Multiple Revenue  Multiple 31.03.22: 0.7x  - 1.1x (0.9x)  31.03.21: 1.3x -  1.7x (1.5x)  0.1x increase/(decrease) in Revenue Multiple  would result in increase/(decrease) in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H 6.03 crore/ H (6.03)  crore 31.03.21: H 8.26 crore/ H (8.22) crore EBITDA  multiple 31.03.22: 6.0x  - 8.0x (7.0x)  31.03.21: 6.2x -  8.2x (7.2x) 0.5x increase/(decrease) in EBITDA Multiple  would result in increase/(decrease) in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H 3.75 crore/ H (3.73) crore  31.03.21: H 7.68 crore/ H (7.75) crore IV Unquoted Equity  Instrument -  Petrocarababo S.A. and  Carabobo Ingenieria Y  Construcciones S.A.   (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) Income  Approach -  Present Value  Measurement Discount Rate 31.03.22: 29.0%  - 33.0% (31.0%)  31.03.21: 22.5%  - 26.5% (24.5%) 1% increase/(decrease) in Discount Rate  would result in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by: 31.03.22: H (1.89) crore/ H 1.90 crore  31.03.21: H (4.75) crore/ H 5.49 crore NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 440 441 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT ( Contd..) Unquoted Equity Instruments carried at FVTOCI includes following investments for which sensitivity disclosure is not  disclosed: Carrying Value (J in crore) As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021 Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Company Limited 14.57 5.67 Indian Gas Exchange Limited 5.85 - Trinco Petroleum Terminal Private Limited 1.28 - Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital Limited 0.10 0.10 BioTech Consortium India Limited 0.10 0.10 International Cooperative Petroleum Association, New York 0.02 0.02 MRL Industrial Cooperative Service Society 0.01 0.01 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of Assets and Liabilities under Level 3 hierarchy of Fair Value measurement:  Description FVTOCI Assets  Unquoted Equity  Shares Balance as at March 31 2021  1,629.82  Addition  14.66  Fair Value Changes  (101.37)  Exchange Difference  (31.86) Balance as at March 31 2022  1,511.25  II.
Disclosures relating to recognition of differences between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price In the following cases, the Group has not recognized gains/losses in profit or loss on initial recognition of financial assets/ financial  liability, instead, such gains/losses are deferred and recognized as per the accounting policy mentioned below.
Financial Assets 1.
Loan to Employees  As per the terms of service, the Group has given long term loan to its employees at concessional interest rate.
Transaction price  is not fair value because loans are not extended at market rates applicable to employees.
Since implied benefit is on the basis of  the services rendered by the employee, it is deferred and recognized as employee benefit expense over the loan period.
2.
PMUY loan  The PMUY loan is the interest free loan given to PMUY beneficiaries towards cost of burner and 1st refill.
The loan is interest  free and therefore transaction price is not at fair value.
The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated  in Deferred expenses and amortized over the loan period on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
3.
Security Deposits       The security deposit is paid to landlord in relation to lease of land.
The security deposit is interest free and therefore transaction  price is not fair value.The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated in Deferred expenses and  amortized over the loan period on straight line basis in the statement of Profit and loss till March 31, 2019 prior to introduction  of IND AS 116.
NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT ( Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars  Opening  Balance   Addition  During the  Year   Amortized  During the  Year   Adjusted  During the  Year  Closing  Balance 2021-22 Deferred Expenses (Refer Note 8)  Loan to employees  687.95  222.50  52.48  -  857.97   PMUY Loan  376.50  -  98.97  4.32  273.21   Security Deposits  1.31  -  0.22  -  1.09  Deferred Income (Refer Note 20)  Security Deposits  4.52  -  0.82  -  3.70  2020-21 Deferred Expenses (Refer Note 8)  Loan to employees  707.52  28.85  48.42  -  687.95   PMUY Loan  647.55  -  209.52  61.53  376.50   Security Deposits  1.34  -  0.03  -  1.31  Deferred Income (Refer Note 20)  Security Deposits  5.61  -  1.09  -  4.52  NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS Financial Risk Factors The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise Borrowings, trade and other payables, security deposits,  employee liabilities and lease obligation.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and  to provide guarantees to support its operations.
The Group’s principal financial assets include loans & advances, trade and other  receivables, short-term deposits and cash / cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Group also holds FVTOCI  investments and enters into derivative transactions.
The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks arising from natural business exposures as well as its use of financial  instruments including market risk relating to interest rate, commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price,  credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Risk Management Commitee comprised of senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Group’s senior  management is supported by a Risk Management Compliance Board that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial  risk governance framework for the Group.
The Risk Management Committee provides assurance to the Board that the Group’s  risks are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with  the Group’s policies, risk objectives and risk appetite.
Financial Liabilities 1.
Security Deposits        In case certain deposits payable to deceased employees under R2 option and security deposits received in relation to some  revenue expenses contracts, transaction price is not considered as fair value because deposits are interest free.
The difference  between fair value and transaction price is accumulated in Deferred income and amortized over the tenure of security deposit  on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Reconciliation of deferred gains/losses yet to be recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss are as under: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 442 443 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) The Group’s requirement of crude oil are managed through integrated function handled through its international trade and  optimization department.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the  appropriate skills, experience and supervision.
As per the Group’s policy, derivatives contracts are taken only to hedge the various  risks that the Group is exposed to and not for speculation purpose.
The Board of Directors oversee the risk management activities for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: A.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market  prices.
The major components of market risk are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and other price  risk viz.
equity shares etc.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include Borrowings, Deposits, FVTOCI investments and  derivative financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement  obligations, provisions, and other non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
1.
Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibiltiy that changes in interst rates will affect future cash flows of a financial  instrument, principally financial debt.
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the  Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Group manages to maintian a mix between fixed and floating rates for rupee and foreign currency loans, based on liquidity,  availability of cost effective instruments and considering the market/ regulatory constraints etc.
The Group also use interest rate  swap contracts for managing the interest rate risk of floating interest rate debt.
As at March 31, 2022, approximately 57% of the  Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (March 31, 2021: 62%).
In 2017 Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) of UK, the regulator of the LIBOR rates, announced LIBOR benchmark will be phased  out after end of December 2021.
Subsequently, on 5th March 2021 ICE Benchmark Administrator (IBA), the administrator of the  LIBOR rates and FCA formally announced the extension of the last date of publication of USD LIBOR for overnight, one, three,  six and twelve month tenors from end of December 2021 to end of June 2023 to accommodate easy transition of existing USD  LIBOR based contracts to alternate benchmark.
However, the liquidity of SOFR loans in ECB loan market started to develop  only towards the fag end of the Year 2021.
The Group is not expecting any material financial impact of transition from USD  LIBOR to SOFR on its floating rate loans linked to USD LIBOR and associated derivative contracts which are maturing beyond   30th June 2023.
The Group’s exposure to LIBOR transition is only in respect of USD LIBOR as IndianOil’s entire foreign currency borrowing is  US Dollar denominated.
IndianOil has been exploring various strategies of transitioning its existing USD LIBOR benchmarked  loans into the alternate reference rate, viz., SOFR.
IndianOil is the first Corporate in India to tie-up long term USD loan using  SOFR as benchmark.
Further, IndianOil also went ahead of the curve and transitioned part of existing LIBOR linked loan to SOFR  benchmark during FY 2021-22 by refinancing the existing loan.
Group has initiated the process of discussion with the existing  lenders of the loans for transition.
The table below gives information about financial instruments that have yet to transition to an alternative benchmark rate as at  March 31, 2022 : Particulars Balances subject to  USD LIBOR   (J in crore) 1.
Non-derivative Financial Assets Nil 2.
Non-derivative Financial Liabilities  a) Foreign Currency Loans 14,010.41 3.
Derivatives  a) Interest Rate Swap* 1,515.53 *Nominal Amount NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) Currency of Borrowings Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before  tax (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on  profit before  tax (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 INR +50 (52.61) +50 (40.22) US Dollar +50 (199.00) +50 (149.69) INR -50 52.61 -50 40.22  US Dollar -50 199.00 -50 149.69  2.
Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign  exchange rates.
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating  activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency) and Borrowings.
The Group manages its foreign currency risk through combination of natural hedge, mandatory hedging and hedging undertaken  on occurence of pre-determined triggers.
The hedging is mostly undertaken through forward contracts.
The Group has outstanding forward contract of H 3,610.54 crore as at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: H Nil) which has been  undertaken to hedge its exposure to borrowings and other financial liabilities.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD/INR exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, the impact  on the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including non-designated  foreign currency derivatives.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies other than below is   not material.
Currency Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before  tax (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease  in %  Effect on  profit before  tax (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Forward Contract - US Dollar +5% 180.53 +5% - -5% (180.53) -5% - Other Exposures - US Dollar +5% (4,355.03) +5% (3,478.19) -5% 4,355.03 -5% 3,478.19  Other Exposures - SGD +5% (114.73) +5% (111.40) -5% 114.73 -5% 111.40  Cross Currency - USD vs. SGD +5% (123.40) +5% (119.03) -5%  123.40 -5% 119.03  Cross Currency - USD vs. INR +5% (66.32) +5% (63.98) -5%  66.32 -5% 63.98  The effects of most exchange rate fluctuations are absorbed in business operating results which are offset by changing cost  competitiveness, lags in market adjustments to movements in rates to its other non-financial assets like inventory etc.
For this  reason, the total effect of exchange rate fluctuations is not identifiable separately in the Group’s reported results.
The management is likely to complete the transition exercise of the existing USD LIBOR linked loans before 30th June 2023.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected, with all other  variables held constant, on INR and USD floating rate borrowings is per table below.
The Group’s exposure to interest rate changes  for all other currency borrowings is not material.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 444 445 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) 3.
Commodity Price Risk         The Group is exposed to various commodity price related risk such as Refinery Margins i.e.
Differential between the prices of  petroleum products & crude oil, Crude Oil Price fluctuation on accounts of inventory valuation fluctuation and crude oil imports  etc.
As per approved risk management policy, the Group can undertake refinery margin hedging, inventory hedging and crude oil  price hedging through swaps, options and futures in the OTC market as well as domestic exchanges to mitigate the risk within the  approved limits.
Category-wise quantitative data about commodity derivative transactions that are oustanding as at the end of the financial year  is given below: Particulars Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before  tax (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease  in % Effect on  profit before  tax (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Margin Hedging +10% (30.27) +10% (2.88) Margin Hedging -10% 30.27 -10% 2.88  The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Crude benchmark price difference/ refinery margin on the outstanding  commodity hedging position as on March 31, 2022:  Quantity (in Lakhs bbls) Particulars      March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Margin Hedging Forward contracts  26.25  14.25  4.
Equity Price Risk The Group’s investment in listed and non-listed equity securities, other than its investments in Joint Ventures/ Associates and  Subsidiaries, are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities.
At the reporting date, the exposure to unlisted equity securities at fair value was H 1,511.25 crore.
Sensitivity analysis of these  investments have been provided in Note 40.
The exposure to listed equity securities valued at fair value was H 19,216.09 crore.
An increase / decrease of 5% on the market index  could have an impact of approximately H 960.80 crore on the OCI and equity attributable to the Group.
These changes would not  have an effect on profit or loss.
5.
Derivatives and Hedging (i) Classification of derivatives The Group is exposed to certain market risks relating to its ongoing business operations as explained above.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments.
However, where derivatives do not  meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Information about the derivatives  used by the Group and outstanding as at the end of the financial year is provided below:   (J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  -  -  -  -  Foreign Exchange currency swap  20.60  245.95 22.66 252.65  NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) (ii) Hedging activities The primary risks managed using derivative instruments are commodity price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
Commodity Price Risk IndianOil buys crude and sells petroleum products linked to international benchmark prices and these benchmark prices do not  move in tandem.
This exposes IndianOil to the risk of variation in refining margins which is managed by margin hedging.
The risk of fall in refining margins of petroleum products in highly probable forecast sale transactions is hedged by undertaking  crack spread forward contracts.
The Group wants to protect the realization of margins and therefore to mitigate this risk, the  Group is taking these forward contracts to hedge the margin on highly probable forecast sale in future.
Risk management activities  are undertaken in OTC market i.e.
these are the bilateral contracts with registered counterparties.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Foreign Currency Risk The Group is exposed to various foreign currency risks as explained in A.2 above.
As per Group’s Foreign Currency & Interest Rate  Risk Management Policy , the Group is required to fully hedge the short term foreign currency loans (other than revolving lines  and PCFC loans) and at least 50% of the long term foreign currency loans based on market conditions.
Apart from mandatory hedging of loans, the Group also undertakes foreign currency forward contracts for the management of  currency purchase for repayment of crude/ product liabilities based on market conditions and requirements.
The above hedgings  are undertaken through delivery based forward contracts.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risks on floating rate borrowings as explained in A.1 above.
Group hedges interest rate risk  by taking interest rate swaps as per Group’s Interest Rate Risk Management Policy based on market conditions.
The Group uses  interest rate derivatives to hedge exposure to interest payments for floating rate borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Hedge Effectiveness  There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments as the terms of the foreign exchange  and commodity forward contracts match the terms of hedge items.
The Group has established a hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging  relationships as the underlying risk of the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity forward contracts are identical to the  hedged risk components.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Group compares the changes in the fair value of the hedging  instruments against the changes in fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risks.
In case of interest rate swaps,  as the critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts and their corresponding hedged items are the similar, the Group performs  a qualitative assessment of effectiveness and it is expected that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of  the corresponding hedged items will systematically change in opposite direction in response to movements in the underlying   interest rates.
(J in crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  -  42.26  -  -  Foreign exchange forward contracts- Crude/ Product  Liabilities  -  -  -  -  Interest Rate Swap  53.15  - 5.35  -  Commodity Forward Contracts - Margin Hedging  2.97  19.60 17.12  -  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 446 447 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) Source of Hedge ineffetiveness In case of commodity price risk, the Group has identified the following sources of ineffectiveness, which are not expected to be  material:  • Differences in the timing of the cash flows of the hedged items and the hedging instruments  • Different indexes linked to the hedged risk of the hedged items and hedging instruments  • The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movements of the hedging instruments and hedged items  • Changes to the forecasted amount of cash flows of hedged items and hedging instruments  In case of foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, the main source of hedge ineffectiveness is the effect of the counterparty  and the Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of hedge contracts, which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged items.
The effect of this is not expected to be material.
Disclosures of effects of Cash Flow Hedge Accounting Hedging instruments The Group is holding the following hedging instruments: (J in crore) As at March 31, 2022 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to  3 months 3 to  6 months 6 to  12 months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Loans Nominal amount  - 1136.65  -  - 2473.89 3610.54  Average forward rate (H)  - 75.78  -  - 82.46  Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Crude/ Product  Liabilities Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  -  -  Average forward rate (H)  -  -  -  -  -  Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount  -  -  -  - 1515.53 1515.53  Commodity forward contracts-  Margin Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh  bbls)  - 8.50 11.00 6.75  - 26.25  Nominal amount  - 130.32 110.42 45.35  - 286.09  Average forward rate ($ /bbl)  - 20.23 13.24 8.86  - - (J in crore) As at March 31, 2021 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to  3 months 3 to  6 months 6 to  12 months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Loans Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  -  -  Average forward rate  -  -  -  -  -  NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) The impact of the hedging instruments on the Balance Sheet is as under:  (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liablities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 Nominal amount 3610.54 - - - 1515.53 1438.43 286.09 45.92  Carrying amount (42.26) - - - 53.15 5.35 (16.63) 17.12  Line item in the Balance Sheet that’s includes  Hedging Instruments Other Current Financial Assets / Other Current Financial Liabilities* Change in fair value used for measuring  ineffectiveness for the period - Gain (Loss) (42.26) (14.14) 3.35 (6.30) 53.15 5.35 (15.19) 136.67 Hedge Items The impact of the Hedged Items on the Balance Sheet is as follows: (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liablities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 Balance in Cash flow hedge reserve as at the  end of the year for continuing hedges (net  of tax) (10.19) - 0.80 - 70.56 4.00 (33.86) 12.80  Change in value of the hedged items used for  measuring ineffectiveness for the period 42.26 14.14 (3.35) 6.30 (53.15) (5.35) 15.19 (136.67) (J in crore) As at March 31, 2021 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to  3 months 3 to  6 months 6 to  12 months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Crude/ Product  Liabilities Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  -  -  Average forward rate (H)  -  -  -  -  -  Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount  -  -  -  -  1,438.43 1438.43  Commodity forward contracts-  Margin Hedging Nominal volume   (Quantity in lakh bbls)  0.75  1.50  6.00  6.00  -  14.25  Nominal amount  (0.91)  (1.82)  37.48  11.17  -  45.92  Average forward rate ($ /bbl)  (1.66) (1.66)  8.55  2.55  -  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 448 449 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liablities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 March 31,  2022 March 31,  2021 Cash flow Hedge Reserve at the beginning  of the year - - - - 4.00 - 12.80 46.00  Total hedging gain/(loss) recognised in OCI (42.26) (14.14) 3.35 (6.30) 47.80 5.35 (32.31) 75.18  Income tax on above (16.58) 3.56 1.31 1.59 18.76 (1.35) (12.68) (18.92) Ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss - - - - - - - - Line item in the statement of profit  or loss that includes the recognized  ineffectiveness NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Amount reclassified from OCI to profit or  loss (42.26) (14.14) 3.35 (6.30) - - 1.45 119.55  Income tax on above (6.39) 3.56 0.51 1.59 - - 0.22 (30.09) Cash flow Hedge Reserve at the end of  the year (10.19) - 0.80 - 70.56 4.00 (33.86) 12.80  Line item in the statement of profit or  loss that includes the reclassification  adjustments Other  Expenses Other  Income Other  Expenses Other  Expenses NA NA Revenue  from  Operations Revenue  from  Operations The effect of the cash flow hedge in the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income is as follows: B.
Credit risk Trade Receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating  to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and  individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored  and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by Letters of Credit, Bank Guarantees or other forms of credit  insurance, wherever required.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients.
In addition, a large number of  minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively.
The Group applies Simplified  approach for providing the expected credit losses on Trade Receivables as per the accounting policy of the Group.
The maximum  exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 10.
The Group  evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions  and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
(J in crore) Unbilled Not Due Less than  6 months Above 6  months  to 1 year Above 1  year to 2  years Above 2  years to  3 years > 3 years Total Year ended March 31, 2022 Gross Carrying amount  84.51  11,113.42  5,575.47  1,425.36  342.75  283.93  287.34  19,112.78  Expected credit losses  (0.23)  (30.79)  (138.87)  (37.82)  (11.22)  (11.75)  (4.25)  (234.93)  Specific Provision  -  -  -  -  (0.98)  (0.36)  (176.09)  (177.43)  Carrying amount  84.28 11,082.63  5,436.60  1,387.54  330.55  271.82  107.00  18,700.42  Year ended March 31, 2021 Gross Carrying amount  53.12  8,276.78  2,744.51  775.17  2,071.09  192.83  280.66  14,394.16  Expected credit losses  (0.08)  (8.52)  (2.22)  (0.90)  (0.81)  (1.14)  (0.09)  (13.76)  Specific Provision  -  (96.33)  (74.56)  (23.97)  (224.98)  (9.23)  (169.16)  (598.23)  Carrying amount  53.04  8,171.93  2,667.73  750.30  1,845.30  182.46  111.41  13,782.17  NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) The ECL matrix has been reviewed during the year and accordingly expected credit losses have been computed using historical  credit loss experience for different groups of trade receivables.
Other Financial instruments and cash deposits The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the Balance Sheet at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 is  the carrying amounts as provided in Note 4, 5, 6, 11 & 12.
The Group applies General approach for providing the expected credit losses on these items as per the accounting policy of   the Group.
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with  the Group’s policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to  each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are approved by the Group’s Board of Directors.
The limits are set to minimise the  concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential failure to make payments.
The Group has given loans to PMUY (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) customers which are shown under Loans in Note-5.
PMUY  loans are given to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families as per GOI scheme wherein free LPG connections are issued by Oil  Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) households.
As per the scheme, OMCs  are providing an option for interest free loan towards cost of burner and 1st refill to PMUY consumers which is to be recovered  from the subsidy amount payable to customer when such customers book refill.
In case of certain PMUY loans, the Group has determined that there is significant increase in the credit risk.
The Group considers  the probability of default upon initial recognition of the loan and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an  ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
It considers past experience and time elapsed since the last refill for determining  probability of default on collective basis.
The Group has categorized the PMUY loans wherein credit risk has increased significantly  under various categories considering the likelihood of default based on time gap since last refill.
During the year, due to inactivity  of a portion of PMUY consumers despite the efforts of Group and GOI, Group has changed the percentage of ECL provisioning.
ECL is provided @80% (2021: @80%) in case of time gap since last refill is more than 12 months but not exceeding 18 months,  @90% (2021: @90%) in case of time gap is more than 18 months but not exceeding 24 months and @100% (2021: @100%) for  those consumers who have not taken any refill more than 24 months.
ECL is provided for the loans where the refill is taken within  last 12 months based on experience ratio of more than 12 months as above.
The PMUY loans are classified as credit impaired as on reporting date considering significant financial difficulty in case the  customer has not taken any refill from past 24 months (2021: 24 months).
In case of other financial assets, there are certain credit impaired cases mainly due to breach of contract arising due to default or  bankruptcy proceedings.
(J in crore) 2021-22 Opening  Balance ECL created  during the year ECL write  Back  ECL written off/  Reclassifications* Closing  Balance A B C D (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected credit losses  13.79  221.65  (0.51)  -  234.93  Specific Provision  598.22  17.60  (431.94)  (6.45)  177.43  Total  612.01  239.25  (432.45)  (6.45)  412.36  Loans 12 Months ECL  327.04  -  (130.13)  -  196.91  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  196.31  -  (67.55)  -  128.76  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  555.66  105.50  (111.42)  -  549.74  Total  1,079.01  105.50  (309.10)  -  875.41  The movement in the loss allowance for impairment of financial assets at amortised cost during the year was as follows: NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 450 451 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) * Net of translation difference amounting to NIL.
(J in crore) 2020-21 Opening  Balance ECL created  during the year ECL write  Back  ECL written off/  Reclassifications* Closing  Balance A B C D (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected Credit Loss  15.71  0.62  (2.54)  -  13.79  Specific Provision  131.93  482.71  (2.54)  (13.88)  598.22  Total  147.64  483.33  (5.08)  (13.88)  612.01  Loans 12 Months ECL  69.98  257.06  -  -  327.04  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  126.39  69.92  -  -  196.31  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  360.29  197.26  (0.14)  (1.75)  555.66  Total  556.66  524.24  (0.14)  (1.75)  1,079.01  Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.50  -  (0.10)  -  1.40  Total  1.50  -  (0.10)  -  1.40  Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -  71.56  -  -  71.56  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  162.44  58.53  (3.85)  0.45  217.57  Total  162.44  130.09  (3.85)  0.45  289.13  (J in crore) 2021-22 Opening  Balance ECL created  during the year ECL write  Back  ECL written off/  Reclassifications* Closing  Balance Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.40  0.02  -  -  1.42  Total  1.40  0.02  -  -  1.42  Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -  -  -  -  -  Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  71.56  -  (71.56)  -  -  Life Time ECL- credit impaired  217.57  35.32  (10.98)  (0.08)  241.83  Total  289.13  35.32  (82.54)  (0.08)  241.83  *Net of translation difference amounting to H 0.64 crore NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS ( Contd..) C. Liquidity risk  The Group monitors its risk of shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tool.
The Group seeks to manage its liquidity requirement  by maintaining access to both short term and long term debt markets.
In addition, Group has committed credit facilities   from banks.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts,  commercial papers, bank loans, debentures, and leases.
The Group assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing  its debt and concluded it to be low.
The Group has access to a sufficient variety of sources of funding.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual payments.
(J in crore) On  demand Less than 3  months 3 to 12  months 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Year ended March 31, 2022 Borrowings 10,816.32  32,073.84  24,715.40  50,161.78  5,782.76  1,23,550.10  Lease Obligations  -  853.48  1,252.39  2,777.06  3,586.56  8,469.49  Trade payables  1,643.59  47,402.32  -  -  -  49,045.91  Other financial liabilities  26,398.22  13,056.35  4,234.32  462.13  451.66  44,602.68  Derivatives  -  307.81  -  -  -  307.81  38,858.13  93,693.80  30,202.11  53,400.97  9,820.98  2,25,975.99  Year ended March 31, 2021 Borrowings  16,545.50  27,334.12  10,361.65  50,394.00  4,291.01  1,08,926.28  Lease Obligations  -  305.69  1,167.20  2,492.18  3,757.71  7,722.78  Trade payables  2,790.14  34,173.93  -  -  -  36,964.07  Other financial liabilities  30,113.44  7,367.23  4,347.09  517.67  329.81  42,675.24  Derivatives  -  252.65  -  -  -  252.65   49,449.08  69,433.62  15,875.94  53,403.85  8,378.53  1,96,541.02  D. Excessive risk concentration Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same  geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly  affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s  performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the  maintenance of a diversified portfolio.
Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly.
E. Collateral As Group has been rated investment grade by various domestic and international rating agencies, there has been no requirement of  submitting any collateral for booking of derivative contracts.
Group undertakes derivatives contract only with those counterparties  that have credit rating above the internally approved threshold rating.
Accordingly, Group does not seek any collaterals from   its counterparties.
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to maximise the shareholder value.
Capital includes issued equity  capital, share premium and all other equity reserves, attributable to the equity shareholders, for the purpose of the Group’s   capital management.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and requirements.
The Group determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term and other strategic investment  plans.
The Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares to maintain  or adjust the capital structure.
The Group monitors capital using debt equity ratio, which is borrowings divided by Equity.
The  Group’s endeavour is to keep the debt equity ratio around 1:1.
NOTE – 42: CAPITAL MANAGEMENT  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 452 453 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 42: CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ( Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 31-03-2022 31-03-2021 Borrowings  1,23,550.10  1,08,926.28  Equity Share Capital  9,181.04  9,181.04  Reserves and Surplus  1,25,945.61  1,03,632.95  Equity  1,35,126.65  1,12,813.99  Debt Equity Ratio 0.91 : 1 0.97 : 1 No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the financial year ended 31 March  2022 and 31 March 2021.
A.
Revenue Grants  1 Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) and LPG (Domestic)   Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) and LPG (Domestic) in India amounting to J 154.21 crore (2021: H 72.46 crore) and subsidies  on sales of SKO and LPG to customers in Bhutan amounting to J 6.44 crore (2021: H 3.13 crore) have been reckoned as per  the schemes notified by Governments.
2 Export of Notified Goods under MEIS Claims/RoDTEP scheme    The Group has recognised J 3.64 crore (2021: H 0.02 crore) on export of notified goods under Merchandise Exports from  India Scheme (MEIS)/ Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme in the Statement of Profit and  Loss as Revenue Grant.
3 Stipend to apprentices under NATS/NAPS scheme   As per Ministry of HRD, 50% of the cost of stipend for apprentices which are paid under National Apprenticeship Training  Scheme (NATS) will be reimbursed to employer from Government subject to prescribed threshhold limit.The Group has  recognised grant in respect of stipend paid to apprentices appointed under National Apprenticeship Training Scheme  (NATS) amounting to J 5.91 crore (2021: H 2.52 crore) as Revenue Grant.
4 Grant in respect of revenue expenditure for research projects   During the year, the Group has received revenue grant of J 1.62 crore (2021: H 1.68 crore) in respect of meeting out revenue  expenditure such as Manpower, Consumables, Travel & Contingency etc for research projects undertaken with various  agencies.
5 Incentive on sale of power   Group is getting incentive from Department of Renewable Energy, GOI for wind power generation of Electricity at the  rate of H 0.50 paise for per unit of power generated.
The Group has received grant of J 2.37 crore during the current year   (2021: H 2.08 crore).
6 EPCG Grant   Grant recognized in respect of duty waiver on procurement of capital goods under EPCG scheme of Central Govt.
which  allows procurement of capital goods including spares for pre production and post production at zero duty subject to an  export obligation of 6 times of the duty saved on capital goods procured.
The unamortized grant amount as at March  31, 2022 is J 8.29 crore (2021: H 2.29 crore) .
During the year, the Group has recognised Nil (2021: H 41.57 crore) in the  Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of revenue grant.
The Group expects to meet the export obligations and  therefore equivalent deferred grant has not been treated as liability.
7 Excise duty benefit in North East   Excise duty exemption of 50% of goods manufactured and cleared from north east refineries has been reckoned at full  value in revenue and on net basis in expenses under ‘Excise Duty’ (to the extent of duty paid).
Financial impact for the  current year is J 5426.43 crore (2021: H 5655.21 crore).
NOTE – 43: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS NOTE – 43: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS ( Contd..)  8 Viability Gap Funding (VGF)   The Group has received grant in the form of interest free loans from Orissa Government for a period of 15 years.The  unamortized grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 2372.48 crore (2021: H 2065.16 crore).
During the year, the Group has  recognised J 176.05 crore (2021: H 144.86 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of grants.
B.
Capital Grants  1 OIDB Government Grant for strengthening distribution of SKO (PDS)   The Group has received government grant from OIDB (Oil Industry Development Board) for strengthening distribution  of PDS Kerosene as per the directions of MoP&NG to be used in construction of 20KL underground Tank, Mechanical  Dispensing Units and Barrel Shed.
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 0.59 crore   (2021: H 0.76 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised J 0.17 crore (2021: H 0.25 crore) in Statement of Profit and  Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
2 Capital Grant in respect of Excise duty,Custom duty and GST waiver   The Group has received grant in respect of Custom duty waiver on import on capital goods,Excise duty waiver and GST  waiver on purchase of goods from local manufacturer in India under the certificate issued by Department of Scientific and  Industrial Research (DSIR).
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 75.59 crore (2021: H 67.77 crore)  The goods so imported or procured from local manufacturer shall not be transferred or sold for a period of five years from  date of installation.
During the year, the Group has recognised J 11.7 crore (2021: H 10.85 crore) in the Statement of Profit  and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
3 Capital Grant in respect of Research projects   The Group has received capital grant from various agencies in respect of procurement/ setting up of Capital assets for  research projects undertaken.
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 9.01 crore (2021: H 11.19  crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised J 2.70 crore (2021: H 2.6 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as  amortisation of capital grants.
4 Capital Grant in respect of Entry Tax Exemption from Odisha Govt.
Entry Tax exemption received from Odisha Government for Paradip Refinery Project has been recognized as Capital Grant  and grossed up with the concerned Assets.The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 100.22 crore  (2021: H 105.55 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised J 5.34 crore (2021: H 5.47 crore) in the Statement of Profit  and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
5 Capital Grant in respect of demonstration unit   Grant received from OIDB for setting up of demonstration unit at Guwahati refinery with the Group’s R&D  developed IndaDeptG technology.
The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 377.97 crore   (2021: H 173.27 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised J 4.38 crore (2021: H 4.38 crore) in the Statement of Profit  and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
6 Capital Grant in respect of interest subsidy   The Group has received capital grant in respect of interest subsidy on loans taken from OIDB.
The unamortized capital  grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is J 16.32 crore (2021: H 32.98 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised   J 2.03 crore (2021: H 1.82 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
7 Capital Grant in respect of Solar Power Generation   The Group has received capital financial assistance from Ministry of New and Renewable Energy in respect of procurement  and installation of Solar Panels for Power Generation.The unamortized capital grant amount as at March 31, 2022 is   J 3.78 crore (2021: H 3.96 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised J 0.19 crore (2021: H 0.18 crore) in the  Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
8 Capital Grant from Nepal Government   The Group has received grant from Nepal Government by way of waiver of Local taxes on goods/services procured locally  in Nepal and Import Duty for goods/services imported into Nepal.
The Group has recognised J 1.12 crore (2021: H 1.05  crore) in Statement of Profit & Loss.
The unamortized balance is J 11.69 crore (2021: H 12.42 crore).
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 454 455 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 The Group is in the business of oil and gas and it earns revenue primarily from sale of petroleum products, petrochemicals,Gas,  E&P and Others.
Revenue are recognized when control of the goods and services are transferred to the customer.
Generally, Group enters into contract with customers:  a.
On delivered basis in case of Retail Sales, LPG and Aviation.
b.
On Ex-Marketing Installation as well as delivered basis in case of Lubes and Consumers.
c. On FOB or CIF basis depending on terms of contract in case of Export sales.
Majority of Group’s sales are to retail category which are mostly on cash and carry basis.
The Group also execute supply to  Institutional Businesses(IB), Lubes , Aviation on credit which are for less than a year.
For maintaining uninterrupted supply of products, customers generally deposit amount in advance with the Group against which  orders for purchase of products are placed by the customers.
Based on these orders, supply is maintained by the Group and  revenue is recognized when the goods are delivered to the customer by adjusting the advance from customers.
Revenue in cases  of performance obligation related to delivered sales are recognized in time based on delivery of identified and actual goods and  no significant judgement is involved.
The Group also extends volume/slab based discounts to its customers on contract to contract basis for upliftment of products and it  is adjusted in revenue as per the terms of the contract.
Group also runs loyalty programmes and incentive schemes for its retail and  bulk customers.
Loyalty points are generated and accumulated by the customers on doing transactions at Group’s outlet which can be  redeemed subsequently for fuel purchases from Group outlets.
Revenue is recognized net of these loyalty points and incentive schemes.
Besides this, though not significant, the Group also undertakes construction contracts on deposit basis.
Revenue is recognized  for these contracts overtime using input based on cost incurred.
Similarly non-refundable deposits received from Retail Outlets  (ROs) are recognized as revenue over time on proportionate basis.
NOTE – 44: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (J in crore) Particulars Receivables Contract Asset Contract Liability Opening Balance  13,830.23  -  5,648.19  Closing Balance  18,785.63  -  7,157.53  The Group has applied practical expedient as per IndAS 115 in case of delivered sales, advance from customers where the  performance obligation is part of the contract and the original expected duration is one year or less and in case of construction  contracts/deposit works wherein the Group has a right to consideration from customer that correspond directly with the value of  the entity’s performance completed for the customer.
Bifurcation of Total Revenue into Revenue from contract with customers and other sources of revenue as  per requirement of Ind AS is given below;    (J in crore) Particulars 2021-22 2020-21 Total Revenue (A+D)  7,36,730.84  5,20,236.84   Revenue from contract with customers (A)  7,34,630.02  5,17,686.56    Recognised from contract liability balance of previous year (B)  3,714.04  4,290.55    Recognised from contracts initiated in current year (C)  7,30,916.01  5,13,396.01   Revenue from other contracts/from others (D)  2,100.82  2,550.28  An amount of J 226.45 crore (2021: H 483.48 crore) on account of impairment losses on receivables is recognised under the head  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets on the face of Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Group discloses information on reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 under Note 39 - Segmental Information.
An amount of  J 689.76 crore (2021: H 572.84 crore) is recognised over time under Revenue from contract with customers.
NOTE – 45: STATEMENT OF SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT  OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (FORM AOC - I) (J in crore) Sl.
No.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Name of the Subsidiary Chennai  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited IndianOil  (Mauritius)  Limited Lanka IOC  PLC* IOC Middle  East FZE IOC  Sweden AB IOCL (USA)  Inc. IndOil  Global BV.
IOCL  Singapore  PTE Limited Date since when subsidiary was  acquired 29.03.2001 24.10.2001 29.08.2002 19.04.2006 26.02.2010 01.10.2012 25.02.2014 13.05.2016 Reporting Currency INR MUR LKR AED EURO USD CAD USD Exchange Rate (INR): Closing as on 31.03.2022 - 1.6804 0.2613 20.6290 84.1247 75.7975 60.4740  75.7975  Average Rate 2021-22 - 1.7549 0.3670 20.2903 86.6280 74.5149 59.4554  74.5149  Share Capital  148.91  75.67  250.54  2.30  388.47  336.32  6,185.26  9,005.34  Other Equity  2,837.82  269.29  370.67  38.90  (290.33)  (220.92)  (2,078.88)  920.43  Liabilities  14,608.85  179.22  1,065.71  8.55  12.78  6.09  3,775.33  1,472.92  Total Liabilities  17,595.58  524.18  1,686.92  49.75  110.92  121.49  7,881.71  11,398.69  Total Assets  17,595.58  524.18  1,686.92  49.75  110.92  121.49  7,881.71  11,398.69  Investments  208.55  14.57  368.71  -  110.26  -  39.39  8,170.00  Turnover  60,402.02  1,149.22  3,301.21  29.88  -  36.10  619.83  2,405.55  Profit Before Taxation  1,841.25  66.13  (82.54)  (0.97)  (12.89)  16.30  52.65  813.45  Provision for Taxation  489.22  9.10  22.32  -  -  -  -  332.35  Profit After Taxation  1,352.03  57.03  (104.86)  (0.97)  (12.89)  16.30  52.65  481.10  Proposed Dividend  29.78  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Percentage of shareholding 51.89% 100.00% 75.12% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Part “A”: Subsidiaries Indian Catalyst Private Limited has been dissolved and name has been struck off from the ROC’s register on 25th October 2021.
*Lanka IOC PLC has reported profit of LKR 4818.46 Million,however the same is getting converted into loss due to conversion of inventory as on 31.03.2022  at closing conversion rate into INR.
INR   Indian Rupees MUR  Mauritian rupees LKR   Srilankan Rupees AED   United Arab Emirates Dirham USD  United States Dollars CAD  Canadian Dollars NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 456 457 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  (J in crore)   (J in crore)  1 Name of the Associates / Joint Ventures Indian  Oiltanking  Limited Lubrizol  India Private  Limited Indian Oil  Petronas  Private  Limited Green Gas  Limited Indian Oil  Skytanking  Private  Limited Suntera  Nigeria 205  Limited Delhi Aviation  Fuel Facility  Private  Limited Indian  Synthetic  Rubber  Private  Limited NPCIL -  IndianOil  Nuclear  Energy  Corporation  Limited GSPL India  Transco  Limited GSPL India  Gasnet  Limited Indradhanush  Gas Grid  Limited IndianOil  Total Private  Limited 2 Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.12.2021 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 3 Date of which Associate or Joint Venture was  associated or acquired 28.08.1996 01.04.2000 03.12.1998 07.10.2005 21.08.2006 09.05.2006 28.03.2010 06.07.2010 06.04.2011 29.03.2013 29.03.2013 10.08.2018 07.10.2020 4 Shares of Associate / Joint Ventures held by  the company on the year end  i.
No.
494828289 499200 134000000 23047250 25950000 2500000 60680000 222861375 260000 157820000 491925030 85000000 15000000  ii.
Amount of Investment in Associates /  Joint Venture 723.98 61.71 134.00 23.09 73.28 0.05 60.68 222.86 0.26 157.82 491.93 85.00 15.00  iii.
Extent of Holding % 49.38% 26.00% 50.00% 49.98% 50.00% 25.00% 37.00% 50.00% 26.00% 26.00% 26.00% 20.00% 50.00% 5 Description of how there is significant  influence Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control 6 Reason why the associate/joint venture is not  consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated 7 Networth attributable to Shareholding as per  latest audited Balance Sheet 715.11 171.47 679.60 258.70 90.80 (192.24) 90.00 317.56 0.38 91.26 500.36 82.31 13.51 8 Profit / (Loss) for the year (After Tax) 115.83 72.72 189.77 62.60 12.44 (56.73) (5.33) 236.91 0.04 (155.56) 73.36 1.95 (0.77)  i.
Considered in Consolidation 57.20 18.91 94.88 31.29 6.22 (14.18) (1.97) 118.46 0.01 (40.45) 19.07 0.39 (0.39)  ii.
Not Considered in Consolidation 58.63 53.81 94.89 31.31 6.22 (42.55) (3.36) 118.45 0.03 (115.11) 54.29 1.56 (0.38) Part “B”: Joint Ventures / Associates NOTE – 45: STATEMENT OF SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT  OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (FORM AOC - I) (CONTD..) NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 458 459 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  (J in crore)  (J in crore) 1 Name of the Associates / Joint Ventures IndianOil  Adani Gas  Private  Limited Mumbai  Aviation Fuel  Farm Facility  Private  Limited Kochi Salem  Pipelines  Private  Limited Indian Oil  LNG Private  Limited # Hindustan  Urvarak and  Rasayan  Limited Ratnagiri  Refinery &  Petrochemicals  Limited IHB Limited IOC Phinergy  Private Limited Paradeep  Plastic Park  Limited Avi-Oil India  Private  Limited Petronet VK  Limited Petronet  LNG Limited Petronet  India Limited 2 Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 31.03.2022 3 Date of which Associate or Joint Venture was  associated or acquired 04.10.2013 09.10.2014 22.01.2015 29.05.2015 15.06.2016 22.09.2017 09.07.2019 19.02.2021 09.03.2021 04.11.1993 21.05.1998 02.04.1998 26.05.1997 4 Shares of Associate / Joint Ventures held by  the company on the year end  i.
No.
631190000 52918750 275000000 4500 1629415000 100000000 1029000000 562500 32720000 4500000 50000000 187500000 18000000  ii.
Amount of Investment in Associates /  Joint Venture 631.19 52.92 275.00 0.00 1629.42 100.00 1029.00 0.56 32.72 4.50 26.02 98.75 0.18  iii.
Extent of Holding % 50.00% 25.00% 50.00% 45.00% 29.67% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 49.00% 25.00% 50.00% 12.50% 18.00% 5 Description of how there is significant  influence Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Associate Associate Associate Associate 6 Reason why the associate/joint venture is not  consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated 7 Networth attributable to Shareholding as per  latest audited Balance Sheet 617.36 94.26 260.38 (158.20) 1621.43 59.41 1027.92 0.35 57.31 18.89 - 1708.51 0.47 8 Profit / (Loss) for the year (After Tax) 9.38 9.58 (10.13) (43.42) (19.84) (8.83) (3.17) (0.43) (1.40) 6.43 (8.69) 3438.11 -  i.
Considered in Consolidation 4.69 2.39 (5.06) (19.54) (5.89) (4.41) (1.59) (0.22) (0.69) 1.61 - 429.76 -  ii.
Not Considered in Consolidation 4.69 7.19 (5.07) (23.88) (13.95) (4.42) (1.58) (0.21) (0.71) 4.82 (8.69) 3008.35 - # Value of Investment in Indian Oil LNG Private Limited is H 45000.
Following associates or joint ventures are yet to commence operations: i) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited ii) NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited iii) Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited iv) Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited v) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited vi) IHB Limited vii) IOC Phinergy Private Limited Equity Consolidation in respect of following Jointly Controlled Entities have not been consolidated as the Management has  decided to exit from these companies and provided for full dimunition in the value of investment: i) Petronet CI Limited.
ii) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP NOTE – 45: STATEMENT OF SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT  OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (FORM AOC - I)  Part “B”: Joint Ventures / Associates NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 460 461 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Name of the Enity Net Assets Share in Profit/ (loss)  after Tax Share in Other  Comprehensive  Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of  Total Amount   ( J in crore) As % of  Total* Amount   ( J in crore) As % of  Total* Amount   ( J in  crore) As % of  Total* Amount   ( J in crore) Indian Oil Corporation Limited 98.32%  1,31,286.36 96.34%  24,184.10 100.53%  6,259.83 97.17%  30,443.93  Subsidiaries Indian Chennai Petroleum Corporation  Limited 2.24%  2,986.73 5.39%  1,352.03 0.38%  23.50 4.39%  1,375.53  Foreign IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited 0.26%  344.96 0.23%  57.03 (0.26%) (16.40) 0.13%  40.63  Lanka IOC PLC 0.47%  621.21 (0.42%) (104.86) (1.03%) (64.33) (0.54%) (169.19)  IOC Middle East FZE 0.03%  41.20 - (0.97) 0.02%  1.47 -  0.50  IOC Sweeden AB 0.07%  98.14 (0.05%) (12.89) (5.70%) (354.79) (1.17%) (367.68)  IOCL (USA) Inc. 0.09%  115.40 0.06%  16.30 0.06%  3.78 0.06%  20.08  IndOil Global BV.
3.08%  4,106.38 0.21%  52.65 2.55%  158.92 0.68%  211.57  IOCL Singapore PTE Limited 7.43%  9,925.77 1.92%  481.10 3.42%  212.67 2.21%  693.77  Less: Minority Interests in all  subsidiaries 1.19%  1,591.47 2.49%  624.37 (0.08%) (4.70) 1.98%  619.67  Joint Venture  Indian Indian Oiltanking Limited 0.54%  715.11 0.23%  57.20 - (0.03) 0.18%  57.17  Lubrizol India Private Limited 0.13%  171.47 0.08%  18.91 (0.01%) (0.48) 0.06%  18.43  Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited 0.51%  679.60 0.38%  94.88 -  0.02 0.30%  94.90  Green Gas Limited 0.19%  258.70 0.12%  31.29 -  0.02 0.10%  31.31  Indian Oil Skytanking Private  Limited 0.07%  90.80 0.02%  6.22 - (0.07) 0.02%  6.15  Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private  Limited 0.07%  90.00 (0.01%) (1.97) -  - (0.01%) (1.97)  Indian Synthetic Rubber Private  Limited 0.24%  317.56 0.47%  118.46 -  0.09 0.38%  118.55  Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP -  - -  - -  - -  -  NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy  Corporation Limited -  0.38 -  0.01 -  - -  0.01  GSPL India Transco Limited 0.07%  91.26 (0.16%) (40.45) -  0.01 (0.13%) (40.44)  GSPL India Gasnet Limited 0.37%  500.36 0.08%  19.07 -  0.02 0.06%  19.09  IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited 0.46%  617.36 0.02%  4.69 -  0.10 0.02%  4.79  Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility  Private Limited 0.07%  94.26 0.01%  2.39 -  - 0.01%  2.39  Kochi Salem Pipelines Private  Limited 0.19%  260.38 (0.02%) (5.06) -  - (0.02%) (5.06)  IndianOil LNG Private Limited (0.12%) (158.20) (0.08%) (19.54) -  0.03 (0.06%) (19.51)  Hinduatan Urvarak and Rasayan  Limited 1.21%  1,621.43 (0.02%) (5.89) -  - (0.02%) (5.89)  Ratnagiri Refinery &  Petrochemicals Limited 0.04%  59.41 (0.02%) (4.41) -  - (0.01%) (4.41)  Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 0.06%  82.31 -  0.39 -  - -  0.39  IHB Limited 0.77%  1,027.92 (0.01%) (1.59) -  - (0.01%) (1.59)  IndianOil Total Private Limited 0.01%  13.51 - (0.39) -  - - (0.39)  IOC Phinergy Private Limited -  0.35 - (0.22) -  - - (0.22)  Paradeep Plastic Park Limited 0.04%  57.31 - (0.69) -  - - (0.69)  NOTE – 46: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AS PER SCHEDULE-III TO COMPANIES ACT, 2013 NOTE – 46: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AS PER SCHEDULE-III TO COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (CONTD..) Name of the Enity Net Assets Share in Profit/ (loss)  after Tax Share in Other  Comprehensive  Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of  Total Amount   ( J in crore) As % of  Total* Amount   ( J in crore) As % of  Total* Amount   ( J in  crore) As % of  Total* Amount   ( J in crore) Foreign Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited (0.14%) (192.24) (0.06%) (14.18) (0.11%) (6.54) (0.07%) (20.72)  Associates Indian Avi-Oil India Private Limited 0.01%  18.89 0.01%  1.61 - (0.01) 0.01%  1.60  Petronet VK Limited -  - -  - -  - -  -  Petronet LNG Limited 1.28%  1,708.51 1.71%  429.76 - (0.24) 1.37%  429.52  Petronet India Limited -  0.47 -  - -  - -  -  Intra Group Eliminations (16.87%) (22,526.41) (3.94%) (988.38) 0.07%  4.76 (3.14%) (983.62)  TOTAL 100.00%  1,33,535.18 100.00%  25,102.23 100.00%  6,227.03 100.00%  31,329.26  Note: 1.
Figures in respect of Joint Operations as mentioned in Note 34 have been included in the financial statements of Indian Oil  Corporation Ltd & Subsidiary Companies and in respect of other Joint Ventures/Associates of Subsidiary Companies, the  same has been included in the financial statements of respective subsidiary company.
2.
Following Companies have not been consolidated in the consolidated financial statements as the Management has decided  to exit from these Entities and provided for full dimunition in value of investment:  a) Petronet CI Limited  b) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP 3.
Group’s share of loss in Petronet VK Limited amounting to J 4.35 crore (2021: loss of H 4.55 crore) has not been recognised  as the company has accumulated losses as on 31.03.2022.
The Groups’s share of unaccounted accumulated losses as on   31st March 2022 stands at J 60.42 crore (2021: H 56.07 crore).
NOTE – 47: SCHEDULE III ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (in J) Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions with  struck off company Balance outstanding March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Hotel Dynasty Payables  52,573  -  Grand Marshall Engineers Private Limited Payables  12,537  -  Skpei Engineering Works Private Limited Payables  26,154  26,154  Vidhoo Industrial Service Private Limited Payables  2,107  2,107  Paonta Technologies & Solutions Private Limited Payables  5,520  5,520  Bharati Instrumentation Private Limited Payables  52  52  Spectacular Advertising & Events Private Limited Payables  10,931  10,931  3I Computers Private Limited Payables  11,300  11,300  Unique Energies Private Limited Payables  8,175  8,175  Promises Medical Equipments Private Limited Payables  -  8,395  DLS Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -  352  Relationship with Struck off Companies NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 462 463 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 47: SCHEDULE III ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (Contd..) (in J) Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions with  struck off company Balance outstanding March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Kamrupinyae Infrastructures Private Limited Payables  -  3,45,030  Amstar Infrastructure India Private.Limited Payables  -  1,18,542  Shree Sai Ip Consultant Private Limited Payables  -  -  Arvind Singh Consultants Private Limited Payables  -  -  Maypri Foods Private Limited Payables  -  -  Aditya Inkjet Technologies Private Limited Payables  1,892  41,653  Murthy Electronics Private Limited Payables  2,541  1,56,936  Linear Point Surveys Private Limited Payables  -  -  First Office Solutions India Private Limited Payables  14,100  -  Arun Services Private Limited Payables  48,402  -  Polycab Wires And Cables Private Limited Payables  -  -  Alliance Aviation Private Limited Payables  -  -  Mcog Engineering And Fabrication Private Limited Payables  -  -  Kdc Infra Projects Private Limited Receivables  1,08,500  6,39,163  Khazina Digital Private Limited Receivables  (5,07,000)  (5,07,000) Salai Energy Solutions Private Limited Receivables  (3,86,890)  (7,53,237) Emanar Enterprise Private Limited Receivables  -  14,720  Zeba Construction & Dev P Limited Receivables  -  (1,551) Yumiko Global Infratech Private Limited Receivables  (5,000)  -  Rc Residency Private Limited Receivables  -  (2,866) Deonarayan Pawan Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (8,069) Vacha Energy Ventures Private.Limited Receivables  -  (2,201) Gabharu Infracon Private Limited Receivables  (56,804)  (56,804) Idha E Tail Arks Private Limited Receivables  65  65  Dalhousie Jute Co Limited Receivables  (3,26,345)  (2,51,556) Chenari Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (921) Eco E Waste Recyclers India Private Limited Receivables  -  -  Barnagore Jute Factory Co.Limited Receivables  (27,223)  (8,774) Singh Brothers Construction Private Limited Receivables  (1,111)  (1,111) Fairwinds Aviation Private Limited Receivables  (4,441)  (3,193) Kumar Engicon & Agency Private Limited Receivables  -  (621) Birendra Nag Constuction Private Limited Receivables  (900)  -  R & S Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (6,815) Palamu And Shivam Construction Private Limited Receivables  -  (78,139) Sri Ram Technocrate Private Limited Receivables  -  (17,523) Rs - Srivaru Exim Private Limited Receivables  -  -  The National Sugar Mills Ltd Receivables  (35,280)  (26,204) Sri Anjaneya Agro Tech Private Limited Receivables Note: The Group does not have any relationship with the above mentioned struck-off companies.
1 In order to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families, Government has approved “Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)”  scheme where free LPG connections are issued by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below  Poverty Line (BPL) households as per SECC -2011 (Rural) database.
The scheme was launched on May 1, 2016.
As per the  scheme, the initial cost towards connection charges (Refundable deposit) would be borne by the Central Government for  each card holder.
Few State Governments have also extended this scheme to other beneficiaries.
As per the scheme, OMCs  would provide an option for EMI/Loans towards cost of burner and 1st refill to the PMUY consumers.
The loan amount is  to be recovered from the subsidy amount payable by the government to the customers on each refill sale.
During the year,  discounting of the loan has been done based on assumption of 4 refills in a year and respective average subsidy rate per  cylinder under different range of subsidy buckets.
The amount of outstanding as at March 31, 2022 towards PMUY claim from Central Government is J 8.63 crore (2021: H 6.38  crore) and loan to PMUY consumers is J 2,770.67 crore (2021: H 3,022.58 crore) (net of recovery through subsidy).
Against the  above loan, a provision for doubtful loans amounting to J 601.46 crore (2021: H 910.45 crore) has been created as at March  31, 2022 against the beneficiaries who have not taken any refill for more than 12 months based on expected credit loss(ECL)  model and applying experience factor based on experience ratio of doubtful provision on more than 12 months to the loans  in less than 12 month category.
(Also refer Credit Risk under Note 41)  The Group has remeasured the gross carrying amount of PMUY loan as at Balance Sheet date based on revised estimated  future contractual cash flows resulting in reduction in PMUY loans by J 489.00 crore (2021: H 847.08 crore)which has been  charged to Statement of Profit and Loss in NOTE - 29.1 under the head ” Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets”.
2 Pursuant to the Board approval for formation of a Joint Venture company between Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (Parent  Company) and Coal India Ltd for transfer of explosives business to the said venture Company on slump sale basis at a value of  J 311.00 crore (Net Assets WDV of H 77.49 crore as at March 31, 2021), consent of Niti Ayog was initially received for formation  of the JV vide letter dated April 27, 2018.
However, the formation of the JV is not carried forward on account of subsequent  communication dated July 11, 2018 from MoPNG.
The matter is under deliberation and accordingly, the explosive business  continues to be in operation as at March 31, 2022.
The Net Asset WDV of the business as at March 31, 2022 is J 132.00  crore.
3 During the year the Parent Company has received an opinion of the Expert Advisory Committee of the Institute of Chartered  Accountant of India on the treatment of cost incurred towards land filling, reclamation and dredging on the land allotted on  lease for Paradip Refinery including township.
The said cost was capitalized prior to implementation of Ind AS as “Leasehold  Land” under Tangible Fixed Asset Schedule and was depreciated accordingly.
Pursuant to implementation of Ind AS w.e.f.
1st April 2016 the unamortized portion of the cost was accounted under erstwhile Ind AS 17 as “Prepaid Rentals” and was  amortized as “Rent Expenses” upto 31st March 2019.
Subsequently, the unamortized portion as on 1st April 2019 was  accounted as “Right of Use Assets” as per the provision of Ind AS 116.
Based on the opinion, the said cost amounting to   H 741.00 crore has been capitalized in books of accounts in respective assets class such as Building, Plant & Equipment etc.
by corresponding reduction in gross block of “Right of Use Assets”.
This has resulted in additional depreciation amounting to  H 116.00 crore and reduction in rent expenses amounting to H 40.00 crore.
NOTE – 49: OTHER DISCLOSURES NOTE – 48: ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES BY GROUP COMPANIES 1 Impairment loss in respect of Cauvery Basin Refinery  The CPCL (Subsidiary) has refineries at two locations viz., Manali and Nagapattinam (Cauvery Basin Refinery – CBR).
The  operations of the CBR unit have been stopped from 01.04.2019.
Accordingly, the value in use was negative and, the recoverable   value of the asset was reviewed and it was estimated that there would not be any recoverable value for the same and impairment loss   was recognised.
Some of the Assets to the extent of gross block of H 25.80 crore and accumulated depreciation of H 3.16 crore  in respect of which impairment to the extent of H 22.64 crore was provided, has been dismantled and scrapped during the year.
Impairment provision of H 100.02 crore is continued in respect of the balance assets.
2 CPCL’s Tax expense for the previous year includes H  693.76 crore on exercise of option under said section 115BAA of the  Income Tax Act, 1961 to avail the lower rate.
Based on receipt of Final Assessment order under Direct Tax Vivad Se Viswas  Act, 2020, tax expense of H  11.35 crore has been reversed during the year.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Financial Statements Notes To Financial StatementsHigh OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 464 465 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 NOTE – 49: OTHER DISCLOSURES ( Contd..) (J in crore) Name of the Company/ Subsidiary Total Capex IOCL Share (%) IOCL Share Indian Oil Corporation Limited  26,621.46  26,621.46  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  17.88  51.89  9.28  Indian Oil (Mauritius) Limited  15.35  100.00  15.35  Lanka IOC PLC  10.87  75.12  8.17  IOC Middle East FZE  0.01  100.00  0.01  IOCL (USA) Inc  2.06  100.00  2.06  Ind Oil Global BV  622.02  100.00  622.02  IOC Singapore Pte Limited  819.05  100.00  819.05  Proportionate Capex by Joint Ventures & Associates listed in Note 33B  3,378.09  3,378.09  Total Capex by IOCL and its Subsidiaries and proportionate share of  Joint Ventures & Associates  31,486.79  31,475.49   In line with the opinion, cost of land filling jobs amounting to H 36.27 crore, incurred on land taken on lease from Government  of Himachal Pradesh, for Una Terminal, earlier treated as cost Right of Use Asset has now been capitalized in books of  accounts in respective assets class such as Building, Plant & Equipment etc.
The additional charged to P&L on account of  depreciation is H 3.46 crore.
4 In FY 2021-22, the Parent Company has signed amendment side letter to LNG Sales and Purchase Agreement (SPA) with  Diamond Gas International (DGI) for including make up right in SPA against Monthly Reservation Fees paid for the FOB LNG  Cargoes not received due to Force Majeure event during 2020-21 from Cameron LNG Project in USA.
Resulting to this  amendment, the provision created in FY 2020-21 for H 288.38 crore against advance paid to DGI and for H 19.36 crore on  account of additional expenses under LNG SPA have been written back and included in the Revenue from Operations.
5 The Parent Company has reached a settlement against one of its long pending receivables, with full principal amount and  interest at a reduced rate.
“Net Loss on de-recognition of Financial Assets at Amortised Cost” shown on the face of the  Statement of Profit and Loss, mainly comprises of interest so waived amounting to H 167.47 Crore as a part of the settlement.
6 A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) dated October 9, 2020 is entered between the Parent Company and the Government  of India, setting various performance parameters for the Parent Company including capital expenditure (Capex) by the group.
In this regard, the amount of Capex on major capital projects and creation of additional facilities by the Parent Company,  subsidiary and its proportionate share of similar Capex by its Joint Ventures and Associates during the financial year 2021-22  are given below: NOTE – 49: OTHER DISCLOSURES ( Contd..) 6 Due to Outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and consequent national lockdown, the operations of the Group during FY 2020-21  were considerably affected due to demand reduction.
The demand for the petroleum products resumed to near normal levels  from second half of that year and impact of the pandemic in current financial year isminimal.
7 Purchase of crude oil from Panna Mukta and some other small oilfields has been accounted for provisionally pending  finalisation of agreements with respective parties.
The management estimates that no significant adjustments will arise upon  finalisation of these agreements.
8 Transactions with other Oil Marketing Companies are jointly reconciled on an ongoing basis.
9 There are no other significant subsequent events that would require adjustments or disclosures in the Financial Statements  as at Balance Sheet date, other than those disclosed above.
10 Previous year’s comparative figures have been regrouped wherever necessary.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions/losses.
For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (S. M. Vaidya) (S. K. Gupta) (Kamal Kumar Gwalani)  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN- 07570165 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For G.S.MATHUR & CO. For K.C.MEHTA & CO. For SINGHI & CO. For S R B & ASSOCIATES  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  (Firm Regn.
No.
008744N) (Firm Regn.
No.
106237W) (Firm Regn.
No.
302049E) (Firm Regn.
No.
310009E)  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  (Rajiv Kumar Wadhawan) (Vishal P. Doshi) (Shrenik Mehta) (R. S. Sahoo)  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M.No.
091007 M.No.
101533 M. No.
063769 M. No.
053960 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 17th May 2022  Financial Statements High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 466 467 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22Comments of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA  UNDER SECTION 143(6) (b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS OF INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED  31 MARCH 2022 The preparation of financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 in accordance with  the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management of  the company.
The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section 139(5) of the Act  are responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 of the Act based on independent audit in  accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act.
This is stated to have been done by them  vide their Audit Report dated 17 May 2022.
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the financial statements of  Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 under section 143(6)(a) of the Act.
This supplementary audit has  been carried out independently without access to the working papers of the statutory auditors and is limited primarily to inquiries  of the statutory auditors and company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
After the audit,  comment of C&AG was issued on 18 July 2022 pointing out that the company has not disclosed negative balance in LPG Buffer  Account in Notes to Financial Statements and non-considering of renewable purchase obligation of H 471.77 crore (H 501.89 crore  including GST) i.e.
to the extent of co-generation using source of other than renewable energy.
Based on the comments, the  company disclosed these facts vide Note No- 17 and 23 on Renewable Purchase Obligation and LPG Buffer Account respectively.
The same was also endorsed by statutory auditors.
On the basis of my supplementary audit, nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment  upon supplement to statutory auditor’s report under section 143(6)(b) of the Act.
For and on behalf of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- (D. K. Sekar) Place: New Delhi Director General of Audit (Energy) Dated: 27-07-2022 Delhi COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER  SECTION 143(6) (b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED FOR THE YEAR  ENDED 31 MARCH 2022 The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 in  accordance with the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the  management of the company.
The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section  139(5) read with section 129(4) of the Act are responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 of  the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act.
This  is stated to have been done by them vide their Audit Report dated 17 May 2022.
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the consolidated financial  statements of lndian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 under section 143(6)(a) read with section 129(4)  of the Act.
We conduct a supplementary audit of the financial statements of companies mentioned in Annexure A, but did not  conduct supplementary audit of the financial statements of the companies mentioned in Annexure B for the year ended on  that date.
Further, Section 139(5) and 143(6)(a) of the Act are not applicable to the companies mentioned in Annexure-C being  private entities/ entities incorporated in foreign countries under the respective laws for appointment of their statutory auditors  and for conduct of supplementary audit.
Accordingly, Comptroller and Auditor General of India has neither appointed the  Statutory Auditors nor conducted the supplementary audit of these companies.
This supplementary audit has been carried out  independentiy without access to the working papers of the statutory auditors and is limited primarily to inquiries of the statutory  auditors and company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
After the audit, comment of  C&AG was issued on 18 July 2022 pointing out that the company has not disclosed negative balance in LPG Buffer Account in  Notes to Financial Statements and non-considering of renewable purchase obligation of H 471.77 crore (H 501.89 crore including  GST) i.e.
to the extent of co-generation using source of other than renewable energy.
Based on the comments, the company  disclosed these facts vide Note No- 17 and 23 on Renewable Purchase Obligation and LPG Buffer Account respectively.
The same  was also endorsed by statutory auditors.
On the basis of my supplementary audit, nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment  upon supplement to statutory auditor’s report under section 143(6)(b) of the Act.
For and on behalf of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- (D. K. Sekar) Place: New Delhi Director General of Audit (Energy) Dated: 27 July 2022 New Delhi High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 468 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Annexure-A Name of the Company/ Subsidiaries/ JVs/ Associate Companies of which supplementary audit has been conducted by the  Comptroller and Audit General of India Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Type of the Company 1.
Indian Oil Corporation Limited Holding Company 2.
Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Subsidiary 3.
Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited Joint Venture 4.
GSPL India Transco Limited Joint Venture 5.
Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited Joint Venture 6.
Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited Joint Venture 7.
Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited Joint Venture 8.
IHB Private Limited Joint Venture Annexure-B Name of the Company/ Subsidiaries/ JVs/ Associate Companies of which supplementary audit has not been conducted by the  Comptroller and Audit General of India Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/Subsidiary Type of the Company 1.
Green Gas Limited Joint Venture 2.
Delhi Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited Joint Venture 3.
NPCIL Nuclear Power Corporation Limited Joint Venture 4.
Ratnagiri Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited Joint Venture 5.
Petronet VK Limited Associate Company 6.
GSPL India Gasnet Limited Joint Venture 7.
Paradeep Plastics Park Private Limited Joint Venture Annexure-C (i) List of all Subsidiaries/ JVs/ Associate Companies to which Section 139(5) and 143(6)(a) of Companies Act are not applicable Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/Subsidiary Type of the Company 1.
Petronet LNG Limited Associate Company 2.
Indian Oil Tanking Limited Joint Venture 3.
Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited Joint Venture 4.
Lubrizol India Private Limited Joint Venture 5.
Avi-Oil India Private Limited Associate Company 6.
Indian Oil Skytanking Private Limited Joint Venture 7.
Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited Joint Venture 8.
Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited Joint Venture 9.
Indian Oil LNG Private Limited Joint Venture 10.
Indian Oil Total Private Limited Joint Venture 11.
IOC Phinery Private Limited Joint Venture Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/Subsidiary Type of the Company 1.
Indian Oil Mauritius Limited Subsidiary 2.
Lanka IOC PLC Subsidiary 3.
IOC Middle East FZE Subsidiary 4.
IOC Sweden AB Subsidiary 5.
IOCL (USA) Inc Subsidiary 6.
IndOil Global BV Subsidiary 7.
IOCL Singapore Pte Limited Subsidiary 8.
Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Joint Venture (ii) Entities incorporated outside India AGM Notice 469 Indian Oil Corporation Limited [CIN – L23201MH1959GOI011388] Regd.
Office: ‘IndianOil Bhavan’, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051 Tel: 022-26447327, Email Id: investors@indianoil.in, Website: www.iocl.com NOTICE NOTICE is hereby given that the 63 rd Annual General Meeting  (“AGM”) of the members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (“IndianOil” / “Company”) will be held on Thursday, August  25, 2022 at 10:00 AM (IST) through Video Conference  / Other Audio Visual Means (“VC/OAVM ”) to transact  the business mentioned below.
The proceedings of the  AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered  Office of the Company at IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali  Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400051.
ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone as  well as Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company  for the year ended March 31, 2022 together with Reports  of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2.
To declare the Final Dividend of H 2.40 per equity share for  the year 2021-2022.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Sandeep Kumar  Gupta (DIN - 07570165) who retires by rotation and is  eligible for reappointment.
4.
To appoint a Director in place of Dr. S.S.V.
Ramakumar  (DIN - 07626484), who retires by rotation and is eligible  for reappointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 5.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Lanka IOC PLC., a subsidiary company of IndianOil, for the  year 2022-23 & 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to  the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”,  which term shall include any duly constituted Committee  authorised by the Board, from time to time, to exercise its  powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into  individually or taken together with previous transactions  with Lanka IOC PLC., a subsidiary of IndianOil, for financial  year 2022-23 & 2023-24, notwithstanding the fact that all  such transactions during the year 2022-23 and 2023-24,  may exceed H 1000 crore per year, subject to a limit of  10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company of the  preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 6.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited, a Joint Venture  Company of IndianOil, for the year 2022-23 & 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 470 471 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to  the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”,  which term shall include any duly authorized Committee  constituted / empowered by the Board, from time to  time, to exercise its powers conferred by this resolution),  for continuation(s) or extension(s) or renewal(s) or  modification(s) of earlier arrangements / transactions or  as a fresh and independent transaction(s) or otherwise,  whether entered into individually or taken together with  previous transactions with Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan  Limited, a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil, for  financial year 2022-23 & 2023-24, notwithstanding the  fact that all such transactions during the year 2022-23 and  2023-24, may exceed H 1000 crore per year, subject to a  limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company  of the preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 7.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. Joint Venture Company of IndOil  Global B.V., a WOS of IndianOil for the year 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to  the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”,  which term shall include any duly authorized Committee  constituted / empowered by the Board, from time to  time, to exercise its powers conferred by this resolution),  for continuation(s) or extension(s) or renewal(s) or  modification(s) of earlier arrangements / transactions or  as a fresh and independent transaction(s) or otherwise,  whether entered into individually or taken together with  previous transactions with Falcon Oil & Gas B.V., a Joint  Venture Company of IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands (WOS  of IndianOil), for financial year 2023-24, notwithstanding  the fact that all such transactions during the year 2023-24  may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the  consolidated turnover of the Company of the preceding  financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 8.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of  IndianOil, for the year 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of  Regulation 23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing  Regulations”), other applicable laws, and amendments,  modifications or re-enactments thereof, if any, and the  policy on ‘Materiality of related party transactions and on  dealing with related party transactions’ of the Company,  as may be applicable, consent of the members be and is  hereby accorded to the Board of Directors (hereinafter  referred to as “Board”, which term shall include any duly  authorized Committee constituted / empowered by the  Board, from time to time, to exercise its powers conferred  by this resolution), for continuation(s) or extension(s) or  renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier arrangements /  transactions or as a fresh and independent transaction(s)  or otherwise, whether entered into individually or taken  together with previous transactions with IndianOil  Petronas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil,  for financial year 2023-24, notwithstanding the fact that  all such transactions during the year 2023-24 may exceed  H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated  turnover of the Company of the preceding financial year.”.
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 9.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Petronet LNG Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil,  for the year 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to  the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”,  which term shall include any duly authorized Committee  constituted / empowered by the Board, from time to  time, to exercise its powers conferred by this resolution),  for continuation(s) or extension(s) or renewal(s) or  modification(s) of earlier arrangements / transactions or  as a fresh and independent transaction(s) or otherwise,  whether entered into individually or taken together with  previous transactions with Petronet LNG Ltd., a Joint  Venture Company of IndianOil, for financial year 2023-24,  notwithstanding the fact that all such transactions during  the year 2023-24 may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to a  limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company  of the preceding financial year.”.
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 10.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of  IndianOil, for the year 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of  Regulation 23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing  Regulations”), other applicable laws, and amendments,  modifications or re-enactments thereof, if any, and the  policy on ‘Materiality of related party transactions and on  dealing with related party transactions’ of the Company,  as may be applicable, consent of the members be and is  hereby accorded to the Board of Directors (hereinafter  referred to as “Board”, which term shall include any duly  authorized Committee constituted / empowered by the  Board, from time to time, to exercise its powers conferred  by this resolution), for continuation(s) or extension(s) or  renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier arrangements /  transactions or as a fresh and independent transaction(s)  or otherwise, whether entered into individually or taken  together with previous transactions with IndianOil Adani  Gas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil, for  financial year 2023-24, notwithstanding the fact that all  such transactions during the year 2023-24 may exceed   H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated  turnover of the Company of the preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 11.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of  IndianOil, for the year 2023-24.
AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 472 473 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to  the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”,  which term shall include any duly authorized Committee  constituted / empowered by the Board, from time to  time, to exercise its powers conferred by this resolution),  for continuation(s) or extension(s) or renewal(s) or  modification(s) of earlier arrangements / transactions or  as a fresh and independent transaction(s) or otherwise,  whether entered into individually or taken together with  previous transactions with IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint  Venture Company of IndianOil, for financial year 2023-24,  notwithstanding the fact that all such transactions during  the year 2023-24 may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to a  limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company  of the preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 12.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Indian Synthetic Rubber Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company  of IndianOil, for the year 2023-24.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of  Regulation 23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing  Regulations”), other applicable laws, and amendments,  modifications or re-enactments thereof, if any, and the  policy on ‘Materiality of related party transactions and on  dealing with related party transactions’ of the Company,  as may be applicable, consent of the members be and is  hereby accorded to the Board of Directors (hereinafter  referred to as “Board”, which term shall include any duly  authorized Committee constituted / empowered by the  Board, from time to time, to exercise its powers conferred  by this resolution), for continuation(s) or extension(s) or  renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier arrangements /  transactions or as a fresh and independent transaction(s)  or otherwise, whether entered into individually or taken  together with previous transactions with Indian Synthetic  Rubber Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil,  for financial year 2023-24, notwithstanding the fact that  all such transactions during the year 2023-24 may exceed  H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated  turnover of the Company of the preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized  by it and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things,  the Board may in its absolute discretion deem necessary,  including but not limited to finalizing the terms and  conditions, methods and modes, finalizing and executing  necessary documents, including contracts, schemes,  agreements and such other papers, documents as may  be required, filing any relevant documents and making  representations, seeking all necessary approvals from  relevant authorities, to give effect to aforesaid resolution,  for and on behalf of the Company and settling all such  issues, questions, difficulties or doubts, whatsoever  that may arise without being required to seek further  consent or approval of the members to the intent that the  members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 13.
To ratify the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the  financial year ending March 31, 2023.
To consider and if thought fit to pass, the following  resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section  148 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014  including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment  thereof, for the time being in force, the aggregate  remuneration of H 22.70 lakh plus applicable taxes and  out-of-pocket expenses payable to the Cost Auditors  appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company, to  conduct the audit of the cost records of the various units  of the Company for the financial year ending March 31,  2023, be and is hereby ratified.” Registered Office: By Order of the Board of Directors IndianOil Bhavan,    G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Sd/- Bandra (East), (Kamal Kumar Gwalani) Mumbai - 400 051 Company Secretary Date: July 28, 2022 (ACS: 13737) NOTES 1.
Pursuant to General Circular No.
14/2020 dated 8 April  2020, General Circular No.
17/2020 dated 13 April 2020,  General Circular No.
20/2020 dated 5 May 2020, General  Circular No.
02/2021 dated 13 January 2021, General  Circular No.
21/2021 dated 14 December 2021 and  General Circular No.02/2022 dated 5 May 2022 issued  by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Circular Nos.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12 May 2020,  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 15 January  2021 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13  May 2022 issued by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (“SEBI”) hereinafter collectively referred to as “the  Circulars”, companies are allowed to hold AGM through  VC/OAVM, without the physical presence of members at a  common venue.
Hence, in compliance with the Circulars,  the AGM of the Company is being held through VC/OAVM.
2.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is  entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his /  her behalf and the proxy need not be a member of the  Company.
However, MCA while granting the relaxations  to hold the AGM through VC/OAVM has also provided  exemption from the requirement of appointing proxies.
Hence for this AGM the facility for appointment of proxy  by the members is not being provided.
Accordingly, the  proxy form, attendance slip and the route map of the  venue have also not been provided along with the notice.
The members are requested to participate in the AGM in  person through VC /OAVM from their respective location.
3.
In compliance with Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations,  the top 100 Listed Companies, as per market capitalization,  are required to provide the facility of Live Webcast of  the proceedings of the General Meeting.
As this AGM is  being conducted through VC/OAVM, the requirement of  webcast under Listing Regulations is being complied with.
4.
Members of the Company under the category of  Institutional / Corporate Members are encouraged  to attend and vote at the AGM, through VC/OAVM.
Institutional / Corporate Members are required to send a  scanned copy (PDF/JPG format) of its Board or Governing  Body Resolution / Authorization etc., authorizing its  representative to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM on  its behalf and to vote through remote e-voting.
The said  Resolution / Authorization should be sent to the Scrutinizer  by email from the registered email address of the member  to scrutinizer@dholakia-associates.com with a copy  marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in .
They can also upload the  Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter  etc.
by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution / Authority  Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab in their login page.
5.
A statement setting out the material facts pursuant to  Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules  notified thereunder (“the Act”), relating to the Special  Business to be transacted at the AGM is annexed hereto.
The relevant details, pursuant to Regulations 36(3) of the  Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General  Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries  of India, in respect of Director(s) seeking re-appointment  at this AGM is also annexed.
6.
Participation of members through VC/OAVM will be  reckoned for the purpose of quorum for the AGM.
7.
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel  and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of  the Act, and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements  in which the Directors are interested, maintained under  Section 189 of the Act, will be available electronically  for inspection to the members during the AGM.
All  documents referred to in the Notice will also be available  for electronic inspection without payment of any fee by  the members from the date of circulation of this Notice  up to the date of AGM i.e.
August 25, 2022.
Members  seeking to inspect such documents can send an email to  ioclagm@indianoil.in.
8.
The Board of Directors of the Company has recommended  a final dividend of H 2.40 per share.
The Company has fixed  Friday, August 12, 2022 as the ‘Record Date’ for determining  entitlement of members to receive final dividend for the  financial year ended March 31, 2022, if approved, at the  AGM.
The final dividend, once approved by the members in  the ensuing AGM, will be paid to the eligible members within  the stipulated period of 30 days of declaration.
9.
The final dividend will be paid through electronic mode  to those members whose updated bank account details  are available.
For members whose bank account details  are not updated, dividend warrants / demand drafts will be  sent to their registered address.
To avoid delay in receiving  dividend, members are requested to register / update their  bank account details.
10.
Members may send their requests for change / updation of  address, bank account details, email address, nominations,  etc.
:   i) For shares held in dematerialised form - to their  respective Depository Participant;  ii) For shares held in physical form - to the Registrar  & Transfer Agents ("RTA ") i.e.
KFin Technologies  Ltd. (KFin), Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial  District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal,  Hyderabad - 500 032 ; Toll Free No.
1800 309 4001 ;  E-mail Address : einward.ris@kfintech.com.
11.
Members may note that the Income Tax Act, 1961, as  amended by the Finance Act, 2020, mandates that  dividends paid or distributed by a company is taxable in  the hands of members.
The Company shall therefore  be required to deduct tax at source (“TDS”) at the time  of making the payment of dividend.
In order to enable  us to determine the applicable TDS rate, members are  requested to submit the relevant documents on or before  August 12, 2022.
The detailed communication regarding  TDS on dividend is provided on the link: https://iocl.com/ pages/notices-overview .
AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 474 475 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22  Kindly note that no documents in respect of TDS would  be accepted from members after August 12, 2022.
12.
As per Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations, as amended,  request for effecting transfer of securities shall not be  processed unless the securities are held in demat form  with a depository.
Further, transmission or transposition  of securities shall be affected only in dematerialised form.
In view thereof and to eliminate all risks associated with  physical shares, members holding shares in physical form  are requested to convert their holdings to dematerialized  form.
Members can contact the Company or the RTA for  assistance in this regard.
13.
SEBI has mandated the submission of PAN, KYC details  and nomination by holders of physical securities by  March 31, 2023, and linking PAN with Aadhaar vide its  circular dated November 3, 2021 and December 14,  2021.
Members are requested to submit their PAN, KYC  and nomination details to the Company’s registrars KFin  at einward.ris@kfintech.com.
The forms for updating  the same are available at https://iocl.com/pages/KYC- updation-for-physical-shareholders.
Members holding  shares in electronic form are requested to submit their  PAN to their depository participant(s).
In case a holder of  physical securities fails to furnish these details or link their  PAN with Aadhaar before the due date, the Company is  obligated to freeze such folios.
The securities in the frozen  folios shall be eligible to receive payments (including  dividend) and lodge grievances only after furnishing the  complete documents.
If the securities continue to remain  frozen as on December 31, 2025, the Company shall refer  such securities to the administering authority under the  Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988, and / or the  Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.
14.
As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility for  submitting nomination is available for members in respect  of the shares held by them.
Members who have not yet  registered their nomination are requested to register the  same by submitting Form No.
SH-13.
The form can be  downloaded from the Company’s website at https://iocl.
com/download/Form_SH-13_Nomination.pdf .
Members  are requested to submit these details to their DP in case  the shares are held by them in electronic form, and to the  RTA, in case the shares are held in physical form.
15.
As per the provisions of section 124(5) of the Act, the  dividend(s) which remains unpaid / unclaimed for a period  of 7 years is required to be transferred to the Investor  Education & Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the  Central Government at the end of the 7 th  year.
Accordingly,  the Company has transferred all unpaid / unclaimed  dividend declared upto the financial year 2013-14 to IEPF  on the respective due dates.
Further, section 124(6) of the Act provides that all shares in  respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for  seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred by  the Company to the demat account of IEPF authority.
The  Company had sent reminder letter to all such members,  whose dividend had remained unpaid / unclaimed for a  consecutive period of 7 years with a request to claim the  dividend, failing which the shares would be transferred  to the IEPF Authority on the due date.
Thereafter, such  shares were transferred to the demat account of the IEPF  authority on October 23, 2021.
The details of such shares  are hosted on the website of the Company www.iocl.
com.
It may please be noted that, upon completion of 7 years, the  Company would transfer the unpaid / unclaimed dividend  for the financial year 2014-15 on or before November 14,  2022.
Further, the shares in respect of which dividend has  remained unpaid / unclaimed for a consecutive period of  7 years would also be transferred to the demat account  of IEPF authority on or before November 14, 2022.
The  details of such unpaid / unclaimed dividend(s) as well as  shares liable to be transferred to the IEPF are hosted on  the website of the Company www.iocl.com.
Section 125 of the Act provides that a member whose  dividend / shares have been transferred to the IEPF shall  be entitled to claim refund therefrom.
The procedure  for claiming the unpaid dividend and shares transferred  to the IEPF Authority is provided on the following link:  http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html .
To avoid transfer of unpaid dividends / equity shares, the  members are requested to write to the RTA at the address  mentioned above or to the Company for claiming the  unpaid / unclaimed dividend.
16.
Pursuant to Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read with  Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014  and Listing Regulations, the Annual Report of the Company  is required to be sent through email to those members  whose email address is registered and in physical form  to those members who have not registered their email  address.
However, in compliance with the circulars issued  by MCA as well as SEBI, the Notice of the AGM along with  the Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 is being sent only  through electronic mode to those members whose email  address is registered with the Company/ Depositories  unless any Member has requested for a physical copy  of the same.
Members may note that the Notice and  Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 are also available on  the Company’s website www.iocl.com, website of the  Stock Exchanges i.e.
BSE Limited and National Stock  Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and  www.nseindia.com respectively, and on the website of  National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) https:// www.evoting.nsdl.com.
1.
Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM are as  under:   i.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108  of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies  (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as  amended from time to time, and Regulation 44 of the  Listing Regulations, the members are provided with  the facility to cast their vote electronically, through  the e-voting services provided by NSDL, on all the  resolutions set forth in this Notice.
The instructions  for e-voting are given herein below.
ii.
The cut-off date to be eligible to vote by electronic  means is Friday, August 19, 2022.  iii.
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion  to the shares held by them in the paid-up equity  share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date  i.e.
August 19, 2022.
A person who is not a member  as on the cut-off date is requested to treat this notice  for information only.
iv.
The remote e-voting period would commence on  9:00 am (IST) on Sunday, August 21, 2022 and shall  end at 5 pm (IST) on Wednesday, August 24, 2022.
During this period, members holding shares either  in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on  cut-off date, may cast their vote electronically.
The  e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting  thereafter.
Those members, who intend to participate  in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and could not  cast their vote on the resolutions through remote  e-voting and are otherwise not barred from doing  so, shall be eligible to vote through e-voting system  during the AGM.
v. The Company has appointed Shri Nrupang Dholakia  of Dholakia & Associates LLP, as Scrutinizer and in his  absence Shri Vishvesh G. Bhagat of Dholakia & Associates  LLP, a practicing Company Secretary, to scrutinize the  voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
vi.
The members who cast their vote by remote e-voting  prior to the AGM may also attend / participate in the  AGM through VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to  cast their vote again.
vii.
Any person, holding shares in physical form and non- individual members, who acquires the shares of the  Company after the dispatch of the notice and holds  shares as on the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID  and password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.
co.in.
If a member is already registered with NSDL for  remote e-voting, then such member can use existing  user ID and password for e-voting.
If you forget the  password, the same can be reset by using “Forgot User  Details / Password” or “Physical User Reset Password”  option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or by  calling on toll free no.
1800 1020 990 / 1800 22 44 30.   viii.
An individual member holding shares in demat  mode, who acquires the shares of the Company after  dispatch of the notice and holding shares as on the  cut-off date may follow steps mentioned below.
ix.
Details of the process and manner for remote  e-voting and voting during the AGM are explained  below:  Step 1: Access to the e-voting system   A) Login method for e-voting and joining virtual  meeting by Individual Members holding securities in  demat mode   In terms of the SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020  on e-voting facility provided by listed companies  and as part of increasing the efficiency of the voting  process, e-voting process has been enabled for all  individual Members holding securities in demat mode  to vote through their demat account maintained with  depositories / websites of depositories / depository  participants.
Members are advised to update their  mobile number and email ID in their demat accounts  in order to access e-voting facility.
Type of Members  Login Method Individual Members holding  securities in demat mode  with NSDL.
I. NSDL IDeAS facility  If the user is registered for the NSDL IDeAS facility:  a.
Please visit the e-Services website of NSDL.
Open web browser by typing the  following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or  mobile phone.
b.
Once the homepage of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner”  icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
c. A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID and Password.
After  successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services.
d. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see  e-Voting page.
e. Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider -  NSDL and you will be re-directed to NSDL e-Voting website for casting your vote  during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the  meeting.
AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 476 477 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Type of Members  Login Method  If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services:  a.
The option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.
b.
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/ SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp   c. Upon successful registration, please follow steps given in points (a) to (e) above.
II.
E-voting website of NSDL  i.
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL.
Open web browser by typing the following  URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or mobile  phone.
ii.
Once the homepage of e-Voting system is launched, click on the “Login” icon  available under ‘Shareholder / Member’ section.
iii.
A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID (i.e.
your sixteen digit  demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code  as shown on the screen.
iv.
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site  wherein you can see e-Voting page.
Click on options available against company  name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting  website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or  joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Individual Members holding  securities in demat mode  with CDSL 1.
Existing users who have opted for Easi / Easiest, can login through their user id and  password.
The option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any  further authentication.
The URL for users to login to Easi / Easiest are https://web.
cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System  Myeasi.
2.
After successful login on Easi / Easiest, the user will be also able to see the e-Voting  Menu.
The Menu will have links of e-Voting service provider(“ESP”) i.e.
NSDL.
Click  on NSDL to cast your vote.
3.
If the user is not registered for Easi / Easiest, option to register is available at https:// web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration 4.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing demat account  number and PAN from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page.
The system will  authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered mobile number and email as  recorded in the demat account.
After successful authentication, user will be provided  links for the respective ESP i.e.
NSDL where the e-Voting is in progress.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use “Forgot User ID” and “Forgot  Password” option available on the above-mentioned website.
Helpdesk for individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through  depository i.e.
NSDL and CDSL.
Login type Helpdesk details Individual Members holding  securities in demat mode  with NSDL Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a  request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no.
: 1800 1020 990 or 1800 22 44 30 Individual Members holding  securities in demat mode  with CDSL Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending  a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 022- 23058738 or   022-23058542-43  B) Login method for e-voting and joining the virtual meeting for Members other than Individual Members holding  securities in demat mode and Members holding securities in physical mode.
1.
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL.
Open the web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.
com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone.
2.
Once the homepage of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login”, available under ‘Shareholder / Member’.
3.
A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID, Password / OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
4.
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL e-services i.e.
IDeAS, you can log in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with  your existing IDeAS login.
Once you log in to NSDL e-services using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you  can proceed to Step 2 i.e.
Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system.
5.
Your User ID details are given below: Manner of holding shares i.e.
Demat  (NSDL or CDSL) or Physical Your User ID is: a) For members who hold shares in  demat account with NSDL 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID (For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your  user ID is IN300***12******) b) For members who hold shares in  demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID (For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID  is 12**************) c) For members holding shares in  Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Company  (For example, if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is 001*** then user ID is  123456001***)   6.
Password details for Members other than  individual Members are given below:    a) If you are already registered for e-voting,  then you can use your existing password to  log in and cast your vote.
b) If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the  first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial  password’ which was communicated to you.
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you  need to enter the ‘initial password’ for the system  to prompt you to change your password.
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
If your email ID is registered in your demat  account or with the Company, your ‘initial  password’ is communicated to you on your  email ID.
Trace the email sent to you from  NSDL from your mailbox.
Open the email and  open the attachment i.e.
a .pdf file.
Open the  .pdf file.
The password to open the .pdf file is  your 8-digit Client ID for your NSDL account,  or the last 8 digits of your Client ID for CDSL  account, or Folio Number for shares held  in physical form.
The .pdf file contains your  ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
7.
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received  the “Initial password” or have forgotten your  password:    a) Click on “Forgot User Details / Password?” (If  you hold shares in your demat account with  NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
b) Physical User Reset Password?
(If you hold  shares in physical mode) option available on  www.evoting.nsdl.com.
c) If you are still unable to get the password by  the above two options, you can send a request  to evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat  account number / Folio Number, your PAN,  your name and your registered address.
d) Members can also use the OTP (One Time  Password)-based login for casting their vote  on the e-voting system of NSDL.
8.
After entering your password, tick on “Agree with  Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
9.
Now, you will have to click on the “Login” button.
10.
After you click on the “Login” button, the  homepage of e-voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL  e-voting system   1.
After successfully logging in following Step 1, you  will be able to see the EVEN of all companies in  which you hold shares and whose voting cycle is  in active status.
2.
Select the EVEN of Indian Oil Corporation Limited    3.
Now you are ready for e-voting as the voting  page opens.
AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 478 479 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22   4.
Cast your vote by selecting the appropriate  options i.e.
assent or dissent, verify / modify the  number of shares for which you wish to cast your  vote and click on the “Submit” and “Confirm”  buttons when prompted.
5.
Upon confirmation, the message, “Vote cast  successfully”, will be displayed.
6.
You can also take a printout of the votes cast  by you by clicking on the “Print” option on the  confirmation page.
7.
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution,  you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
11.
Registration of Email ID:   a) In case, the member’s email ID is already registered  with the Company/its RTA / Depositories, log in  details for remote e-voting are being sent on the  registered email address.
b) In case the members have not registered their  email address, they are requested to register their  email address as follows: Physical  holding Members, holding shares in  physical mode are requested  to get their email ids registered  by visiting following link-  https://risop.kfintech.com/ clientservices/isc/default.aspx Demat  holding Members, holding shares  in dematerialized mode are  requested to register/update their  email ids with their respective  Depository Participant.
12.
Guidelines for e-voting   1.
It is strongly recommended that you do not share  your password with any other person and take  utmost care to keep your password confidential.
Login to the e-voting website will be disabled  upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the  correct password.
In such an event, you will  need to go through the “Forgot User Details /  Password?” or “Physical User Reset Password?”  option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to  reset the password.
2.
In case of any queries, you may refer to the  Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members  and e-voting user manual for members available  in the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.
com or call on the toll-free number: 1800 1020  990 / 1800 224 430, or contact Mr Amit Vishal,  Assistant Vice President, or Ms Pallavi Mhatre,  Manager, NSDL, at the designated email IDs:  evoting@nsdl.co.in to get your grievances on  e-voting addressed.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM  THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER: 1.
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM  through the NSDL e-Voting system.
Members may access  by following the steps mentioned above for Access to  NSDL e-Voting system.
After successful login, members  can click on “VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join General  Meeting” menu against company name.
The link for VC/ OAVM will be available in Shareholder/Member login  where the EVEN of Company will be displayed.
Please note that the members who do not have the User  ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User  ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the  remote e-Voting instructions mentioned above to avoid  last minute rush.
2.
Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall open  30 minutes before the time scheduled for the AGM and  will be available for members on first come first serve  basis.
3.
Members who need assistance before or during the AGM,  can call on the toll free number 1800 1020 990 / 1800 224  430 or contact Mr Amit Vishal, Assistant Vice President,  NSDL or Mr Abhijeet Gunjal, Assistant Manager, NSDL at  evoting@nsdl.co.in.
4.
Members who would like to express their views or ask  questions during the AGM may register themselves as  a speaker by sending their request from their registered  email address mentioning their name, DP ID and Client  ID / folio number, PAN, mobile number at ioclagm@ indianoil.in from August 20, 2022 to August 23, 2022.
Those members who have registered themselves as a  speaker will only be allowed to express their views / ask  questions during the AGM.
The Company reserves the  right to restrict the number of speakers depending on the  availability of time for the AGM.
Other Instructions:  1.
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion  of voting at the AGM, first count the electronic votes  cast during the AGM and thereafter unblock and count  the votes cast through remote e-voting and make a  consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report and submit the same to  the Chairman or any other person authorized by him.
The  result will be declared within the prescribed time limit.
2.
The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall  be placed on the Company’s website www.iocl.com and on  the website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately.
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results to  National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited,  where the shares of the Company are listed.
A BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTORS PROPOSED TO BE  REAPPOINTED IS GIVEN BELOW: Item No.
3 To appoint a Director in place of Shri Sandeep  Kumar Gupta (DIN - 07570165) who retires by  rotation and is eligible for reappointment Shri Sandeep Kumar Gupta, Director (Finance), aged 56 years  was inducted on the Board of the Company on August 3, 2019.
He is a Commerce Graduate & a Chartered Accountant.
He  has more than 3 decades of rich work experience in finance  function in IndianOil acquired during his posting at various  Refinery units, Refineries Headquarters and Corporate Office  which includes corporate accounts, planning & analysis,  treasury functions, financial concurrence, risk management,  etc.
Prior to joining as Director (Finance), he was the Executive  Director (Corporate Finance) wherein he spearheaded several  stakeholder-friendly initiatives like the maiden Buyback of  Shares, first Integrated Annual Report, transition to IndAS, etc.
Shri Gupta is also a Director on the Board of IndOil Global B.V.  Netherlands, IOC Middle East FZE, Dubai & IOCL Singapore Pte  Ltd. (Wholly owned subsidiaries of IndianOil).
Shri Gupta is also  a Director on the Board of IndOil Montney Ltd., a subsidiary of  IndianOil’s Wholly owned subsidiary, Indoil Global B.V., Netherlands.
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2021- 2022 9 Details of Directorships in other listed companies NIL Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies NIL No.
of Shares held in the Company 16308 Listed entities from which Shri Gupta has resigned  since last 3 years NIL Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors  and key managerial personnel None Item No.
4 To appoint a Director in place of Dr. S.S.V.
Ramakumar (DIN - 07626484), who retires by  rotation and is eligible for reappointment Dr. S. S. V. Ramakumar, Director (Research & Development),  aged 59 years was inducted on the Board of the Company  on 01.02.2017.
He is a Ph.D in Chemistry from the University  of Roorkee (currently IIT Roorkee).
He joined IndianOil, R&D  Centre in 1988 and has more than 3 decades of experience  in research and development and downstream hydrocarbon  sector notably in the areas of Refinery process research  streams, Automotive Lubricants, Nano-technology Research,  Technology promotion & forecasting, Tribology etc.
He  has authored IndianOil R&D journey book ‘Inventing the  Future’ and has over 95 research publications in national and  international journals.
He is also a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Lanzatech  New Zealand Ltd.
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2021- 2022 9 Details of Directorships in other listed companies NIL Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies NIL No.
of Shares held in the Company 13950 Listed entities from which Shri Ramakumar has  resigned since last 3 years NIL Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors  and key managerial personnel None STATEMENT SETTING OUT THE MATERIAL  FACTS RELATING TO THE SPECIAL BUSINESS  IN PURSUANCE OF SECTION 102(1) OF THE  COMPANIES ACT, 2013 Item No.
5,  6, 7, 8, 9,  10, 11 & 12 Approval for Material Related Party  Transactions with Related Parties for the year  2022-23 and 2023-24 As per Section 188 of the Act, Related Party Transactions  (RPT) such as sale / purchase of goods or services, disposal  or lease of property of any kind, appointment of any agent for  purchase or sale of any goods, materials, services or property,  appointment to an office of profit and underwriting the  subscription of securities / derivatives of the Company, shall  require prior approval of members, if transactions exceeded  such sums, as prescribed.
Further, such transactions are  exempt from the requirement of obtaining prior approval of  members, if they are in ordinary course of business and at  arms’ length.
Further, Reg.
23 of Listing Regulations contains provision  relating to prior approval of members for material RPT’s even  if such transactions are in ordinary course of business and at  arms’ length.
As per Listing Regulations, an RPT with a Related Party (RP)  shall be considered material, if the transaction(s) to be entered  into individually or taken together with previous transactions  during a financial year, exceeds H 1000 crore or 10% of the  annual consolidated turnover of the Company as per the last  audited financial statements, whichever is lower.
SEBI vide circular dated April 08, 2022 has further clarified the  following w.r.t.
members approval for material RPT’s: i.
Members approval of omnibus RPTs approved in an AGM  shall be valid upto the date of the next AGM for a period  not exceeding fifteen months.
ii.
In case of omnibus approvals for material RPTs obtained  from members in general meetings other than AGMs, the  validity of such omnibus approvals shall not exceed one year.
IndianOil undertakes transactions with its RPs i.e.
Subsidiary  and Joint Venture Companies in the course of its business for  which approval of Audit Committee is obtained in compliance  with extant provisions of the Act & Listing Regulations.
In view  of the abovementioned SEBI circular, for material RPT’s with  RP’s, prior approval of members would also be required for  each financial year.
AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 480 481 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 Approval for Material RPT’s with additional RP’s during 2022-23 The Company had obtained the approval of members through postal ballot in the month of April 2022 for the expected Material  RPTs for the year 2022-23 as per the following details.
Sl.
No.
Name of the Related Party Expected Value of  Transactions for the  year 2022-23  (J in crore) Maximum value of the  transactions 1.
Falcon Oil & Gas B.V., Netherland 4000 10% of the consolidated  turnover of the Company  in the preceding financial  year.
2.
IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. 3100 3.
Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLL) 21000 4.
IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. 1200 5.
IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd. 2000 i.
Name of the RP Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka (LIOC) ii.
Nature of Relationship Subsidiary Company of IndianOil  iii.
Nature of business Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering activities of POL products iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale and Purchase of goods and services - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to  LIOC v. Material terms and conditions - The sale of petroleum product like Gasoil, Gasoline, Base Oil,  Marine Gasoil etc.
is as per the terms and conditions of the  tender floated by LIOC.
- Purchase of product would be at prevailing market rates - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on  cost-to-cost basis.
vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2022-23 H 1500 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2022-23 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company and also  for strengthening the presence of LIOC in Sri Lanka for meeting  consumer needs during the current financial crisis in Sri Lanka.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year   2021-22 0.20% x.
Value of RPT as % of LIOC’s turnover of H 3304.54  crore for the year 2021-22 45.39% xi.
Maximum value of RPT during 2022-23 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
i.
Name of the RP Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Setting up and operating fertilizer plants at Sindri, Gorakhpur  and Barauni iv.
Type of RPT’s - Equity Investment - Sale of goods and services - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to HURL.
v. Material terms and conditions - Equity investment based on the calls made by HURL.
- Sale of products is done based on prevailing market prices  on the date of supply.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on  cost-to-cost basis.
vi.
Details of source of funds for equity investment Retained earnings vii.
Expected value of RPT for 2022-23 H 1500 crore  viii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2022-23 ix.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company x.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year 2021- 22 0.20% xi.
Maximum value of RPT during 2022-23 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
i.
Name of the RP Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. (FOGBV), Netherland ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndOil Global B.V., a wholly owned  subsidiary of IndianOil.
iii.
Nature of business Exploration and development of unconventional Oil & Gas  assets.
iv.
Type of RPT’s Purchase of Crude Oil v. Material terms and conditions The selling price of Das blend crude offered by FOGBV is derived  from the results of Transfer Pricing Study carried out by KPMG in  2019 for arriving at a pricing on an arms-length basis.
The same  discount was being offered uniformly to all other shareholders  of FOGBV and their affiliates vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 4000 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP Purchase of Crude Oil for further processing in the refineries  of the Company to meet the demand of petroleum products  as well as to diversify the basket of crudes available to the   Company.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year   2021-22 0.54% x.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
Subsequent to the members approval, it emerged that RPT’s with the following two RP’s during 2022-23 may also cross the  threshold limit of H 1000 crore, which would necessitate obtaining prior approval of members: i. Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka ii.
Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited Accordingly, members approval for the material RPT’s with aforementioned RP’s is sought.
The Audit Committee and the Board of  the Company have reviewed the material RPT’s and recommended seeking members approval for the same.
The summary of information required under the Listing Regulations w.r.t RPT’s which are likely to exceed H 1000 crore during  2022-23 and require approval of members is as under: a) Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka  b) Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited Material RPT’s with RP’s during 2023-24 As the expected value of the transactions with the RP’s as mentioned at item no.
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 & 12, is likely to exceed H 1000  crore during the year 2023-24, members approval for the material RPT’s is being sought.
The Audit Committee and the Board of  the Company have reviewed the material RPT’s and recommended seeking members approval for the same The summary of information required under the Listing Regulations w.r.t RPT’s which are likely to exceed H 1000 crore during  2023-24 and require approval of members is as under: a) Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 482 483 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 b) IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. c) Petronet LNG Ltd. i.
Name of the RP IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. (IPPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Terminalling services and parallel marketing of LPG iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale of LPG / Butane / Propane on high sea sale basis - Payment of service charge to RP towards bottling assistance  and job work - Others (payment towards rent and reimbursement of  manpower cost) v. Material terms and conditions Material terms and conditions are based on the agreement  which inter-alia includes the commercial terms which are  market linked or derived through tender or mutual negotiation.
vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 3500 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year 2021- 22 0.48% x.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
i.
Name of the RP Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business LNG imports / distribution and regasification iv.
Type of RPT’s - Purchase of Regasified Liquefied Natural Gas (RLNG) - Regasification Services - Rental income - Sale of petroleum products  - Reimbursement of expenditure v. Material terms and conditions - Long term agreement is entered with PLL which inter-alia  includes the commercial terms which are market linked and  similar to the contract executed by PLL with other off- takers.
Spot contracts are executed through tenders.
- Rental income is similar to rental recovered from other  unrelated parties.
- Sale of petroleum products are executed based on prevailing  market prices on the date of supply.
- Reimbursement of expenditure is on cost-to-cost basis.
vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 26000 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP Purchase of Natural Gas for processing in the refineries of the  Company as well as sale to other customers for furtherance of  business interest of the Company.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year 2021- 22 3.53% x.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
i.
Name of the RP IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd. (IOLPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business LNG Terminal at Ennore iv.
Type of RPT’s - Regasification Services  - Sale of products - Receipt of interest on CCD issued by IOLPL to the Company - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to  IOLPL.
v. Material terms and conditions - Long term regassification agreement is entered with IOLPL  which inter-alia includes the commercial terms which  are market linked and similar to the contract executed by  IOLPL with other off-takers.
‘Use or Pay’ and owner’s supply  deficiency is considered as per terms of contract.
- Sale of products is based on prevailing market prices on the  date of supply.
- Interest on CCD is fixed based on 1-year SBI MCLR rate +45  bps (on the basis of previous loan of IOLPL from consortium  of banks led by SBI).
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on  cost-to-cost basis.
vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 2200 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year 2021-22 0.30% x.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
d) IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. i.
Name of the RP IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. (IOAGPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business City Gas Distribution iv.
Type of RPT’s - Equity Investment - Purchase / sale / Swapping of natural gas - Receipt of fees for providing financial and other guarantees  to enable the RP to meet its financial as well operational  commitments made to PNGRB.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to  IOAGPL - Others reimbursement of expenses, etc.
v. Material terms and conditions - Sale of RLNG is established based on competitive quote  through a tender process.
Sale Agreement of RLNG is entered  with the IOAGPL which inter-alia includes the commercial  terms and similar to the contract executed by the Company  with other unrelated parties.
- Purchase Agreement of CNG is entered with the IOAGPL  which inter-alia includes the commercial terms and similar  to the contract executed by IOAGPL with other parties.
- Guarantee fees is based on Board approved policy - Reimbursement of expense (including salary of employees  on deputation) is on cost-to-cost basis.
vi.
Details of source of funds for equity investment Retained earnings vii.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 2100 crore  viii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 ix.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company.
x.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year 2021-22 0.29% xi.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
e) IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd.  AGM Notice High OCTANE Performance Indian Oil Corporation Limited 484 485 Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 f) Indian Synthetic Rubber Pvt.
Ltd. i.
Name of the RP Indian Synthetic Rubber Pvt.
Ltd. (ISRPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Manufacturing of Styrene Butadiene Rubber at Panipat iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale of Goods and Services - Corporate Guarantee for Loans - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to  ISRPL.
v. Material terms and conditions - Sale of LNG product on long term basis at prevailing market  prices on the date of supply.
- Sale of base oil, petroleum and petrochemical products are  executed based on prevailing market prices on the date of  supply.
- Allocation / leases of lands / offices for office, setting up  plant and development of greenbelt.
- Utilities supply agreement for supplying Raw Water,  Electricity, MP Steam & RLNG.
- Guarantee fees is based on Board approved policy - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on  cost-to-cost basis.
vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 1100 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year   2021-22 0.15 % x.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
i.
Name of the RP Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Setting up and operating fertilizer plants at Sindri, Gorakhpur  and Barauni iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale and Purchase of goods and services - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to  HURL v. Material terms and conditions - The sale of LNG product on long term basis at prevailing  market prices on the date of supply.
- Sale of petroleum products are executed based on prevailing  market price on the date of supply.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on  cost-to-cost basis vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 2100 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year   2021-22 0.29% x.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
g) Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka  i.
Name of the RP Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka (LIOC) ii.
Nature of Relationship Subsidiary Company of IndianOil  iii.
Nature of business Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale and Purchase of goods and services Reimbursement of  salary of employees on deputation to LIOC v. Material terms and conditions - The sale of petroleum product like Gasoil, Gasoline, Base Oil,  Marine Gasoil etc.
is as per the terms and conditions of the  tender floated by LIOC.
- Purchase of product would be at prevailing market rates - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on  cost-to-cost basis vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2023-24 H 1500 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2023-24 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company and also  for strengthening the presence of LIOC in Sri Lanka for meeting  consumer needs during the current financial crisis in Sri Lanka ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 736730.84 crore for the year 2021-22 0.20% x.
Value of RPT as % of LIOC’s turnover of H  3304.54  crore for the year 2021-22 45.39.% xi.
Maximum value of RPT during 2023-24 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the  preceding financial year.
h) Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited Item No.
13 To ratify the remuneration of the Cost  Auditors for the financial year ending   March 31, 2023.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee,  has approved the appointment of following Cost Auditors at an  aggregate remuneration of H 22.70 lakh plus applicable taxes  and out of pocket expenses to conduct the audit of the cost  records of the various units of the Company for the financial  year ending March 31, 2023: Sl.
No.
Name of the Cost Auditor Audit fees (J) 1.
Narasimha Murthy & Co.,  Hyderabad 7,80,000/- 2.
Chandra Wadhwa & Co.,   New Delhi 7,70,000/- 3.
Bandyopadhyaya Bhaumik & Co.,  Kolkata 1,80,000/- 4.
ABK & Associates, Mumbai 3,60,000/- 5.
P. Raju Iyer, M. Pandurangan &  Associates, Chennai 1,80,000/- TOTAL 22,70,000/- In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act  read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the  remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors has to be ratified by  the members of the Company.
Accordingly, consent of the members is sought by passing  an Ordinary Resolution for ratification of the remuneration  payable to the Cost Auditors for the financial year ending  March 31, 2023, as approved by the Board.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company / their relatives are, in any way, interested or  concerned in the resolution.
The Board, therefore, recommends the Ordinary Resolution  for approval by members.
Registered Office: By Order of the Board of Directors IndianOil Bhavan,    G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Sd/- Bandra (East), (Kamal Kumar Gwalani) Mumbai - 400 051 Company Secretary Date: July 28, 2022 (ACS: 13737)  None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the Company / their relatives and in anyway interested or concerned in  the resolutions mentioned at item no.
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 & 12 except as given below:  - Shri S. M. Vaidya, Chairman of IndianOil, who is a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Petronet LNG Ltd. and a Non- Executive Chairman on the Board of Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Ltd.;   - Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra, Director (Human Resources) of IndianOil, who is Non-Executive Chairman on the Board  of Lanka IOC PLC.
;   - Shri V. Satish Kumar, Director (Marketing) of IndianOil, who is Non-Executive Chairman on the Board of IndianOil Petronas  Pvt.
Ltd.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolutions as set out in the Notice for approval by the Members.
NOTES NOTES NOTES  Indian Oil Corporation Limited   Registered Office  IndianOil Bhavan   G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg,   Bandra (East),   Mumbai-400051  Maharashtra Pehle Indian  Phir Oil Follow us on: IndianOilCorpLimited indianoilcorporationlimited indianoilcorpIndianOilcl The name that’s changed the way India sees Energy IndianOil Unlimited The Journey of a thousand miles has just begun